CODE OF PRACTICE 
CIVIL CASES IN KENTUCKY~ 
Be it enacted hy the General A~semblp of file Commoneolth of Ken lucky, as follows: 
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS. 
l. This act shall be known as the Code of Practice in
Civil Cases of this state. 
2. Remedies in civil cases m the courts of this state
are divided into two classe~- 
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings, 
3. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a court
of justice, by one party against another, for the enforcement 
or protection of a private right, or the redress or prevention
of a private wrong. It may also be brought for the recovery 
of a penalty or forfeiture. 
IN 
4. Every other remedy in a civil case, is a special proceeding. 

1. The forms of all actions and suits, heretofore existing,
are abolished; and hereafter there shall be but one form of
action for the enforcement or protection of private rights,
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall
be called a civil action. 
2. In such action, the party complaining is known as
the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 
3. The proceedings in a civil action may be of two kinds1. Ordinary.
2. Equitable. 
4. The plaintifff may prosecute his action by equitable
proceedings, in allcases where courts of chancery, before the 
adoption of this code, had jurisdiction; and must so pro
ceed, in all cases where such jurisdiction was exclusive. 
5. In all other cases, the plaintifff must prosecute his 
action by ordinary proceedings. 
6. An action upon a written obligation which has been
lost or destroyed, may be prosecuted by ordinary proceed
ings. 
7. An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of proceedings adopted, shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of
the action, but merely a change into the proper proceedings 
by an amendment in the pleadings, and a transfer of the '
action to the proper docket. 
8. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected by the plaintifff, without motion.sat any time before 
the defendant has answered ; or afterwards, on motion in
court. 
9. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correction made, in the following cases : 
1. Where the action has been commenced by equitable proceedings, the defendant, by motion made at 
the time of filing -his answer, may have them changed 
ea into ordinary proceedings, when it appears that, by the
provisions of section five, the plaintifff should have 
adopted ordinary proceedings, and in addition, that his
answer presents a defense on which be is entitled to a 
trial by jury.
2. Where the action has been commenced by ordi
uary proceedings, the defendant, by motion made at or
before the time of filing his answer, may have them
changed into equitable proceedings, when it appears
that, by the provisions of section four, the plaintifff'
should have adopted equitable proceedings. 
10. Where the action has been properly commenced by 
I , 
ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by
motion, to have any issue, which, before the adoption of this
code, was exclusively cognizable in chancery, tried in the 
manner hereinafter prescribed in eases of equitable proceedings ; and if all the issues are such as, before the adoption
of this Code, were cognizable in chancery, though none were 
exclusively so, the defendant shall be entitled to have them
all tried as in cases of equitable proceedings. 
11. If the plaintifff's claim is for money due by contract,
andthe defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable
cognizance, upon the plaintifff filing an affidavit that he veri
ly believes that he will succeed in the action, and that the
collection of his claim after judgment will be endangered by
the delay arising from 'such defense being put in, the court 
shall require the defendant to give security for the payment
of any judgment the plaintifff may obtain in the action, and 
upon his failure to give such security, shall order the defendant to pay into court an amount sufficient to discharge the
plaintifff's claim and his probable costs ; upon which order
execution may be issued as upon a judgment, and the
amount collected upon execution shall be brought into court 
and await the decision of the action, and be paid to~~
plaintifff or defendant according to such decision. But no 
such security shall be required if the trial of the equita.~
-defense takes place during the term at which it is put in, 
nor until all defenses to the action, other than those of equitable cognizance, are tried or disposed of in favor of the 
plaintifff. 
12. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted in
the action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at 
the time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter ; and
all errors in the decisions of the court, on any of the motions 
named in this chapter, are waived, unless excepted to at the
time: which may be clone by the clerk noting, nt the end of 
such decision, words of the following import: "To which
decision, the plaintifff (or defendant) excepts." 
13. The provisions of this Code, concerning the prosecution of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceedings,
unless the contrary appears. 
14. A judgment obtained in an action by ordinary proceedings shall not be annulled or modified by any order in
an action by equitable proceedings, except for a defense
which has arisen or been discovered since the judgment was 
rendered. But such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim, though such claim might have been used
as a defense by way of set-off or counterclaim in the action
on which the judgment was recove~ed. 
 
15. The court of appeals shall have appellate jurisdiction over the final orders and judgments of all other courts
of this commonwealth, subject to the exceptions in the next section. 
16. Where the action or proceeding is for the recovery
of money or personal property, and the matter in eontroversy does not exceed one hundred dollars in value, or, in behalf
of the defendant, where the judgment of the inferior court
is against him for money or personal property, not exceeding 
in value one hundred dollars, unless reduced below that
amount by a set-off or counterclaim, or where the judgment grants a divorce, or where the judgment or order is
by the quarterly court, county court, police court, city or
mayor's court, or justice's court, and an appeal is given to
the quarterly 01circuit court, the court of appeals shall have
no appellate jurisdiction. 
17. The costs are not to be included in estimating the
value necessary to give jurisdiction to the court of appeals. 

18. Circuit courts have original jurisdiction of all notions and proceedings for the enforcement of civil rights or
redress of civil wrongs, except where exclusive jurisdiction
is given to other courts. 
19. The Louisville chancery court has the same general jurisdiction of actions and proceedings commenced and
prosecuted by equitable proceedings as circuit courts, subject
to removals to and from the Jefferson circuit court, as provided-in sections 769 and 776. 

20. Circuit courts shall have appellate jurisdiction of
the judgments and final orders of the quarterly courts,
where the matter in controversy is of the value of twenty
dollars or more, and of judgments and final orders of the
county courts on the probate of wills, the granting or revoking of letters testamentary and of administration, the
appointment and removal of guardians, the settlements of 
the accounts of fiduciaries, the division of land and slaves,
the allotment of dower, and the establishment, alteration,
or discontinuance of ferries, mills and dams, roads and pass
ways, and of judgments of justices of the peace on inquisitions of forcible entry or detainer, and of inquisitions before
justices 'Of the peace or other officers for appropriating pri
vate property to public uses, except where otherwise directed
by law. 
21. The appellate jurisdiction of the circuit court shall
extend to errors of fact as well as errors of law, in the orders
and judgments. 
22. The appeals from orders and judgments of the
county court may be taken in the same time, and in n sim
ilar manner, with appeals to the court of appeals, except
that the original papers and copies of the orders of the
county court shall be delivered by the clerk of the county
court to the clerk of the circuit court, upon an appeal being
taken, instead of a copy of the complete record. 
23. Whenenr the clerk of the county court shall deliver to the clerk of the circuit court nny original papers, he 
shall take a receipt therefore and file the same in place of 
such papers. 

24. The quarterly courts have jurisdiction of all actions
for the recovery of money or personal property not exceeding one hundred dollars in value, of inquests upon idiots 
and lunatics, and of all actions or proceedings of which justices of the peace have jurisdiction. 
25. The title of real property, or slaves, shall not be nf:. 
tected by any judgment or order of a quarterly court, or of
any court of similar or inferior jurisdiction, although collaterally brought in issue. 

26. The quarterly court has appellate jurisdiction of the
judgments of justices' courts for the recovery of money or 
property exceeding ten dollars in value. 
27. The quarterly court has no appellate jurisdiction of
judgments on inquisitions of forcible entry or detainer, or on
any other inquests before justices of the pence. 

28. In addition to the fiscal powers conferred by statute, 
the county courts shall have jurisdiction in the following
civil proceedings. 
1. For the probate of wills, and the granting and revoking of letters testamentary and of administration,
according to the provisions of chapter 106, section 27,
and of chapter 37, article 1, section 1, of the Revised
Statutes. 
2. For the appointment and removal of guardians,
according to the provisions of chapter 43, article 1, of\~, 
the Revised Statutes.
3. For the settlement of the accounts of executors,
administrators, curators, guardians, trustees, and other
fiduciaries appointed by the court, according to the 
provisions of chapter 27, article 22, of the Revised
Statutes, and the provisions of this Code. 
4. In cases of bastardy as provided in chapter 6 of
the Revised Statutes, 
5. For the division of the lands of joint tenants, coparceners, and tenants in common, according to the provisions of chapter 57 of the Revised Statutes. 
6. For the division of the slaves of a person deceased, in the county in which the personal representative
of the deceased was appointed or qualified. 
7. For the division of slaves held by tenants in
common, or joint tenants, in the county in which all 
the owners reside, or where all who reside out of the
county appear in court. 
8. For the assignment of dower in lands situate in
the county, or in a tract of land the greater part of
which is situate in such county. 
9. For the establishment, alteration, or discontinuance of ferries, roads, and pass-ways, concerning mills,
and for allowing or refusing to allow dams to be built 
across water courses, 
10. In all matters wherein jurisdiction has been conferred by the Revised Statutes or other statutes. 

29. The courts of justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction exclusive of the circuit court, hut concurrent with 
the quarterly court, of all actions and proceedings for the
f"recovery of money or personal property, where the matter 
~n controversy does not exceed fifty dollars in value, and in
other cases specially provided by statute. 

30. Every action must be prosecuted in.the name of i!be
real party in interest, except as provided in section 60. 
31. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action
the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any discount, set-off, or defense now allowed. And where the as
signment is not authorized by statute, the assignor must be
a party, as plaintifff or defendant. This section does not
apply to bills of exchange, nor to promissory notes placed
upon the footing of bills of exchange, nor to common orders
or checks. 
32. Where the right of the plaintifff is transferred or assigned during the penclency of the action, it may be continued in his name, or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer or assignment is made, to be substituted in the 
action, proper orders being made as to security for the costs, 
33. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an
express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly
authorized by statute to do so, may bring an action without
joining with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. 
34. All persons having an interest in the subject of an
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined
as plaintifffs, except where it is otherwise provided m this 
Code. 
35. Any person may be made a defendant., who has, or
claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plain
tiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination
and settlement of the question involved in the action. 
36. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but
if the consent of one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the
reason being stated in the petition. . 
37. Where the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons, or where the parties are numerous
and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court
within a reasonable time, one or more may sue, or defend, for
the benefit of all. 
38. Persons severally liable upon the same contract,
including the parties to bills of exchange, and promissory
notes placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, common
orders and checks, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the representatives of
such as may have died, be included in the same action, at the
plaintifff's option. 
39. Where two or more persons are jointly bound by
contract, the action thereon may bebrought against all or
any of them, at the plaintifff's option. Where any of the
persons so bound are dead, the action may be brought against
any or all of the survivors with the representatives of all or 
any of the decedents, or against the latter, or any of them.
Where all the persons so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against the representatives of all, or of any of them.
An action or judgment against any one or more of several
persons jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings 
against the others. 
40. The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to
the rights of others, or by saving their rights. But when a 
det.ermination of the controversy between the parties before
the court cannot be made without the presence of other 
I arties, the court must order them to be brought in. 
41. Where, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property, any person having an interest in the property, applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be 
done. 

42. Upon affidavit of a defendant before answer, in any
action upon contract or for the recovery of personal property, 
that some third party, without collusion with him, has or
makes a claim to the subject of the -action and that he is
ready to pay or dispose thereof as the court may direct, the
court may make an order . for the safe keeping, or for the
payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject of
the action to such person as it may direct, and an order
requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time
and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant, 
and, in the meantime, stay the proceeding. If such third
party, being served with a copy of the order, foils to appear, 
the court may declare him barred of -all claim in respect to 
the subject of the action, against the defendant therein. If
such third party appears, he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either of
the other parties in respect to the subject of the action, upon
his compliance with the order of the court for the pa) ment,
deposit, or delivery thereof. 
43. The provisions of the last section shall be applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer for
the recovery of personal property taken by him under an
execution or distress warrant, or for the proceeds of such
property so taken, and sold by him. And the defendant in 
any such action shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the execution or
distress warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the pro
cess under which he acted, with his affidavit that the-property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action is
brought, was taken under such process. 
44. In an action against a sheriff or other officer, for
the recovery of property taken under an execution or distress warrant, the court may, upon the application of the defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution or
distress warrant issued, permit the latter to be substituted
as the defendant, security for the costs being given. 
45. An action to recover the possession of specific personal property taken under a distress warrant, where it is
brought by the tenant, or his assignee or undertenant, may be 
against the party who sued out the warrant; and the property claimed in such action may, under the order for its delivery, be taken from the officer who seized it, where he has no
other claim to hold it than that. derived from the warrant.
The indorsement of a levy on the property, made upon the
warrant by the officer holding it, shall be a sutticient taking 
of the property to sustain the action against the party who
sued out the warrant. 
46. An action to enforce the liability of a steamboat or
other vessel, for the removal of a slave, or to enforce a lien
upon a steamboat for the wages of its officers or crew, or for 
work done upon, or materials, supplies, stores, or provisions
furnished to such boat, or the liability thereof for an injury
to another boat or craft, or for n trespass of its officers or 
crew, and in which no relief is sought beyond the subjection
of the boat or vessel to the satisfaction of the plaintifff's 
claim, may be brought against the owners thereof without
naming them, or they may be named and summoned as other
defendants. An owner, or part owner, or person having 
claim or title to the boat or vessel, whether named as a defendant in the petition, and summoned, or not, may appear
and make defense in the action, where it satisfactorily appears by his affidavit that he is an owner, or part owner, or
has a claim or title to the boat, the nature and extent of
which must be stated. 
47. An action to enforce a lien upon a steamboat may
be brought jointly by several persons having distinct claims
for work, materials, stores, provisions, or supplies. In such 
cases, the statement in the petition of the claim of every 
plaintifff, and the verification thereof, must be separately
made. 
48. In an action to enforce a lien, by statute, upon a
steamboat for wages, work, materials, stores, or supplies, other 
persons having claims for any of these things, shall, upon
exhibiting the same to the court by petition verified by affidavit, be made parties. 
49. The husband must be joined with the wife, except where the
action concerns her separate property, or is between them, 
she may sue alone. 
50. Husband and wife sued jointly, wife may defend for both 
61. If husband deserts his family, his wife, if a mother, may sue
or defend for him. 
62. If a woman marries pending the action, the husband made
party by order. 
49. Where a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that, where the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone; and, where 
the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue,
or be sued, alone. 
50. If a husband and wife are sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right; and if the husband neglects
to def end, for his also. 
51. Where a husband, being a father, has deserted his
family, the wife, being a mother, may prosecute or defend,
in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or
defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein
as he might have had. 
52. Where a female party to an action marries, the fact
being stated upon the record, the husband may be made a 
party with his wife, and the action shall proceed. 
53. An action by an infant must be brought by guardian or next
friend, subject to the orders of court. 
54. Guardian or next friend liable for costs, and may be required 
to give security for them. May become a witness by depositing costs or substitution. 
55. Who must defend for an infant. No judgment without defense. 
56. Guardian to defend appointed by court, after service of summons. No party or attorney can be appointed. 
57. The manner of appointing guardian to defend. 
53. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian, or his next friend. Any person may bring the 
action of an infant, as his next friend; but the court has 
power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, 
or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person, 
as the next friend. 
54. The guardian, or next friend, is liable for the costs
of the action brought by him, and, where he is insolvent, the
court may require him to give security for them. Either
may be a witness in an action brought by him, after he has
deposited in court a sum which the judge may deem sufficient to cover the costs, or, where the action is by a next
friend, after the substitution of another solvent person aR 
next friend, and an order of the court, with the consent of
such person, that he shall be liable for all the costs of the 
action. 
55. The defense of an infant must be by his regular
guardian, or by a guardian appointed to defend for him,
where no regular guardian appears, or where the court di
rects a defense by a guardian appointed for that purpose.
No judgment can be rendered against an infant, until after n 
defense by a guardian. 
56. The guardian to defend shall be appointed by the
court, or by the judge thereof. The appointment cannot 
be made, until after service of the summons in the action as
directed in this Code. No party, or attorney in an action,
can be appointed guardian to defend therein, for an infant, or
person of unsound mind. 
57. The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, and
applies at or before the term to which the summons is served. If he is under the age of fourteen years, or does not 
so apply, the appointment may be made-upon the application
of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff in the 
action. 
58. The action of a person judicially found to be of 
unsound mind, must be brought by his committee, or, if he
has none, by his next friend. When brought by his next
friend, the action is subject to the power of the court, in the
same manner as the action of an infant so brought. 
59. Tho committee, or next friend, is liable for the
costs, and, where he is insolvent, may be required . to give
security for them. Either may be rendered a competent
witness in an action brought by him, in the manner provided
in respect to the guardian!' or next friend, of an infant. 
60. The defense of an action against a person judicially
found to be of unsound mind, must be by his committee, or
a guardian appointed by the court to defend for him, where
no committee appears, or where the court directs a defense
by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered againsthim,
until after a defense by his committee, or by a guardian ap
pointed for that purpose. No appointment can be made,
until after service of the summons as directed in this Code. 
61. The guardian to defend may be appointed on the 
application on any friend of the defendant, or on that of the 
plaintifff. 
62. Where aparty is judicially found to be of unsound mind during the pendency of an action, the fact being
stated on the record, if he is plaintifff, his committee may 
be "joined with him in the action, as such. If he is defendant, the plaintifff may, upon ten days notice thereof to his
committee, have an order making the committee a defendant also. 
63. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in
the penitentiary, until after a defense made for him by his
attorney, or, if there is none, by a person appointed by the 
court to defend for him. 
64. A guardian, or attorney, appointed on the applioa
tion of the plaintifff, to defend for an infant, person of un
sound mind, or prisoner, shall be allowed a reasonable fee for
his services, to be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the 
costs. 

65. A civil action is commenced by filing, in the office 
of the clerk of the proper court, a petition, and causing a
summons to be issued thereon. 
66. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county, or, at the request of the plaintifff to the jailer, cor
oner, or a constable, and command him to summon the defendant or defendants named therein, to answer the petition filed by the plaintifff, giving his name, at a time stated therein, under the penalty of the petition being taken
for confessed, or of the defendant being proceeded against
for contempt of court on his failure to do so. The sum
mons shall be dated the day it is issued, and signed by the
clerk. 
67. A summons shall be issued at any time, to auy
county, against any one or more of the defendants, at the 
plaintifff's request. But a summons not served shall not be
taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court. 
68. With every summons, the clerk shall issue as many
copies thereof as there are defendants named therein, unless
otherwise ordered by the plaintifff. 
69. In actions by ordinary proceedings, the time fixed
in the summons for the defendant to answer, shall be the
day the summons is returnable; in actions by equitable proceedings, it shall be twenty days after the service of the summons. 
70. The summons shall be made returnable to the first
day of the next term of the court, unless that term begins 
within ten days from the date of the summons, when it shall
be returnable to the first day of tho term following. 
71. The summons and copies shall be delivered to the 
sheriff or other officer authorized to execute it. 
72. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or one of his
deputies, to attend at the clerk's office daily, (Sundays ex
cepted.) to receive any process that may be issued, and the
clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his of
fice. 

73. The summons may be served 
1. By the officer to whom it is directed, or any officer to whom it might have been directed, whose return
thereon shall be proof of the time and manner of service. 
2. By any person appointed by the officer to whom
the same is directed, by an indorsement on the summons, 
whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be proof of the
time and manner of service. 
74. The service shall be by delivering to the defendant
a copy of the summons. If he refuses to receive it, the of
fer of it to him shall be a sufficient service. 
75. In all cases of the return of service upon a summons by an officer, the return must state the time of the
service, and that a copy was delivered to or offered and 
refused by the defendant. And if a return of service is
defective in these respects, the officer may be fined by the 
court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to the
action of any person aggrieved by such defect. But the
court may permit an amendment, according to the truth of
the case. 
76. Service may be acknowledged by the defendant, by
an indorsement upon the summons, signed and dated by him,
and attested by a witness. The affidavit of the witness shall
be proof of the service. 
77. Where the defendant is a corporation created by
the laws of this state, the service of the summons may be 
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of trustees,
or other chief officer; or,~t-s chief officer is not found in
the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or
managing agent; or, if it is a municipal corporation, upon
its marshal; or, if it is an incorporated library company, upon its librarian. 
78. Where the defendant is an incorporated bank, and
the action is in a county in which there is a branch thereof, the service may be upon the president or cashier of that 
branch. 
79. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance
company, and the action is in a county in which there is an 
agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of
such agency. 
80. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation having an agent in this state, the service may be upon such agent. 
81. Where the defendant is an infant under the age of
fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his 
father or guardian, or, if neither of these can be found, then
upon his mother or any other white person having the care 
or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where the
infant . is over fourteen years of age, service on him shall be 
su ffi.cien t. 
82. Wheie the defendant is a person judicially found
to be of unsound mind, the service must be upon him and
upon his committee ; if there is no committee, upon his 
wife, or the person having the care of him or with whom
he lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he may be
confined. _ 
83. Where the defendant is a prisoner in the peniten
tiary, a copy of the petition must accompany the summons,
and the service must be upon the keeper of the penitentiary, 
who shall deliver the copies of the petition and summons to
the defendant. And a copy of the summons must also be
delivered to the wife of the prisoner, or, if he has no wife,
left at the place where he resided, or claimed to reside, prior
to his confinement, with some white person, of the age of 
sixteen years. ' 
84. Where the defendant is a community of shakers
holding property in common, the service must be by posting
a copy of the summons at the door of its meeting house,
and by deliverin~ a copy thereof to some member of the 
community. 
85. Where the action is brought against the owners of
a. steamboat without naming them, to subject the boat to a 
liability by statute, the service must be upon the master,
clerk, pilot, or other officer having charge of the boat, or by 
posting a copy of the summons in a conspicuous place on
the boat. 
86. Where. a defendant is out of this state, the plaintifff
may take a copy of the petition certified by the clerk, with
a summons annexed thereto, warning such defendant to appear and answer the petition within sixty days after the
same shall have been served on him, and cause a copy thereof to be delivered to such defendant anywhere in the U nited 
States by some person to whom he is personally known.
Proof of the delivery shall be made by the affidavit of the
person making it, indorsed on or annexed to the certified 
copy and summons, in which the time and place of the delivery and the fact that the defendant was personally known 
to the affia.nt, shall be stated. The officer before whom the
affidavit is made, shall certify that the affiant is . personally
known by him to be worthy of credit. 
87. The certified copy and summons, with the affidavit
and certificate as provided in the last section, being returned
and filed in the action, shall be deemed an actual service of
the summons in due time for trial at the first term commenc
ing not less than sixty days after such service. 

88. Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
filed in the clerk's office at or after the commencement of
the action, that the defendant is 
1. A foreign corporation having no agent in this
state, or 
2. A non-resident of this state, or
3. Has departed from this state with intent to delay 
or defraud his creditors, or 
4. Has been absent from this state four months, or 
5. Has left the county of his residence to avoid. the
service of a summons, or 
G. Conceals himself so that a summons cannot he 
served upon him, or
Where either of the last two mentioned facts is sta
ted in the return, by the proper officer, of a summons 
against the defendant, the clerk shall make upon the
petition an order warning such defendant to appear in 
the action on the first day of the next term of the
court, which does not commence within sixty days of
the time of making the order. 
89. The court may make the warning order in the cases
mentioned therein, upon the requisite facts, according to
the provisions of that section, being satisfactorily shown by
the affidavit of other than the plaintifff, or his agent or attorney. 
90. Where, in an action against the heirs of a deceased
person as unknown heirs, or against other persons made 
defendants as unknown owners of any property to be divided
or disposed of in the action, it appears by the petition that
the names of such heirs or of any of them, or of such other 
persons, are unknown to the plaintifff, a warning order, as 
directed in the last section, shall be made by the clerk
against such unknown heirs or owners. 
91. A defendant against whom a warning order has been
made, shall be deemed to have been constructively summoned on the thirtieth day after the making of the order, and
the action may proceed accordingly. 
92. The plaintifff may, at any time before judgment,
have a summons served on the defendant, if found in this 
state, although a warning order may have been previously
entered against him; and after such service, the case shall 
proceed as in other cases of actual service. 

93. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof, is situated : 
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein. 
2. For the partition of real property. 
. 3. For the sale of real property under a mortgage,
lien, or other encumbrance or charge. 
4. For an injury to real property. 
94. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose: 
1. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or
forfeiture imposed by a statute; except that, ~ere 
the offense, for which the claim is made, was committed on a water course or road which is the boundary
of two counties, the action may be brought in either of
them. 
2. An action against a public officer for an act <lone
by him in virtue or under color of his office, or for a
neglect of official duty. 
3. An action upon the official bond of a public officer. 
95. An action to establish or set aside a will, must be
brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought, according to law, to be recorded. 
96. An action to settle the estate of a deceased person,
must be brought in the county in which his personal repre
sentative was qualified. 
97. An action for the distribution of the estate of a 
deceased person, or for its partition among his heirs, or for 
the sale of real property or slaves descended from him, must
be broughtin the county in which his personal representa
tive was qualified. 
98. An action by a ward against his guardian for a settlement of his accounts, for additional security, or for his
removal, must be brought in the county in which the guardian was qualified. 
99. An action against the commissioners of the sinking
fund, 01against the board of education, and the board of internal improvement of this state, must he brought in the
county that includes the seat of government. 
100. An action, other than one of those mentioned iu tiec~ 
tions 93 and 94, against a person confined in the penitentiary or a lunatic asylum, must be brought in the county in 
which he resided, or claimed his residence, prior to his confinement. 
101. An action, other than oue of those mentioned in sections 93 and 94, against a corporation created bythe laws 
of this state, may be brought in the county in which it is 
situated or has its principal office or place of business, or in
which its chief officer resides; but if such corporation is n
bank or insurance company, the action may be brought in the 
county in which there is a branch of the bank, or agency of
the company, where it arises out of a transaction of such 
branch or agency. 
102. An action against a railroad company, or an owner
of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for transporting a 
slave as a passenger, or for au injury to person or property
upon the road or line of stages or coaches of' the defendant,
or upon a liability as a earner, may be brought iu any coun
ty through or into which the road or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, upon which the cause of action arose, 
passes. 
103. An action, other than one of those mentione<l in sections 93 and 94, against a turnpike road company, may
be brought in any county in which any part of the road of 
the defendant lies. 
104. An action to subject a steamboat or other vessel,
upon a liability by statute, for the removal of a slave, or for
an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its officers or crew, or to enforce a lien upon a steamboat for the
wages of its officers or crew, or for work, materials, or supplies, may be brought in any county in which such boat or
vessel may be found. 
105. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 93 and 94, against a non-resident of this state, or
u foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in 
which there may be property of or debts owing to the defendant. 
106. Every other action may be brought in any county
in which the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides,
or is summoned. 
107. Whe1e any action embraced in the last section is
against a single defendant, the plaintifff shall not be entitled 
to judgment against him, on the service of a summons in 
any other county than that in which the action is brought,
unless he resided in that county at the commencement of the 
action, or unless, having appeared therein, he fails to object,
before the trial, to its proceeding against him. 
108. Where any action embraced in section I 06, is
against several defendants, the plaintifff shall not be entitled
to judgment against nny of them, on the service of a summons in any other county than that in which the action is
brought, where no one of the defendants is summoned in that
county, or resided therein at the commencement of the action, or where, if any of them resided or were summoned in
that county, the action is discontinued or dismissed as to
them, or judgment therein is rendered in their favor; unless
the defendant summoned in another county, having appeared
in the action, failed to object, before the judgment, to its 
proceeding against him. 
109. The objection that one of several defendants was
summoned in another county, if he appears, shall be deemed to be waived, unless it is made before judgment as to him. 
110. If, after the commencement of an action in the
county of the defendant's residence, he removes therefrom,
the service of a summons upon him. in any other county,
shall have the same effect as if it had been made in the county from which he removed. 
111. Several causes of action may be united in the same
petition, where each affects all the parties to the action, may
be brought in the same county, be prosecuted by the same
kind of proceedings, and all belong to only one of the following classes: 
1. Claims arising out of contract, express or implied.
2. Claims for the recovery of specific real property, 
and the rents, profits, and damages for withholding the
same. 
3. Claims for the recovery of specific personal property, and damages for the taking or withholding the 
same.
4. Claims for partition of real or personal property, 
or both.
5. Claims arising from injuries to character. 
6. Claims arising from injuries to person and property. 
7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law. 
112. The plaintifff may strike from his petition any
cause of action, at any time before the final submission of
the case to the jury, or to the court where the trial is by 
the court. 
113. The court, at auy time before the defense, shall,
on motion of the defendant, strike out of the petition any
cause or causes of action improperly joined with others. 
114. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provided
in the last section ; and all errors in the decisions of the 
. court thereon are waived, unless excepted to at the time. 

115. The pleadings are the written statements, by the
parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims and
defenses. 
116. The forms of pleadings in civil actions and suits,
heretofore existing, are abolished; and hereafter, the forms 
of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by which their
sufficiency is to be determined, are those prescribed in this 
Code. 
117. The only pleadings allowed are,
1. The petition by the plaintifff.
2. The demurrer, or answer, by the defendant. 
3. The demurrer, or reply, by the plaintifff. 

118. The first pleading by the plaintifff is the petition.
The petition must contain 
1. The style of the court in which the action is
brought. 
2. The style of the action, consisting of the names
of all the parties thereto, distinguishing them as plain
tiff's and defendants, followed by the word "petition," if 
the proceedings are ordinary, and by the words, "petition in equity," if the proceedings are equitable. 
3. A statement in ordinary and concise language,
without repetition, of the facts constituting the plaintiff's cause of action. 
4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff
considers himself entitled. 
119. Where the petition contains more than one cause
of action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate para
graph, and numbered- 

120. The defendant may demur to the petition, where it
appears on its face either 
I. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person
of' the defendant, or the subject of the action; or 
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; 
3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause ; or 
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or 
5. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
121. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the petition; unless it does so, it shall be 
regarded as objecting only that the petition does not state 
facts sufficient 'to constitute a cause of action. 
122. If the court sustains the demurrer, the plaintifff
may amend, with or without costs, as the court may order. 
123. When any of the matters enumerated in section
120 do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objec
tion may be taken by answer. If no such objection is taken
either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed
to have waived the same, except only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court over the subject of the action, and
the objection that the petition does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
124. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action alleged in the petition, and answer 
as to the residue. 

125. The answer shall contain 
1. The style of the court and the style of the action, 
followed by the word "answer." But where there are 
several plaintifffs and defendants, it shall only be necessary to give the .one first named of each class with
the words "and others." 
2. A denial of each allegation of the petition 001r. 
troverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or 
information thereof sufficient to form a belief.
3. A statement of any new matter constituting a 
defense, counterclaim, or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition. 
4. The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off 
whether legal or equitable, as he shall have. Each 
shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, an~l ,
numbered. The several defenses must refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to nnswer,
in a manner by which they may be intelligibly.distin- 
guished. _ . ';
126. The counterclaim mentioned in this chapter nuist
be a cause of action in favor of the defendants, or some of 
them, against the plaintifffs, or some of them, arising out of
the contract or transactions set. forth in the petition, as the
foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with the 
subject of the action. 
127. When it appears that a new party is necessary to
a final decision upon the oounter-claim, the court may either
permit the new party to be made, by a summons, to reply to 
the counterclaim in the answer, or may direct that it be
stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a sepa
rate action. 
128. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded
on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon con
tract, or ascertained by the decision of a court. 
129. Where it appears that a new party is necessary to
a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the 
new party to be made, if it also appears that, owing to the 
insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff, or other cause,
the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim unless
permitted to use it as a set-oft: 
130. Where the facts stated in answer are not sufficient
to constitute a defense, counterclaim, or set-oft; the plaintifff
may demur. 
131. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant, or committee of a person of unsound mind, or attor
ney appointed for a prisoner, to file an answer denying the
material ullegat. ions _of ~e, rtition prejudicial to such de- 
fendant. 

132. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation
of a counterclaim or set-off in the answer. 
133. When the answer contains new matter constituting 
a counterclaim or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to such
new matter, denying each allegation controverted by him, or 
any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief, and may allege in concise language any new matter
not inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to 
the counterclaim or set-oft: 
134. Where the facts stated in the reply do nut amount
to a sufficient defense, the defendant may demur. 

135. The defense to an action prosecuted by ordinary
proceedings, must be filed on the day of the term on which 
the case is set for trial1. Where the summons has been served ten days 
before the commencement of the term, in the county in
which the action is brought, or in an adjoining county; 
2. Where it.has been served twenty days, elsewhere
in the state, or sixty days out of the state; or 
3~ Where the defendant has been constructively
summoned thirty days. . 
136. The reply shall be filed on or before the calling of 
the cause for trial. 
137. In an action prosecuted by equitable proceedings,
the defense must be filed on the third day of the term- 
1. Where the summons has been served twenty
days before the commencement of the term, in the
county in which the action is brought, or an adjoining
county; 
2. Where it has been served thirty days, elsewhere
in the state, or sixty days out of the state; or 
3. Where the defendant has been constructively
summoned thirty days. 
138. Where the service of the summons was before the
commencement of the term, but not the length of the time
mentioned in the last section, the defense shall be filed in
thirty days after the service. 
139. If the answer, in equitable proceedings, contains
a counterclaim or set-oft; the plaintifff shall reply within 
. twenty days after the answer is filed, or ninety days before the ensuing term, 
140. The court may, for good cause shown, extend the 
time for filing an answer or reply, to some subsequent day in
that or the next succeeding term; the party applying for the 
delay paying the costs occasioned thereby. 
141. The filing of an answer or reply in the clerk's ot:.
flee in vacation, within the time allowed, with notice thereof' 
to the opposite party, or his attorney, shall be equivalent to 
a filing in court. 

142. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party,
or his attorney, and the petition, answer, and reply must
each be verified by the affidavit of the party, to the effect
that he believes the statements thereof to be true; such 
verification shall not make other 01greater proof necessary
on the side of the adverse party. The verification of any
pleading of a corporation may be by any officer or agent on
whom the summons in an action against the corporation may
be served, or by its attorney in the action. 
143. The verification by affidavit mentioned in the last section, shall not be required to the answer of a guardian or
committ.ee defending for an infant, or person of unsound 
mind 01imprisoned; nor in any case where the admission of
the truth of the allegations of the petition or answer might
subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution; nor to
pleadings affecting injuries to person or character; nor to 
petitions in actions founded on a note, bond, bill of exchange, 
mortgage, or other written obligation of the defendant; nor
to defenses founded on the written obligation, release, or
written acknowledgment of the plaintifff, unless the writing 
on which the action or defense is founded is lost, mutilated,
or destroyed. 
144. Neitaer presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading. 
145. If the action, counterclaim, or set-off, is founded
on a note, bond, bill, or other writing, as evidence of iudebt~dness, it must be filed as a part of the pleading, if in the
power of the party to produce it. If not filed, the reason 
thereof must be stated in the pleading. If upon an account,
a copy thereof must, in like manner, be filed with the pleadmg. 
146. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties. 
147. If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a
pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby, at the cost of the party whose pleading
contained it. 
148. In pleading a judgment, or other determination,
of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, hut such 
judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly
given or ma<l~. If such allegation is made in a petition, and 
is not controverted in the answer, or made in the answer in 
relation to a counterclaim or set-off, and is not controverted
in the reply, it need not be proved on the trial. 
149. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts 
showing such performance, but it may be stated, generally,
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part ;
and if such allegation is not controverted as-stated in the 
last section in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary 
to prove it on trial. 
150. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the petition any extrinsic facts, for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose;
but it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the same 
was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such
allegation is not controverted as stated in section 148 in
regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to prove it on 
the trial. 
151. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the 
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circum
stances legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount
of damages; and whether he proves the justification or not,
he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. 
152. In an action for the recovery of real property, it
must be described in the petition with such convenient certainty, as to enable an officer holding an execution to identi
fy it. 
153. Every material allegation of the petition not specifically controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim or set-off, not specifically controverted by the reply,
must, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true. But.
the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating to 
a counterclaim or set-off, or of new matter in a reply, is to 
be deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a
direct denial or avoidance, us the case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true, by the failure to controvert them. 
154. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken 
from the pleading without leaving it insufficient. 
155. If either party shall rely upon any deed, or other
writing, he shall file with his pleading the original deed or
writing, if in his power. If he cannot produce such deed
or writing, he shall so state in his pleading, together with
the reasons therefore; and if such reasons are sufficient, he
may file the best evidence of the contents of such deed or 
writing in his power. Original deeds, and other writings,
filed by either party as above provided, shall remain on file
for the inspection of the other party, until allowed by the 
court to be withdrawn ; and in such case, copies, attested by
the clerk, shall be substituted by the party withdrawing the 
originals. 

156. No variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it has actually
misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his
action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged
that n. party has been so misled, that fact must be shown to 
the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be shown in
what respect he bas been misled; and, thereupon, the court
may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as
may be just. 
157. Where the variance is not material as provided in
the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found 
according to the evidence, and may order an immediate
amendment without costs. 
158. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or
defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof. 
159. The plaintifff may amend his petition without leave, 
at any time before an answer is filed, and without prejudice
to the proceedings already had. 
160. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may answer or reply. 
161. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other
allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment 
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by con
forming the pleading or p~ceeding ~ the facts proved. 

The oourt may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or 
reply to be made, after the time limited by this Code, or, by 
an order, enlarge such time. And whenever any proceeed
ing taken by a party fails to conform in any respect to the
provisions of this Code, the court may permit an amendment
of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.
And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or
uncertain that the precise nature of the claim or defense is 
not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made
definite and certain by amendment, The court must, in 
every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the
proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of
the adverse party"; and no Judgment shall be reversed or af
fected by reason of such error or defect. 162. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may 
be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint,
answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occur
ring after the filing of the former petition, answer, or reply.
163. when either party shall amend any pleading or 
proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for
trial in consequence thereof a continuance may be grant
ed to some day in the same term, or to another term of the
court. 
164. Where petitions are filed without verification, as
required by section 142, the action shall not, on that account,
be dismissed, if the verification be made on or before the
calling of the action for trial. 
165. No objection shall be taken, after judgment, to 
any pleading for the want of, or defect. in the verification. 
166. Courts may permit the amendments authorized by 
this chapter to be made without being verified, as prescribed
in section 142, unless a new and distinct cause of action or
defense is thereby introduced. 

167. In actions by equitable proceedings, either party 
may annex to bis petition, answer, or reply, written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse parties, con
cerning any of the material matters in issue in the action. 
The answers to which, on oath, may be read by either party,
as a deposition between the party interrogating and the par
ty answering.
168. The party answering shall not. be confined to re
sponding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any
new matter concerning the same cause of action, which shall 
likewise be read as a deposition. 
169. Where the interrogatories are annexed to the petition, they shall be answered at the same time the party is
required to answer the petition; where annexed to the an
swer or reply, then in twenty days after notice shall be given 
thereof to the adverse party or'\ie attorney; but if answer .. 
d tw6\nty daye before ths term Rt which the notion atand& 
regularly for trial, the action shall not be postponed on account of their not being sooner answered. 
170. In actions by ordinary proceedings, either party
may, in like manner, annex written interrogatories to any
one or more of the adverse parties to his petition, answer, or 
reply, concerning any material matter in issue in the action,
in the following cases : 
1. Where the party interrogated does not reside in
the same or an adjoining county. 
2. Where the party interrogated is unable to attend
court on account of age, infirmity, or imprisonment, or 
is a female. 
171. Where the interrogatories, in au action by ordinary
proceedings, are annexed to the petition, they shall be answered at the same time the petition is required to be an
swered; where annexed to the answer or reply, at or before
the calling of the cause for trial, where the party interrogated had reasonable notice of their being filed. 
172. The trial of an action by ordinary proceedings,
shall not be postponed on account of the failure to answer
the interrogatories, if the party interrogated is present in
court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined; nor: 
in case of his absence, without an affidavit showing the facts
the party believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and
that the party has not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted 
to file them, for the purpose of delay. Whereupon, if the
party will consent that the facts stated in the affidavit shall 
be considered us admitted by those interrogated, the trial 
shall not be postponed for that cause. 
173. The provisions in section 168 shall apply to the 
answers to interrogatories in actions byordinary proceedings. 
174. The party, in answering such interrogatories, shall 
distinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal
knowledge, and what is stated from information or belief 
merely. An unqualified statement of a fact, shall be considered as made of his personal knowledge. 
175. The answers to the interrogatories shall be verified
by the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect that the
statements in them made of his own personal knowledge are 
true, and those made from the information of others, he believes to be true. 
176. When the party resides in the same or an adjoining county, he may be summoned by the adverse party, and
compelled to testify on the trial of' an action by ordinary
proceedings, as any other witness. 
177. Where a party filing interrogatories shall also file 
an affidavit that he verily believes the subject of the interrogatories, or any of them, is in the personal knowledge of
the opposite party, and that his answers thereto, if truly 
made from such knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense,
or any part thereof, and the opposite party shall fail, after 
reasonable time allowed therefore, to answer them, the claim
or defense, or the part thereof according to such affidavit,
shall be deemed to be sustained, and judgment given accordingly. 
178. The court may compel answers to interrogatories 
by process of contempt, and may, on the failure of the par
ty to answer them, after reasonable time allowed therefore,
dismiss the petition or quash the answer of the party so 
failing. 

179. A defendant in a civil action, can be arrested and
held to bail, only upon the conditions and in the manner pre- 
scribed in this chapter. 180. An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall be 
made by the clerk of the court in which the action is 
brought, at its commencement or at any time before judgment, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the 
plaintifff, showing
1. The nature of the plaintifff 'a claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The amount or value, which the afflant believes 
the plaintifff ought to recover. 
4. That the affiant believes, either that the defendant is about to depart from this state, and, with intent 
to defraud his creditors, has concealed, 01removed from
this state, his property, or so much thereof, that the 
process of the court after judgment cannot be exeouted; or that the defendant has money, or securities for
money, or evidences of debt, in the possession of himself or of others for his use, and is about to depart from
this state, without leaving property therein sufficient to 
satisfy the plaintifff's claim. 
181. The order of arrest shall uot be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed in his office by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, abond to the effect
that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order
is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of
the plaintifff's claim stated in the affidavit. 
182. The order of arrest shall be addressed and delivered, with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall state the
names of the parties to the action, the court in which the 
action is brought, and the amount of the plaintifff's claim
specified in the affidavit, and shall require the sheriff to
arrest the defendant and hold him to bail in the sum of the 
pl~ntiff 's claim, with the probable costs of the action, not
e:tceeding twenty-five dollars, and to make return of the
order on a day to be named therein, with the bail bond, if 
any is taken. 
183. The return day of the order of arrest, when issued
ut the commencement of the action, shall be the same as
that of the summons ; when issued afterwards, it may be 
another day in term, at the option of the plaintifff. 

184. The sheriff shall execute the order of arrest, by
arresting the defendant and delivering to him a copy 
thereof. 
185. The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed
by the sheriff to the jail of his county, a copy of the order
of arrest being delivered to the jailer; and, unless bailed, 
kept in custody in the manner provided by law in the case
of a defendant taken in execution upon a judgment in a civil
action, until discharged in the mode and upon the conditions
such defendant may be. 
186. The defendant may, before or after giving bail,
deposit in the hands of the sheri.ff, or in court, the amount
of money mentioned in the order of arrest ; whereupon he 
shall be discharged, or his bail. if any is given, shall he released. 
187. The sheriff shall pay into the court the money
received by him, in vacation, in lieu of bail, on the first day
of the next term. Where it is received during a term, he
shall pay it into the court immediately. 
188. The court shall make proper orders for the safekeeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct
the sheriff to keep the money, and, after final judgment in
the action, shall order it to be paid to the party entitled 
thereto, according to the result. 
189. Money deposited in the hands of the sheriff in
lieu of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him,
shall be held upon his official responsibility; and he and his
sureties shall be liable, and may be proceeded ngainst for 
:my default in relation thereto, ns in other cases of delinquency. 
190. Bail may be given _by the defendant on his arrest,
or at any time afterwards before judgment. It shall be
done by causing one or more sufficient bail to execute a
bond to the plaintifff in the presence of the sheriff, or of
the jailer where the defendant has been committed to jail,
to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the ac
tion against the defendant, he will render himself amenable 
to the process of the court thereupon. The bond, when
accepted, shall be returned to the clerk's office, and the
defendant discharged, 
191. The bail must be a resident of this state, and be
worth double the sum specified in the order of arrest, beyond
the amount of his debts, and have property in this state, 
subject to execution, nt least equal in value to that sum. 
If two or more become bail, they must, in the aggregate,
possess the same qualifications. The bail, if it is required
by the sheriff, shall make affidavit of their qualification 
before him. 
192. If the plaintifff objects to the bail for insufficiency, he may move his objections in court, during the term at
which the bail bond is returned, and not afterwards, except
where the bond is returned within the last three days of
the term; in which case, the motion may be made on the 
first day of the. sncceeding term, The motion cannot -be 
made, unless the plaintifff has given to the sheriff, or to the
jailer where the bond was taken by him, notice thereof. And 
if the notice is adjudged unreasonable, the court may con
tinue the motion to some day in the same or the succeeding
term. 
193. If the motion is not made, or the bail is not thereupon adjudged insufficient, the officer shall be exonerated
from liability by reason of the insufficiency of the bail. 
194. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall not be thereby released, but an order shall forthwith be made to re-arrest the defendant; and, thereupon, the same proceedings 
may be had, and with the like effect, as nre directed upon an
order of arrest, 
195. Upon judgments in aotions in which the defendant
has been arrested and held to bail, and in which the order of
arrest has not been vacated, an execution against the body
of the defendant may be issued, upon which the same proceedings shall be had, and the defendant shall 1~ dealt with
in the same manner, as provided by law in the civil actions
in which executions may be issued against the body of the
defendant; except that the oath of insolvency, upon reasonable notice, may be taken at any time after the arrest, by 
delivering to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, a schedule
of the property intended to be surrendered, although said
schedule may not have been deli vered ten days hefore the 
taking of such oath. This exception shall also apply to sec
tion 185 of this Code. 

196. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the
county in which he was arrested, with a delivery to him of a 
copy of the order of arrest and of the bail bond by the de
fendant himself or by his bail, at any time before the liability of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail. The sheriff
shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment of the surrender, and commit the defendant to the jail of his county
with his order indorsed upon the copy of the bail bond de
livered to the jailer. 
197. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the 
bail may, at any time or place, arrest him, or authorize, in 
writing indorsed upon a copy of the order of arrest and bail
bond, the sheriff or any constable to do so. 
198. A return of "not found" upon an execution against
the body of ... 11e defendant, placed in the hands of the sher
iff of the county in which he was arrested, within twenty
days after it might have issued upon the judgment, shall be
necessary to fix the liability of the bail, which shall be, to
pay the amount of the judgment and costs. 
199. The bail can be proceeded against in a separate
action only. 
200. He will be exonerated by the death of the defendant, or his removal from this state under process of law as
a fugitive, before the return day of the summons served
upon the bail in the action to enforce his liability, or by the 
imprisonment of the defendant in the penitentiary, or his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process of the court, or by his surrender to the
sheriff of the county in which he was arrested in execution . 
thereof hy the return day of the summons in the action
against the bail, or within such farther time as the court, in
which the action is pending, may allow. If the defendant 
is confined in any jail of this state, the bail will be exonerated by delivering to the jailer thereof, at any time before
the return day of the summons in the action against the bail,
a certified copy of the order of an-est and of the bail bond,
with a written order thereupon to detain the defendant in 
custody until discharged by law from the action in which the
bond was given. The jailer shall give a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the order, which shall be filed 
with the original bond. 
201. If, after being arrested, tho defendant escapes or
is rescued, or bail is not taken or is adjudged insufficient, 
01a deposit is not made, the sheriff' shall he liable us bail,
unless he had committed the defendant to jail and obtained
a written acknowledgment thereof from the jailer; in which
case, the jailer shall be so liable. Either officer may discharge himself from such liability, by putting in sufficient
bail at any time before judgment, 
202. The liability of the officer as bail, shall be fixed
in the manner provided in section 198, and can be enforc
ed only in a separate action against, him, or against him
and his sureties in his official bond, as in other cases of delinquency. 
203. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall be liable to 
the officer for the damages he may sustain by reason of such 
i nsuffioiency. 

204. A defendant against whom an order of arrest has
been obtained, may, at any time before judgment in the action, and before a decision of a motion on account of the in- 
sufficiency of the bail, apply to the court, or, in vacation and
before executing a bail bond, to the judge thereof, or to any 
circuit judge, or to the presiding judge of the county court,
by motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail. Reasonable notice of the motion shall be
given to the plaintifff. If satisfied that the bail ought not
to have been required, or that the sum for which it was demanded is too large, the court or judge may vacate the order
of arrest, or reduce the amount of bail. The decision of the 
motion shall be final in the action, but shall not affect the
rights of the parties in any other action. Upon the vaca
tion of tho order of arrest, the defendant shall be discharged,
or the bail bond, if any is given, shall be cancelled. 
205. If the motion is supported by affidavits or other
evidence out of the record, tho plaintifff may oppose it by
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which tho
order of arrest was obtained. 
206. The writ of sci ref 'aciaagainst bail is abolished. 

207. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession 
of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of 
the action, or at any time before judgment, claim the immediate delivery of the property, as herein provided. 
208. An order for the delivery of property to the plaintifff,
shall be made by the clerk, when there is filed in his office an
affidavit of the plaintifff; showing 
1. A particular description of property claimed. 
j. Its actual value, and the damages which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought to recover for the detention thereof. 
3. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property,
or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating 
the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to
the immediate possession of the property. 
4. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant, 
fJ. That it has not been taken for a lax or line against
the plain till~ or under any order or judgment of a court 
against him, or seized under an execution or attachmeut against his property, or if so seized, that it is, hy 
statute, exempt from such seizure.
U. That the plaintifff's cause of action has accrued 
within one year.
Where the action ii; brought to recover property 
taken under an execution or distress warrant, the uffidavit must state the-fact of the taking and the nature
of the process under which it was done. 
209. Where the delivery of several articles of property
is claimed, the affidavit must slate the value of each . 
210. The order for the delivery of t.he property to the
plaintifff shall be addressed and delivered. with a. copy there
of to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to
the action, and the court in which the action is brought; and 
direct the sheriff to t.ake the property, describing it and
stating its value as in the affidavit of the plaintifff, and deliver it to him, and to make return of the order on a day to
be named therein. The order shall be made returnable as an
order of arrest is directed to be returned. 
211. The order shall not _be complied with by the sher
ift~ until there has been executed in his presence, by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a bond to the defend
ant to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the
action, and that he shall perform the judgment of the court
therein, by returning the property, if a return thereof shall
be adjudged, and by paying such sums of money as may be
adjudged against him in the action, not exceeding double the
value of the property, and the costs of the action. 
212. Where the action is brought against a sheriff, or
other officer, to recover the possession of property taken by
him under an execution against n pers,im other than the 
plaintifff, or under a distress warrant, the bond provided for
in the last section shall be to the effect that the plaintifff
shall duly prosecute . ..the action, and that he shall perform 
the judgment of the court therein, by returning the proper
ty, if a return thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying to
the defendant, or to the plaintifff in the execution, or party
who sued out the distress warrant, as may be directed by
the court, such sums of money as may be adjudged against.
the plaintifff in the action, not exceeding double the value of
the property, and the costs of the action. 
213. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking the
property therein mentioned, if it is found in the possession
of the defendant or of his agent, or of any other person 
who obtained posse!jSion thereof from the defendant directly 
or indirectly after the order was placed in the sheriff's hands.
He shall also deliver a copy of the order to the defendant, 
or to the person from whose possession the property is
taken, or, if neither can be found, leave it nt the usual place
of abode of either, with some white person of the nge of
sixteen years. 
214. If the affidavit of the plaintifff states that the
property was taken under an execution or distress warrant, 
the sheriff shall deliver it to the plaintifff. In every other case, he shall retain the property in his possession for two 
days, unless the bond mentioned in the succeeding section
shall be sooner executed. 
215. Within two days after the taking of the property
by the sheriff, the defendant, or any one for him, may, in the
case in which the property was not taken under an execution or distress warrant, cause a bond to be executed to the
plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, by one or more sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property, to the
effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the 
court in the action ; whereupon, the sheriff shall restore the
property to the defendant, or to the person in whose possession it was found. If such bond is not executed within the
time above limited, the sheriff shall deliver the property to 
the plaintifff. He shall return the bonds with the order. 
216. Before taking any bond, the sheriff shall, upon
the suggestion of either party that the value of the property is not truly stated in the order for its delivery, and, 
where the suggestion is on the part of the defendant, on his
producing the property to the sheriff, select three disinterested housekeepers, to appraise the same under oath to be
administered by him; whose appraisement indorsed upon
the order, shall be regarded ns the value of the property, in
taking the bonds. 
217. The sheriff shall safely keep the property, and shall 
be allowed by the court the necessary expenses of doing so,
to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs. 
218. If another person than the defendant or his agent,
claims the property taken by the sheriff, and delivers to the
sheriff his affidavit that he is entitled to the possession there
of, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep it, or deliver it to 
the plaintifff, unless he shall, within two days after the delivery to him, or to his agent or attorney, by the sheriff, of a
copy of the affidavit, indemnify the sheriff against the claim,
by a bond executed by one or more sufficient sureties, in
double the value of the property. No claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent,
shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made. He shall
return the affidavit of the claimant, with his proceedings
thereon, to the clerk's office. 
219. An order may, at any time before judgment, be
directed to any other county for the delivery of the property
claimed. And several orders may issue at the same time, or
successively, at the option of the plaintifff. But only one of
them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by
the court. 
220. Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
or by the return of the order of delivery, that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the order
cannot be executed, the court may compel the attendance of
the defendant, examine him on oath as to the situation of the
property, and punish a disobedience of its orders in this respect as in cases of contem1;>t. 

221. Grounds on which plaintifff may have an attachment inn civ
il action for the recovery of money or personal property.
Shall not be granted against a non-resident or foreign corpo
ration, except for a demand arising upon contract. 
221. The plaintifff in a civil action, may, at or after the
commencement thereof, have an attachment against the property of the defendant, in the cases and upon the grounds
hereinafter stated, as a security for the satisfaction of such
judgment as may be recovered: 
First. In an action for the recovery of money where
the action is against 
I. A defendant or several defendants, who, or
some one of whom, is a foreign corporation, or a
non-resident of the state; or . 
2. Who has been absent therefromfour months;
: or 
3. Has departed from this state with intent to 
defraud his creditors; or 
4. Has left the county of his residence, to avoid
the service of. a summons; . . 
5. So conceals himself that a summons cannot
be served upon him; or 
13. Is about to remove his property, or a mate
rial part thereof,. out of this state, not leaving
enough therein tosatisfy the plaintifff's claim; or 
7 .Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of
his property, or suffered or permitted it to be sold,
jvith the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his creditors; or 
8. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose
of his property, with such intent. 
But an attachment shall not be granted on the
ground that the defendant or defendants, or any
of them, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resi
dent of this state, for any claim other than a debt 
.or demand arising upon contract. 
Secondly. In an action to recover the possession of 
personal property, where it has been ordered to be delivered to the plaintifff, and where the property, or part 
thereof, has been disposed of, concealed, or removed, so 
that the order for its delivery cannot be executed by
the sheriff. 

222 .. An order of attachment shml be made by the 
clerk of the court .which the action. is brought, in any 
case mentioned in the first subdivision of section 221, when
there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, show- 
ing 
I. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The amount which the affiant believes the plain- 
tiff ought to recover ; and ~
4. The existence in the action of some one of the 
grounds for an attachment enumerated in thit subdivision; and in the case mentioned in the second subdivision of section 221, where it is shown, by such affi
davit or by the return of the sheriff upon the order for
the delivery of the property claimed, that the facts mentioned in that subdivision exist. 
223. Where the return by the proper officer upon a
summons against a defendant, states that he has left the
county to avoid the service of the summons, or has concealed himself therein for that purpose, it shall be equivalent to the statement of the fact in the affidavit mentioned
in the last section. 
224. The order of attachment shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed in his office by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a bond to the effect
that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages 
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the 
order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim. 
225. The order of attachment shall be directed and
delivered to the sheriff; with as many copies thereof as the 
plaintifff may direct. ~shall- require him to attach and
safely keep the prope J]ie defendant in his county not 
exempt from execution ,SO much thereof 88 will satisfy
the plaintifff's claim specified in his affidavit, which shall be
stated in the order, and the probable costs of the action not
exceeding thirty dollars ; also to sumw the garnishees to 
answer in the action on the return day of- the order, and to 
make due return thereoThe order shall be made returnable as an order of arrest is directed to be returned. 
226. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriffs
of other counties; and several of them may, at the option
of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time, or in succession.
But such only as have been executed in whole or in part, 
shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the
court. 

227. Where there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which t.hw were received by the sheriff. 
228. The order of attachment shall be executed by the 
sheriff without delay, in the following manner: 
1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if there is no occupant, in a conspicuous 
place thereon, a copy of the order. 
2. Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, by taking it into his custody, and holding it sub
ject to the order of the court.
3. Upon other perssnal property, by delivering a 
copy of the order, with a notice specifying the property attached, to the person holding the same ; or as to
a debt or demand, to the person owing it; or as to
stock in a corporation, or property held, or a debt or 
demand owing by it, to the chief officer, or to the secre
tary, cashier, treasurer, or managing agent thereof, and
by summoning the person or corporation to answer as 
a garnishee in the action. The sheriff shall deliver
copies to and summon such persons as garnishees, as 
the plaintifff may direct. 
229. It shall be the duty of every person mentioned in
the third subdivision of the last section, to whom the sheriff'
shall apply therefore, to furnish him with a certificate of the 
number of shares of the defendant in the stock of the corporation1 or a description of the property held by such corporation or person belonging to or for the benefit of the
defendant, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant, by such corporation or person, whether clue or not; and
a failure to perform this duty may be punished by the court
as a contempt. 
230. The defendant's personal property, other than
slaves, shall be first take-~ an attachment; if enough
thereof is not found, the~laves, and lastly, his real
property. 
231. Where the property lo be attached is a fond in
court, the execution of the order of attachment shall be, by 
leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with a
notice specifying the fund; and where several orders of 
attachment are executed upon such fund on the same day,
they shall be satisfied out of it ratably. 
232. The sheriff shall not, in executing an order of
attachment upon personal property held by the defendant
jointly or in common with another person, take possession of 
such property, until there has been executed a bond to such
other person, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff,to the effect that he shall pay to such person the damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the order, 
not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim. 
233. An order of attachment binds the defendant's
property in the county which might be seized under an execution against him, from the time of the delivery of the order to the sheriff, in the same manner as an execu tion would
bind it; and the lien of the plaintifff is completed upon- any
property or demand of the defendant, by executing the order
upon it in the manner directed in this article. 
234. If, after an order of attachment has been placed
in the hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant is
removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach
the same in another county, within twenty-four hours after
the removal. 
235. The sheriff may deliver any attached property to
the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution, in the presence of the sheriff, of a bond to the plain
tiff, by such person, with one or more sufficient sureties, to 
the effect that the obligors are bound, in double the value of
the property, that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court in the action, or th~a~ the property or its value 
shall be forthcoming, and subject to the order of the court
for the satisfaction of such judgment. 
236. For the purpose of taking this bond, the sheriff
shall cause the property to be appraised by three disinterest- 
ed housekeepers, to be selected and sworn by him to make 
a fair appra.isement, who shall indorse their appraisement on
the order of attachment. 
237. In any proceeding on this bond, it shall not be 
n defense that the property was not subject to the attachment. 
238. The sheriff shall return upon every order of at
tachment what he has done under it. The return must show
the property attached, the time it was attached, and the disposition made of it. Where garnishees are summoned, their
names and the time each was summoned must be stated. 
And, where real property is attached, the sheriff shall describe it with sufficient certainty to identify it, and, where
he can do so, by a reference to the deed or title under which
the defendant holds it. He shall return, with the order, all 
bonds taken under it. 

239. The court shall make proper orders for the preser- 
vation and use of the property during the pendency of the
action, and for paying into court or securing the debts and
funds attached. It may direct a sale of the property, other 
than slaves, where, by reason of its perishable nature, or of7'.~
the cost of keeping it, a sale would be for the benefit of the
parties. In vacation, suMle may be ordered by the judge 
of the court, or, of any~ property other than a steam- 
boat, by the presiding judge of the county court. The sale 
shall be public, after advertisement, and made in such manner and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the 
court or judge, having regard to the probable duration of
the action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the
sheriff, together with all the monies received by him from
garnishees, shall be held and paid over by him under the
same requirement and responsibilities of himself and his
sureties, as are provided in respect to money deposited in lieu 
of bail. 
240. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the ne
oessary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be 
paid by the plaintifff, and taxedin the costs. In the case of
a steamboat attached, he may be allowed, for his own superintendence thereof, not exceeding one dollar per day, and 
such sums as he may actually expend for the safe-keeping of
the boat, not to exceed, for the pay of persons employed, the
usual wages of a mate and a deckhand, unless more than two
persons have been employed by the order of the court or the
judge thereof. 
241. The defendant or claimant of any attached property may be required by the court to attend before it, andgive 
information, on oath, respecting the property. , 

242. If the defendant, at any time before judgment,
causes a bond to be executed to the plaintifff by one or
more sufficient sureties to be approved by the court, to 
the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of any property taken under it, or the pro
ceeds thereof. 
243. The bond mentioned in the last section, may, in 
vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having
the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the return of 
the order, before the clerk, with the same effect upon the attachment as if executed in court; the sureties. in either ease, 
to be approved by the officer. 
244. The garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the sheriff having in his hands the order of attachment, or into the court.. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant, for any money so paid, not 
exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be subjected
to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim 
against him; and if he discloses the property of the defendant in his hands, or the true amount owing by him, and delivers or pays the same according to the order of the court, 
he shall be allowed his costs.
245. Each garnishee summoned shall appear. The 
appearance may be in person, or by the affidavit of the
garnishee filed in court, disclosing truly the amount owing
by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and the
property of the defendant in the possession or under the
control of the garnishee; and in the case of a corporation,
any shares of stocks therein held, by or for the benefit of
the defendant, at or after the service of the order of attach
ment.
246. Where a garnishee, or officer of a corporation sum
moned as a garnishee, appears in person, he may be examined on oath; and, if it is discovered on such examination
that, at or after the service of the order of attachment upon
him, he or the corporation was possessed of any property of 
the defendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order
the delivery of such property, and the payment or security
for the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into
the court, or to such person as it may direct, who shall give
bond, with security, for the same; or the court may permit 
the garnishee to retain the property 01the amount owing, upon the execution of a bond with one or more sufficient sure
ties, to the effect that the amount shall be paid, or the property shall be forthcoming, as the court may direct. Perform
ance of these bonds may be summarily enforced by orders
and proceedings as in cases of contempt. 
247. The court may, on the motion of the plaintifff, compel
the appearance in person, and examination of any garnishee, 
or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee, by pro
oess as in cases of contempt; or, where a garnishee makes 
default hy not appearing, it may hear proof of any debt or
property owing or held ~y him to or for the defenda_nt, and 
make such order in relation thereto, as if what is so proved
had appeared on the examination of the garnishee. 
248. Upon the service of a summons upon any garnishee, or after his failure to make a. disclosure satisfactory to 
the plaintifff; the latter may proceed in an action against him,
by filing a petition verified as in other cases, and causing a
summons to be issued upon it; and, thereupon, such proceed
ing may be had as in other actions, and judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff to subject the property of the
defendanl in the hands of the garnishee, or for what shall
appear to be owing to the defendant by the garnishee. The 
judgment may be enforced by execution, or other proper
means. 
249. If judgment is rendered iu the action for the defendant, the attachment shall ~e discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him. 
250. If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the court
shall apply in satisfaction thereof 
1. The monies arising from the sales of perishable
property. 
2. The proceeds of the debts and funds attached in
the hands of the garnishee. 
If these are not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff 's
claim, the court shall order a sale, by the sheriff, of any 
other attached property which may be under its control, in the following order: 
I. Personal property, other than slaves.
2. Slaves. 
3. Real property or so much thereof as may be ne
cessary to satisfy the plaintifff's claim. 
251. No order for the sale of real property attached in
virtue of the provisions of this article, shall be made in any
action in which the defendant bas not appeared or been actually summoned, until there baa been filed an affidavit of the
plaintifff, or of his agent or attorney' to the effect tbat the 
defendant has no personal property, or not enough to satisfy
the olaim of the plaintifff in this state, known to the affi
ant. 
252. Any surplus of the attached property, or its pro
ceeds, shall be returned to the defendant. 
253. The sales shall be public, upon such notice, and at 
such time and place as the court may direct. When credits
are given, bonds, with security, shall be required ; and the
credit shall not be longer than three months for personal
property, and not less than three nor more than twelve
months for real property, or on installments equivalent to
not more than twelve months credit on the whole; and,
upon real property, a lien shall be retained. The sales shall
be subject to the confirmation of the court. 
254. The court may compel the delivery to the sheriff,
for sale, of any of the attached property for which a bond
may have been given, and may proceed summarily on such
bond to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment
of such sums as may be due upon the bond, by rules and
attachments as in cases of contempt. 
255. The court may, from time to time, make and enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the 
confirmation thereof, and the application and payment of the
monies collected. 
256. It may order the sheriff to re-possess himself, for
the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property
which may have passed out of his hands without having
been sold or converted into money ; and the sheriff shall,
under such order, have the same power to take the property
as upon an order of attachment. 
257. Any person may, before the sale of any attached
property, or before the payment to the plaintifff of the proeeeds thereof, or of any attached debt, present his petition, 
verified by oath, to the court, disputing the validity of the
attachment, or stating I\ claim to the property or to an in- 
terest in or lien on it under any other attachment, or other
wise, and setting forth the facts upon which such claim is 
founded, and his claim shall be investigated. A non-resident petitioner shall, in all such cases, give security for costs.
The court may hear the proof; or may order a reference to a 
commissioner, or may impannel a jury to inquire into the
facts. If it is found that the petitioner has title to, a lien on,
or any interest in such property, the court shall make such
order as may be necessary to protect his rights. The costs 
of this proceeding shall be paid by either party, at the discretion of the court. 
Where. several attachments are executed on the same prop
erty, the court, on the motion of any one of the attaching
plaintifffs, may order a reference to a commissioner, to ascer
tain and report the amounts and priorities of the several
attachments. 
258. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, 
utter reasonable notice to the plaintifff move the court for 
additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if on 
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the
plaintifff's bond has removed from this state, or is not suffi
cient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of
attachment and direct restitution of any property taken un
der it, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security is given by the plaintifff. 

259. ln an action brought by a creditor againat -his 
debtor, the plaintifff may, before his claim is due, have an
attachment against the property of the debtor, where 
1. He has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of
his property, or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with 
the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors,
or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their
debts; or 
2. Is about to make such fraudulent sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property, with such intent;
or 
3. Is about to remove his property, or a material
part thereof, out of this state, with the intent, or to the
effect, of cheating or defrauding his creditors, orof
hindering or delaying them in the collection of their
debts. 
260. The attachments authorized by the last section,
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought 
or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge, or by the presiding judge of the county court, where the petition verified 
by the oath of the plaintifff, shows any of the grounds for an
attachment enumerated in that section, and the nature and
amount of the plaintifff's claim, and. when the same will
become due. 
261. The order of the court or judge granting theat- _
taehment shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, 
and the probable costs of the action.
262. The order of attachment as granted by the court 
or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has
heen executed in his office such bond 6n the part of the 
plaintifff as is directed in section 225.
263. The provisions in the first article of this chapter 
subsequent to section 225, shall, so far as they are applicable, 
regulate the attachments authorized by this article. 

264. In an action to enforce the liability, by statute, of 
a steamboat or other vessel, for the removal of a slave, or 
to enforce a lien upon a steamboat for the wages of its officers or crew, or for work, materials, provisions, stores, or 
supplies, or to enforce the liability of such boat for an injury
to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its officers or 
crew, if the petition shows a sufficient cause of action and
the amount of the plaintifff's claim, and is verified by his
oath, an attachment may be granted against such boat or
vessel and her engine and furniture by the court in which 
the action is brought, or by the judge thereof or any circuit
Judge, or by the presiding judge of the county court. 
Every order for such attachment must specify the sum tbr
which it is granted, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim for 
principal and interest, as existing at the time of the order,
with three years interest thereon and the probable costs of
the action. 
265. Where the action mentioned in the last section is 
for the wages of the officers or crew of a steamboat, or for
work done upon, or materials, provisions, stores, or supplies 
furnished to such boat, and there are several plaintifffs having
distinct claims separately stated in the petition, an attachment may be granted in favor of each plaintifff for his claim.
And where, in any such case, the plaintifff, or any one of sev
eral plaintifffs, shall annex to the petition his affidavit that he
is unable to give security, and the affidavit of some disinterested person that his claim is just, the court, or judge 
granting the att.achment for such claim may direct that it
shall issue for an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, without
security on ~he part of such plaintifff. 
266. The order of attachment as granted by the court,
shall not be issued by the clerk, except where security is
dispensed with as provided in the last section, until there has
been executed in his office such bond on the part of the
plaintifff as is directed in section 224. 
267. The order of attachment shall be issued, directed,
executed and returned as an order of general attachment is
directed to be returned. 
268. The sheriff may deliver any steamboat or other
vessel attached, to the master or person in charge of such
boat or vessel when attached, upon the execution of a bond to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, by such person,
with one or more sureties, sufficient for the sum for which the
attachment was granted, to the effect that the obligors will
pay to the plaintifff such sums of money as may be adjudged
to him in the action, or that the boat or vessel shall be forth
coming, and subject to the order of the court, for the satis- 
faction of such judgment as may be rendered thereinwhiohever shall be directed by the court. 
269. In any proceeding on the bond mentioned in the
last section, it shall be no defense that the boat or vessel was 
not subject to the attachment. 
270. If the defendant, or any owner of the boat, shall, 
at any time before judgment, cause a bond to be executed 
to the plaintifff by one or more sureties, sufficient for the
sum for which the attachment was granted, to be approved
by the court, to the effect that the defendant shall perform
the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be discharg
ed, and restitution made of the boat. 
271. The bond mentioned in the last section may, in
vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having
the order of attachment in his hands, or after the return of
the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as if executed in court. The sureties shall be such as are approved by
the officer. 
272. Where the attachment is for a sum exceeding the
value of the boat, which the sheriff may have appraised us 
provided in section 236, he may take the bond of the master, or person in charge of the boat when attached, mentioned in section 271, with sureties sufficient for the appraised
value of the boat; and such bond, in that case, shall provide
that the liability of the obligors shall not exceed such ap
praised value. 

273. In an action to enforce a mortgage ofor lien upon
personal property, or for the recovery, partition, or sale of 
such property, or by a plaintifff having a future estate or interest therein, for the security of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears, by the petition verified on oath, or by affidavits or the proofs in the cause, that the plaintifff' has a just
claim, and that the property is about to be sold, concealed,
or removed from the state, or where the plaintifff states on
oath that he has reasonable cause to believe and does believe
that, unless prevented by the court, the property will M 
sold, concealed, or removed from the state, an attachment
may be granted against the property. . 
274. In an action by a vendor of property fraudulently
purchased, to vacate the contract and have a restoration of
the property or compensation therefore, where the petition
shows such fraudulent purchase of property and the amount
of the plaintifff's claim, and is verified by his oath, an attachment against the property may be granted. 
275. The attachments in the cases mentioned in the last
two sections, may be granted by the court in which the ac
tion is brought, or by the judge thereof or auy circuit judge,
or the presiding judge of the county court, upon such terms 
and conditions as to security, on the part of the plaintifff, for
the damages which may be occasioned by them, and with such
directions as to the disposition to be made of the attached 
property, as may he just and proper under the circumstanoes
f 9ACb case. 
276. In every case, the plaintifff shall be required to 
give security for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate sum to he specified in tho order granting the attachment; and, where it may be proper, the court or judge may 
direct that the defendant or person in possession of the at
tached property, shall be permitted to retain it, upon giving 
such bond with security, and for such sum as the court or
judge may prescribe. 
277. No order of attachment shall be issued by the
clerk, until the bond on the part of the plaintifff required by
the order of the court or judge, is executed in his office, by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff. 
278. The order of attachment shall describe the spe
cific property against which it is issued, and shall have in<lorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge, as to the
disposition to be made of the attached property. It shall
'be directed, executed, and returned as other orders of attachment. 
279. The sheriff shall make such disposition of the
attached property as may be directed by the court or 
judge, and where there is no direction upon the subject, he
shall safely keep the property subject to the order of the
court. 
280. The court may, in any of the cases mentioned in sections 273 and 27 4, direct the terms and conditions of the
bond to be executed by the defendant with security in order 
to obtain a discharge of the attachment. 

281. Where, after an order of attachment against a
steamboat or other specific property has been placed in the
hands of the sheriff, such boat or property is removed from
the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach it in another 
county, within twenty-four hours after such removal. 
282. Where it appears, by the return of the sheriff or
by the affidavit of the plaintifff, that any specific property
against which an order of attachment is issued, has been
concealed or removed by the defendant, the court may re
quire him to attend and be examined on oath respecting such 
matter, and may enforce its orders in this respect as in cases
of contempt. 
283. Performance of bonds to obtain discharge of specific attachments, or for the forthcoming of steamboats or
other property specifically attached, may, in all cases, be
summarily enforced by roles and proceedings as in cases of
contempt. 
284. The provisions of the first article of this chapter
not inconsistent with the foregoing sections of this article, 
may be applied, so far as shall be proper, to regulate the
proceedings in cases of attachments against specific property. 

285. An attachment obtained at the oommenoement of
the action shall be sustained or discharged at the time that 
judgment is rendered in the action, unless for sufficient cause
the court extends the time of deciding upon it. An attachment obtained after the commencement of the action, shall
not be sustained until the defendant has had the time for
controverting it provided in this chapter. 
286. If judgment is rendered in favor of the defendant
the attachment shall be discharged. 
287. If judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff,
and no affidavit or answer verified by oath by the defendant 
filed, denying the statements of the affidavit upon which the
attachment was issued, or motion made to discharge it, the
court shall sustain the attachment. 
288. Upon an attachment being sustained, the property
attached, or its proceeds, or the securities taken upon the
attachment, shall, by appropriate orders, be applied in satisfaction of the judgment. 
289. The defendant may file his affidavit denying all or 
any of the material statements of the affidavit on which the.
attachment is issued; and, thereupon, the attachment shall be 
on@idered H controverted, and the affidavite of the plaintifff' 
and defendant shall be regarded as the pleadings in the attaohment, and have no other effect. Where the attachment
was obtained at the commencement of the action, the defendant may file his affidavit at such time after the levy of the
attachment as is given by this Code for filing his defense, af~ 
ter the service of the summons, which period may be extended by the court for sufficient cause. 
290. Either party may take proof by deposition to 
be read on the trial of the attachment, or by the pennission of the court the witnesses may be orally examined in
court. 
291. At any time before the attachment is sustained,
the defendant, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff or his
attorney, may move the court to discharge the attachment,
the hearing of which may be postponed by the court, upon
sufficient cause, from time to time; and upon the hearing, if
the court is of opinion that the attachment was obtained
without sufficient cause, or that the grounds of the attachment being controverted are not sustained, the attachment
shall be discharged. 
292. The order for the discharge of an attachment,
made at or after the rendition of judgment in the action,
shall be final, and not subject to be reinstated as provided in
this article, but shall be the subject of appeal where the
amount in controversy is such as to authorize an appeal.
The order sustaining the attachment shall also, in like manner, on the rendition of judgment in the action, be subject 
to appeal. 
293. The reinstatement of attachments, as provided in 
this article, shall only be binding on the inferior court until
judgment; and when judgment is rendered in the action the 
inferior court shall make a disposition of the motion to dis
charge, which shall, in like manner, be final. 
294. The defendant, on reasonable notice to the plain
tiff, may, at any time before the term next after the levy 
of the attachment, move the judge of the courtin vaoa
tiou to discharge the attachment, on the ground of its having been issued contraryto the provisions of article one of
this chapter; and the judge, on an inspection of the papers
in the action, or of authenticated copies of them, shall 
have the same power of discharging the attachment by his
. written order, filed by the clerk, as he would have in court, 
and shall have like power to permit amendments by the
plaintifff. 
295. Where the plaintifff desires a reinstatement of the
attachment, be may have an entry made upon the record of
leave to apply therefore within a reasonable time not exceeding
twenty days. And in such case, the order of discharge shall
be made, to take effect at the end of the period so limited,
unless the attachment is reinstated in the meantime. 
296. A judge of the court of appeals, in any case in
which the plaintifff has secured the right to apply therefore in
the manner provided in the last section, may, upon an inspection of copies of the record and of the depositions and
affidavits read upon the motion to discharge, reinstate the
attachment; and, if the order of reinstatement shall be filed
in the clerk's office of the court in which the action is pending within the time limited as provided in the last section,
the execution of the order of attachment shall proceed;
otherwise, it shall stand discharged, and restitution shall 
be made of any property taken under it. 

297. Injunctions to stay proceedings in actions or suits
commenced before this Code takes effect, are not affected by 
its provisions, but are to be granted, to proceed in all respects, and be determined as if it had not been adopted. 
298. The injunction provided by this Code, is a command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final 
judgment in an action, or may be allowed ae a proviaional
remedy; and where so allowed, it shall be by order. The 
writ of injunction is abolished. 
299. Where it appears by the petition that the plaintifff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, eonsists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act which would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff, or where, during the Jitigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens or is about 
to do, or is procuring or suffering to be <lone, some act, in
violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of 
the action and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such act, 
It may also be granted in any case where it is specially authorized bystatute. 
300. The injunction may be granted at the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, by the
court, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, or by
the presiding judge of the county court, where it appears by
the petition that the plaintifff is entitled thereto. And,
during a litigation, it may be granted by the court, or by
the judge thereof or any circuit judge, where it satisfactorily appears by affidavits that sufficient grounds exist therefore. 
301. The judge of the circuit court for any county 
may, if he deem it right and proper, by an order duly enter
ed on the order book of said court, authorize the clerk of
said court to grant injunctions and restraining orders, in the
same manner and under like restrictions that the presiding 
judges of county courts may grant injunctions and restraining orders; but no such authority shall be conferred on any
deputy of such clerk. 
302. All injunctions granted before final judgment,
shall be subject to the further order of the court. 
303. The court or judge to whom an application for an 
injunction is made, may direct a reasonable notice to be giv- 
en to the party against whom the injunction is asked, to
attend and show cause against it at a specified time and
pince, and may, in the meantime, restrain such party. 
304. An injunction shall not be granted against a defendant who has answered, unless he has had notice of the
application therefore. 
305. An injunction to stop the general and ordinary
business of a corporation, or the operations of a turnpike, 
railroad, or canal company, or of a municipal corporation, or
of the trustees of a town, or any building, erection, or other
work, or to restrain a nuisance, or the unlawful issue or circulation of small notes or bills, can only be granted by the
court, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, upon
reasonable notice of the time and place of the application
therefore, to the party enjoined. 
306. On the hearing of au application for an injunction
of which notice has been given, each party may read affida- 
vits.
307. In every case, the court or judge granting an injunction shall specify in the order therefore an amount, for 
which the party obtaining it shall give security in a bond to
the party enjoined, before the injunction shall become effectual; which amount shall be sufficient to cover all the probable damages and costs thatmay be occasioned by the in- 
junction. The court or judge may prescribe the effect of
the bond, so as to secure to the party enjoined the damages
to which he may become entitled, if it is finally decided that
the injunction ought not to have been granted. Where the
injunction is to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final
order for money, the amount for which security is required
shall be sufficient to cover, with other damages, the sum enjoined, with five years interest thereon. Where the injunc- 
tion is to stay proceedings upon a judgment for property, 
the amount specifled in the order shall be sufficient to eover 
also the rent, hire, or value of the use thereof for two years ;
and in case of personal property, its value likewise. 
308. The order of injunction shall not be issued by the
clerk, until the bond mentioned in the last section has been
executed in his office by one or more sufficient sureties of
the party obtaining the injunction. Where the injunction
is to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the
bond shall be to the effect that the party obtaining the in
junction will satisfy the judgment or order, or so much of it
as is enjoined, to the extent to which the injunction may be
dissolved; and that he will also satisfy any modified judgment or order that may be rendered or made in lieu of it,
or so much of it as exceeds the amount left unenjoined. In
other cases, unless otherwise directed by the court or judge,
the bond shall be to the effect that the party giving it will 
pay to the party enjoined such damages as he may sustain,
if it is finally decided that the injunction out not to have 
been granted. 
309. Sureties in injunction bonds shall be taken by the
clerk, under the same responsibilitiea as in other cases of
sureties taken by him. 
310. The order of injunction shall be addressed to the
party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be dated
and signed by the clerk. Where it is issued at the com
meqeement of the action, it shall be indorsed upon the sum
mons, and the copy thereof delivered to the sheriff. . Where
it is issued during the litigation, it shall be delivered to him
with as many copies thereof as there are parties enjoined. 
The sheriff shall forthwith serve it by delivering a copy 
to each party enjoined, and make return thereof on the
order. 
311. Where notice of the application for an injunction 
has been given to the party enjoined, it shall not be neceary to serve the order upon him ; he is bound by the in- 
junction as soon as the bond required o,f the adverse party is
executed. 
312. An injunction binds the party from the time he is
informed thereof 
313. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings
upon a judgment of a justice of the peace, or of a county
court, where the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed five pounds. 
314. An injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment
or final order of a court, shall not be granted, in an action
brought, by the party seeking the injunction, in any other
court than that in which the judgment or order was rendered 
or made. Nor shall such injunction be granted, unless the
party applying therefore makes affidavit that no injunction
has been previously granted to stay the proceedings on such
judgment or order. 
315. No injunction shall be granted by a judge after a
motion therefore has been overruled by the court. Nor shall
any be granted by a judge of a county court, where it has 
been refused by the judge of the court in which the action
is brought, or by any circuit judge. A judge refusing an
application for an injunction, shall, if requested by the defendant, give him a certificate thereof 
316. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished by
the court, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge in 
vacation, as a contempt. An attachment may be issued by 
the court or judge, upon the production of evidence by affi
davit of the breach of the injunction, against the party committing the same. And unless be purges the contempt, if in
vacation, the judge may commit him to jail until the sitting 
of the court, or take a bond with security for his appearance 
to answer for the contempt at the next term of the court, 
and, in the meantime, to obey the injunction .. 
317. The affidavits read upon an applioation for an injunction shall be filed with the papers of the case. 
318. A party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for additional security on behalf of such party: and, if it appears on such motion that
the surety in the injunction bond has removed from this
state, or is insufficient, the court may vacate the order of in
junction, unless in a reasonable time sufficient security is
given. 

319. The party enjoined may, at any time, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court, upon the
plaintifff's petition and affidavits alone, to dissolve or modify an injunction of the application for which no notice was
given. 
320. A motion to dissolve or modify an injunction granted by a county judge, may, at any time, upon reasonable no- 
tree to the plaintifff, be made before the judge of the court 
or any circuit judge, upon the plaintifff's petition and affidavits alone. The order of the judge overruling the same, or 
dissolving or modifying the injunction, with the notice, shall 
be returned to the office of the clerk of the court. They 
shall be noted upon the record and the order obeyed, as if 
made by the court. 
321. After answer filed by the party enjoined, he may
give notice to the plaintifff of a motion to be made to the
court in not less than ten days thereafter upon the whole
case, to dissolve or modify the injunction, Upon such motion, each party may read depositions and other competent
evidence in writing.' The court shall not be bound to take
the answer as true. 
322. The motion upon the whole case to dissolve or
modify the injunction, may be postponed on the application
of either party, to a subsequent day, or to t~ next term,
where the court is satisfied that, under the circumstances of
the case, the delay is proper. When delay is asked in order 
to obtain the testimony of a witness, it must appear by affidavit what facts the witness is expected to prove, that the
affiant believes his testimony will be true, and that it could
not have been obtained by due diligence. 
323. After hearing the motion, the court or judge shall
overrule the same, or dissolve or modify the injunction ac
cording to the right of the case. 
324. Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction upon the whole case, shall ho allowed. 
325. Upon the dissolution in whole or in part of an injunction to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, 
the damages shall be assessed by the court, which may hear
the evidence and decide in a summary way, or may, at its
discretion, cause a jury to be impanneled to find the damages. Where money is enjoined, the damages may be any
rate per cent. on the amount released by the disselution, 
which, in the discretion of the court, may be proper, not exceeding ten per cent. And, where the delivery of property 
has been delayed by the injunction, the value of the use, hire, 
or rent thereof shall be assessed. Judgment shall be rendered, against the party who obtained the injunction, for the 
damages assessed; and the assessment shall be conclusive
against the surety of such party. 
326. Where the plaintifff desires to apply for a reinstatement of an injunction dissolved or modified on motion,
the court or judge shall make the order of dissolution or
modification to take effect in a reasonable time thereafter,
not exceeding twenty days, and shall express in the order
that the plaintifff has leave to apply in the meantime for a
reinstatement of the injunction. 
327. A judge of the court of appeals, in any case in
which the plaintifff has secured the right to apply therefore as 
provided in the last section, may, upon an inspection of
copies of the record, and of the depositions and evidence
read upon the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction,
reinstate the same in whole or in part. And, if the order of
reinstatement is filed in the clerk's office in the time limited
as provided in the last section, the injunction, as reinstated,
shall be obeyed; otherwise, the order of dissolution or modification shall take effect. 

328. In an action by u vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others 
jointly owing or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintifff or of any party whose right to 
or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof
is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund 
is m danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured,
the court may appoint n receiver to take charge thereof
during the pendenoy of the action, and may order and coerce
the delivery of it to him. 
329. In nn action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of 
his mortgage, and sale of the mortgaged property, a receiver
may, in like manner,. be appointed, where it appears that the
mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed, or
materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage
has not been performed, and that the property is probably
insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt. 
330. No party, or attorney, or person interested in an 
action, shall be appointed receiver therein 
331. Before entering upon bis duties, the receiver must
be sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or more
sureties approved by the court, execute a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to the effect 
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the
action, ad obey the orders of the court therein. 
332. The receiver has, under the control of the court,
power to bring and def end actions, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and 
generally, to do such acts respecting the property as the 
court may authorize. 

333. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examiuation of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his 
control, any money, or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him, as trustee
for another party, or which belongs or is due to another par
ty, the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party with or without security, subject to 
the further direction of the court. 
334. Wherever in the exercise of its authority, a court
has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing,
and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the 
disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with its direction. 
335. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely
any property delivered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and may allow him the necessary expenses attend
ing the same, to be paid by such party as the court shall
direct, and taxed in the costs of the action. 
336. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited or
paid into court, which shall be kept by him under the same 
requirements and responsibilities of himself and his sureties
as are provided by this Code in respect to money deposited
in lieu of bail. 
337. A court sitting in a county in which, or in any
county adjoining which, there is a bank, or a branch of a 
bank, created by the laws of this state: transacting regular
banking business, may order money paid into court to be 
deposited in such bank or branch to the credit of the court, 
in the action or proceeding in which the money was paid. 
Money so deposited, shall be paid only upon the check of 
the clerk of the court, annexed to its certified order for the 
payment, and in favor of the person. to whom the order
directs the payment to be made. 
338. Money deposited or paid into court in any action,
shall not be loaned out by the court, unless with the consent
of all the parties having an interest in or making claim to
the same. 

339. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or conclusion of law, is maintained by one party and controverted 
by the. other. They are of two kinds: 
1. Of law.
2. Of fact. 
340. An issue of fact arises
1. Upon a materialallegation in the petition, denied 
by the answer.
2. Upon a set-off or counterclaim presented in the 
answer, and denied by the reply. 
3. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, 
which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading. 

341. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action. 
342. Issues of law must be tried by the court. Issues 
of fact, arising in action by ordinary proceedings for the recovery of money, or of specific real or personal property, 
shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived. 
343. All other issues of fact, whether arising in ordi-.
nary or equitable proceedings, shall be tried by the court,
subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried
by a jury. 
344. The trial in each action shall be in the order in
which itstands upon the docket. 
345. A motion to postpone a trial on account of the
absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit 
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it; 
and, if it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must show 
. what facts the affiant believes the witness will prove, and 
not merely the effect of such facts in evidenoe, and that
the affiant himself believes them to be true. If, thereupon,
the adverse party will consent that, on the trial, they shall 
be taken as true, the trial shall not be postponed for that 
oause. 

346. The general mode of summoniug, impanneling,
challenging, and swearing the jury, is not changed by this 
Code. 
347. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall pro
oeed in the following order, unless the 'court for speoial reasons otherwise directs: 
1. The plaintifff must brietly state his claim, and the
evidence by which he expects to sustain it. 
2. The defendant . 'must then briefly state his defense, and the evidence" be expects to offer in support 
of it.
3. 'Ihe party on whom rests the burtheu of. proof in 
the whole action, must first produce his evidence; the
adverse party will then produce his evidence. 
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance
of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original case. 
3. Wheu the evidence ii; concluded, either party
may request instructions to the jury on points of law, 
which shall be given or refused by the court; which
instructions shall be reduced to writing if either party
require it. 
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to
the jury. In the argument, the party having the burthen of proof shall have the conclusion, and the adverse
party the opening. If there is more than one speech
on either side, or if several defendants having separate
defenses, appear by different counsel, the court shall
arrange their relative order. 
348. Whenever in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of real property which is the sub
ject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact
occurred, it may order them to be conduotcd in a body un
der the charge of an officer to the place, which shall be shown
to them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than
the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any su hject
connected with the trial. 
349. When the case is finally submitted to the jury,
they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they 
retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place,
~nder the charge of an-officer, until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion
of the court to permit them to separate temporarily at 'night, 
and at their meals. The officer. having them under his 
charge, shall not suffer any communication to be made to
them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they- have
agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court; and 
he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to 
any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict
agreed upon. 
350. If the jury are permitted to separate either during
the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they may be
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse
with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other person, on any subject of the trial; and, during the trial, that
it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon, 
until the cause is finally submitted to them. 
351. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there is a disagreement between them as to any part of the 
testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any point of
law arising in the case, they may request the officer to conduct them into court, where the information required shall 
be given in the presence of or after notice to the parties or
their counsel. 
352. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both par
ties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing. 
353. In nil cases where the jury are discharged during
the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be 
tried again, immediately or at a future time, as the court
may direct. 
354. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by 
the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman. When 
the verdict is announced, either party may require the jury 
to be polled, which is done by the clerk or court asking each
juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers in the nega
tive, the jury must again be sent out for further deliberation. 
355. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made, whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, 
the jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement. is
expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, 
the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the
case. 

356. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. 
A general verdict is that by which they prono~nce, generally, upon n11 or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by whicn the 
jury find the facts only. It must present the facts as estab
lished by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ;
and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to 
the court but to draw from them conclusions of law. 
357. In all actions, the jury, in their discretion, may 
render a general or special verdict, but may be required by 
the court, in any case in which they render a general Vrrdict,
to find specially upon particular questions of fact to be stated 
in writing. This special finding is to be recorded with the
verdict. 
358. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and 
the court may give judgment accordingly. 
359. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to 
recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of recovery. 
360. In actions for the recovery of specific personal
property, the jury must assess the value of the property, as 
also the damages for the taking or detention, whenever, by
their verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery or
return of the property. 

361. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in
actions arising on contract, and, with the assent of the court, 
in other actions in the following manner:
1. By failing to appear at the trial. 
2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed 
with the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered on the 
record.
362. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court, it 
shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding, ex
cept, generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of
the parties requests it, with the view of excepting to the 
decision of the court upon the questions of law involved in
the trial; in which case the court shall state in writing tho 
oonoh11ion1 of fact found, separately from the conclusions of 
law. 

363. An exception is an objection taken to a decision 
of the court upon a matter of law. 
364. The party objecting to the decision, must except 
at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to 
reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the succeeding term. 
365. No particular form of exception is required. The 
objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is 
necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as briefly 
as possible. . 
366. Where the decision objected to is. entered on the
record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at
the end of the decision, that he excepts. 
367. Where the decision is not entered on the record,
or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the
entry, the. party excepting must reduce his exception to
writing, and present it to the judge for his allowance and 
. signature. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to allow and sign it; whereupon, it shall be filed with the pleadings as part of the record, but not spread nt large on the
order book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall oor
reot it, or suggest the correction to be made, nnd sign it. If
the party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon 
his procuring the signatures of two by-standers attesting the
truth of his exception as by him prepared, the same shall be
filed as part of the record; but the- truth of the exceptions 
may be controverted and maintained by affidavits, not ex
ceeding five in number on each side, to be filed with the 
clerk within ten days after the filing of the exception.
368. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is mate
rial and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting. 

369. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court 
of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury or a decision by
the court. The former verdict or decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting materially
the substantial rights of such party : 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury;
or prevailing party, or any order of court or abuse of
discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence 
could not have guarded against.
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given 
under the influence of passion or prejudice. 
5. Error in the asseeement of the amount of r&OO'V- 
ery, whether too large or too small, where the action
is upon a contract or for the injury or detention of property. 
6. That the verdict or clecision is not sustained by
sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law. 
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence,
have discovered and produced at the trial. 
8. En-or of law occurring at the trial, and excepted 
to by the party making the application. 
370. A new trial shall not be granted. on account of
the smallness of damages in an action for an injury to 
the person or reputation, nor in any other action where
the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained. 
371. The application for a new trial must be made at
the term the verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for
the cause mentioned in subdivision seven of section 369, shall
be within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented. . 
372. The application must be by motion upon written grounds filed at the time of making the motion. The
grounds mentioned in the second, third, and seventh subdivisions of section 369, must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits. 
373. Where grouuds for a new trial are discovered af:.
ter the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered,
the application may be made by a petition filed with the
clerk not later than the second term after the discovery, on 
which a summons shall issue, us on other petitions, requiring the adverse party to appear and answer it, on or before
the first day of the next term. The application shall stand
for hearing at the term to which the summons is returned
executed, and shall be summarily decided by the court. 
The evidence may be either by depositions, or by witnesses examined in court. But no such application shall be
made more than three years after the final judgment ll'ui-=: 
rendered. 
 
374. Wherever damages, :al'C:.i~c.overable, file plaintifff 
way claim and recover any riite=of damages to which he may 
be entitled for the cause of action established. 
375. The provisions of this title respecting trials by
jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicafile, to
trials by the court. 

376. The cler{~iitiji -~~ep three separate dockets, which
shall be called the "coin~oil .qocket," the "equity docket," 
and the "motion docket." 
377. On the common docket shall be entered all actions 
prosecuted by ordinary proceedings, in the order in which
they were brought. 
378. The common docket shall be made out for each
term of the court; and the actions shall be set for particular days, and so arranged by the clerk that the cases
set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be. on
that day. 
379. The trial of any issue of fact or assessment of damages by a jury in any case, shall be on or after the day which 
it is set on the docket.
380. On the equity docket shall be entered all actions 
prosecuted by equitable proceedings, in the order in which
they were brought. 
381. On the motion docket may he entered any motion
relating to proceedings in the court. 
382. The entry on nll the dockets shall give the name
of the plaintifff and defendant, or if there are more than
one, then, of the first named in the pleadings, withthe
words "and others" added thereto, and the names of the
attorneys. 
383. The entry on the common docket shall also show
whether or not the summons has been fully served in due
time for trlal, and whether or not the isroe@ have been form~. 
384. The entry on the motion docket shall show the
date of the entry and the object of the motion. 
385. The first hour of each day of the term shall be 
devoted to hearing motions, in which the court shall first call 
the motion docket, and then, upon the attorneys present, for
motions. 
386. If the hour is not consumed in motions, the court 
may proceed, during the remainer thereof, to call the equity
docket. 
387. At the expiration of the motion hour, the court,
except on the third day of the term, shall proceed to the 
call of the common docket and the trial of the issues until
the call is completed, and then to the call of the equity
docket. 
388. On each day of the term, the court shall, immediately after the hearing of motions, call all the cases on the
common docket set for that day in which the summons has 
been served in due time, as provided in section 135, and in
which no issue of fact has been formed; and, upon failure 
to defend, may render judgment; and at the same time may 
hear and determine all issues of law in such actions, and
render judgment, or give further time for hearing and deciding them. 
389. On the third day of each term, the court shall
call all cases on the equity docket in which the summons has
been served as provided in section 137; and upon failure to
defend, may give judgment. 
390. On the third day, the court may hear and decide
all issues of law in the actions as they are called, and ren
der judgment, or give further time for hearing or deciding
them. 
391. The entry of a motion on the motion docket, shall
be considered as making the motion. 
392. Actions by ordinary proceedings shall stand for 
trial at the first term after process has been served on the de- 
fondant as specified in section 135. An action upon contract.
wherein th_e summons has been served in due time as provivided in section 13G upon part only of the defendants, shall 
stand. for trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and
may be continued as to the others for further proceedings.
In other actions by ordinary proceedings, the plaintifff can
only demand a trial at any term as to part of the defendant", upon his discontinuing his action on the first day of
such term as to the others. 
393. Actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings shall
stand for trial at any term, where the pleadings have been, 
or, by the provisions of sections 137, 138, and 139, should
have been completed ninety days before the commencement
of such term. But where they have not been so completed,
though they should have been by those sections, the party
in default as to time, shall not be entitled to demand a 
trial. 
394. Where interrogatories have been annexed to u
pleading in an action by equitable proceedings, the party
interrogated shall not be entitled to demand a trial, ~nless
he has answered the interrogatories either within twenty days
after they were filed, or twenty days before the term. 
395. The plaintifff shall be entitled to atrial in actions
by equitable proceedings, at the first term after the summons
has been served on all the defendants as provided in section
137, where no issue of fact is made by the pleadings, or
where the plaintifff consents that the statements of the an
swer may be taken as true. 
396. Where the summons in an action by equitable
proceedings, has been served in due time on part only of the
defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss his action as to those 
not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the others, in nil
cases where he could have maintained his action against
them without joining those not summoned. 

397. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in an action. 
398. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants. 
399. In an action against several defendants, the court 
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others 
whenever a several judgment is proper. 
400. An action may be dismissed, without prejudice 
to a future action- 
1. By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the
case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by 
the court. 
2. By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear on
the trial. 
3. By the court, for the want of necessary parties.
4. By the court, on the application of some of the 
defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff
fails to prosecute with diligence. 
5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of 
an order concerning the proceedings in the action. 
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the
decision must be upon the merits. 
401. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim has
been presented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff may
have dismissed his action or failed to appear. 
402. Though all the defendants have been summoned,
judgment may be rendered against any of them severally,
where the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments against
such defendants if the action had been against them alone. 
403. It shall not be necessary, in any action upon a
mortgage or lien, to enter an interlocutory judgment or
give time for the payment of money, or for doing any other
act; but final judgment may, in such cases, be given in the
first instance. 
404. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the
mortgaged property shall, in all cases, be ordered. 
405. Sales of personal property or slaves made by order
of court shall be on n credit of three months; sales of real
property, on a credit of not less than three nor more than 
twelve months, or on installments equivalent to not more
than twelve months credit on the whole, to be determined 
by the court. In all sales on credit, the purchaser shall execute bond, with good surety, to be approved by the person
making the sale, which bond shall have the force of a judg
ment; and in sales of real property, a lieu shall be retained
on the property for its price. 
406. In an action on a mortgage or lien, the judgment
may be rendered for the sale of the property, and for the
recovery of the debt against the defendant personally. 
407. Judgments for the recovery of money may be setoff against each other, having due regard to the legal and
equitable rights of all persons interested in both judgments.
The set-off may be ordered upon motion after reasonable
notice to the ad verse party, where both judgments are in
the same court, or in an action by equitable proceedings in
the court in which the judgment sought to be annulled by
the set-off was rendered. 
408. During the pen<leucy of an action, the judgment
in which when recovered could be used as a set-off against a
judgment in favor of the defendants or either of them, the 
court, to prevent loss by insolvency, non-residence, or other
wise, may enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor of
such defendants, according to the provisions of chapter 4 of title 8. 

409. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact,
or the assessment of damages is necessary to enable the court
to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a
decision of nn issue of law, the court may: take the account,
hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract, assess 
the damages, or may refer the same to a comrmssroner, or
may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury.
If a jury is ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which 
the action is set for trial. 
410. If only a purt of the plaintifff's claim is controverted by the defendant's answer, judgment may at any time be 
rendered for the part not controverted. 

411. Any pcrison indebted, or against whom a cause of 
action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or person 
having .such cause of action, confess judgment therefore;
whereupon, judgment shall be entered accordingly. 
412. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly slated
in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in
other actions. 
413. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its enforcement us judgments rendered in actions 
regularly brought and prosecuted, and the confession shall
operate as a release of en-ors. 

414. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must
be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless
it is special, or the court orders the case to be reserved for
future argument or consideration. 
415. Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or where
the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order 
what judgment shall be entered. 
416. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one 
party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment
shall be so rendered by the court though a verdict has been
found against such party. 
417. If a set-off established at the trial, exceeds the
plaintifff's claim so established, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess; or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment
shall be given therefore. 
418. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the delivery 
of the property, or for . the value thereof, in case a delivery
cannot be had, and damages for the detention. Where the
property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may
be for the return of the property, or its value in case a return cannot be had, and damages for the taking and withholding of the property. 
419. Where special damages are given by statute, and
it appears, by the verdict of the jury or other decision of the. 
action, that such special damages are due and recoverable
by one of the parties against the other, the court shall ren
der judgment for them; and if, in ascertaining the amount
thereof, it is necessary to assess the value of any property, 
pr amount of any debt or claim, the court may hear the
proof and assess such value or amount, or have the same 
made by a jury. 
420. The judgment must be entered on the order book,
and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination 
of the action. 
421. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause against
it after his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but
for this section, such a reservation would have been proper,
the infant, within twelve months after arriving at the age of 
twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or judgment. 
422. The clerk must keep, among the records of the
court, a book to be called the "judgment book," in which
shall be alphabetically cross-indexed all the judgments of the
court, according to the surnames of the plaintifff and defendant; and if there is more than one plaintifff or defendant,
then, of the plaintifff anddefendant first named in the peti
tion. It shall be so arranged that all the judgments in cases
of plaintifff's whose surnames commence with the same letter, shall be together, and all of each term shall immediately
succeed each other. The entry in the judgment book must 
show the names of the plaintifff and defendant, and if more
than one, then of the first named of each in the pleadings,
with the words "and others," the term at which the judgment
was entered, and a reference tothe order book and page at 
~:which the judgment is to be found, with a space left for the 
of the satisfaction of the judgment . 
423. Whenever the whole judgment shall appear to be
satisfied by tbe return of an execution, it shall be the duty 
of the clerk to enter in the judgment book, in the space
left for that purpose, "satisfied by execution." Whenever a 
judgment is satisfied otherwise than upon execution, it shall 
be the duty of the party or his attorney to enter satisfac
tion in the judgment book, which shall be sufficiently done,
by writing the words "satisfied in full," with the date of the
entry, and the signature of the party making it; and the
court may, on motion and notice, compel an entry of satis
fotion to be made. 

424. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court 
1. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is
ordered to convey such property to another. 
2. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of the court, and the purchase money
paid. 
425. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the
judgment, orders, and proceedings authorizing the convey
ance, as that the same may be readily found. 
426. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment,
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to
convey the land. 
427. A conveyance made in pursuance of n sale ordered 
by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the
parties to the action or proceeding. 
428. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass
any right, until it has been examined and approved by the
court, which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance,
and recorded with it. 
429. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only, without affixing the names of
the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names <Sf sueh
parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance. 
430. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in
which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been
made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it. 

431. An execution may be issued upon a judgment at
any time until the collection of it is barred by the statute of 
limitations, although no execution may havebeen previously
issued within a year and a day. 
432. The death of one or all the plaintifffs shall not prevent an execution being issued thereon, but on such execution the clerk shall indorse the death of such of them as are
dead, and if all be dead the names of the personal represen- 
tatives, or the last survivor, if the judgment passed to the
personal representatives, or the names of the survivor's heirs,
if the judgment was for real property. 
433. The sheriff, in acting upon an execution indorsed as
provided in the last section, shall proceed as if the surviving 
plaintifff or plaintifffs, or the personal representatives or heirs, 
were the only plaintifffs in the execution, and take sale, re
plevy, and forthcoming bonds accordingly. 
434. Before making the indorsements named above, an
affidavit shall be filed with the clerk by one of the plaintiffs, or personal representatives, or heirs, or their attor
ney, of the death, and that the persons named as such are
the personal representatives or heirs, and in the case of
personal representatives, they shall file with the clerk a 
 certificate of their qualification in some county court of this 
state. 
435. The death of part only of the defendants shall not
prevent execution being issued, which however shall operate
alone on the survivors and their property. 
436. The defendant may move the court to quash an execution on the ground that the personal representatives or
heirs of a deceased plaintifff are not properly stated in the
indorsement on the execution, and during the vacation of the
court may obtain an injunction, upon its being made to appear that the persons named are not entitled to the judgment
on which the execution was issued. 
437. A judgment may be revived against the personal
representatives, heirs, and devisees, or either of them, of a
deceased defendant, by an action prosecuted by ordinary
proceedings, witl~out verification of the petition. 


438. A defendant constructively summoned, shall be
allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and de
fend the action; and, upon a substantial defense being disclosed, time may be given on reasonable terms to prepare
for trial. 
439 . The statements of the petition as against a defendant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, except such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken as tr~~r~ut 
are to be establishecl by proof. But where the plaintiff.1\e!
with the petition his own affidavit, stating that any of the '
allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and
known to be so by the defendant, and that they cannot be
proved or shown otherwise than by his answer, so far as affiant knows or believes, such allegations, unless denied bythe
answer, shall be taken as true, 
440. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, it shall 
be necessary _ 
1. That an attorney be appointed, at least sixty
days before the judgment is rendered, to defend for 
the defendant, and inform him of the action and of
such other matters as may be useful to him in preparing for his defense. The attorney may be appointed by the clerk when the warning order is made, or by
the court, and shall receive a reasonable compensation
for his services, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed
in the costs. 
2. That a bond be executed to such defendant, by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to the
effect that, if the defendant within the period prescribed by law, shall appear, make defense, and set aside the
judgment, the plaintifff shall restore to him the property taken under any attachment in the action, or under
the judgment therein, the restoration of which may be
adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums of money
as the court may award to him. 
441. The attorney appointed pursuant to the Inst section, shall be a regular practicing attorney of the court; and,
before an order for his compensation is made, he must make
a written statement of all that he has done in the case,
which shall be signed by him, and filed with the papers of
the action. 
442. If the bond mentioned in section 440 is not given,
the court may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights
of the parties, but shall retain control over and preserve
any money or property, or the proceeds thereof, which may
have been attached in the action, until the expiration of
the period allowed to the defendant to appear and make
defense; when, if no defense is made, such money, or property or its proceeds, shall be delivered according to the judgment. 
443. Before rendering judgment against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, the 
court may cause the plaintifff to appear personally in court,
or before a commissioner, and answer under oath interroga- 
tories concerning the matters in the petition, or any matters
of defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counterclaim, and may order the examination to be reduced to
writing and filed with the papers of the action. 
444. If, upon the examination provided in the last section, any matters of set-off or counterclaim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted and allowed in the jmlgment. 
445. Where a judgment has been rendered against a
defendant or defendants constructively summoned, and who
did not appear, such defendants, or any one or more of them,
may, at any time within five years after the rendition of the
judgment, appear in court, and move to have the action 
re-tried ; and security for the costs being given, they shall
be admitted to make defense ; and, thereupon, the action
shall be re-tried as to such defendants, as if there had been
no judgment; and, upon the new trial, the court may confirm the former judgment, or may modify or set it aside, and
may order the plaintifff to restore any money of such defendant paid to him under it, or any property of the defendant
obtained by the plaintifff under it and yet remaining in his
possession, and pay to the defendant the value of any property which may have been taken under an attachment in the 
action, or under the judgment, and not restored. 
446. The plaintifff may, at any time after the judgment,
cause a certified copy thereof to be served on a defendant
constructively summoned; whereupon, the period in which
such defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial,
shall be reduced to one year after such service. 
447. The service of the copy of the judgment, if in this
state, shall be made and proved in the same manner as tho
service of a summons; and if out of this state, in the manner prescribed in section 86 as to the service of a copy of
the petition and summons, and proof thereof 
448. The title of purchasers in good faith to any property "sold under an attachment or judgment, shall not be affected by the new trial permitted by section 445, except the title 
of property obtained by the plaintifff and ~ot bought of him
in good faith by others. 
449. No lien on the property of a defendant constructively summoned, shall be created otherwise than by an attach- ment as provided in chapter 3 of title 8, or by judgment.
Nor shall any other defendant be restrained from paying or
delivering any money or property in his hands belonging or
due to such defendant, by notice indorsed on the summons, 
01otherwise than by attachment or judgment. 
450. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a
defendant constructively summoned,or summoned out of this
state as provided in section 86, and who has not appeared
in the action. 

451. An action to enforce the liability, by statute, of a
steamboat or other vessel for the removal of a slave, or to 
enforce a lien upon n. steamboat for the wages of its officers
or crew, or for work done upon, or materials, supplies, stores, 
or provisions furnished to such boat, or the liability thereof
for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its
officers or crew, shall stand for trial at the first term of the 
court commencing not less than ten days after the service of
the summons. 
452. In any action mentioned in the last section, a person made n. party pursuant to the provisions of section 48, 
may obtain an attachment in the same manner and upon the
same conditions as are prescribed concerning the attachment 
of the plaintifff in the action. 
453. Where, .. in any action mentioned in section 461, 
no owner of the boat has been summoned or has appeared,
the statements of the petition shall not be taken as true 
upon the trial, but are to be established by proof. 
454. Where any action mentioned in section 451 is for
an injury, the facts shall be tried by a jury upon such issue
or issues as the court may prescribe; and, in every such case, . 
the damages shall be assessed by a jury. 
455. Where any action mentioned in section 451 is
upon contract, the court may determine the facts and assess
the damages or amount of recovery, or, in its. discretion,
may direct a trial or assessment by a jury, or a reference to 
a commissioner to ascertain the facts or make an assessment. 
456. Sales of steamboats or other vessels ordered in
any action mentioned in section 451, shall not be upon a 
credit longer than six months, nor, where by installments,
upon credits longer than an average of six months for the
whole. 

457. The action for alimony or divorce shall be by equitable proceedings. 
458. The pleadings are not required to be verified by
affidavit. But either party may file interrogatories to the
other in regard to any matter of property involved in the
action, which shall be answered on oath, as interrogatories in
other actions, and have the same effect. 
459. The statements of the petition for a divorce shall
not be taken as true because of the defendant's failure to 
answer, or his or her admission of their truth. 
460. The plaintifff to obtain a divorce must allege and
prove, in addition to a legal cause of divorce- 
}. A residence in the state for one year next before
the commencement of the action. 
2. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed in
this state, or if out of the state, either that it was a legal
cause of divorce in the state where it occurred or existed, or that the plaintifff's residence was then in this 
state.
3. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed 
within five years next before the commencement of the
suit. 
461. During the pendency of an action for divorce or
alimony, the court may allow the wife maintenance, and enforce the payment of tho same by orders aud executions,
and proceedings as in cases of contempt. 
462. In every final judgment for a divorce from the
bond of matrimony, an order shall be made, that each party 
be restored to all property not disposed of at the commencement of the action, which either party obtained from or
through tho other during the marriage, and in consideration 
or by reason thereof. The proceedings for enforcing this
order may be by petition of either party, specifying the prop- 
erty the other has failed to restore; upon which the court
may proceed to hear and determine the same, in a summary 
manner, after ten days notice to the opposite party. 
463. The proceedings for annulling a final judgment
for a divorce from the bond of matrimony, shall be a joint
petition of the parties, verified by both parties in person,
filed in the court rendering the judgment, upon which the
court may forthwith annul the divorce. 
464. To annul a divorce from bed and board, either party may file a petition setting forth a sufficient cause for annulling the same; on which a summons shall issue against the 
other, and other proceedings be had as in actions by equitable
proceedings. a~tJ'6 ,"'?" u- 

465. The personal representative, an heir, devisee, legatee, distributee, or creditor of a deceased person, may insti- 
tute an action by equitable proceedings for the settlement
of his estate, and in such action may make all having an
interest in the estate and settlement defendants. 
466. In an action for the settlement of the estate of a
deceased person, if it shall appear that the personal estate is
insufficient for the payment of all debts, the court may order
the slaves and real property, or either, descended or devised
to the heirs or -devisees, who may be parties to the action, or 
so much thereof as shall be necessary, to be sold for the payment of the residue of such debts. 
467. In all actions for the settlement of the estates of
deceased persons, the court shall make an order for the cred
itors oh\~h <\_e~~ t~ be~'l:3~mmissioner, to
be nppoin'teil by file court, and prove their claims by a cer
tain day to be named in the order, notice of which shall be
given by advertisement in a newspaper; or, if none is published in the county, then by such other modes as the court
may judge best calculated to give such creditors actual
notice of the order; und in addition to the advertisement in a newspaper, the court may direct publication in other
modes. 
468. A creditor appearing before the commissioner and
presenting his claim becomes thereby a party to the action,
and is concluded by the final judgment of the court allowing
or rejecting his claim. 
469. Creditors failing to appear and prove their claims,
agreeably to such order, shall have no claim against the executor or administrator, who has actually paid out the estate 
in expenses of administration, and to creditors, legatees, or
distributees. 
470. Legatees and distributees shall be liable to a direct
action by a creditor to the extent of estate received by each
of them, notwithstanding the failure of the creditor to appear,
and the discharge of the personal representative, as prescribed in the preceding section; and that liability shall 
continue for the same period that the liability of the personal representative would have continued but for said dis
charge. 
471. The court shall require the distributee or legatee,
before receiving his distributive share or legacy, to execute
bond, with good surety, to the commonwealth, conditioned
to pay his proportion, not exceeding the amount received by
him, of any debt which may appear against the estate of the
decedent within five years after the grant of administration
on the estate. Any creditor may institute an action on said 
bond, within five years after the grant of administration, but
not after. 
472. Upon the institution of the action mentioned in
this chapter, an order enjoining the prosecution of actions 
against the personal representative, or heir, by creditors, for
their demands, shall be entered. But such enjoining shall
not be made, unless the action for the settlement of the
estate be commenced in three years after the qualification of 
the personal representative. 
473. Nothing in this Code shall be construed as dispensing with the affidavit required in sections 35 and 3G, of arti
cle 2, chapter 37, of the Revised Statutes, but said sections,
as well as section 38, of the same article, shall remain in full
force, and be applicable to all actions or proceedings to enforce a claim against the estate of a person deceased ; and 
no suit shall be brought against a personal representative until after a demand is made of him, accompanied with the 
affidavit required. {l~Jf p~ 

474. After an execution of fieri f 'acias, directed to the
county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the coun
ty of the defendant's residence, is returned by the proper
officer, either as tothe whole or part thereof, in substance,
no property found to satisfy the same, the plaintifff in the
execution may institute an action by equitable proceedings
in the court from which the execution issued, or in the court
of any county in which the defendant resides, or is summoned, for the discovery of any money, chose in action, equitable or legal interest, and all other property to which the defendant is entitled, and for subjecting the same to the satisfaction of the judgment; and in such actions, persons indebted to the defendant in the execution, or holding the 
money or property in which he has an interest, or holding
the evidences or securities for the same, may be also made 
defendants. 
475. The answers of all the defendants shall be verified
by their own oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, 
and the court shall enforce full and explicit discoveries in
such answers by process of contempt. 
476. In the action mentioned in the preceding sections,
the plaintifff may have an attachment against the property of
the defendant in the execution, similar to the general attach
men~s pro~Jded fo1)!1 ~pter 3, of title 8, without either
tJ\.~affidavit~nd itereln required. 
477. A lien shall be created on the property of the defendant by the levy of the attachment or service of the summons, with the object of the action indorsed thereon, on the
person holding or controlling his property, 
478. The court shall enforce the surrender of the money,
or securities therefore, or of any other property of the defend
ant in the execution, which may be discovered in the action, 
~~ ~-ff,pQ.~\,a., commit to jail any defendant or
g?tnisliee failing or refusing to make such surrender, until it 
shall be done, or the court is satisfied that it is out of his 
power to do so. ' PW {j.J; /:' ~ 

479. Judgments and final orders may be obtained on
motion, by sureties against their principals; sureties against
their co-sureties, for the recovery of money due them on ac-.
count of payments made by them as such; by clients against
attorneys; plaintifffs in execution against sheriffs, constables,
and other officers, for the recovery of money or property collected for them, and damages; and in all other cases specially authorized by statute. 
480. Notice of such motion shall be served on the party
against whom the judgment or order is sought, at least ten
days before the motion is made. 
481. The notice shall state in plain and ordinary language the nature and grounds of the motion, and the day 
on which it will be made . 
482. Unless the motion is made or entered ou the motion
docket on the day specified in the notice, it shall be considered as abandoned. 
483. The motion mentioned in this chapter may be made
on any day of the term of the court. 
484. The motion shall be heard and determined withont 
written pleadings, and judgment given accord~! to law and
the mies of equity. tJ,;:{, ~Jf /'~ 

485. All debts due to the commonwealth of Kentucky
arc recoverable by motion in the Franklin circuit court. 
486. Where the debt is due by a sheriff, clerk, or collector of the revenue, or any other receiver of public monies,
for money collected or received, and such officer, collector, or 
receiver has failed to pay the same in the manner and ut the
time prescribed by law, the motion for the recovery of such. 
debt may be made at the regular term of said court next
succeeding such failure, without any notice to such debtor or
his sureties. 
487. Where officers, corporations, or officers of corpo
rations, are required to report to the auditor of public no- 
counts the monies in their hands belonging to the commonwealth, or 'due by them, or by a corporation, to the commonwealth, at a certain period or periods fixed by law, and
a fine or penalty is imposed for such failure, the motion for
the recovery therof may be made at the term of said court.
next after such failure, without any notice to said party in
default. 
488 In all other cases, notice of such motion shall be
served on the debtor, or person in default, ten days before
the making thereof 
489. The notice shall in general terms state the nature
and grounds of the motion, and the day on which it will be
made. The notice must be signed by the attorney general. 
490. Where a debt due to the commonwealth appears
upon the books of the auditor of public accounts, or of any
other public officer, whose duty it shall be to audit and keep
an accurate account of such debt, a copy of the balance due 
upon the books of such auditor or officer, certified by him
to be the correct and true balance, shall be sufficient evidence
of such indebtedness. 
491. All questions of law or fact arising on said mo
tions, shall be determined by the court. 
492. Where the debt due the commonwealth is uncertain in amount, or depends on the settlement of a complicated account or transaction, or in any other case in which the
attorney general thinks proper, he may bring an action therefor by ordinary or equitable proceedings in the Franklin
circuit court. 
493. Precedence shall be given in all courts to actions,
motions, and other proceedings in which the commonwealth
is a party, for its own use, over any other business of the
court. 
494. When depositions are required to be taken in any
civil proceeding in behalf of the commonwealth, the attorney 
general may require the commonwealth's attorney of the diR- 
trict, or the county attorney of the county in which the depositions are to be taken, to attend to the taking of the same,
and examine or cross-examine the witnesses, whose duty it 
shall be to attend to the taking of the same, and he shall be
allowed five dollars per day for each day he may be so engaged in taking such depositions. 
495. Whenever an execution against a public debtor
shall not be satisfied in the regular course of proceeding,
and the auditor shall be of opinion that the same is caused
by fraudulent conveyances or a fraudulent concealment of
the debtor's property, or by any other obstruction thereto,
be may cause actions to be brought either in the court in
which the judgment was obtained, or in any other circuit
court, where the property may be or the debtor found, to set
aside such fraudulent conveyances, remove any obstructions 
to the execution, or to obtain satisfaction of the judgment
as provided in chapter 5 of this title; and for that purpose may employ an attorney to bring such action, or an
agent to prepare the suit and attend to the collection of the 
judgment, and may agree as to a compensation to be paid
for their services, either certain or contingent on success,
but the amount of such contingent compensation shall not
exceed twenty per cent. on the first three hundred dollars,.
and ten per cent. on any excess over said amount; for
which compensation, when due, he shall issue a warrant on
the treasurer. 
496. The sheriff, or other officer, collecting any money
clue to the commonwealth, shall pay the same into the public
treasury and obtain a quietus therefore, and not to the attorney general or any other attorney or agent employed in the
collection of the same, or to any other person, unless otherwise directed by law. 
497. The court rendering a judgment in favor of the
commonwealth, shall certify the amount thereof, together
with the costs, to the auditor; and shall also c~rtify the fees 
due to officers taking depositions, and to witnesses for attendance on behalf of the commonwealth, for which the auditor shall issue his warrant on the treasurer to the person 
entitled. 
498. The attorney general may make out and certify
to the auditor an account of the postages he may have 
paid in sending out notices and process, and upon letters
sent or received by him relating to actions or proceedings
in which the commonwealth is interested, who shall thereupon issue his warrant on the treasurer for the amount 
thereof au; l'I4 ~~ 

499. The proceedings upon arbitrations and awards
made under an order or rule of court, shall be according to
the provisions of chapter three of the Revised Statutes, except the words "of chancery," in the eighth section, which
shall be stricken out; which provisions as amended are ns 
follows;
1. All controversies which might be the subject of a 
suit or action may be submitted to the decision .of one 
or more arbitrators, or to two and their umpire, in the 
manner provided in this chapter. Parties may make
such submission by rule of any court having jurisdiction of the subject matter. The parties making such
submission shall, where there is no suit or action pending, by written agreement filed, and noted on the record, or by an entry on the record, state what matter
is submitted. The rule of court shall state the time
in which the award is to be made and returned. The
court may enlarge the time for making and returning 
an 1ward. "
~~~:'l\Mbira~~~nd,.the umpire, if there be one, be- 
fore they proceed to act, shall take an oath to decide
the controversy to them submitted according to law and
evidence and the equity of the case, to the best of their
judgment, without favor or affection; and a certificate
of such oath shall be returned to the court with the
award. They shall have power to examine either party 
on oath at the request of his adversary.
3. Any one of the arbitrators shall have power to 
issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend their sittings
and give evidence thouching the matters referred to
them, to which all sheriffs and other like officers shall
give obedience. Witnesses failing to attend before ar
bitrators at the time and place designated, or who shall
refuse to give evidence when they do attend, shall be 
reported to the court by the arbitrators, and proceeded
against and punished as if the case had been pending 
in court.
4. The personal representative of a decedent, guar
dian of an infant, committee of an idiot or lunatic, or
any trustee, may make a submission, as herein provided for, touching the estatof such decedent, infant, or
insane person, or in respect to which he is trustee. Any
such submission, so made in good faith, and tfie award
made thereupon shall be binding, and entered as the 
judgment or decree of the court. No such fiduciary
shall be responsible for any loss sustained by an award 
adverse to the interest he, represents, unless the same
be caused by his fault or neglect. 
5. If any arbitrator shall fail or refuse to act, the
court may set aside the order of reference. 
6. The arbitrators and umpire, if there be one, shall
meet at such convenient times and places as may be
necessary, ( of which the parties shall have reasonable 
notice.) and hear such evidence as either party may 
adduce. They shall have power to administer oaths.
They shall make their award in writing, stating therein 
the time when it is made, and sign the same. When
the award is made out, one copy thereof shall be delivered to each of the contending parties, and the original
returned to the court, on which the arbitrators shall note
the time of delivering a copy to each party. 
7. If such award be made out and returned, and
copies delivered ten days before the term of the court
next succeeding such delivery, the same shall be entered of record and made the judgment or decree of 
the court, unless on exceptions filed the award shall be 
set aside. 
8. No award shall be set aside for the want of form. 
But courts shall have power over awards on equitable
principles as heretofore. 
9. Matters within the jurisdiction of a justice of the
peace may be submitted to arbitrators, by an order, 
rule, or agreement entered on his record book in the
same manner, and the proceedings under it shall be the 
same in every respect, as are authorized and required in
other courts. Either party may appeal to the circuit
court from the judgment of the justice on the award, 
as in other cases. 

500. A forcible entry, in the meaning of this chapter, is
an entry into lands or tenements without the consent of the
person having the possessiop, in fact, of the premises. A
forcible detainer is the refusal of a tenant to surrender to his 
landlord the land or tenements demised, after the expiration
of his term; or of a tenant at will, after the determination 
of the will of the landlord. 
501. It shall not be material whether the tenant reeeived possession of the demised premises from his landlord, or
became his tenant after obtaining possession of them. 
502. Upon comp~~t being ~3Re, by tho person aggrieved tlferN.ty, .. 't!atf fotcft>~,e.~~t l&,\,fQible detainer 
has been committed to a justice of the peace of the county
.in which the land or tenement, or a principal part thereof, 
lies, he shall issue his warrant to the sheriff, in substance as
follows: 
"The Commonwealth of Kentucky to the Sheri.ff of- O~y.
Whereas, AB hath made complaint to me, JS, a justice of 
the peace for said county, that CD and E F did, o~-<ln
day of , forcibly enter into [ or forcibly det . 
the said AB,] one house and field on the waters of ., ,
in the county aforesaid, [ or oJ,her general description of the 
lands or tenements.] which were in the peaceable possession of
A B, (or which the said C D and E F, tenants of the said A 
B now hold against him.] You are, thereforee, commanded
to summon a good and lawful jury or' your county to meet
on the premises oh the -- day of--, to lnquire into the 
forcible entry [ or forcible detainer J aforesaid, and give to the
said C D and E F at least three days notice of the time and 
place of the meeting of the jury, and have thea there this
writ. Witness, &c." 
503. The sheriff or other officer, shall give to the defendants notice, according to the directions of the warrant, 
which notice shall be given to each defendant ; and no in
quiry. shall be made against any defendant who has not been
no~e_d as afores~~d. If, however, the notice ~as been giveu;' 
b~t not: three days before the day of the meeting of the 
~i the inquest shall, on his motion, be adjourned until the
8iration of the three days. . 
504. At the time appointed for holding the inquieition,
the sheriff; or other officer, shall return on the warrant 
whGm and when it had been exeeuted, and shall deliver same, together with a panel oft~e jury, to any justicejr 
the peace of the county who may attend; whereupon, the 
justice, whether the defendants be present or departed, shall,
on the premises, or so rueplace convenient thereto, within his 
discretion, administer an oath to thejurors, in substance <f'q_:- . 
follows.: "You, and each of you, shall well and truly inquire
into and return whether the defendant [ or defendants] be
guilty of the forcible entry [ or detainer] complained of in 
the wan-ant in this cause: so help you God."
505. Such justice shall superintend the taking of the 
inquisition, swear witnesses, decide incidental points of Jaw,
which may arise and be referred to him by either party, preserve the peace, enforce the rules of decorum, and punish,
according to law, contempts of his authority. 
506. Any justice of the peace may issue subpeenas for
witnesses at the request of either party, and their attendance
and testifyiug may be coerced by the justice who presides at 
the inquest. 
507. The juroltS; after hearing the evidence, shall, by 
~heir inquest, say ,1'beMiter the defendants, or either of them,
be guilty or not guilty of.. the forcible entry or detainer
complained ot~ and shall return their inquest, signed by one 
of their body, to the justice pf the peace. If the jury do
not agree, they may be discharged by the justice presiding,
and another ordered to be summoned to meet, either immediately or at some future day, to be then and there fixed and
indorsed ou the warrant.and this proceeding continued until 
a. jury does agree in an inquest, 
508. Upon the return of the inquest, the justice of the
peace shall enter a judgment according to the inquisition,
either for the plaintifff; in substance, that he have restitution 
of the premises aforesaid, and recover of the defendants his
costs in this behalf expended ; or for the defendants, itl. substance, that they recover of the plaintifff their costs in this
behalf expended; or for the plaintifff against some of the
defendants, and for the other defendants against the plaintifff, 
where some are found guilty arid others .~wt guilty. 
509. If the party against whom the inquisition is found 
shall not file a traverse of the i~guisition with the justice,
on or before the third day after the finding of the inquest, 
the justice shall, on request, issue his execution for the
costs ; and if the inquisition be in favor of the plaintifff he 
shall also issue his warrant of restitution in substance as 
follows: 
"-- County. To the Sheriff' of -- oountu: Whereas, C D and E F have, by an inquisition taken before me, J 
P, a justice of the peace for said county, been found guilty 
of a forcible entry [ or detainer] in one house and field, lying
on the waters of--, in the county aforesaid, [ or other general description of the possessions,] to the injury of A B.
You are, thereforee, in the name of the commonwealth of 
Kentucky commanded, that with the power of the county,
if necessary, you put the said A B in. the possession of said
premises, and make return within -- days to me, how you 
have executed this warrant.
Given under my hand this --day of--- 
---,J.P.,, 
510. The justice of the peace shall carefully preserve 
all papers, records, and proceedings relating to the cause,
except where he transmits them to the clerk, as hereinafter
directed, and shall deliver to any person requiring it, a trans
cript thereof, such person paying him therefore two cents for
every twenty words in such transcript. 
511. If either party conceive himself aggrieved by the
finding of the jury, he may file a traverse thereof with the 
justice within three days next after the finding aforesaid, in 
substanceas follows : 
"AB against OD, on a writ of forcible entry [or detainer:] 
The plaintifff [ or the defendant] saith, that the inquisition 
returned in this cause is not true; wherefore, he prays that. 
proceedings thereon may be stayed until the same can be
tried according to law. A B." And shall also, within the 
same time, before said justice, give bond with sufficient surety, to be approved of by_ the justice, to .u1:> adversary, in a, 
reasonable penalty to be fixed by the justice, with a condition, in substance as follows: 
"The condition of the above bond is such, that whereas an
inquisition of forcible entry [ or detainee] in which A B was 
plaintifff, and C D and E F were defendants, was found before 
---,. a justice of the peace for Raid county in favor of
said A B, on the -- day of , which inquisition hath
been traversed by the said CD und E F. N9w, should the
said C D and E F pay to said A B all costs of suit, and all
damages that may be sustained by said AB in consequence
of said traverse, if it be not prosecuted with effect, then this
obligation to be void." Upon giving which bqnd the justice
shall stay all further proceedings on the inquisition, and
return the whole of the papers and proceedings, or a fair
transcript thereof, to the office of the circuit court for said 
county, within ten days thereafter. 
512. Upon this bond, if the traverser fails to prosecute
his traverse with effect, he and his surety shall be liable for
the damages for withholding the possession which the traversee may be entitled to recover against the traverser, during
the period of the pendency of the traverse, either in the
circuit court or court of appeals, as well as the reasonable ex
penses of the traversee in defending the traverse, not exceeding the penalty of the bond. 
513. The clerk shall docket the traverse us other actions ; it shall stand for trial as docketed ; the traversec
shall join issue on the traverse; it shall be tried by a jury, and 
judgment given on the verdict, as in other cases : Provided
however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the court from giving judgment against either party for default, nor from deciding any matter of law properly
brought before them, as in other cases. 
514. After a cause is returned to the circuit court, executions for cost, or for restitution, shall issue from the office 
?f that court, according to the judgment in the cause. 
515. The court before whom such cause may be depending, or any judge thereof in vacation, may make any order
restraining waste or destruction of the premises, and punish 
by fine and imprisonment, or either of them, a disobedience
of such order. 
516. The proceedings under a writ of forcible entry or
forcible detainer, shall not be a bar to an action of trespass, 
_ or for waste, or for rent, or for mense profits.
517. No inquisition of forcible entry 01forcible detainer 
shall be taken at any time after two years from the forcible
entry or detainer complained of. 
518. That the Jefferson county court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all traverses of f~le Jl~ and detain- 
er arising in said county. tt ~"1 /#~ 

519. The manner of proving wills and contesting their
probate, shall be as directed in sections 27 to 42, inclusive,
of chapter 106, of the Revised Statutes, except that a petition in equity shall be filed wherever a bill in chancery is 
directed therein, which sections are as follows : 
1. Wills shall be proved before, and admitted to record by, the county court of the county of the testa
tor's residence; if he had no known place of residence
in this state, and land is devised, then in the county
where the land, or the greater part thereof lies; if no
land is devised. then in the county where he died or 
~' ~'tha~~\hi~la~, or the greater part thereof, shall
\. lie, or where there may be any debt or demand owing 
to him. 
2. A writ of error, or an appeal, shall lie from the
county court to the circuit court of the same county,
and thence to the court of appeals, upon every order
admitting a will to record, or rejecting it. The circuit court and court of appeals shall try both law and
fact, but the court of appeals shall not hear or adjudge
any matter of fact pertaining thereto other than such 
as may be certified from the circuit court. The writ 
of error from the circuit court shall be sued out within five years after rendering the order of probate or
rejection in the county court, and from the court of ap
peals within one year after the final decision in the circuit court. 
3. No will shall be received in evidence, until it has
been allowed and admitted to record by a county
court; and its probate before such court shall be con
clusive, until the same is superseded, reversed, or annulled. 
4. Any such court, on being informed that n person 
has in his custody the will of a testator, may summon
him and, by proper process, compel him to produce the 
same. 
5. When a will of a non-resident of this state relative 
to estate within this state has been proved without the
same, an authenticated copy thereof and the certificate
of probate' thereof may be offered. for probate in this
state. When such copy is so offered, the court to which 
it is offered shall presume, in the absence of evideaoe 
to the contrary, that the will was duly executed and ad
mitted to probate as a will of personalty in the state or
country of the testator's domicil, and shall admit such
copy to probate as a will of personalty in this state. 
And if it appears from such copy that the will was proved in the foreign court of probate to have been so executed as to be a valid will of lands in this state by the
law thereof, such copy may be admitted to probate as a 
will of real estate. 
6. When any will or any such authenticated copy is
offered for probate, and a witness attesting the same resides out of this state, or though in the state is in confinement in another county or corporation under legal
process, or is unable from sickness, age, or other infirmi
ty, to attend the court before which the same is offered, or resides at a distance of more than fifty miles,
such court may cause a commission to be issued, an
nexed to the said will or copy, and directed to any
person authorized by law to take depositions in other 
cases, to take his deposition. The deposition of such
witness shall be taken and certified as depositions are 
taken in other cases; except that no notice need be 
given of the time and place of taking the same, unless it is in a case in which the probate is opposed by
some person who has made himself a party. And 
the proof so given shall have the same effect as if it 
had been given in the court from which the commission issued. 
7. A person offering or intending to oiler to a coun
ty court a will for probate, may obtain from the clerk
of such court process directed to the proper officer of!
any county, requiring him to su~mon any person inter- 
. " . 
ested in such probate to appear at the next term of such
court, and show cause why the said will should not be 
admitted to record. 
8. The court to which a will is offered for probate,
may cause all persons interested in the probate to be
summoned to appear on a certain day. 
9. Any person interested in such probate may be 
summoned, or proceeded against by order of appearance; and to any person so interested who is an infant
or of unsound mind, a guardian ad lit em may be assigned as in other cases. 
10. When the proceeding is taken to the circuit
court, all necessary parties shall be brought before the 
court; and upon the demand of any one of them, a
jury shall be impanneled to try which or how much of
any testamentary paper produced is, or is not, the last
will of the testator. If no jury be demanded, the
court shall determine that question, and the final decision given shall be a bar to any other proceeding to call
the probate or rejection of the will in question-subject to the right of appeal or writ of error to the court
of appeals as hereinbefore named; but nothing in this section shall preclude a court of chancery from its 
jurisdiction to impeach such final decision, for such reason as would give it jurisdiction over any other judg
ment at law.
11. A county court may, however, without summon
ing any party, proceed to probate and admit the will to
record or reject the same. 
12. Any person interested, who, at the time of the
final decision in the circuit court, resided out of this
state, and was proceeded against by order of appearance
only without actual appearance or being personally serv- 
~~,u, rrocess,~id a~y ~her pei:,-,g_n intereited who 
,ft~D~~~~y t \lte~~ceeaing~~tuilP4>~\irance
or being ~rsonal y served with process, may, within 
three years after such final decision in the circuit court, 
by bill in chancery impeach the decision and have a re
trial of the question of probate; and either party shall
be entitled to a jury for the trial thereof. An infant,
not a party, shall not be barred of such proceeding in
chancery until twelve months after attaining full age. 
13. But no such proceeding in chancery for establishing or avoiding a will, shall operate further than is necessary to the rights of such infant, non-resident, or other party, or otherwise affect the rights of any other per
son interested in the probate.
14. The record of what is proved or deposed in court 
by witnesses on the motion to admit a will to record,
and any depositions lawfully taken out of court on such
motion, of witnesses who cannot be produced at a trial 
afterwards before a jury, may, on such trial, be admit
ted as evidence, to have such weight as the jury shall
think they deserve. 
15. Every will or authenticated copy so admitted to
record by any court shall be recorded by the clerk
thereof and remain in his office, except during such
time as the same may be carried to another court under 
a subpama duces tecum.
16. A will may be deposited by the person making 
it, or any one for bim, with the clerk of tho county
court of the county of his residence, for safe keeping,
upon payment of a fee of one dollar to the clerk, who 
shall receive, keep, and deliver the same according to 
t~e directions on a sealed envelope. If there are no
such directions, or the party entitled does not apply,
the will shall be handed to and opened by the next or
some succeeding county court, after the death of the 
testator.
520. The accounts of personal representatives, guardians, committees of idiots and lunatics, may be settled in the 
manner and by the mode of proceeding provided in chap
ter 27, article 22, of the Revised Statutes, which are as follows: 
1. The presiding judge of the county court shall 
make settlements with personal representatives and
guardians in his county. He shall be allowed one dollar and fifty cents for each settlement. If the same 
occupies him more than one day, then one dollar and
fifty cents per day, to be paid out of the estate settled. 
The law requiring three commissioners to be appointed
to make such settlements is hereby repealed. If, in 
any case, the judge cannot make such settlement with
propriety, then the clerk of the county court may make 
the same. rlf he cannot act with propriety, the judge
may appoint some discreet person, not of kin to either
party, to make the settlement. The judge may, if he
thinks proper, appoint a standing commissioner to make
such settlement. 
2. It shall be the duty of the presiding judge of
each county, when called on by a personal representa
tive or guardian, or committee, or any person interested,
to state and settle the accounts of such fiduciary. He
shall have power to hear testimony on such settlement 
in support or in opposition to any item. He must reduce to writing all verbal evidence adduced before him.
He is in all cases to be governed by law and justice,
and shall give DO credit to U. fiduciary for disbursements
or for services without evidence to justify the same. 
His report, in writing, he shall return to the clerk of
the county court. The report shall show the result, 
giving items of debit and credit, and he shall return
therewith all vouchers and evidence adduced before him
on the settlement. The clerk shall indorse on the report the time of filing the same, and it shall lay over
one term for exceptions to be filed by any person interested. If no exceptions are filed by the second term 
of t~\ 9Qurt, the 1luort ~all....i( apQE(?Ved, be recorded.
If exc~~tions~\lfl~, \~~de~e~lides that re
ported \iay be lieard, and the court shall, upon the
whole case, alter or amend the report and order it to be
recorded, or so order it without altering or amending it,
as shall appear right and legal. The vouchers accom- 
pa.nying the report shall not be recorded, but must be
carefully kept on file in the clerk's office. Any new 
evidence given in court must be reduced to writing and
filed with the report. Settlements so made and recorded shall be prima f 'acie evidence between the parties interested. Notice of the time and place of such
settlement must be given to all parties interested, if 
resident in the county. Any fiduciary failing to settle
when so notified, without good excuse, shall, on notice 
thereof, be fined by the county court twenty dollars.
Witnesses may be summoned at the instance of either
party, to give evidence before the judge on the settlement, or on the trial of exceptions by the court, and
their attendance may be coerced by attachment and
fine. In making settlements the judge may adjourn
from clay to day, so long as the business requires it. 
Ho may interrogate personal representatives and guardians, on oath, touching any matter drawn in question
in making a settlement, and their statements, when
so interrogated, must be reduced to writing and returned with the report. No evidence shall be presumed
to have been given on n settlement except such as is
reported. 
521. The accounts of trustees may be settled in the
same manner, and the settlements shall have the same ef
fect as prescribed in regard to the settlements of the fiduciaries named in the last section. The county court, in the
clerk's office of which the deed or will creating the trusts
is recorded, shall have the jurisdiction of making the settlements. 

522. The proceedings on caveats shall be according to 
the provisions of chapter 11, of the Revised Statutes, which
are as follows: 
1. If any person obtains a survey of land to which
another claims a better right, such other may enter a 
caveat 'with the register to prevent the issuing. of a
grant until the right is determined. The caveat shall
state the plaintifff's claim, and the reasons why the grant
should not issue. It shall be verified by his affidavit, 
or by that of his agent, and declare that it is entered
in good faith, with the intention of procuring the land
for the plaintifff, and not for the benefit of the person
against whom it is entered. A copy of the caveat, 
certified by the register, shall, within fifteen days from
the time it was entered, be handed to the clerk of the 
circuit court of the county where the land, or the greater part thereof, lies, who shall immediately issue a summons thereon, returnable to the first day of the next 
term of the court, against the defendant, and renew
the same from term to term, if required. If the sum
mons be not returned, or be returned not executed, the 
caveat shall be dismissed at the costs of the plaintifff,
unless it appear that the non-return or non-execution
was not occasioned by the neglect of the plaintifff. If
the summons is executed fifteen days before the first day
of the term, and the caveat shall stand for trial at that 
term, and the defendant shall, on or before its call, file his
written response thereto, verified by his affidavit. If
the summons be not so executed, it shall stand for trial 
at the next term after it is so executed. All issues of
fact made by the caveat and the response shall be tried
by a jury, if required by either party. If the defend
ant be a non-resident of this state, he may be proceeded against, and with the like effect, as is permitted
against a non-resident in any other suit. Upon service
of the summons, or upon notice to plaintifff of the filing
of defendant's response in the clerk's office during vacation, either party, respectively, may proceed to take 
depositions. The court may permit an amendment of
the statement contained in the caveat or response, and
may give time for further preparation. If the copy of
the caveat be not lodged with the clerk within the fifteen 
days, it shall be deemed to be abandoned; and upon
certificate from the clerk that none such has been left. 
with him, the register may proceed in disregard of the
caveat. The court may, in its discretion, require the 
plaintifff to give security for costs, and on his failure fo 
give the same, dismiss his suit.
2. The judgment upon a caveat shall be liable to re
vision in the court of appeals, by appeal or writ of error, in the same manner, in all respects, as any other
judgment of the circuit court. 
3. A copy of the judgment, if in favor of the defendant, must be delivered into the land office within
three months from the time it is rendered, or a new
caveat may, for that cause, be entered against the 
grant. If the judgment be for the plaintifff, and a copy
thereof not delivered into the land office within six 
months from the time it was rendered, any other person
may, for that cause, enter another caveat ngainst the
grant. 
4. No gi1tnt shall issue to the land in contest to the
plaintifff in the caveat, or to another for his use, until
the caveat is dismissed or decided; and any such grant,
to the extent of such land, shall be void. 
5. Where the plaintifff does not prosecute his caveat as herein required, or the same is dismissed or decided against him, neither he nor any other for his
use, shall have another caveat against the same grant. 

524. The court shall hear and decide all questions of 
law or fact arising in the motion, and the granting or refusing of the writ shall be the final order in the motion. 
525. During the pendency of the motion, the court, or
judge in vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing damage or injury to the applicant until the motion is
decided. 
526. The writ of' mandamus, as treated of in this chapter, is an order of a court of competent and original jurisdiction, commanding an executive or ministerial officer to
perform an act, or omit to do an act, the performance or
omission of which is enjoined by law, and is granted on the
motion of the party aggrieved, or of the commonwealth
when the public interest is affected. 
527. Where the interests, rights, or claims of the commonwealth are affected by the final order on an application
for a writ of mandamus, the attorney general may prosecute
an appeal without any security whatever. 
528. The writ of prohibition is an order from the circuit
court to an inferior court of limited jurisdiction, prohibiting
it from proceeding in a matter out its jurisdiction. 

529. In lieu of the writs of acire faciaa and quo warran
to, or of an information in the nature of a quo warrant<>, ao
tions by ordinary proceedings may be brought to vacate or
repeal charters, and to prevent the usurpation of an office or
franchise. 
530. The action to repeal or vacate a charter shall be
in the name of the commonwealth, and brought and prosecuted by the attorney general, or under his sanotion and direction by an attorney for the commonwealth. 
531. In the cases of municipal corporations, banks, rail
road and turnpike road companies, the actions to vacate or
repeal their charters, shall only be instituted by order 
of the legislature, except where otherwise expressly provided. 
532. Whenever a person usurps an office or franchise to
which he is not entitled by law, an action by ordinary pro
oeedings may be instituted against him, either by the commonwealth or the party entitled to the office or franchise, to 
~~t ~~117\'.~rcising the office or frauchise.
533. It shall be the duty of the several commonwealth 
attorneys to institute the actions mentioned in this chapter,
against all persons who have or shall usurp county offices or
franchises, where there is no other person entitled thereto, or
the person entitled fails to institute the same for three months 
after the usurpation. 
534. For usurpation of other than county offices or
franchises, the action by the commonwealth shall be instituted and prosecuted by the attorney general. 
535. A person who continues to exercise an office after
having committed an act, or omitted to do an act, the commission or omission of which, by law, creates a forfeiture of 
his office, shall be subject to be proceeded against for a usurpation thereof 
536. Where a person is adjudged to have usurped an
offioe or franchise, he shall be deprived thereof by the judg- 
ment of the court, and the person adjudged entitled thereto
reinstated therein ; but no one shall be adjudged entitled 
thereto unless the action is instituted by him. And the
court shall have power to enforce its judgment, by causing
the books and papers, and all other things pertaining to the 
office or franchise, to be surrendered by the usurper, and by 
preventing him from further exercising or using the same, 
and may enforce its orders by fine and imprisonment until
obeyed. 
537. Where the usurper has received fees and emoluments arising from the office or franchise, he shall be liable 
therefore to the person entitled thereto, who may claim the
same in the action brought to deprive him of the office or
franchise, or in a separate action. If no one be entitled to 
the office or franchise, the same may be recovered by the
commonwealth and paid into the public treasury. 
538. The pleadings in the actions named in this chapter
are not required to be verified by affidavit, unless prosecuted 
by a private individual.

539. That the provisions of the Revised Statutes, in chapter 86, shall regulate the proceedings for the sale of the
real property and slaves of infants, married women, and persons of unsound mind, except as provided in the following sections. 
540. No security shall be required of the husband.upon 
the sale of the real property or slaves of his wife, where she is
of sound mind, over the age of twenty-one years, and upon
privy examination before the judge, or a commissioner by 
him appointed, requests that no order be made for the investment of the proceeds of the we. 
541. The land and slaves of a person of unsound mind
may be sold by the order of the circuit court or other court
of equal equitable jurisdiction, though not necessary for the
payment of his debts or for his maintenance, where it shall
appear- 
1. That the person of unsound mind has a wife and
children. 
2. That his unsoundness of mind is confirmed and
incurable. 
3. That his estate is more than sufficient to pay his
debts and maintain him. 
4. That the sale will be beneficial to his estate, and
prospectively beneficial to his wife and children. 
5. That his wife and children being made parties to 
the proceeding, in proper person if of full age, or by 
their guardians if infants, consent to such sale as beneficial to them by their answers, which shall be sworn to 
by their guardians. 
542. The land and slaves of a person of unsound mind,
held jointly with another or others, though not necessary
for the payment of the debts of said person, or for his or
her maintenance, may be sold by the order of a circuit court,
or other court of equal jurisdiction, where it shall appear to 
the court from affidavits, depositions, or other legal evidence, 
that the interest of such other joint owner or owners would 
be advanced thereby, and the interest of said person of unsound mind would not be injuriously affected thereby; and the
proceeds of the sale shall be disposed of in the same manner 
as the proceeds of real estate of lunatics now authorized by
law to be sold. 
543. Where town or city lots, or land outside of a 
town or city, but having upon it a building of more value
than the land, shall be held by or in trust for co-parceners, 
joint tenants, or tenants in common, some of whom are infants, or persons of unsound mind, the circuit court, or other 
court of similar equitable jurisdiction, may, upon the petition of a part of such owners against the others, or of the 
trustee against such owners, or of the owners against the
trustee, and upon its being proven that a division of such 
land would materially impair its value, order a sale thereof
and a division of the proceeds among those entitled. Before
such sale is ordered, the court shall appoint some suitable
persons to take care of the interests of the infants, or persons
of unsound mind ; and the shares of such infants, or persons
of unsound mind, shall not be paid by the purchaser, but
remain a lien upon the land, bearing interest, until they become capable in law of receiving their respective shares, or
until statutory guardians shall be appointed for the infants,
or committees for the persons of unsound mind, or the infants
shall become married, and such guardians, committees, or
husbands, give bond as required in chapter 86 of the Revised Statutes. 
544. A sale of the land or slaves of infants, persons of
unsound mind, or married women, shall not be deemed to be
prohibited as being in contravention of the deed, will, or con
tract under which they hold, unless a sale is expressly for
bidden by such deed, will, or contract. 
545. Where the legal title of land or slaves is held by
a trustee, he shall be a party to the proceedings for their 
sale, and in all other respects the proceedings for the sale of 
land and slaves held in trust for infants, married women, and
persons of unsound mind, shall be the same as where they
hold the legal title, except that the trustees shall give bond
and security, instead of the guardian, committee, or husband, where the proceeds of sale are to go into the hands of 
s\ich trustee. 
546. Any person desiring a division of land or slaves
held in joint tenancy, in common, or in co-parcenary, or an al
lotment of dower, by the county court, shall file in said court,
or in the clerk's office thereof in vacation, a written petition, 
in which a description of the property, the names of those
having an interest in it, and the amount of such interest,
shall be briefly stated, in ordinary language, with a prayer for 
the division or allotment, and thereupon all persons interested in the property who have not united in the petition, shall
be summoned to appear and answer the petition, on the first 
day of the next term of the court. 
547. Upon such a petition by all interested in the property being filed, or upon a summons being served upon all
who have an interest in the property, and who have not united 
in the petition ten days before the commencement of the 
term, the county court may make an order for the division or
allotment of dower according to the rights of the parties, by 
commissioners appointed according to the provisions of chapter 57 of the Revised Statutes . 
inn of an _infant, committee of
548. may file or unite in the petition in the names of and in conjunction with such infant, person of unsound mind, or married woman, and if the petition is filed against infants, married women, or persons of unsound mind, tho guardian, com
mittee, or husband, m11y appear and defend for them and protect their interests; and if they do not, the court shall ap
point some discreet person for that purpose.
549. If any person summoned as provided in the last 
three sections, desires to contest the rights of the petitioners
or the statements in the petition, he shall do so by a written
answer, and the questions of the law and fact thereupon arising shall be tried and determined by the county court, or the
case, on the motion of either party, shall be removed into
the circuit court for trial. 
550. Upon such removal being ordered, the clerk of
the county court shall deliver to the clerk of the q_uit 
court the petition, summons, answer, and other papers fifed 
therewith, and a copy of the order of removal, whereupon
the ease shall be placed on the common docket, and be tried
and decided as an action by ordinary proceedings, but all 
questions of law and fact shall be tried and determined by 
the court. 
551. Parties interested may be constructively summoned, as provided in title 4, chapter 2, article 2, of this Code, 
either in the county or circuit court 
552. The circuit court, upon the case being tried and
decided, may order the division or allotment of dower accord
ing to the rights of the parties.
553. Upon a report of the division or allotment of dow- 
er by the commissioners appointed for that purpose being
returned, either in the county or circuit court, such court may
confirm or set aside the report, or remand it to commissioners for correction. 
554. On the confirmation of the report of the division
of lands, the commissioners, or some commissioner appointed 
for the purpose, shall make a deed, or deeds, of partition,
conveying to each party tho land allotted to him in sever
alty, which shall be approved by the court' and recorded as
other deeds. 
555. The costs of the division and allotment shall be
apportioned among the parties in the ratio of their interests,
and the costs arising from any contest of fact or law shall 
be paid by the party adjudged to be in the wrong. 
556. No verification shall be required to the petition or
answer. 
557. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in
an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal 
-1~e~\,i 'ceas~P ~~ri~h\ \\action survives to or
against the remaining parties, flic actioA may proceed, the 
death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being
stated on the record. 
558. Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause 
of action does not admit of survivorship, and the court is of
opinion that the merits of the controversy can be properly
determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully 
settled, it may proceed to try the cause as between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any 
who were not parties at the time of the trial. 
559. Where one of the parties to an actiou dies, or his 
powers as a personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action survives in favor of or against 
his representatives or successor, the action may be revived,
and proceed in their names. 
560. The reviver shall be by an order of the court that 
the action be revived in the names of the representatives or 
suocessor of the party who died or whose powers ceased, and
proceed in favor of or against them. 
561. The order may be made on the motion of the ad ..
verse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who'died or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death 
or the cessation of his powers, which, withthe names and
capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated
in the order. 
562. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
action shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by
consent, the order shall be served, in the same manner as a
summons, upon the party adverse to the one making the
motion. And, at the first term commencing not less than 
ten days after such service, the party upon whom it is made
may show cause against the revivor; and, if sufficient cause 
is not then shown, the action shall stand revived. 
563. If ten days notice has been given to the represen
tatives or successor of the party who died or whose powers
ceased, of the motion by the adverse party for an order t.o 
revive the action in their names, or to the adverse party
where the motion is by such representatives or successor, and
due return is made of the service .of the notice, the court
may, if sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary, make
an order reviving tho action in the names of such parties;
whereupon, the action shall stand revived. 
564. Where it appears to the court by the affidavit of
the plaintifff that the representatives of the defendant, or
any of them, in whose name the action is ordered to be re ..
vived, are non .. residents of this state, or have left the same
to avoid the service of the order, or have been absent there
from four months, or so conceal themselves that the order
cannot be served upon them, or that the names of the heirs
of the defendant against whom theaction is ordered to be 
revived, or of some of them, are unknown to the affiant, an
order may be made by the court warning such representa- 
tives or unknown heirs to appear on the first day of its next
term, and show cause why the action should not be revived
against them. The parties so warned shall be deemed constructively served with a copy of the order of revivor ten
days before the term at which they are warned to appear;
and, if sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary, the action shall, at that term, stand revived. 
565. Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action, it
may be revived in the names of his representatives to whom 
his right has passed. Where his right has passed to his
personal representative, the revivor shall be in his name ; 
where it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees, who could
support the action if brought anew, the reviver may be in
their names. 
566. Upon the death of a defendant iu an action wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his personal representative, the revivor shall be against him; and it
may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
or both ; and where one year has elapsed after the death of
the defendant and no person has qualified as his personal
representative, the action may be revived and proceed against
his heirs or devisees, or both. 
567. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the
recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his 
tights or claims to such property, the action may be revived
against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order therefore 
may be forthwith made in . .the manner directed in the preceding sections of this title. 
568. An order to revive an actiou against the personal
representative of a defendant, or against him and the heirs
or devisees of the defendant, cannot be made, unless by consent, until after six months from the qualification of the
personal representative. 
569. An order to revive an action against the represeu
tatives or successor of a defendant shall not be made, with- 
out the consent of such representatives or successor, un
less in one year from the time it could have been first 
made. 
570. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant after the expiration of one year from the time the 
order might have been first made ; except that, where the
defendant shall also have died or his powers have ceased in
the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may be
made in the period limited in the last section. 
571. When it appears to the court by affidavit that either party to an action has been dead, or, where he sues or is
sued as n personal representative, that his powers have ceased
for a period so long that the action cannot be revived in the
names of his representatives or successor without the consent of both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken
from the docket. 
572. At any term of the court succeeding the death of
the plaintifff, whilst the action remains on the docket, the
defendant having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose names the action might be revived, ten
days notice of the application therefore, may have an order
to strike the action from the docket, and for costs against
the estate of the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith
revived. 
573. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections,
an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be post ..
poned by reason of the revivor, if the action would have
stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had no
death or cessation of powers taken place. 

574. A judgment. rendered or final order made in the
circuit court may be reversed, vacated, or modified either by 
the court of appeals, or by the court in which the judgment 
was rendered or order made. 
575. A judgment or final order may be reversed or
modified by the court of appeals for errors appearing in the
record. 
576. The proceedings to obtain such reversal or modification shall be by appeal or writ of error prosecuted as pre
scribed by law. 
577. A misprision of the clerk shall not be a ground
for an appeal or writ of error, until the same has been pre
sented and acted upon in the circuit court
578. Rendering judgment before the action stood for 
trial according to the provisions of this Code, shall be deem
'eda clerical misprision. 
579. The court in which a judgment or final order has
been rendered or made, shall have power, after the expiration of the term, to vacate or modify such judgment or order- 
1. By granting a new trial tor the cause and in the
manner prescribed in section 373. . 
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against
defendants constructively summoned, as prescribed in chapter 1 of title 10. 
3. For misprisions of the clerk.
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in the 
obtaining of the judgment or order.
5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, mar
ried woman, or person of unsound mind, where the
condition of such defendant does not appear in the
record, nor the error in the proceedings. 
6. For the death of one of the parties-before the
judgment in the action. 
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the party from appearing or defending. 
8. For errors in a judgment, shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed
in section 421. 
580. The proceedings to correct misprisions of the clerk
shall be by motion, upon reasonable notioe to the adverse 
party, or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate
a judgment because of its rendition before the action regularly stood foi: trial, can be made only in the first three days
of the succeeding term. 
581. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment
or order on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions 4, 5, 6, 7, 
and 8 of section 579, shall be by petition verified by affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action, if the party
applying was defendant. On the petition, a summons shall 
21 
issue and be served and other proceedings had, as in an action
by ordinary proceedings. 
582. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to 
the action in which the judgment is rendered, or, if the
plaintifff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of
action; and where a judgment is modified, all liens and
securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified
judgment. 
583. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify n judgment or order, before
trying, or deciding upon, the validity of the defense or cause
of action. 
584. The partyseeking to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on 
the whole or part thereof, which injunction may be granted
by the court or any officer authorized to grant injunctions,
upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such
judgment or order vacated or modified. 
585. Where the judgment was rendered before the action stood for trial, the suspension mny be granted as provided in the last section, although no valid defense to the
action is shown ; and the court shall make such orders concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, or on
any replevy or forthcoming bond taken under it, as shall
give to the defendant the same rights of delay that he
would have .had, if the judgment had been rendered at the
proper time. 

586. The party holding the affirmative of an issue, 
must produce the evidence to prove it. 
587. The burthen of proof in the whole action lies on the
party, who would be defeated if no evidence were given on 
either side. 
588. Where a writing purporting to have been executed
by one of the parties, is referred to in and filed with a
pleading, it may be read as genuine against such party,
unless he denies its genuineness by affidavit before the trial
is begun. 

589. The process by which the attendance of a witness
is required, is a subpoena. It is a writ directed to the sher
iff, requiring him to summon the person named therein, to 
attend at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness.
It may, when the court or the judge thereof so directs,
require the witness to bring with him any book, writing, 01' 
other thing under his control, which he is bound by law to 
produce in evidence.
590. Where the attendance of the witness is required 
before the court, or on the trial of an issue ordered by it,
or before a oommissioner directed to take evidence, the sub- 
poena shall be issued by the clerkon the request of either 
party. 
591. Where the attendance of the witness is required
for the purpose of giving his deposition, the subpoena shall 
be issued fly an officer authorized to take the deposition. 
592. The service of a subpoena is made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy or a ticket containing the
substance thereof to the witness. 
593. A subpoena may be served by the sheriff, jailer,
coroner, or any constable of the county, whose return thereon shall be proof of the service ; it may also be served by
any white person of full age, whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be proof of the service, or the witness may acknowledge service in writing on the subpoona. 
594. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action, except in the county of 
his residence or an adjoining county ; nor to attend to give
his deposition out of the county where he resides, or where
he may be when the subpoena is served on him. 
595. Disobedience of a subpcenn, or a refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit 
or deposition when lawfu11y ordered, may be punished as a
contempt of the court or officer by whom his attendance or
testimony is required. 
596. Where a witness is brought before a court for contempt by disobedience of a subpoena, if it is shown that the
legal fees for travel and one day's attendance were paid or
tendered to him when the subpoena was served, and that be
failed to attend without reasonable cause, the court may summarily order him to pay to the party, on whose behalf be
was summoned, the costs occasioned to him by the disobedi
ence of the subpoena, not exceeding twenty dollars, besides
being liable for any damages occasioned by the failure to at
~nd. 
597. Where a witness fails to attend in obedience to a 
subpoena, the court or officer before whom his attendance
was required, may issue a warrant for arresting and bringing
him before the court or officer, at a time and place to be fixed
in the warrant, to give his testimony, and answer for the con
tempt. If the warrant is not for immediately bringing the
witness before the court or officer, a sum shall be fixed in
which the witness may give bond with surety for his appearance; and, if no sum is fixed by the court or officer, it shall
be one hundred dollars. 
598. The punishment for the contempt mentioned in section 595, shall be by fine, not exceeding thirty dollars,
and imprisonment, not exceeding twenty-four hours. But
in the case of refusal by the witness to testify or be sworn,
or to give a deposition, he shall continue to be imprisoned
so long as he refuses; and, if the court finally adjourns before
he submits, he shall remain imprisoned until the next term.
The final disposition of the case in which he so refuses, shall
discharge him from imprisonment. 
599. A witness so imprisoned or fined by au officer before whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to the
presiding judge of the county court, who shall have power to discharge him, if it appears that his imprisonment is
illegal. 
600. Every warrant of commitment to prison issued by 
a court or officer pursuant to this cbaptet.must specify particularly the cause of the commitment; and, if it is for refusing to answer a question, such question must be stated
in the warrant. And every warrant tc arrest or commit a
witness must be directed to the sheriff of the county where
he may be, and executed in the same manner as process 
from the court.
601. A person confined in any prison in this state for 
any other cause than a sentence for felony, may, by order
of court, be required to be produced for oral examination 
in the county whero he is imprisoned; but in all other cases, his examination must be taken by deposi lion. 
602. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he
shall remain under the control of the officer having him in
custody, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking
of the deposition. 
603. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
county in which he does not reside, by being served with 
a summons in such county while going, returning, or attending in obedience to a subpoena, 

604. The testimony of 'witnesses is taken in three
modes: 
I. By affidavit.
2. By deposition.
8. By oral examination. 
605. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party. 
606. A deposition is a written declaration under oath,
made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of
enabling him to attend and cross-examine ; or, upon written
interrogatories. 
007. An oral examination is an examination in the
pres ence of the tribunal which is to decide the fact or act
upon it, the testimony being heard by the tribunal from the
lips of the witness. 
608. An affidavit may be read to verify a pleading, to
prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process
in an action: to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or a warning order, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted by 
law. 

609. Where a provisional remedy is granted upon an
affidavit, and a motion is made to discharge or vacate it,
the party against whom it is granted may, by written notice to the party by whom it was obtained, or by order or 
rule of court, require the production of the person who
made the affidavit for cross-examination; whereupon, the
party notified shall produce the affi.ant within ten days before an officer authorized to take depositions, at a time and
place of which he shall give the adverse party three days
notice. 1f the affiant is not produced, his affidavit shall be
suppressed; and if produced, he may be examined by either
party. 
610. An affidavit may be made out of this state before
u commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to 
take depositions, or before a judge of a court, mayor of a
city, notary public, 01justice of the peace, whose certifi
cate s~all be proof of the time and manner of its being
made. 
611. An affidavit may be made in this state before a
_ judge of a court, a justice or the peace, notary public, an 
examiner, or a clerk of a court. Wherever, by the provisions of this Code, the affidavit of the plaintifff or defendant
is required to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order,
a provisional remedy, or any other order in an action, or on
a motion or proceeding therein, it may, unless otherwise
expressed, be made by the agent or attorney of the party, 
if he is absent from the county, in which case the affidavit
shall state his absence, and that the affiant is his agent or
attorney. 
612. Every affidayit shall be subscribed by the affiant.,
and the certificate of the officer before whom it is made,
shall be written separately, following the signature of the 
affinnt. 

613. Depositions may be used on the trial of all issues,
and upon all motions in actions by equitable proceedings, 
except where the court otherwise directs on an issue tried
by a jury. 
614. They may be used on the trial of all issues in any
action in the following cases : 
1. Where the witness does not reside in the county
where the action is pending, or in an adjoining county,
or is absent from the state. 
2. Where the witness is the governor, secretary of 
state, register, auditor, or treasurer of this state, a judge
or clerk of a court, a president, cashier, teller, or clerk 
of a bank; a practicing physician, surgeon, or lawyer,
or keeper, officer, or guard of the penitentiary. 
3. Where, from age, infirmity, or Imprisonment, the
witness is unable to attend court, or is dead. 
615. A witness shall not be compelled to attend in
court for oral examine tion, where his deposition may be used
unless he has failed, when duly summoned, to appear and
give his deposition. 
616. Where it is made to appear by the affidavit of the
party and the written statement of his attorney, that the
testimony of a witness is important, and that the just and
proper effect of his testimony cannot in a reasonable degree
be obtained without an oral examination before the jury,
the court may, at its discretion, order the personal attendance of the witness to be coerced, although such witness
mny otherwise be exempt from personal attendance by the 
provisions of this Code. 
617. The plaintifff may commence taking depositions
immediately after the service of the summons ; and the defendant, immediately after filing his answer. 
618. A party may take the deposition of any witness
de bene esse, which may be used under the circumstances pre
scribed in section 614. 

619. The circuit judges shall appoint at least two ex
aminers in each county of their respective districts, who,
before acting, shall be sworn in open court to discharge faithfully and impartially the duties of their office. 
620. An examiner's office shall be kept in or near the
county seat; and if there is more than one, the others at
such place as the court may direct. 
621. There shall notbe more than three examiners'
offices in any one county, unless a mnjority of the members 
of the bar, resident in said county, shall, by a petition, filed
in the circuit court, state that more examiners' offices are 
necessary to the convenient dispatch of business ; whereupon
the judge may appoint more examiners and order more ex- 
aminers' offices to be kept, not exceeding one examiner and
examiner's office in each election precinct, except at the
county scat, where two examiners' offices may be kept for
each precinct. 
622. The examiners shall be authorized to administer
oaths and give certificates thereof in all cases in which jus. 
tiees of the peace are so authorized. 
623. The. judges in vacation, may make temporary appointments of examiners by written orders signed by such
judge and filed in .the circuit court clerk's office, and the
examiner so appointed, being qualified before such clerk,
and a certificate thereof indorsed on the order, shall remain
in office until the expiration of the next regular term of the
circuit. court. 
624. All depositions taken in this state to be used in
the courts thereof, shall be taken before an examiner, except 
1. Where an examiner cannot be obtained in the
county in which the deposition is to be taken. 
2. Where the witness is unable, from age, infirmity,
or imprisonment, to attend at the examiner's office,
and the examiner refuses to go to him. 
3. Where all the examiners of the county are interested in the action. 
625. In the cases mentioned in the exceptions to the
last section, the depositions may be taken before a judge of
a court, a justice of the peace, a notary public, or a clerk of
a court .. 
626. Where a deposition is taken before any other officer than an examiner, the cause of it being so taken shall be 
made to appear by an accompanying affidavit. 
627. It shall not be the duty of an examiner to go out of
his office to take depositions, but he may take them at any 
place in the county for which he is appointed. 
628. Depositions may be taken out of this state before
a commissioner appointed by the governor thereof, a judge
of a court, a justice of the peace, mayor of a city, notary 
public, or any other person empowered by a commission
directed to him by consent of the parties, or by order of the 
court. 

629. Depositions shall be taken upon reasonable notice 
to the adverse party, 01upon interrogatories. 
630. The notice must be in writing, signed by the party giving it, or his attorney, addressed to the party on whom
it is to be served, and specify the time and place of taking
the deposition, and the action or proceeding in which it is to 
be used. 
631. Where the notice is to be given to the defendant, 
it may be served as the summons in the action is authorized 
to be served. 
632. A notice shall be deemed reasonable that allows
one day for each thirty miles of distance which the party 
will have to travel, and one day for preparation where the
distance is less than one hundred miles, and two days where
it is more. When the distance exceeds fifty miles, and
the usual mode of travel for the whole or a part of the distance, is by steamboat, railroad cars, or other public conveyance, then the time ordinarily required by such mode of
travel, with the days given for preparation, shall be deemed
sufficient in the notice. Where the distance is less than thirty miles, a notice which gives to the party a reasonable opportunity to be present shall be sufficient. 
633. Where a notice has been given to take a deposition at an examiner's office, but the attendance of the wit
ness cannot be procured; owing to his age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the taking of the deposition may be adjourned
to the next day, and to some other convenient place-a 
written notice of which shall be posted upon the front
door of the examiner's office before noon of the day on
which the deposition was to have been taken. 
634. Where a notice has been given to take a deposition at an examiner's office, but from any cause not mentioned in the last section, the deposition cannot be taken at
that office, an adjournment to the nearest convenient place
shall be made-a written notice of which shall be posted
upon the front door of the examiner's office for one hour
before the deposition is commenced at the place to which the 
adjournment is made. 
635. Where an adjournment has been made pursuant .
to either of the last two sections, an affidavit as to the causes thereof, with a copy of the notice certified by the sheriff,
constable, or examiner, or sworn by a private person to have 
been posted upon the door as therein directed, shall aeoom
pany the deposition. 
636. A party to whom more than three days' notice to
take a deposition out of this state is given, may, by notice 
to the adverse party or his attorney, served in one day after
the service of the first notice, require the deposition to be taken upon interrogatories. 
637. The court, on motion of either party, may permit
depositions to be taken upon interrogatories .... -;-> 
1. Where the ascertainment of a fact or the stating 
of an account is referred to a commissioner.
2. Where the party against whom the depositions 
are to be read, is absent from the state, and has not
appointed an agent or attorney in the county where the
action is pending, known to the party taking the de- 
position. ~
3. Where the parties against whom the deposition 
is to be read are numerous, and have not designated
agents or attorneys residing in the county on whom 
notice may be served. 
4. In cases where an infant, lunatic, or married wo
man is a party, by the consent of the guardian, committee, or husband. 
5. In any action mentioned in section 46 where the
owner of the boat or vessel has not appeared. 
638. The interrogatories shall be filed in the clerk's 01:.. 
flee; and, if the adverse party or his agent or attorney resides in the same county, notice thereof shall be given to
either of them; and, while they remain in the clerk's office, the adverse party may file cross interrogatories. If
cross interrogatories are not filed, the clerk shall file the
following: 
I. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this 
action, and if interested, explain the interest .rou have. 
2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers
made from your personal knowledge; and if not, do
yourr answers show what are made from your personal
knowledge, and what from information, and the source 
of that information.
3. State everything you know concerning the sub
ject of this action, favorable to either party. 
639. The interrogatories shall remain in the clerk's office fifteen days, or, if notice is served as provided in the
last section, ten days after such service, unless the cross interrogatories are sooner filed. 
640. After remaining the due length of time in the
clerk's office, one or more commissions, at the request of
the party, shall be issued by the clerk, with copies of the 
interrogatories and cross interrogatories annexed, authorizing the person to whom it may be directed, to examine 
witnesses on them-which commission may be directed, generally, "to any officer authorized to take depositions in or
out of this state." 
641. Upon filing with an examiner, or other officer authorized to take depositions, a notice duly served, or a commission with interrogatories to take a deposition, it shall be 
the duty of such officer to issue his subpoena requiring the
witness, whose deposition is desired, to appear, at a time and
place to be named in the subpoena, for examination; and if
the witness fails to attend, after being duly summoned, the
officer may issue his warrant for arresting and bringing the 
witness before him, to give testimony, and answer for the
contempt of disobedience of the subpoena. 
642. The officer before whom the deposition is taken
shall decide, summarily, all objections to questions, but in
matters of doubt shall permit the questions to be answered,
noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power to prevent insulting questions being put to a witness, and 
to stop a course of interrogation pursued unreasonably long,
and for mere vexation and delay. 
643. The statements of the witness shall be written, in
the presence of the officer taking it, either by the witness or
the officer. 
644. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories,
neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at
the examination of the witness,.unless both parties are present, or represented by an agent or attorney, or unless the
opposite party or his agent or attorney has been reasonably
notified of the time and place of taking the depositions or
the party attending has been notified by the opposite party 
to attend. 
645. The certificate of the officer shall state the time
and place of taking the deposition, that the witness was du
ly sworn before he gave his testimony, and that his testimony was written, read to, and subscribed by him, in the
presence of the officer ; and also state by whom it was writ
ten, and which of the parties, in person or by agent or attorney, was present at the examination of the witness. 
646. When the depositions are completed they shall be
sealed up by the officer and directed to the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, with a note showing them 
to be depositions, and the style of the case in which they
were taken, and either delivered to the clerk or mailed to
him by the officer taking them. 
647. The fee allowed an officer for taking depositions
shall be one dollar for each deposition, and five cents per mile
for each mile that an examiner may have to travel in going 
to and returning from the place of the taking-the distance 
to be estimated from his office. But whatever is the number
of depositions taken in one day for the same party in any
action, the fees therefore shall not exceed three dollars. 
648. For issuing a subpoena or warrant of arrest, and
for summoning or arresting the witnesses, the same fees shall 
be paid a& are allowed to clerks and sheriffs for similar servi- 

649. No deposition shall be read on a trial, unless before
the commencement thereof, it wasfiled with the papers of
the case. 
650. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing specifying the grounds of objection, filed with the papers of the 
case, and noted on the record.
651. No exception, other than to the competency of the 
witness, or to the relevancy or competency of the testimony,
shall be regarded, unless filed and noted on the record before
the commencement of the trial. 
652. The court on the motion of either party, shall decide upon the exceptions before the commencement of the
trial. 
653. Errors of the court in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions, are waived unless excepted to. 
654; Where the trial is by jury, the swearing of the
jury shall be deemed the commencement thereof. 

655. A party desiring to take depositions in this state
to be used in judicial proceedings in other states, may pro- 
duce to a judge of the county court in the county where the
witnesses reside a commission authorizing the taking of such
depositions, or a notice duly served; whereupon, it shall be
the duty of the judge to issue a subpoena requiring the 
witnesses to attend at a specified time and place for examination; and, in case of their failure to attend or refusal to 
be sworn or to testify, they may be punished as provided in section 598. 

656. The party who begins the case, must ordinarily
exhaust his evidence before the other begins. But the order
of proof shall be regulated by the court, so as to expedite
the trial, and enable the tribunal to obtain a clear view of
the whole evidence. 
657. The court shall exercise a reasonable control over
the mode of interrogation so as to make it rapid, distinct, as
little annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth as may be; but subject to this control, 
the parties may put such legal and pertinent questions as
they may see flt, The court, however, may stop the pro
duction of further evidence on a particular point, where the
evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable 
doubt. 
658. The examination of a witness by the party producing him, is the direct examination; the examination of
the same witness upon the same matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination. The direct examination must be
completed before the cross-examination begins, unless the
court otherwise directs. 
659. A question that suggests to the witness the answer which the examining party desires, is a leading question. On the direct examination, leading questions are not 
allowed, except under special circumstances making it appear that the interests of justice require it. On cross-ex
amination, the adverse party may put leading questions;
but if he examines the witness on new matters, such ex
amination is subject to the same rules as the direct examination. 
660. The party producing a witness is not allowed to 
impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it is
a case in which it was indispensable that the party should 
produce him; but he may contradict him by other evidence,
and by showing that he has made statements different from
his present testimony. 
661. A witness may be impeached by the party against
whom he is produced, by contradictory evidence, by showing 
that he has made statements different from his present testimony, or by evidence that his general reputation for truth
or immorality renders him unworthy of belief, but not by
evidence of particular wrongful acts, except that it may be
shown by the examination of a witness, or record of a judg
ment, that he has been convicted of felony. 
662. Before other evidence can be offered of the witueaa 
having made at another time a different statement, he must 
be inquired of concerning the same, with the circumstances
of time, place, and persons present, as correctly as the examining party can present them; and if it is in writing, it
must be shown to the witness, and he allowed to explain it. 
663. Evidence of the good character of a witness is
inadmissible until his general reputation has been impeached. 
664. A witness once examined, cannot be re-examined
as to the same matter, without leave of the court. But he
may be re-examined as to any new matter upon which he
has been examined by the adverse party. After the examination on both sides is concluded, the witness cannot be
recalled without leave of the court. 
665. If either party requires it, the judge may exclude
from the court room any witness of the adverse party not at 
the time under examination, so that he may not hear the
testimony of the other witnesses. 
666. A person present before a court or a judicial officer, may be compelled to testify in the same manner as if
he was served with a subpeena. 
667. The judge or a juror may be called as a witness
by either party, but in such case, it is in the discretion of
the court to suspend the trial and order it to take place before another judge or jury; and where a party knows, at 
the time the jury are sworn, that a juror is to be called by
him as a witness, he shall then disclose it, and the juror shall
be excluded from the jury. 
668. Whenever a writing is shown to a witness, it may 
be inspected by the adverse party, and, if proved by the
witness, it mus, he read to the jury before his testimony is
closed; otherwise, it cannot be read, unless the witness is 
recalled. 

669. All persons, except those enumerated in the next section, shall be competent to testify in a civil action. 
670. The following persons shall be incompetent to 
testify:
I. Persons convicted of a capital offense, or of per
jury, subornation of perjury, burglary, robbery, larceny, receiving stolen goods, forgery, or counterfeiting. 
2. Infants under the age of ten years, and over that
age, if incapable of understanding the obligation of an 
oath.
3. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of 
being produced as witnesses.
4. Husband and wife, for or against each other, or 
concerning any communication made by one to the
other, during the marriage, whether called as a witness
while that relation subsisted or afterwards. 
5. An attorney, concerning any communication
made to him by his client in that relation, or his ad
vice thereon, without the client's consent.
6. Persons interested in an issue, in behalf of them
selves, and parties to an issue, in behalf of themselves
or those united with them in the issue. 
7. Negroes, mulattoes, or indians, in any action or
proceeding where a white person, in his own right, or 
as representative of a white person; is a party, except\in actions brouglit to recover a penalty or forfeiture 
for a violation of law, against a negro, mulatto, or .. indian. 
671. All other objections to witnesses shall go to their
credit alone, and be weighed by the jury or tribunal to
which their evidence is offered. 
672. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a party, in
answering interrogatories, state new matters not responsive 
to the inquiries, the party interrogating may, before the
trial, file his written statement under oath, concerning such 
new matters, which shall be read as a deposition, 
673. In actions by ordinary proceedings, if a party, in
answering interrogatories or when introduced as a witness,
states new matters not responsive to the inquiries of the
adverse party, the latter shall be allowed to testify orally
concerning such new matter. 
674. A personal representative or trustee not personal
lyc interested in the action, shall not be incompetent to testify by reason of being a party. 
675. An officer or inhabitant of a county, city, or town, 
or an officer, member, or trustee of a corporation or religious
society, although a party to the action, shall be competent
to testify in behalf of such county, city, town, corporation, 
or religious society. 
676. A person desiring to perpetuate the testimony of.
a witness residing in this state, may present to a circuit 
judge or the presiding judge of a county court an affidavit
stating 
I. That the affiant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this state, and that the expected adverse party, whose name shall be stated, is of full age, 
and a resident of this state.
2. That the evidence of a witness, whose name and 
residence, together with the facts, generally, expected 
to be proved, shall be stated, is believed by the affiant
to be material for him. 
3. The obstacles preventing the action being immediately brought, where the affiant expects to be plaintiff. 
677. The judge may, thereupon, in his discretion, make
an order for the examination of the witness. 
678. The applicant may then, after serving the expected adverse party with a copy of the affidavit and order, t!nd 
with a reasonable notice of the time and place of examination, proceed to take the deposition of the witness in the
manner prescribed in this Code for takingdepositions. 
679. The copy of the affidavit and order, and the notice can be served only by a personal delivery to the expect
ed adverse party, and the proof of such service shall be n
return by a sheriff, or an affidavit of a disinterested person 
who made the delivery. 
680. The deposition, when completed, together with the
affidavit, order, notice, and proof of service, shall be filed in
the clerk's office of the circuit court of the county in which
the deposition was taken. 
681. In the event of a trial between the persons named
in the affidavit as expected parties, or their successors in
interest, the deposition taken as above prescribed, may be
read by either party, where the witness is dead or insane, 
or, if alive and of sound mind, where his attendance for 
oral examination cannot be required ; and every part of it 
shall be subject to like objections as if taken pending the
action. 
682. Where the trial is not in the county in which the
deposition is filed, a certified copy of it and of the affidavit,
order, notice, and proof of service, may be read as evidence. 
683. That evidence which has been or may be perpetuated agreeably to the provisions of part 3, title 13, may be 
read, subject to the objections and requirements of said provisions, on the trial of any action or suit which has been or 
may be commenced in any court of this state since the first
day of August, 1851, whether the action or suit, or the court, 
at the time of such perpetuation, was or shall be embraced
or not in the provisions of the Code of Practice. 

684. A plaintifff who is a non-resident of this state, or 
a corporation other than a bank created by the laws of this
state, before commencing an action, shall file in the clerk's
office a bond of a sufficient surety, to be approved by the 
clerk, for the payment of nil costs which may accrue in the
action in the court in which it is brought, or in any other to
which it may be carried, either to the defendant or to the 
officers of the courts. 
685. An action in which a bond for costs is required by
the Inst section and has not been given, shall be dismissed 
on the motion of the defendant at any time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to be allowed by the court, 
after the motion is made therefore, such bond is filed, securing all past and future costs; and the action shall not be
dismissed or abated, if a bond for costs is given in such time 
as the court may allow. 
686. If the plaintifff in an action, after its institution,
becomes a non-resident of this state, he shall give security
for costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided
in the preceding sections of this chapter. 
687. A guardian, committee, or next friend suing for an 
_ infant or person of unsound mind, and every plaintifff suing
as an assignee, except an indorsee of a bill of exchange or a
promissory note placed upon the footing of a bill of exchange,
when insolvent, may be required to give security for costs: 
and on failure to do so in a reasonable time after it is directed by the court, upon the motion of the defendant, his action shall be dismissed. 
688. In an action in which a bond for costs has been
given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, after 
reasonable notice to the plaintifff. move the court for addition- 
al security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such mo. tion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's 
bond has removed from this state, or is not sufficient for the 
amount thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court, sufficient security is 
given by the plaintifff. 
689. Where process is issued in an action by the direction of an attorney for a plaintifff who is required by tho first section of this chapter to give security for costs, but who 
has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as surety for
the costs of the action, until a bond is given ; and his liability may be enforced by orders of court and by proceedings as for contempt, if they are not obeyed. 

690. Every direction of a court or judge entered upon
the order book, or made in writing in a civil action, and not
included in the judgment, is denominated an order, 
691. An application for an order, is a motion.
692. The notices mentioned in this Code shall be in 
writing, and may be served by a sheriff, constable, jailer, oor
oner, or marshal of a town or city, whose return thereon 
shall be proof of the service. Notices may also be served
by any person not a party or interested in the action or proceeding, whose affidavit shall be proof of the service. 
693. The service of a notice shall be by giving a copy
thereof to the person to whom it is directed, or, if he cannot
be found at his usual place of abode, by leaving a copy there
with a white person over the age of sixteen years residing in
the same family with him, or, if no such white person is
there, then, by affixing a copy to the front door, of such
place of abode. If the person to whom the notice is direc
ted cannot be found, and has no known place of abode in this
state, the notice may be served by delivering a copy to his 
attorney. The return of the officer, or the affidavit of the
person who served the notice, shall state the time and manner of the service; and where a copy of the notice is not
given to the person to whom it is directed, the return or affidavit shall state the facts authorizing the manner of service
pursued. 
694. Where the party has no known place of abode in
this state, anti no attorney in the county where the action is
pending, or where the parties, plaintifffs or defendants, are
numerous, the court may direct the mode of serving notices
and to what persons they shall be given. 
695. A notice to an infant or person of unsound mind
shall be served on the guardian, committee, or next friend
bringing or defending the action for him. 
696. A notice to a corporation may be served in the
same manner as a summons in an action against it. 
697. Where husband and wife unite in bringing or defending an action, the service of a notice on the husband 
shall be deemed a service on the wife. 
698. A notice to a person constructively summoned
and not appearing, shall he served on the attorney appointed 
to defend for him. 
699. Where it is not otherwise specially provided in this 
Code, a notice to a party in an action of any motion or proceeding to be made 01taken therein in court, or before a 
judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney ; but
the service upon the attorney, in any such case, must be by
delivering to him a copy of the notice. 
700. Where a party to an action does not reside in the
county in which it is pending, a notice to him to take depo
sitions may be served by delivering a copy thereof to his
attorney. 
701. It shall be the duty of the sheriff and of every
constable to whom any notice in an action may be delivered 
for service within his county, to serve and return such notice 
to the party who delivered it to him. A failure to perform
this duty may be punished as a disobedience of the process
of the court. 

702. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon 
the plaintifff or his attorney an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified therein. 
If the plaintifff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to 
the defendant or his attorney within five days after the offer
was served, the offer and an affidavit that the notice of 
acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be filed by
the plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with 
a copy of the offer verified by affidavit, and, in either case, 
the offer and acceptance shall be noted upon the record;
and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice 
of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer
shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be. given in evidence or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintifff foils to 
obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the 
offer. 
703. In an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff or
his attorney an offer in writing that, if he fails in his defense, 
the amount of the recovery shall be assessed at a specified
sum. If the plaintifff accepts the offer and gives notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five days after it
was served, and the defendant fails in his defense, the judg
ment shall be for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintiff does not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to 
be recovered, as if the offer had not been made. The offer
shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial.
And if the amount recovered by the plaintifff does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall
recover his costs incurred in the defense in respect to the
question of amount, to be taxed under the direction of the 
court. 
704. The making of any ofter pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall not be a cause for a continuance
of an action or a postponement of a trial. 

705. Parties to a question which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submisssion of the same to any court which 
would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But
it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and 
the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine
the case, and render judgment as if an action were pending. 
706. The case, the submission, and the judgment shall
constitute the record. 
707. The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as if
it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided
in the submission .. 

708. After an action for the recovery of money is
brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes 
involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintifff, being
present, refuses to accept such confession of judgment in 
full of his demands ngai'nst the defendan t in the action, or
having had such notice that the offer would be made, of its
amount, and of the time of making it as the court shall
deem reasonable, fails to attend, and, on the trial, does not
recover more than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the coste of the defendant incurred after the 
offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of
the cause of action or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial. 

709. If an officer who levies or is required to levy an 
execution upon personal property, doubts whether it is subject to the execution, he may give to the plaintifff therein, or 
his agent or attorney, notice that an indemnifying bond is
required. Bond may, thereupon, be given by or for the
plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved
by the officer, to the effect that the obligors therein will 
indemnify him against the damages which he may sustain in 
consequence of the seizure or sale of the property, and will
pay to any claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in 
consequence of the seizure or sale, and will warrant to any
purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein as 
is sold ; and, thereupon, the officer shall proceed to subject
the property to the execution, and shall return the indemni
fying bond to the circuit court of the county in which the
levy is made. 
710. If the bond mentioned in the last section is not
given, the officer may refuse to levy the execution ; or, if it 
has been levied, and the bond is not given in a reasonable
time after it is required by the officer, he may rest-Ore the 
property to the person from whose possession it was taken,
and the levy shall stand discharged. 
711. The claimant or purchaser of ai:1y property, for the
seizure or sale of which an indemnifying bond has been taken 
and returned by the officer, shall be barred of any action
against the officer levying on the property, if the surety in
the bond was good when it was taken. And such claimant
or purchaser may maintain an action upon the bond, and
recover such damages as he may be entitled to. 
712. Where property, for the sale of which the officer is
indemnified, sells for more than enough to satisfy the execution under which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid into
the court to which the indemnifying bond is directed to be
returned. That court 'may order such disposition or payment of the money to be made temporarily or absolutely, as
may be proper, in respect to the rights of the parties inter
ested. 
713. The sale of personal property upon which an execution is levied, shall be suspendedat the instance of any
person, other than the defendant in the execution, claiming
the property, who shall execute, with one or more sureties 
sufficient for double its value, a bond to the plaintifff in the 
execution, to the effect that, if it shall be adjudged that the 
property or any part of it is subject to the execution, he will
p:1y to the plaintifff the value of the property so subject, and 
ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount due on the
execution, nnd ten per cent. thereon. 
714. For the purpose of taking the bond mentioned in
the List section, the officer shall select three disinterested 
housekeepers, nnd administer to them an oath to make a 
fair nppraisement of each article of the property, whose appraisement in writing shall be recited in the bond. 
715. The bond with the upprnisement annexed thereto
shall be returned to the circuit court of the county in which 
the levy was made. 
716. The party to whom the bon<l is executed, may
move the court to which it is returned, for a judgment thereon ngninst all or any of the obligors or their representatives, h..ving given to them ten days notice of the motion.
The court shall <lirect a jury to be impnnueled, and may
cause such issues to be tried as it may prescribe, and di
rcct which party shall be considered plaintifff in the issues. 
If the property, or any part of it, is found subject to the
execution, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the
plaintifff therein for the value of the property so subject, and
ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount due on the
execution and ten per cent. thereon. An execution may be
issued upon the judgment forthwith, on which the same indorsement shall be made as on the execution in virtue of
which the property had been seized. 
717. Upon the trial of the motion, either party mny
object that the property was not fairly npprnised ; and, there
upon, the jury trying the facts shall hear evidence respecting and find the value of the property. 
718. The giving of the bond mentioned in section 714,
shall not discharge the levy of the execution upon the property claimed, But the officer may leave it, subject to the
lien of the levy, with the person in whose possession it was 
found, pending the proceeding on the bond; nnd may, in the
meantime, proceed with the execution ngainst any other property of the defendant. 
719. The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter, shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued 
by justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds, in such cases, shall be returned with the executions under which they 
are taken, and bonds of claimants of property mny be returned to any justice of the county, and motion thereon
made before him on five days notice. He shall cause a jury
to be impanneled to find whether the property was subject
to the execution, subject to an appeal where the value of
the property exceeds ten dollars. 
720. The provisions of the preceding sections of this
ehnpter, shall also npply to proceedings upon distress warrants levied or about to be levied upon personal property
claimed by any person other than the tenant, his assignee,
or under-tenant. In every such case the bond of the claimant of the property, where it exceeds tho value of fifty <lollars, shall be returned to the circuit court of the county,
and the motion thereon made in that court ; and, where the 
value of the property <loes not exceed fifty dollars, to some
justice of the peace of the county, and the motion may be 
made before him. Indemnifying bonds in such cases shall
be returned with the warrants under which they were taken. 
721. Where an officer levies or is about to levy n distress warrant upon any property, the tenant, his assignee, or
under-tenant mny execute, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the officer, a bond to the party in
whose favor the warrant issued, to the effect that he will 
pny to such party the amount of the re.it specified in the
wurrant, with ten per cent. thereon, if the property is of the
value of the rent so specified; or, if it is of less value. that 
he will pny to such party the value thereof, and ten per 
cent. thereon. For the purpose of taking thia bend, the 
officer shall cause the property to be appraised as provided
in section 714. The appraisment shall be annexed and referred to in the bond. Upon the giving of the bond, the
levy, if one is made, shall be discharged, and the bond and
warrant shall be returned to some justice of the peace of the
county, where the amount claimed does not exceed fifty dollars; and, where it does exceed that sum, to the clerk's office of the circuit court of the county. 
722. The party to whom the bond is executed, may
move the justice of the peace or the court for a judgment
thereon, against all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having given to them five days notice of the 'motion. The defendants may make defense, upon the ground
that the distress was for rent not due in whole or in part, or
was otherwise illegal; or, if property was levied upon, that
it was by statute exempt from the levy. 
723. Where the motion is made before a justice of the
peace, he shall cause a jury to find the facts, subject to an
appeal where the amount exceeds ten dollars. 
724. Where the motion is made in court, it shall direct
a jury to find the facts. 
725. If the judgment is against the defendants, it shall
be for the rent due, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount secured by the bond. An execution may be
issued forthwith. 
726. Where the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant
contends that a part of the rent is not due, he may suspend
the distress warrant for such part, by giving bond, with a
surety, for it, upon which proceedings may be taken, as prescribed in the preceding sections. 
727. Trials by juries summoned by sheriffs or other officers, of the right of property taken by them under execution or distress warrant, are abolished. 

728. A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability for
which the surety is bound, after the same has become due. 
729. A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for
which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the
grounds exist upon which, by the provisions of chapters 1
and 3 of -title 8, an order may be made for arrest and bail,
or for an attachment. 
730. In such action, the surety may obtain any of the
provisional remedies mentioned in title 8, upon the grounds
and in the manner therein prescribed. 

731. No summons or order for a provisional remedy
shall be issued by the clerk in any action before the plaintiff's petition therein is filed in his office. 
732. It shall be no objection to o.ny process, writ, summons, affidavit, or order for a provisional remedy that it
was issued, made, or is dated on a holiday ; nor shall it be
an objection to any bond given by or for any party to an
action, or taken by an officer in the course of the same,
that it was made or is <lated on any such day. 
733. A summons or order for a provisional remedy may
be issued on a holiday, where an affidavit of the plaintifff or
some other person is made, to the effect that, unless it is issued on that day, there is reasonable cause to believe that it
cannot be executed. 
734. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of property, may be executed on a holiday, when the officer having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff or
some other person is made to the effect that the uffiant believes that the property is about to be concealed or removed, or that the process cannot be executed after such
holiday. 
735. A summons, subpoena, notice, or order of arrest or
of injunction may be executed on a holiday, where the officer
having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff
or some other person is made to the effect that the affiant
believes that the process cannot be executed after such holi
duy. 
736. The defendant shall have no privilege of exemption from the service of the process mentioned in the last section, except from an arrest, by reason of his attendance
at any muster, election, or order of survey, or as a witness 
at any court or other place. 
737. An order for a provisional remedy, or any other 
process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is 
interested, shall be directed to the coroner, or, if he is interested, to the jailer. If both these officers are interested,
the process shall be directed to and executed by any constable of the county. 
738. The court, for good cause, mny appoint a person
to serve a particular process or order, who shall have the
same power to execute it which a sheriff has. The person
may be appointed on the motion of the party obtaining the
process or order, and the return must be verified by his affidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to sheriffs
for similar services. 

739. The clerk shall indorse, upon every paper filed in
an action, the day of filing it; and upon every order for a
provisional remedy, and upon every bond taken thereunder, 
the day of its return to his office.
740. He shall, upon the return of every summons serv
ed, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each
one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of the
summons, in case of the loss thereof 
741. He may administer any oath or take any affidavit required or permitted in the progress of an action. 
742. He shall prepare iu a proper manner every boncl 
to be taken by or given before him or his court. 
743. He shall refuse any surety offered in a bond to be
taken by him, who is, in his opinion, insufficient. 

744. The sheriff shall indorse, upon every summons,
order of arrest or for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction in his hands, the day and hour it was 
received by him. 
745. A sheriff having au order of attachment, or for
the delivery of property, may enter any building or inclosure containing the property, to take it; and, if necessary
for this purpose, may break the building or enclosure, having
first publicly demanded the property .. 
746. A sheriff having an order of arrest, may enter any
house or enclosure in which the party to be arrested may be,
to arrest him; and, if necessary for this purpose, may 'break 
the house or enclosure, after having informed any person
therein of his object, or, where no person appears to whom
such information can be given, after having publicly demanded the person to be arrested, and, in either case, after 
having given sufficient time for the house or enclosure to be
opened. 
747. It shall not be a sufficient return of any process,
that the officer was kept off by force from executing it.. 

748. The Code of Practice in Civil Actions, as herein
amended, shall regulate the procedure in all civil actions and
proceedings in the courts of this commonwealth, and that all
Jaws coming within the purview of its provisions shall be re
pealed : Provided however, that actions and proceedings commenced before this act goes into effect shall not be affected
by the provisions of this section. 
749. Any duty enjoined by this Code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be 
performed by his lawful deputy.
750. An authority conferred upon three or more per
sons, may be exercised by the majority of them ; and a majority of three or more persons may do any net directed to
be performed by them. 
751. Wherever an oath is required by this Code, the af- 
firmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, shall have the same effect. 
752. Where n. certain number of days is required to in
tervene between two acts, the clay of one only of the acts 
may be counted. 
753. When any bond provided for by this Code is adjudged to be defective, a new and sufficient one may be exe
cuted in such reasonable time as the court may fix, with the
same effect as if originally executed. 
754. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a 
surety in any bond provided for by this Code, shall have the
right to require the person offered as surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which affidavit may be made before
such officer. The taking of such au affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to which he might other
wiae be subject for taking insufficient security. 
755. The surety in every bond provided for 'by this
Code, must be a resident of this state, and worth double the 
sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and
have property liable to execution in this state equal to the
sum to be secured. Where there are two or more sureties in
the same bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualification prescribed in this section. 
756. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought,
except in aid of some other action pending when this Code
takes effect. 
757. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action has arisen therefrom. 
758. The writ of ne exeat, as a remedy in a civil action,
is abolished. 
759. Where, bythe provisions of this Code, a provisional remedy may be granted by the judge of the court in 
which the action is brought, or any circuit judge, or by the 
presiding judge of the county court, it may be granted by
any two justices of the peace of the county. 
760. Where there are several plaintifffs, the verification 
of the petition or reply may be made by any one of them ;
and, where several defendants unite in the same answer and 
defense, the verification may be by either of them. 
761. In an action where an attachment has been granted, the execution by or for the defendant of a bond whereby
the attachment is discharged, or the possession of the attached property is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance of such defendant in the action. 
762. In an action against a steamboat or other vessel,
the execution by or for an owner of the boat of a bond whereby the attachment is discharged, or the possession of the
boat is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance 
of sue! ~s a' df ndant in the action.

763. The provisions of this Code do not apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect.
They shall be conducted in all respects as if it had not been
adopted. 
764. Where, by the existing laws, H. party would be entitled to proceed by bill in chancery to enjoin a judgment or
other proceeding at law in an action brought before this Code
takes effect, he may proceed in such case for relief as if this
Code had not been adopted, and its provisions shall not affect
his case. 
765. That after this act goes into effect either party, at
their discretion, may take depositions, according to the pro- 
visions of title 13, to be used as evidence in actions, suits,
or proceedings which had been commenced before the first
day of August, 1851, or which though commenced since
that time were excepted from, or in a court not embraced by 
the provisions of the Code. 

766. The Code applies to all courts now existin~ or hereafter ereated. 
767. How courts hereafter created to be classed. 
766. The provisions of this Code shall apply to and regulate the proceedings of all courts of this commonwealth,
though not expressly enumerated, and of all that may hereafter be created. 
767. Where courts have been or may be hereafter created, having a similar jurisdiction in whole or in part with
circuit courts, they shall be considered as circuit courts in
the meaning of this Code ; where a similar jurisdiction with
quarterly courts, or justices' courts, they shall be considered as quarterly courts, or justices' courts, in the meaning of
this Code. 

768. The provisions of this Code shall regulate proceedings in civil cases in the circuit courts of this common
wealth, subject, in respect to the ,Teffcrson circuit court, to
the modifications made in this chapter, which apply to that
court alone. 
769. Wheie by the provisions of title 1 an action commenced in the Jefferson circuit court by ordinary proceed
ings, is changed into equitable proceedings, the court shall
order it to be transferred to the Louisville chancery court.
Whereupon, the papers in the action, with a copy of the 
order for its transfer, shall be delivered by the clerk to the
clerk of the chancery court, who shall place the case upon 
.oco~at "1-d ~n shall proceed as if
originally b~;gl:t therein. 
770. Where by the provisions of section 1 O, any issue
arising in an action is to be tried as in cases of equitable
proceedings, without a change of-the whole action into such
proceedings, the trial of such issue shall ho by the Jefferson
circuit court; and where all the issues are such as before tho
adoption of this Code were cognizable in chancery, and the
defendant elects to have them all tried as in cases of equi
table proceedings, the court shall order the action to be
transferred to the Louisville chancery court; whereupon, the 
same proceedings shall be had as are directed in the last section. 
771. The provisions of sections 388, 389, and 390 shall
not apply to the court. 
772. On each day of the term, the court shall, immediately after hearing the motions, call all the cases on the com
mon docket for that day, in which the summons has been 
served in due time, as provided in section 135, and in which
no issue of fact has been formed; and upon failure to defend,
may render judgment. 
773. The court may hear and decide all issues of law in
the actions as they are called, and render judgment, or give
further time for hearing and deciding them. 
774. An action by ordinary proceedings shall stand for
trial at the first term after the process has been served on 
the defendant, as provided in section 135. An action
upon contract, wherein the summons has been served in 
due time, as provided in that section, upon part only of the
defendants, shall stand for trial at the first term as to those 
so summoned, and ~ay be continued as to the others for
further proceedings. In other actions by ordinary proceedings, the plaintifff can only demand a trial as to part of t~e
defendants, upon his discontinuing his action as to the oth- 
ers. 
775. The jurisdiction of the Louisville chancery court 
is not affected by this Code, except as provided in section
770. The proceedings in that court shall conform to the 
provisions of this Code respecting actions by equitable proceedings, subject to the modifications contained in this chapter, which are applicable to that court alone. 
776. Where by the provisions of title 1 an action commenced in the Louisville chancery court by equitable pro
ceedings, is changed into ordinary proceedings, the court
shall order it to be transferred to the Jefferson circuit court; 
- whereupon, the papers in the action, with a certified copy of
the order for its transfer, shall be delivered by the clerk to
the clerk of the Jefferson circuit court, who shall place the
case upon the docket of that court, and the action shall
proceed ns if originally brought therein. 
777. There shall be no stated terms of the court. It
shall be deemed to be always open for the transaction of 
business ; and may be held at any time by the judge thereof, or in case of his sickness or unavoidable absence, by the 
judge of the judicial district which includes the county of
Jeffer:s,m. 
778. The summons in an action shall be directed to the
marshal of the court, or at the request of the plaintifff, to the
sheriff coroner, or jailer of Jefferson county ; and shall
be made returnable to any day, at the option of the plaintiff, not lesa than ten nor more than sixty days after its 
date. 
779. The time fixed in the summons for the defendant 
to answer shall be twenty days after the service thereof, if
in Jefferson county, and thirty days if elsewhere in the 
state. 
780. A warning order shall warn the defendant to an
swer within sixty days after the time of making the order. 
781. A defendant against whom a warning order is
made, shall be deemed to be constructively summoned thirty days after the making of the order, and the action shall 
proceed accordingly. 
782. The defense to an action must be filed within twenty days after the service of the summons in Jefferson county, _or within thirty days after such service elsewhere in the
state. Where the service is out of this state, as provided
in section 86, the defense must be filed within sixty days
thereafter. 
783. If the answer contains n counterclaim, or set-off,
the plaintifff shall reply within twenty days after the answer 
is filed. " 
784. The filing within the proper time of an answer or
reply, in the clerk's office, and causing it to be noted upon
the clerk's memorandum book and rule docket, shall be
equivalent to a filing in court. Exhibits may be filed in the
same manner in the clerk's office. 
1 
785. Where interrogatories are annexed to a petition,
they shall be answered at the time the party is required to
answer the petition ; where they are annexed to an answer 
or reply, they shall be answered within twenty days after
notice of the filing thereof is given to the adverse party or
his attorney. 
786. No amendment of a petition or answer containing a counterclaim or set-off, in a material part, shall, without consent, be taken as true at the trial, unless the adverse
party shall have had such reasonable notice of the filing 
thereof as the court may by rule prescribe. 
787. The clerk shall keep three separate dockets, which
shall be called the "rule docket," the "trial docket," and the
"motion docket." 
788. The rule docket shall be kept, and all actions shall
be placed and shall remain thereon without continuance, as
authorized by the existing law, until they arc put upon the
trial docket. 
789. On the trial docket shall be entered the actions that
are ready for trial. Where further time is allowed by the
court to plead or prepare for trial in an action, it may be re
manded to the rule docket. 
790. On the motion docket may be entered any motion
relating to proceedings in the court. 
791. The cases upon the trial and motion <lockets shall
be called at such times as the court, with a view to the dispatch of business, may deem to be proper. 
792. Where the summons has been served in Jellerson
county twenty days, or elsewhere in the state thirty days,
or out of the state sixty days, or where a regular warning
order has expired, and no defense is made, the plaintifff may
place the action upon the trial docket. 
793. Where defense is made by an answer, which the
plaintifff consents may be taken as true, tho action may be
immediately placed upon the trial docket. 
794. Where defense is made by an answer, which tho
plaintifff does not consent may be taken as true, the action
may be placed on the trial docket thirty days after the
pleadings have been, or by the provisions of sections 7 82,
783, should have been completed. But where they have
not been so completed, though they should have been by
those sections, the party in default as to time, shall not be
entitled to place the action on the trial docket. 
795. Where interrogatories are annexed to a pleading,
the party interrogated shall not be entitled to place the ac- 
tion on the trial docket, within twenty days after he has
answered the interrogatories. 
796. An application for a new trial, except for the cause 
mentioned in the seventh subdivision of section 369 shall
be made within fifteen days after the decision is rendered;
and where the application is for the cause mentioned in that subdivision, it shall be made within sixty clays after the decision. 
797. Where grounds for a new trial are discovered after
tho expiration of sixty days from the decision, the application may be made as provided in section 3 73 ; within two
months after the discovery. The proceedings thereupon
shall be such as are directed in that section, and subject to
the limitation therein prescribed. 
798. No execution shall be had of any judgment within fifteen days after its rendition, unless otherwise ordered
by the court. 
799. An appeal may be granted within fifteen days af
ter a final judgment or order. 
800. The power which the court has heretofore had over
its orders and decrees during the term in which they are
rendered, shall continue as to any final judgment or order
for sixty days after its rendition. 
801. The proceedings authorized by section 579, and
the succeeding sections of title 12, may be had in reference
to any judgment or final order of the court after the expi
ration of sixty days from its rendition. The proceedings
upon the petition authorized by section 581, shall be as in
an action by equitable proceedings. A motion to vacate a
judgment, because of its rendition before the action could
regularly be placed upon the trial docket, can only be made
within three months after it" rendition. 
802. Within thirty days after the service of an order to 
revive an action, as provided in section 56~, the party up
on whom it is made, may show cause against the reviver, 
and if sufficient cause is not shown within that time, the
action shall stand revived. 
803. An order warning parties to appear and show cause
why an action should not be revived, in the cases mentioned
in section 564, shall allow not less than sixty days for their
appearance; and if, within the period mentioned in the order, sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary, the action
shall stand revived. 
804. A commissioner shall be appointed by the court,
and shall hold his office during its pleasure. He shall discharge the duties of the present masters of the court, and
may receive the fees therefore which are authorized to be
taken by them. He shall perform such other duties as are
provided by this Code, or as by rules and orders pursuant
thereto, may be directed by the court. 
805. Before entering upon the performance of his duties,
the commissioner shall take, in open court, the oath prescribed by the existing laws for a master of the court. 
806. The commissioner may, with the approbation of the
court, appoint one or two deputies, who shall, in open court,
take an oath to perform faithfully their duties. 
807. The commissioner may administer any oath ancl
take an affidavit directed or permitted in an action or proceeding in the court. 
808. The judge of the court may require all depositions 
to be taken upon interrogatories filed in the clerk's office. 
809. Depositions to be read in the court shall be taken
and certified in the manner, and by the officers directed by
the provisions of this Code, subject to the following modifications, viz : 
1. Depositions in the city of Louisville shall be taken 
before the commissioner of the court. 
2. Notice to the adverse party of the filing of interrogatoriee shall not be necessary. The court shall by 
roles prescribe clays for the filing of interrogatories, and
the time they shall remain in the clerk's office. 
3. A deposition may be taken by the commissioner
of the court without a commission therefore. 
4. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories,
neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be pres
ent at the examination of the witness, unless the adverse party or his agent or attorney is present, or un
less such party or his attorney has had reasonable notice of the time and place of taking the deposition :
But a party notified to attend may be present, although
the party who gave the notice is not. 
5. Where it appears by the certificate of the officer,
that one only of the parties was present at the examination of the witness, the reason for his being permitted 
to be present, shall be stated, and, where a notice to 
attend has been given, the evidence thereof shall be
annexed to the certificate. 
6. Depositions to be read in the court, may be taken
by the commissioner at any place in the state. 
810. Sales of personal property made by order of the
court shall be upon such credits as the court may direct, not 
~exceeding four months; but the court may, in its discretion
in a special case, direct a sale of such property to be for cash.
Sales of real property shall, unless by consent of the parties, 
be upon a credit of not less than three nor more than twelve
months, or on installments equivalent to not more than twelve
months credit on the whole ; but the court may direct a sale
of real property over the value of three thousand dollars, to
be on a credit, or if on installments, an average of credits
not exceeding two years. 
811. Sales of property in Louisville or the county of 
Je:trel"!On, by order of the court or under executionfrom it,
if not otherwise specially directed by the court, shall be 
made at the court houes door, after ten da:)'4 not.ioe b7 
printed advertisements posted at that and such other places as the court may, by rule, direct. The court may, by 
rule from time to time, prescribe a day or days of the week,
and the hours of the day within which all sales shall be 
made. 
812. In the sale of a small portion of real estate, if the 
defendant does not require less than the whole to be sold, 
where less will produce the debt, the officer making the sale
may exercise his discretion, with a view to the interest of the
defendant, whether to sell the whole or less than the whole,
as he may or not think it advantageously susceptible of division. The officer shall be allowed no commission for any
excess over the amount of the debt, and an abuse of his 
discretion either way, shall be a sufficient cause to set aside
the sale. 
813. The bonds of the purchasers of property sold by
order of the court, shall bear .interest from the day of sale,
and shall be made payable to the "clerk of the Louisville
chancery court," and shall be signed or acknowledged before,
and attested by the officer who made the sale, Proceedings
on such bonds may be had in the name of the "clerk of the 
Louisville chancery court," without using the name of the
clerk for the time being, at the instance, as relater, of any
person interested, he being responsible for the costs. Per
formance of such bonds may be summarily enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for contempt if they
are not obeyed. The bonds shall have the force of judgments, and, upon executions thereon, no replevy shall be
allowed, and sales shall be for cash. 
814. An objection to bail for insufficiency, can only be
made by motion within ten days after the return of the bail 
bond. 
815. An indemnifying bond given pursuant to section
709, to obtain a levy upon, or sale of property, in Jefferson 
county, under an execution from the court, shall be returned 
to it.
816. A bond pursuant to section 713, to suspend a sale 
of property levied upon in Jefferson county, under an execution from the court, shall be returned to it, and the proceedings authorized in section 716, may be had therein. 
817. Process of the court to other counties may be is
sued and directed, and shall be executed and returned, as
such process from a circuit court. 
818. Wherever, by the provisions of this Code, any process is to be directed to the sheriff of the county in which an
action or proceeding is brought or is pending, or any act is
required or permitted to be done by him, the word 'sheriff'
shall, in reference to any action or proceeding in the Louisville chancery court, be taken to mean the marshal thereof. 
And where the marshal is a party to or interested in any action or proceeding in the court, any process therein may be
directed to the sheriff of Jefferson county, or if he is interested, to the coroner or jailer thereof 
819. A debt incurred by any person or corporation, as
receiver or depositary of money paid into the court, shall
rank with debts due to the commonwealth, and shall have 
priority over other debts owing by such receiver or depositary, and precedence over any mortgage or lien upon his 
property made after its appointment. Accounts shall be
kept of all monies paid into the court, and with every re
ceiver or depositary of such monies, by the clerk or commissioner, as may be directed by the court. 
820. An action upon the official bond of the clerk or
marshal of the court, may be brought and prosecuted therein as other actions of which it has cognizance, subject to the
right of the defendant to a trial by jury. 
821. The court may, from time to time, prescribe and
enforce roles for the orderly conduct and dispatch of the
business of the court and of its officers, pursuant to the pro- 
visions of this Code and of the existing laws not inconsistent therewith.

823. The summons, orders for provisional remedies, and
other process from courts of justices of the peace, shall be
directed to a constable ; of the quarterly courts or county.
courts either to the sheriff, coroner, or a constable, at the 
option of the plaintifff; of the police, .oity, and mayors' 
courts, to the marshal or constable; but the summons may 
be served by any officer or person authorized by this Code
to serve a summons. 
824. The duties and powers enjoined and conferred in
this Code upon clerks, shall devolve on the judge or justices 
of such courts, where by law the judge or justices are required to act as the clerk of their court. 
825. Where the judge of the county court does not
keep an office at or within one mile of the county seat, or is
absent from his office, the clerk of the county court may issue the summons in an action in the quarterly court in the
same manner and under the same circumstances as the judge, 
and also subpoeuas for witnesses, and shall be allowed therefor the same fees as the judge. The clerk shall, before the
next term of the quarterly court, deliver to the judge all 
papers filed with him upon which he has issued any summons, and a list of the process issued by him, for the purpose of being properly taxed in the costs. 
826. Only one docket is required to be kept, on which
shall be entered all the actions and motions as they shall be
returned before them. 
827. Where the matter in controversy does not exceed
fifty dollars, the pleadings in the action may be oral and without verification. But before the summons is issued, the
plaintifff shall file with the justice the account, or the writ
ten contract, or a short written statement of the facts on
which the action is founded. 
828. In the actions named in the last section, the service of the summons five days before the time of trial, shall 
authorize a trial and judgment. Where the matter in
controversy exceeds fifty dollars, the service of the summons ten days before its return day shall authorize a trial
and judgment, whether the proceedings are ordinary or
equitable. 
829. On the calling of an action for trial, if the sum- 
mons has been served as prescribed in the last section, the
defendant shall put in bis defense and the plaintifff his 
reply, if a reply be necessary, and the trial forthwith proceed, unless the court give further time, or grant a continuance. 
830. In actions by equitable proceedings, the parties
may either take the depositions of witnesses, or examine 
them orally in court. 
831. The delivery of a copy of the summons shall not
be necessary in its service, nor of a copy of a subpoena, 01
a ticket stating its substance, in its service on a witness. 
832. Where the defendant resides in the county in which
the summons was issued, the summons shall be returned for 
trial in the district of his residence, unless he otherwise con- sents in writing, signed by him and indorsed on the summons, or unless the justices in such district are interested
or refuse to act, in which caso it shall be returned in an adjoining district. 
833. Where there are two or more defendants residing
in the cou\ity, but in different districts, the summons shall 
be returnable in either district. 
834. Where a defendant transiently in a county is served witli a summons issuing in said county, it shall be return
ed in the district in which he is served, unless he otherwise
consents in writing signed by him. Where the summons is
issued by the judge of the quarterly court, it shall be returned before him, unless the defendant or defendants all re
side in one district, and there is an acting justice of the
peace and an acting constable in such district. 
835. The parties shall not be entitled to a trial by jury
unless the matter in controversy exceeds in value sixteen
dollars Upon a jury trial being claimed, where the same
is allowable, the presiding judge or justice shall order a jury 
to be forthwith impanneled to try the action. The jurors
shall be qualified as required in the circuit courts 
836. A new trial or re-hearing may be granted in the
quart.erly courts or courts of justices of the peace, upon
motion made within ten days after a judgment or final or
der has been made or rendered, of which motion notice shall 
be g:.ven to the opposite party. 
837. Each presiding judge and justice of' the peace
shall, in a book provided for that purpose, keep a full and 
fair record of his judicial proceedings in his court, and keep 
a good cross index in the names of the litigants, referring to
the pages of the book of every entry in each case. 
838. The depositions to ha read in quarterly courts,
county courts, police courts, city courts, mayors' courts, or
courts of justices of the peace, may be taken before justices
of the peace, examiners, presiding judges of county courts, 
or police judges. 
839. Either party may examine the other on oath, and
for that purpose may cause him to be summoned to attend 
the trial if he reside in the county, or if he reside out of
the county, may file written interrogatories with the clerk
of the county court, or presiding officer in whose court the
trial is to be had, togetherwith an affidavit that he believes
the answers to them are necessary to his obtaining justice, 
and cause a copy of said interrogatories to be delivered to
the party required to answer them, who shall make out,
swear to, and file with such county court, 01presiding officer, 
on or before the day of trial, a plain, direct response to the
interrogatories, which may be read by either party. 
840. The court shall render judgment against the party
who refuses to attend and be examined when summoned two
days before the trial, or to make proper responses to interrog
atories where a copy shall have been delivered to him three
days before the trial, where he resides within fifty miles of
the place of trial, and one additional day for every additional thirty miles he may reside therefrom; but the court may
grant further time for attending ~r answering. 
841. The last two sections shall apply to appeals from
judgments of quarterly, justices', city, police, and mayors' 
courts. 
842. Where the record of a judgment of a quarterly,
city, police, mayor's, or justice's court has been lost or destroyed, such court may, on motion of the plaintifff after five 
days notice, render a new judgment for what may remain
due thereon. 
843. A set-off or counterclaim, though exceeding in
amount the jurisdiction of the court, may be used to bar
and extinguish the demand of the plaintifff; but no judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the excess,
unless such excess is within the limits of the court's jurisdiction as to amount. The judgment shall ascertain the
amount due to the plaintifff, and give him a credit therefore on 
the claim used as a set-off or counterclaim. 
844. Where an order for a provisional remedy has been
made by a judge or justice, in an action within the jurisdiction of their respective courts, and the order has been served
or levied, the trial of the action and disposition of the order
may take place at any time after five days notice to the
defendant, without waiting for the regular term of such
judge's or justice's court, which notice may be given by the
officer at the time of serving the summons or levying the 
order; and if the justice before whom the trial should regu
larly be had is sick, absent, or unable to act, the officer may
return the case for trial before the most convenient magistrate. 
845. Land shall not be levied on or sold under execution
from a quarterly or justice's court, or any court of similar 
jurisdiction. 
846. When an execution on a jugment of a quarterly
or justice's court, or court of similar jurisdiction, has been
returned by a constable or other officer, either as to the 
P~~,'!whole 01' a part thereof, in substance, no property found to 
satisfy the same, the plaintifff may obtain from the justice a
certified copy of the judgment and execution, and return
and file the same in the clerk's office of the circuit court of
the county in which the judgment was rendered, which copies
shall be copied by the clerk in a book kept for that purpose;
and, thereupon, the olerka shall issue writs of execution on
the judgment for the amount due thereon and the costs, including the costs of the copies by the justice and copying by
the clerk, which shall be levied and proceeded on as execu
tions on judgments of the circuit court. 

847. Appeals may be taken in the- manner following:
The party appealing shall produce to the clerk of the court
to which the appeal is taken a certified copy of the judgment 
and amount of costs, and cause to be executed before said
clerk, by one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by 
the clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant will satisfy
and perform the judgment that shall be rendered upon the
appeal; whereupon, the clerk shall issue an order to the 
' judge, mayor, or justice rendering the judgment, to stay
all further proceedings on the same, and to transmit to the
office of said clerk all the original paperstherein, and the
appellee shall be summoned actually or constructively, as 
provided in chapter 2 of title 4, to appear and defend the
appeal Where the judge acts as clerk of his court, the
provisions of this section, in regard to clerks, apply to him. 
848. The judge, mayor, or justice, on being served with
said order, shall, in ten days thereafter, transmit all the original papers in the action to the clerk's office of the court to
which the appeal is taken. 
849. Appeals shall be docketed and stand for trial as
actions by ordinary proceedings. The notions shall be tried
anew, as if no judgment had been rendered. 
850. Unless the judgment on the appeal is more favorable to the appellant than the original judgment, he shall
pay the costs of the appeal. Where he merely succeeds in
reducing the amount of a judgment rendered against him,
it shall be at the discretion of the court to allow him costs
or not. 
851. The costs in the inferior court shall be adjudged in
favor of the plaintifff, when'he succeeds in obtaining, on the
appeal, a judgment for any amount; otherwise, in favor of
the defendant. 
852. No appeal shall be taken as provided in this article,
except within sixty days from the rendering of the judg
ment. 
853. If the appellant moves to dismiss or fails to prosecute his appeal, it shall be at the option of the appellee either to proceed to trial on the appeal, or have judgment
rendered for the amount of the original judgment and 
costs where it was in his favor, or in 'bar of the original
judgment where it WRS against him. 
854. Whenever a party is desirous of taking an appeal,
the mayor, judge, or justice before whom the case was tried,
shall deliver to him, upon application, a copy of the judgment and amount of costs, certified by him. 

855. Words used in this Code in the past or present
tense, include the future as well as the past and present;
words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and 
neuter; the singular number includes the plural, and the 
plural, the singular; the word person includes a corporation
as well as a natural person; writing includes printing or
printed paper; signature or subscription includes mark, when 
the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a wit
ness.
856. The terms explained in the following sections of 
this chapter have, in this Code, the significations attached to
them. unless it is otherwise apparent from the context. 
857. An action for the recovery of money, in the meaning of this Code, includes an action for the recovery of damages as well as of money due by contract. 
858. The words "real property" mean lands, tenements,
and hereditaments. 
859. The words "personal property" include slaves,
money, goods, chattels, things in action, and eviden ~s of
debt. 
860. The won~ ''property" includes property, real and
personal. 
861. -The word ''clerk" means the clerk of the court in
which the action is brought or is pending, or in which the
proceeding is had; and the words "clerk's office" mean bis
office .. 
862. The words "presiding judge of the county' court"
signify the presiding judge of the county court of the county in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which
the proceeding is had. . 
863. The word "sheriff" means the sheriff of the county in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which 
the proceeding is had, or to which the process is directed ;
and where it is used in connection with any process or order,
or the execution thereof, or of any mitiisterial act, shall be 
taken to signify also any other officer to whom the process
or order may be directed, and who may be acting under it, or 
by whom the ministerial act may be performed. 
864. The words "coroner," "justice," "jailer," and "con., stable," mean officers of the county in which the action is
brought or is pending, or in which the proceeding is had or 
to which the process is directed. 
865. The words ''personal representative" signify the
executor or administrator of a deceased person, or the officer 
or other person appointed to take charge of his estate. 
866. A "foreign corporation" is one created by the laws
of some other state or country. 
867. The words "other country" signify any part of te
world out of this state. 
868. The words "United States" embrace every state in
the union, all the territories thereof, and the District of Columbia. 
869. The words "person of unsound mind" include every 
person who is an idiot, lunatic, or deranged. 
870. The word "oath" includes affirmation in any case 
in which it may be substituted for an oath, and in like eases
the word "sworn" includes "affirmed." 
871. The word ''month" means calendar month. 
872. "Process" is a writ or summons issued in the
course of judicial proceedings, 
873. ,~writ" is an order or precept in writing, issued by 
a court, clerk, or judicial officer. 
874. The rule of the common law that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, shall uot be applied to this Code. The provisions of this Code, and all 
proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed, with a view 
to promote its object, and to assist the parties in obtaining
justice. 
875. All statutes and laws heretofore in force in this
state in any case provided for by this Code or inconsistent
with its provisions, are hereby repealed and abrogated; but
this repeal does not revive any statute or law which _may
have been repealed or abolished by the statutes or laws hereby repealed; nor does it affect any right already existing, or
any proceeding already taken, except as provided in this
Code. 

876. The mode of bringing the judgment or final order
of au inferior court to the court of appeals for reversal or
modification, shall be by appeal, which shall be granted as
matter ofright,either by the court rendering the judgment or
order, on motion made during the term at which it is render
ed, or by the clerk of the court of appeals on application of
either party. 
877. The party taking the appeal shall be called the appellant, and the adverse party, the appellee. 
878. Unless the appeal is granted by the inferior court,
or the appellee enters his appearance in the court of appeals,
he shall be summoned actually or constructively, as provided
in chapter 2, title 4, of this Oode, to appear and answer the 
appeal. 

879. It shall he the duty of the appellant to file in the 
clerk's office of the court of appeals within ninety days after the appeal is granted, an authenticated copy of the record, otherwise his appeal shall be dismissed ; but the court
of appeals may, for cause shown, extend the time of filing
such copy, not beyond, however, the first day of the second
term of said court after the appeal was granted. 
880. The appellee may file an authenticated copy of the 
record in the clerk's office of the court of appeals with the
same effect as if filejl by the appellant. 
881. Where either party conceives that the copy of the
record is imperfect, the clerk of the court of appeals shall,
on his application, issue a writ of certiorari, commanding
the clerk of the inferior court to transmit to the court of
appeals a true copy of the omitted or imperfect part of the 
record, which part shall in general terms be described in the 
writ. 
882. Where a view of an original paper in the action
may be important to a correct decision of the appeal, the
court may have the same brought up by a suhpcena duces
teeum, directed to the clerk of the inferior court. 
883. The appellant may be required to give security for
costs, under the same circumstances that plaintifffs in civil
actions may be so required. 
884. An appeal shall not be granted, except within three
years next after the rendition of the judgment or order,
unless the party applying therefore was an infant, married
woman, or of unsound mind, at the time of its rendition, 
in which cases an appeal may be granted to such parties,
or their legal representatives, within one year after the
removal of their disabilities or death, whichever may first 
happen. 
885. The tax on the appeal shall be one dollar. 

886. An appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment or order, unless a supersedeas is issued. 
887. A supersedeas shall not be issued, until the uppelIant shall cause to be executed before the clerk of the court
which rendered the judgment or order, or tho clerk of the 
court of appeals, by one or more sufficient sureties to be
approved by such clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant shall pay to appellee all costs and damages that shall
be adjudged against the appellant on the appeal ; also, that
he will satisfy and perform the judgment or order appealed
from in case it should be affirmed, and any judgment or order which the court of appeals may render or order to be
rendered by the inferior court, not exceeding in amount or
value the original judgment or order, and all rents or hire
or damages to property during the pendcncy of the appeal,
of which the appellee is kept out of possession by reason of 
the appeal. 
888. Where the appeal was granted by the court rendering the judgment or order, and the bond is executed within thirty days thereafter before the clerk of such oourt, the
superaedeas shall be issued by such clerk; in all other cases, 
it. shall be issued by the clerk of the court of appeals. 
889. A supersedeas shall not be issued by the clerk of
the court of appeals, until an authenticated copy of the record, with a certified copy of the supersedeas bond-if it was 
executed before the clerk of the inferior court=-shall be filed 
in his office.
890. If the appellee believes the supersedeas bond to be 
defective, or the sureties to be insufficient, he may move
the court of appeals, if in session, or on reasonable notice
to the appellant, may move a judge of said court in vaca
tion, to discharge the supersedeas ; and if the court or judge
shall consider the sureties 'insufficient, or the bond substantially defective in securing the rights of the appellee, the
court or judge shall make an order discharging the superse
deas, unless a good bond with sufficient sureties be forthwith
executed. The order, if made by a judge, shall be in wri
ting and signed by him, upon the filing of which, or of a certified copy of the order when made in court, in the clerk's
office of the inferior court, executions and other proceedings
for enforcing the judgment or order may be immediately
taken as if no supersedeas had been issued. But another
supersedeas may be issued by the clerk of the court of appeals upon the execution of a new and lawful bond with sufficient sureties as hereinbefore provided. 
891. The supersedeas may be issued to stay proceedings 
on a part of a judgment or order, in which case the bond
shall be varied so as to secure the part superseded. 
892. The supersedeas is a written order signed by the 
clerk, commanding the appellee and all others to stay pro
ceedings on the judgment or order. 

893. Appeals shall stand for trial, when the copy of the
record was filed in the clerk's office of the court twenty days 
before the commencement of the term ; and, where a summons is required, the appellee summoned twenty days before 
the day on which the appeal is set for trial on the docket,
or his appearance entered before the day of trial. 
894. The clerk shall arrange theappeals upon the docket, setting a proper number for each day of the term, and 
in arranging them may have due regard to the convenience
of litigants, in placing together the appeals from the several 
judicial districts.
895. The appellee, at any time before trial, by an entry 
upon the records of the court of appeals, may pray and obtain a cross appeal. 
896. No written assignment of errors shall be necessary,
but the judgment may be reversed or modified for any error appearing on the record, to the prejudice of the appellant
or cross appellant. 
897. Where the appeal was improperly granted, or the
appellant's right of further prosecuting the same has ceased, the appellee, in lieu of pleading, may move the court to 
dismiss the appeal, the grounds of which motion shall be
stated in writing, signed by the appellee or his counsel, and
if not appearing on the face of the record, or by a writing 
purporting to have been signed by the appellant and filed,
shall be verified by affidavit. The motion shall not be heard 
or determined before the day on which the appeal is set
for trial on the docket, unless the appellant consents thereto. 
898. The appellee may, by answer filed and verified by
himself, or agent, or attorney, plead any fact or facts which
renders the granting of the appeal improper, or destroys the
appellant's right of further prosecuting the same; to which
answer the appellant shall file a reply, likewise verified by
affidavit of himself, agent, or attorney, and the questions of
law or fact thereon shall be determined by the court. 
899. Where an appeal with a supersedeas has been taken
for delay merely, the appellec may at any time move the 
court to affirm the judgment or order as a delay case ; before
making which motion, he or his counsel shall indorse on the
record, in substance, that he has carefully examined the 
record and believes the appeal is prosecuted for delay merely;
whereupon, the court shall examine the record, and if they
find no error in the proceedings, and believe the appeal was
prosecuted for delay merely, they shall affirm the judgment
or order. 
900. The court of appeals may make rules for the convenient dispatch of business, the preservation of order, the 
argument of cases or motions, the manner and time of
presenting motions or petitions for re-hearing, the time of
issuing its mandates ar.d -lccisicne, and mode of enforcing
its mandates and orders, and may change the same; provided
that no mandate shall issue, or decision become final, until 
after fifteen juridical days from the time the decision was 
rendered, not including the days of recess, unless the court,
in delay cases, and in cases involving no difficult question of 
law or fact, otherwise direct. And if a petition for re-hearing shall be filed in vacation, within fifteen days after
the decision is rendered, the maudate shall not issue, nor the 
decision become final, until the court, at a subsequent term,
shall so order. 
901. Upon the affinnance of a judgment, order, or decree of a court for the payment of money or delivery of
personal property, the appellee may file in the clerk's office 
of such court a copy of the mandate of affirmance, upon
which the clerk shall indorse the time of its being filed, and
thereupon such writs of execution may be issued on the
judgment, order, or decree, as could be issued after the mandate has been entered in the court. 
902. The court of appeals shall have power to enforce
its mandates upon inferior courts and officers by fine and 
imprisonment, which imprisonment may be continued until
they are obeyed. 
903. A judgment or final order shall not be reversed for 
an error which can be corrected on motion in the inferior
court, until such motion has been made there and overruled. 
904. Upon the affirmance of a judgment, order or decree, for the payment of money, the collection of which, in
whole or part, has been superseded, as provided in this chapter, ten per centum damages on the amount superseded shall
be awarded against the appellant . 
905. The court must deliver written opinions in all cases
involving a principle of law not previously settled by the 
court, and reported. 
906. In the publication of the reported decisions of the
court of appeals, it shall be the duty of the reporter to make 
a short abstract of the facts of the case involved in tho de
cision, followed by the legal propositions made by counsel in
the argument on Loth sides, with the authorities relied on 
fo1their support, 

