Section 1. Name of the act This act shall be known as the Code
of Practice in Civil Cases of this State.
Sec. 2. Classification of remedies. Remedies in civil cases in the
courts of this state are divided into two classes—
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.
Sec. 3. Civil action defined. A civil action is an ordinary pro
ceeding in a court of justice, by one party against another, for the
enforcement or protection of a private right, or the redress or pre
vention of a private wrong. It may also be brought for the recovery
of a penalty or forfeiture. (Notes.)
Sec. 4. Special proceeding defined. Every other remedy in a civil
case is a special proceeding.
Sec. 1. Forms of action abolished — one form substituted. The
forms of all actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished,1
and hereafter there shall be but one form of action for the enforce
ment or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention
of private wrongs, which shall be called a civil action. (Notes.)
Sec. 2. Plaintiff and defendant. In such action the party com
plaining is known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the de
fendant.
Sec. 3. Proceedings to be either ordinary or equitable. The pro
ceedings in a civil action may be of two kinds—
1. Ordinary.
2. Equitable.
Sec. 4. What proceedings may, and when they must, be equitable.
The plaintifff may prosecute his action by equitable proceedings, in
all cases where courts of chancery, before the adoption of this code,
had jurisdiction; and must so proceed, in all case3 where such juris
diction was exclusive. (Notes.)
Sec. 5. Ordinary in all other cases. In all other cases the plain
tiff must prosecute his^ action by ordinary proceedings.
Sec. 6. Action on lost writing may be by ordinary proceedings.
[Amended Dee. 21, 1863.] An action upon a written obligation,
which has been lost or destroyed, or on judgments, the records of
which have been destroyed, may be prosecuted by ordinary proceed
ings. {Notes.)
Sec. 7. No dismissal because wrong proceeding adopted—correc
tion. An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of proceedings adopted,
shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action, but merely
a change into the proper proceedings by an amendment in the plead
ings, and a transfer of the action to the proper docket. (Notes.)
Sec. 8. How error corrected by plaintifff. The error mentioned
in the last section, may be corrected by the plaintifff without motion,
at any time before the defendant has answered ; or afterward, on
motion in court.
Sec. 9. When defendant may have correction made. The defendant
shall be entitled to have the correction made in the following cases:
1. Where the action has been commenced by equitable proceed
ings, the defendant, by motion made at the time of filing his answer,
may have them changed into ordinary proceedings, when it appears
that, by the provisions of section five, the plaintifff should have
adopted ordinary proceedings, and in addition, that his answer pre
sents a defense on which he is entitled to a trial by jury.
2. Where the action has been commenced by ordinary proceed
ings, the defendant, by motion made at or before the time of filing
his answer, may have them changed into equitable proceedings, when
it appears that, by the provisions of section four, the plaintifff should
have adopted equitable proceedings. (Notes.)
Sec. 10. Equitable issues in ordinary actions—how tried. Where
the action has been properly commenced by ordinary proceedings,
either party shall have the right, by motion, to have any issue, which,
before the adoption of this code, was exclusively cognizable in chan
cery, tried in the manner hereinafter prescribed1 in cases of equitable proceedings ; and if all the issues are such as, before the adop
tion ot this code, were cognizable in chancery, though none were
exclusively so, the defendant shall be entitled to have them all tried
as in cases of equitable proceedings. (Notes.)
Sec. 11. When and how plaintifff may require security upon an
equitable issue being made in an ordinary action. If the plaintifff's
claim is for money due by contract, and the defendant puts in a de
fense of exclusively equitable cognizance) upon the plaintifff filing an
affidavit that he verily believes that he will succeed in the action,
and that the collection of his claim after judgment will be endan
gered by the delay arising from such defense being put in, the court
shall require the defendant to give security for the payment of any
judgment the plaintifff may obtain in the action, and upon his fail
ure to give such security, shall order the defendant to pay into court
an amount sufficient to discharge the plaintifff's claim and his prob
able costs ; upon which order execution may bo issued as upon a
judgment, and the amount collected upon execution shall be brought
into court and await the deciska of the action, and be paid to the
plaintifff or defendant, according to such decision. But no such se
curity shall be required if the trial of the equitable defense takes
place during the term at which it is put in, nor until all defenses to
the action, other than those of equitable cognizance, are tried or dis
posed of in favor of the plaintifff.
Sec. 12. Error as to kind of proceeding waived if not objected to
at proper time. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted in
the action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at the
time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter ; and all errors in
the decisions of the court, on any of the motions named in this chap
ter, are waived unless excepted to at the time ; which may be done
by the clerk noting, at the end of such decision, words of the fol
lowing import : " To which decision the plaintifff (or defendant) ex
cepts." 1
Sec. 13. Provisions of the code apply to both kinds of proceeding.
The provisions of this code, concerning the prosecution of a civil
action, apply to both kinds of proceedings, unless the contrary ap
pears.
Sec. 14. When judgment in ordinary proceeding may be annulled
or modified by equitable proceeding. A judgment obtained in an action by ordinary proceedings, shall not be annulled or modified by
any order in an action by equitable proceedings, except for a defense
■which has arisen or been discovered since the judgment was ren
dered.' But such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any
claim, though such claim might have been used as a defense by way
of setoff or counterclaim in the action on which the judgment was
recovered. (Notes.)
Sec. 15. Court of appeals has appellate jurisdiction over all courts.
The court of appeals shall have appellate jurisdiction over the final
orders and judgments of all other courts of this commonwealth, sub
ject to the exceptions in the next section. (Notes.)
Sec. 16. Cases in which it has no jurisdiction. Where the action
or proceeding is for the recovery of money or personal property,
and the matter in controversy does not exceed one hundred dollars
in value, or, in behalf of the defendant, where the judgment of the
inferior court is against him for money or personal property, not ex
ceeding in value one hundred dollars, unless reduced below that
amount by a setoff or counterclaim, or where the judgment grants
a divorce, or where the judgment or order is by the quarterly court,
county court, police court, city or mayor's court, or justice's court,
and an appeal is given to the quarterly or circuit court, the court
of appeals shall have no appellate jurisdiction. (Notes.)
[Amended, Feb. 9, 1858.] The court of appeals shall have ju
risdiction over all judgments [in actions] for the recovery of money
or personal property, where the value in controversy is fifty dollars
or over that amount.
Sec. 17. Cost not included in giving jurisdiction. The costs are
not to be included in estimating the value necessary to give juris
diction to the court of appeals.
Sec. 18. Circuit courts have general original jurisdiction. Cir
cuit courts have original jurisdiction of all actions and proceedings
for the enforcement of civil rights, or redress of civil wrongs, except
■where exclusive jurisdiction is given to other courts.
[Amendment of April 3, 1861.] That hereafter, in actions for the
recovery of money or property, where the amount claimed by the
plaintifff does not exceed fifty dollars, exclusive of interest, and the
defendant or defendants are non-residents of Kentucky, and said
defendants are the owners of real estate in this commonwealth,
but not of personal estate sufficient to satisfy the demand of the
plaintifff, jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon the circuit and equity
and criminal courts of the county where such real estate is situate
to try such action, as though the amount claimed exceeded fifty dol
lars; and the plaintifff shall be entitled to sue out all such provisional
remedies, and to prosecute his demand in the same way and under
the same rules as now apply to similar actions in said courts, where
jurisdiction is now given by law. (Notes.)
Sec. 19. Jurisdiction of Louisville chancery court. The Louis
ville chancery court has the same general jurisdiction of actions and
proceedings, commenced and prosecuted by equitable proceedings,
as circuit courts, subject to removals to and from the Jefferson cir
cuit court, as provided in sections seven hundred and sixty-nine
and seven hundred and seventy-six.
Sec. 20. Appellate jurisdiction of circuit courts. Circuit courts
shall have appellate jurisdiction1 of the judgments and final orders
of the quarterly courts, where the matter in controversy is of the
value of twenty dollars or more, and of judgments and final orders
of the county courts on the probate of wills, the granting or revok
ing of letters testamentary and of administration, the appointment
and removal of guardians, the settlements of the accounts of fiducia
ries, the division of land and slaves, the allotment of dower, and the
establishment, alteration, or discontinuance of ferries, mills and datn,s,
roads and passways, and of judgments of justices of the peace on in
quisitions of forcible entry or detainer, and of inquisitions before
justices of the peace, or other officers, for appropriating private
property to public uses, except where otherwise directed by law.
[Amended, March 1, I860.] The circuit courts of this common
wealth shall have appellate jurisdiction of the judgments and final
orders of the county courts in cases of bastardy.
[Further amended, March 2, 1863.] Upon all judgments hereafter
rendered in justices and police courts, where the amount in contro
versy is of the value of twenty dollars or more, exclusive of inter
est and cost; and where an appeal is prayed, either party may di
rect that the appeal shall be taken direct to the circuit court. If
either party so direct, the justice or police judge rendering the judg
ment shall make a minute of the same, as part of the record. The
appeal and costs in all other respects shall be regulated as now pro
vided by law. (Notes.)
Sec. 21. Extends to errors of fact as well as law. The appellate
jurisdiction of the circuit court shall extend to errors of fact as well
as errors of law, in the orders and judgments.
Sec. 22. How the appeal to be taken. The appeals from orders
and judgments of the county court may be taken in the same time,
and in a similar manner,1 with appeals to the court of appeals, ex
cept that the original papers and copies of the orders of the county
court, shall be delivered by the clerk of the county court to the
clerk of the circuit court, upon an appeal being taken, instead of a
copy of the complete record.
Sec. 23. Receipt to be taken for papers on removal. Whenever
the clerk of the county court shall deliver to the clerk of the circuit
court any original papers, he shall take a receipt therefore and file
the same in place of such papers.
CHAPTER in.
QUARTERLY COURTS.
Article 1. Original jurisdiction.
2. Appellate jurisdiction.
ARTICLB L
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION.
24. Quarterly courts have jurisdiction of actions to recover money or personal
property not exceeding one hundred dollars in value.
25. Title of land or slaves not affected by their judgments.
Sec. 24. Jurisdiction of quarterly courts. [Amended, February 10,
I860.] The quarterly courts have jurisdiction of all actions for the
recovery of money or personal property, where the matter in con
troversy, exclusive of interest and cost, does not exceed one hun
dred dollars in value ; and of inquests upon idiots and lunatics, and
of all other actions and proceedings of which justices of the peace
have jurisdiction.
[Further amended, February 28, I860.] The quarterly courts shall
have jurisdiction within their several counties, concurrent with the
justices' courts, of motions against constables and their securities,
or any one of them, or the personal representatives of any one or
more of them, jointly with the survivors, for any money collected
by them on an execution, order of sale, or fee bill, or on any note or
account, or other claim, put into their hands for collection, and which
on demand they shall neglect or refuse to pay. (Notes.)
Sec. 25. Title to land or slaves not affected by their judgment The
title of real property, or slaves, shall not be affected by any judg
ment or order of a quarterly court, or of any court of similar or in
ferior jurisdiction, although collaterally brought in issue.
[Amended, February 19, 1864.] In actions now pending, or which
may be hereafter instituted, when it shall appear during the pendency
thereof that the title of real property or slaves is involved in the
controversy, it shall be the duty of the judge of the court, on motion
of either party to the action, to make an order transferring said
cause to the circuit court of his county, and to deliver the original
papers and certified copies of all orders made in the suit, to the
clerk of the circuit court, who shall docket the same, and on which
the same proceedings shall be had as though the action had been
brought originally in that court. (Notes.)
ARTICLE II.
APPELLATE JURISDICTION.
26. Appellate jurisdiction from justices over five dollars.
27. None in forcible entry or detainer, or other inquests.
Sec. 26. Appellate jurisdiction from justices over five dollars. The
quarterly court has appellate jurisdiction t of. the judgments of jus
tices' courts for the recovery of money or property exceeding ten
dollars in value.
[Amended, March 3, 1856.] That hereafter, appeals from the
judgments of justices of the peace to the quarterly courts, in all
cases where the amount in controversy shall be five dollars and over,
may be had by either party, under the same rules and regulations
as now exist as to appeals now authorized by law from judgments
of justices of the peace to the quarterly courts. (Notes.)
Sec. 27. None in forcible entry or detainer, or other inquest*. The
quarterly court has no appellate jurisdiction of judgments on inqui
sitions of forcible entry or detainer, or on any other inquests before
justices of the peace.
Sec. 28. Jurisdiction of county court In addition to the fiscal
powers conferred by statute, the county courts shall have jurisdic
tion in the following civil proceedings :
1. For the probate of wills1 and the granting and revoking of let
ters testamentary and of administration, according to the provisions
of chapter one hundred and six, section twenty-seven, and of chap
ter thirty-seven, article one, section one, of the Revised Statutes.
2. For the appointment and removal of guardians, according to
the provisions of chapter forty-three, article one, of the Revised
Statutes.
3. For the settlement of the accounts of executors, administrators,
curators, guardians, trustees, and other fiduciaries appointed by the
court,2 according to the provisions of chapter twenty-seven, article
twenty-two, of the Revised Statutes, and the provisions of this code.
4. In cases of bastardy, as provided in chapter six of the Revised
Statutes.
5. For the division of the lands of joint tenants, coparceners, and
tenants in common, according to the provisions of chapter fiftyseven
of the Revised Statutes.3
6. For the division of the slaves of a person deceased, in tho
county in which the personal representative of the deceased was ap
pointed or qualified.3
7. For the division of slaves held by tenants in common, or joint
tenants, in the county in which all the owners reside, or where all
who reside out of the county appear in court3
8. For the assignment of dower in lands situate in the county, or
in a tract of land the greater part of which is situate in such county.3
9. For the establishment, alteration, or discontinuance of ferries,
roads, and passways, concerning mills, and for allowing or refusing
to allow dams to be built across watercourses.
10. In all matters wherein jurisdiction has been conferred by the
Revised Statutes or other statutes.
[Amended, March 3, 1856.] That so much of any former laws as
gives appeals to the county courts from judgments of justices of the
peace, be and the same is hereby repealed.1 (Notes.)
CHAPTER V.
justices' courts.
29. Justices have exclusive jurisdiction of actions for money or personal prop
erty not exceeding fifty dollars.
Sec. 29. Jurisdiction of justices of the peace. [Amended, January
21, I860.] The courts of justices of the peace shall have jurisdic
tion exclusive of the circuit court, but concurrent with the quar
terly court, of all actions and proceedings for the recovery of money
or personal property, where the matter in controversy, exclusive of
interest and cost, does not exceed fifty dollars in value ; and in other
cases specially provided by statute.2 (Notes.)
Sec. 30. Action must be in name of real party in interest Every
action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest,
except as provided in section sixty [thirty-three]. (Notes.)
Sec. 31. Action by assignee — setoff against assignor—bills of
exchange. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee is without prejudice to any discount, setoff
or defense now allowed. And where the assignment is not author
ized by statute, the assignor must be a party as plaintifff or defend
ant. This section does not apply to bills of exchange, nor to prom
issory notes placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, nor to
common orders or checks. (Notes.)
Sec. 32. Claim assigned pending action thereon—how action con
tinued. Where the right of the plaintifff h transferred or assigned
during the pendency of the action, it may be continued in his name,
or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer or assign
ment is made to be substituted in the action, proper orders being
made as to security for the costs. (Notes.)
Sec. 33. Executors, administrators, guardians, trustees, etc., may
sue in their own names. An executor, administrator, guardian,
trustee of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name
a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly
authorized by statute to do so,1 may bring an action without joining
with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted
Sec. 34. All persons interested may be joined. All persons hav
ing an interest in the subject of an action, and in obtaining the
relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except where it is
otherwise provided in this code.
Sec. 35. Persons claiming adverse interest may be made defend
ants. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims, an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a nec
essary party to a complete determination and settlement of the
question involved in the action. (Notes.)
Sec. 36. Who to be joined as plaintifffs—who as defendants. Of the
parties to the action, those who are united in interest must be joined
as plaintifffs or defendants ; but if the consent of one who should
have been joined as plaintifff can not be obtained, he may be made a
defendant, the reason being stated in the petition. (Notes.)
Sec. 37. Parties numerous—part may sue or defend for all.
Where the question is one of a common or general interest of many
persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable
to bring them all before the court within a reasonable time, one or
more may sue or defend for the benefit of all. (Notes.)
Sec. 38. Persons severally liable —:how sued. Persons severally
liable upon the same contract, including the parties to bills of ex
change, and promissory notes placed upon the footing of bills of
exchange, common orders and checks, and sureties on the same, or
separate instruments, may all, or any of them,, or the representa
tives of such as may have died, be included in the same action, at
the plaintifff's option.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 39. Joint obligors — decease of part or all — how actions
brought—judgment against part, no bar as to others. Where two or
more persons are jointly bound by contract, the action thereon may
be brought against all or any of them, at the plantiff's option.*
Where any of the persons so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against any or all of the survivors, with the representatives
of all or any of the decedents, or against the latter, or any of them.
Where all the persons so bound are dead, the action may be brought
against the representatives of all or of any of them. An action or
judgment against any one or more of several persons jointly bound
shall not be a bar to proceedings against the others.
Sec. 40. When controversy may be determined without new par
ties—when not The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights. But when a determination of
the controversy between the parties before the court can not be
made without the presence of other parties, the court must order
them to be brought in. (Notes.)
Sec. 41. In actions for property, any one interested may, on appli
cation, be made a party. Where, in an action for the recovery of
real or personal property, any person having an interest in the
property applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be
done.
Sec. 42. Third party claiming personalty in contest, may be sub
stituted as defendant. Upon affidavit of a defendant before answer,
in any action upon contract for the recovery of personal property,
that some third party, without collusion with him, has or makes a
claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay or
dispose thereof as the court may direct, the court may make an
order for the safe-keeping, or for the payment, or deposit in court,
or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as it may
direct, and an order requiring such third party to appear in a rea
sonable time, and maintain or relinquish his claim against the
defendant, and, in the meantime, stay the proceeding. If such third
party, being served with a copy of the order, fails to appear, the
court may declare him barred of all claim, in respect to the subject
of the action, against the defendant therein. If such third party
appears, he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the
action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged
from all liability to either of the other parties in respect to the sub
ject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the court
for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof. (Notes.)
Sec. 43. Last section applies to officers taking property in execution.
The provisions of the last section shall be applicable to an action
brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of per
sonal property taken by him under an execution or distress warrant,
or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold by him.
And the defendant, in any such action, shall be entitled to the ben
efit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the execu
tion or distress warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the pro
cess under which he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for
the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action was brought, was
taken under such process.
Sec. 44. In actions against lecying officers, plaintifff in execution
may be substituted as defendant In an action against a sheriff, or
other officer, for the recovery of property taken under an execution
or distress warrant, the court may, upon the application of the
defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution or distress
warrant issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant,
security for the costs being given. {Notes.)
Sec. 45. Tenant may sue landlord for distraint Indorsement of
lecy will support action. An action to recover the possession of
specific personal property taken under a distress warrant, where it
is brought by the tenant, or his assignee, or undertenant, may be
against the party who sued out the warrant; and the property
claimed under such action, may, under the order for its delivery, be
taken from the officer who seized it, where he has no other claim to
hold it than that derived from the warrant. The indorsement of a
levy on the property, made upon the warrant by the officer holding
it, shall be a sufficient taking of the property to sustain the action
against the party who sued out the warrant.
Sec. 46. Sow owners of steamboats may be sued and defend. An
action to enforce the liability of a steamboat1 or other vessel, for
the removal of a slave, or to enforce a lien upon a steamboat for the
wages of its officers or crew, or for work done upon, or materials,
supplies, stores or provisions furnished to such boat, or the, liability
thereof for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass
of its officers or crew, and in which no relief is sought beyond the
subjection of the boat or vessel to the satisfaction of the plaintifff's
claim, may be brought against the owners thereof without naming
them, or they may be named and summoned as other defendants.
An owner, or part owner, or person having claim or title to the
boat or vessel, whether named as a defendant in the petition, and
summoned, or not, may appear and make defense in the action,
where it satisfactorily appears by his affidavit that he is an owner
or part owner, or has a claim or title to the boat, the nature and
extent of which must be stated. (Notes.)
Sec. 47. Persons having distinct claims may unite as plaintifffs in
actions against steamboats. An action to enforce a lien upon a steam- •
boat may be brought jointly by several persons having distinct
claims for work, materials, stores, provisions, or supplies. In such
cases, the statement in the petition of the claim of every plaintifff,
and the verification thereof, must be separately made.
Sec. 48. Persons having lien on boat may come into the action.
In an action to enforce a lien, by statute, upon a steamboat for
wages, work, materials, stores or supplies, other persons having
claims, for any of these things, shall, upon exhibiting the same to
the court, by petition, verified by affidavit, be made parties.1
CHAPTER IE.
HARRIED WOMEN.
49. The hueband must be joined with the wife, except where the action con
cerns her separate property, or between them, when she may sue alone.
50. Husband and wife sued jointly, wife may defend for both.
51. If husband deserts his family, his wife, if a mother, may sue or defend for him.
52. If a woman marries pending the action, the husband made party by order.
Sec. 49. Wlien husband must join as plaintifff—when not Where
a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her,
except that, when the action concerns her separate property, she
may sue alone ; and where the action is between herself and her
husband, she may sue, or be sued, alone. (Notes.)
Sec. 50. Sued jointly, wife may defend for both. If a husband
and wife are sued together, the wife may defend for her own right ;
and if the husband neglects to defend, for his also. (Notes.)
Sec. 51. When wife may sue or defend for husband. Where a
husband, being a father, has deserted his family, the wife, being a
mother, may prosecute, or defend in his name, any action which he
might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers
and rights therein as he might have had.
Sec. 52. Woman marrying pending action, husband to be joined.
Where a female party to an action marries, the fact being stated
upon the record, the husband may be made a party with his wife,
and the action shall proceed.
CHAPTER IV.
INFANTS.
53. An action by an infant must be brought by guardian or next friend, subject
to the orders of court
54. Guardian or next friend liable for costs, and may be required to give securi
ty for them. May become a witness by depositing costs or substitution.
55. Who must defend for an infant No judgment without defense.
56. Guardian to defend appointed by court, after service by summons. No
party or attorney can be appointed.
57. The manner of appointing guardian to defend.
Sec. 53. Mow action by infant brought The action of an infant
must be brought by his guardian or his next friend. Any person
may bring the action of an infant as his next friend ; but the court
has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or
to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person, as the
next friend. {Notes)
Sec. 54. Party suing for infant liable for cost—may become wit
ness and how. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs
of the action brought by him, and, where he is insolvent, the court
may require him to give security for them. Either may be a wit
ness1 in an action brought by him, after he has deposited in court
a sum which the judge may deem sufficient to cover the costs, or
where the action is by a next friend, after the substitution of ano
ther solvent person as next friend, and an order of the court, with
the consent of such person, that he shall be liable for all the costs
of the action.
Sec. 55. Who must defend for infant—no judgment till defense.
The defense of an infant must be by his regular guardian, or by a
guardian appointed to defend for him, where no regular guardian ap
pears, or where the court directs a defense by a guardian appointed
for that purpose. No judgment can be rendered against an infant
until after a defense by a guardian.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 56. When and how guardian ad litem appointed—who may
be appointed. The guardian to defend shall be appointed by the
court, or by the judge thereof. The appointment can not be made
until after service of the summons in the action, as directed in this
code.2 No party, or attorney in an action, can be appointed guar
dian, to defend therein, for an infant, or person of unsound mind.
[Amended, February 9, 1858.] That, during the vacation of
their courts, the clerks of circuit and chancery courts shall have the
same power of appointing guardians ad litem for infant defendants
■who have been summoned in the action, that their respective courts,
or the judges thereof, now have ; but the court or judge shall have
full power to change the guardians so appointed, by appointing
others in their stead, whenever the interests of the infants require
such a change. The clerk shall indorse the name of the guardian
and the date of his appointment upon the petition. (Notes.)
Sec. 57. Sow guardian ad litem appointed. The appointment
may be made upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age
of fourteen years, and applies at or before the term to which the
summons is served. If he is under the age of fourteen years, or
does not so apply, the appointmeut may be made upon the applica
tion of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff in the
action.
Sec. 58. Actions by persons of unsound mind—by whom brought
The action of a person judicially found to be of unsound mind,1
must be brought by his committee, or, if he has none, by his next
friend. When brought by his next friend, the action is subject to
the power of the court, in the same manner as the action of an
infant so brought.
Sec. 59. Person bringing action liable for cost—may become wit
ness, and how. The committee or next friend is liable for the costs,
and, where he is insolvent, may be required to give security for
them. Either may be rendered a competent witness2 in an action
brought by him in the manner provided in respect to the guardian
or next friend of an infant.
Sec. 60. How such persons to defend—no judgment till defense.
[Amended, February 5, 1866.] The defense of an action against a
person judicially found to be of unsound mind, or a person con
fined in any state lunatic asylum, who, by the certificate of the phy
sician in charge, appears to be of unsound mind, must be by his
committee, or a guardian appointed by the court to defend for him,
where no committee appears, or where the court directs a defense
by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered against him until
after a defense by his committee, or by a guardian appointed for
that purpose.3 No appointment can be made until after service of
the summons,4 as directed in this code.
Sec. 61. Sow guardian ad litem appointed. The guardian to
defend may be appointed on the application of any friend of the
defendant, or on that of the plaintifff.
Sec. 62. Party becoming lunatic pending action, committee to be
joined. Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound mind,5
during the pendency of an action, the fact being stated on the
record, if he is plaintifff, his committee may be joined with him in
the action, as such. If he is defendant, the plaintifff may, upon ten
days' notice thereof to his committee, have an order making the
committee a defendant also.
Sec. 63. Prisoner—no judgment against, till defense—how defense
made. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in the
penitentiary, until after a defense made for him by his attorney, or,
if there is none, by a person appointed by the court to defend for
him.1
Sec. 64. Fee to guardian or attorney paid by plaintifff, and taxed
as costs. A guardian or attorney, appointed on the application of
the plaintifff, to defend for an infant, person of unsound mind, or
prisoner, shall be allowed a reasonable fee for his services, to be
paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs.
Sec. 65. How action commenced. A civil action is commenced
by filing,1 in the office of the clerk of the proper court, a petition,
and causing a summons to be issued thereon.
Sec. 66. Form and requisites of a summons. The summons'
shall be directed to the sheriff3 of the county, or, at the request of
the plaintifff, to the jailor, coroner, or constable, and command him
to summon the defendant or defendants named therein, to answer .
the petition filed, by the plaintifff, giving his name, at the time
stated therein, under the penalty of the petition being taken for
confessed, or of the defendant being proceeded against for contempt
of court on his failure to do so. The summons shall be dated the
day it is issued and signed by the clerk. (Notes.)
Sec. 67. Summons to go to any county—which to be taxed as cost
A summons shall be issued at any time, to any county, against any
one or more of the defendants, at the plaintifff's request. But a
summons not served shall not be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise
ordered by the court.
Sec. 68. One copy for each defendant With every summons,
the clerk shall issue as many copies thereof as there are defendants
named therein, unless otherwise ordered by the plaintifff.
Sec. 69. When defendant must answer. In actions by ordinary
proceedings, the time fixed in the summons for the defendant to
answer,1 shall be the day the summons is returnable ; in actions by
equitable proceedings, it shall be twenty days after the service of
the summons.
Sec. 70. When summons returnable. The summons shall be
made returnable to the first day of the next term of the court, un
less that term begins within ten days from the date of the summons,
when it shall be returnable to the first day of the term following.
Sec. 71. To whom to be delivered. The summons and copies
shall be delivered to the sheriff, or other officer authorized to exe
cute it2
Sec. 72. Sheriff must attend daily at clerk's office to receive pro
cess. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or one of his deputies, to
attend at the clerk's office daily ( Sundays excepted3), to receive any
process that may be issued, and the clerk shall deliver to him any
process remaining in his office.
Sec. 73. By whom a summons may he served. The summons
may be served:
1. By the officer to whom it is directed,1 or by any officer to
■whom it might have been directed, whose return thereon shall
be proof of the time and manner of the service.
2. By any person appointed by the officer to whom the same
is directed, by an indorsement on the summons, whose affida
vit, indorsed thereon, shall be proof of the time and manner
of service. (Notes.)
Sec. 74. Manner of serving. The service shall be by delivering
to the defendant a copy of the summons. If he refuses to receive
it, the offer of it to him shall be a sufficient service. (Notes).
Sec. 75. Time and manner of service to be stated in return. In
all cases of the return of service, upon a summons, by an officer,
the return must state the time of the service2, and that a copy was
delivered to, or offered and refused by the defendant. And if a
return of service is defective in these respects, the officer may be
fined by the court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to
the action of any person aggrieved by such defect. But the
court may permit an amendment, according to the truth of the
case. (Notes.)
Sec. 76. How defendant may acknowledge service. Service may
be acknowledged by the defendant, by an indorsement upon the
summons, signed and dated by him, and attested by a witness.
The affidavit of the witness shall be proof of the service. (Notes.)
Sec. 77. How served on corporation. Where the defendant is
a corporation,1 created by the law^ of this state, the service of the
summons may be upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of trustees, or other chief officer; or if its chief officer is not found
in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or man
aging agent ; or, if it is a municipal corporation, upon its marshal ;
or, if it is an incorporated library company, upon its librarian.
Sec. 78. When on officers of branch bank. Where the defendant
is an incorporated bank, and the action is in a county in which
there is a branch thereof, the service may be upon the president or
cashier of that branch.
Sec. 79. When on agent of insurance company. Where the de
fendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is in
a county in which there is an agency thereof, the service may be
upon the chief officer of such agency.
Sec. 80. On agent of foreign corporations. Where the defend
ant is a foreign corporation, having an agent in this state, the service
may be upon such agent.
Sec. 81. How served on an infant Where the defendant is an
infant, under the age of fourteen years, the service must be upon
him and upon his father or guardian ; or, if neither of these can be
found, then upon his mother, or any other white person having the
care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where the
infant is over fourteen years of age, service on him shall be suf
ficient. (Notes.)
Sec. 82. How served on person of unsound mind. [Amended
January 26, 1866.] Where the defendant is a person judicially
found to be of unsound mind, or a person confined in any of the
state lunatic asylums, who, by the certificate of the physician in
charge, appears to be a lunatic, the service must be upon him, and
upon his committee ; if there is no committee, upon his wife, or the
person having the care of him, or with whom he lives, or the keeper
of the asylum in which he may be confined.1
Sec. 83. How served on prisoner in penitentiary. Where the
defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary,1 a copy of the peti
tion must accompany the summons, and the service must be upon
the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the copies of
the petition and summons to the defendant. And a copy of the
summons must also be delivered to the wife of the prisoner; or, if
he has no wife, left at the place where he resided, or claimed to re
side, prior to his confinement, with some white person of the age of
sixteen years.
Sec. 84. Sow served on Shakers. Where the defendant is a com
munity of Shakers, holding property in common, the service must be
by posting a copy of the summons at the door of its meeting
house, and by delivering a copy thereof to some member of the
community. N
Sec. 85. How served on owners of steamboats. Where the action
is brought against the owners of a steamboat, without naming them,2
to subject the boat to a liability by statute, the service must be upon
the master, clerk, pilot, or other officer having charge of the boat, or
by posting a copy of the summons in a conspicuous place on the
boat.
[Amended, March 8, 1856.] That, hereafter, when any action to
subject a steamboat or other vessel, upon any liability to which they
are subject by law, or to recover judgment against the owners or
officers of such steamboat or vessels for any debt or liability created
by them, or either of them, shall have been commenced in any
county in which said steamboat or vessel was found, as provided in
section one hundred and four, of title five, of the civil code of prac
tice, and, from any cause, a summons in such action can not be
served in the county where such action was commenced, a service of
a summons in any other county in this state shall have the same
effect as if it had been served in the county where the action was
brought; and the summons maybe served as provided in section
eighty-five, article one, chapter two, of the code of practice. This
act shall take effect, and be in force, from and after the 10th day of
March, 1856.
[Further amended, February 6, I860.] All actions against a
steamboat, or any of its officers or owners, for the violation or non
performance of any contract, express or implied, for or on behalf
or said boat, or its owners, or for any tort or wrong done by them,
may be brought in that county of this commonwealth where the con
tract was made, or was to be performed, or where the tort or wrong
was done or committed ; and all process and provisional remedies
in said actions may be served and executed in any county of this
commonwealth where said boat, or any of the officers enumerated in
section eighty-five, civil code of practice, or upon the owners of said
boat.
Sec. 86. How served on person out of the state. Where a defend
ant is out of this state, the plaintifff may take a copy of the petition,
certified by the clerk, with a summons annexed thereto, warning
such defendant to appear and answer the petition within sixty days1
after the same shall have been served on him, and cause a copy
thereof to be delivered to such defendant, anywhere in the United
States, by some person to whom he is personally known. Proof of
the delivery shall be made by the affidavit of the person making it,
indorsed on or annexed to the certified copy and summons, in which
the time and place of the delivery, and the fact that the defendant
was personally known to the affiant, shall be stated. The officer be
fore whom the affidavit is made shall certify that the affiant is per
sonally known to him to be worthy of credit.
Sec. 87. Effect of actual service on defendant, out of the state.
The certified copy and summons, with the affidavit and certificate,
as provided in the last section being returned and filed in the ac
tion, shall be deemed an actual service of the summons, in due time
for trial at the first term commencing not less than sixty days after
such service.
Sec. 88. Cases in which constructive service allowed. Where it
appears by the affidavit ' of the plaintifff, filed in the clerk's office, at
or after the commencement of the action, jthat the defendant is :
1. A foreign corporation, having no agent in this state; or,
2. A non-resideut of this state ; or,
3. Has departed from this state, with intent to delay or de
fraud his creditors ; or,
4. Has been absent from this state four months; or,
5. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service
of a summons ; or,
6. Conceals himself, so that a summons can not be served
upon him ; or,
Where either of the last two mentioned facts is stated in the
return, by the proper officer, of a summons against the defend
ant, the clerk shall make upon the petition an order warning2
such defendant to appear in the action on the first day of the
next term of the court which does not commence within sixty
days of the time of making the order. (Notes.)
Sec. 89. Proof upon which warning order may be made. The
court may make the warning order in the cases mentioned therein,
upon the requisite facts, according to the provisions of that seotion,
being satisfactorily shown by the affidavit of other than the plaintifff,
or his agent or attorney.3 (Notes to 88.)
Sec. 90. Unknown heirs and unknown owners of property—hoio
served. Where, in an action against the heirs of a deceased person
as unknown heirs, or against other persons made defendants as unknown owners of any property to be divided or disposed of in the
action, it appears by the petition that the names of such heirs, or
of any of them, or of such other persons, are unknown to the plain
tiff, a warning order, as directed in the last section, shall be made by
the clerk against such unknown heirs or owners. {Notes to 88.)
Sec. 91. Warning order a constructive service on thirtieth day after
it is made. A defendant against whom a warning order has been,
made, shall be deemed to have been constructively summoned on
the thirtieth day after the making of the order, and the action may
proceed accordingly. (Notes to 88.)
Sec. 92. Actual service may be made after constructive service.
The plaintifff may, at any time before judgment, have a summons
served on the defendant, if found in this state, although a warning
order may have been previously entered against him; and after
such service, the case shall proceed as in other cases of actual
service. (Notes to 88.)
Skc. 93. Certain actions must be brought in county where prop
erty situated. Actions for the following causes must be brought in
the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof,
is situated :
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or in
terest therein.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien, or
other encumbrance or charge.
4. For an injury to real property. (Notes.)
Sec. 94. Certain actions to be brought where the cause arose.
Actions for the following causes must be brought in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :
1. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeit
ure, imposed by a statute ; except that, where the offense for
which the claim is made, was committed on a watercourse or
road which is the boundary of two counties, the action may be
brought in either of them.
2. An action against a public officer, for an act done by
him in virtue, or under color, of his office, or for a neglect of
official duty.
3. An action upon the official bond of a public officer.
Sec. 95. Action to establish or set aside will—where brought. An
action to establish or set aside a will, must be brought in the
county in which the will, if valid, ought, according to law, to be re
corded.
Sec. 96. To settle the estate of deceased person. An action to
settle the estate of a deceased person,1 must be brought in the
county in which his personal representative was qualified.
Sec. 97. For distribution or partition of decedents estate. Aa
action for the distribution of the estate of a deceased person,3 or
for its partition among his heirs, or for the sale of real property or
slaves descended from him, must be brought in the county in which
his personal representative was qualified. (Notes.)
Sec. 98. By ward against guardian. An action by a ward
against his guardian, for a settlement of his accounts, for additional
security, or for his removal, must be brought in the county in which
the guardian was qualified. (Notes.)
Sec. 99. Against commissioners of sinking fund, etc. An action
against the commissioners of the sinking fund, or against the board
of education and the board of internal improvement of this state,
must be brought in the county that includes the seat of government.
Sec. 100. Lunatics in asylum and prisoner in penitentiary. Aa
action, other than one of those mentioned in sections ninety-three
and ninety-four, against a person confined in the penitentiary or a
lunatic asylum, must be brought in the county in which he resided,
or claimed his residence, prior to his confinement.1
Skc. 101. Against corporations — where brought An action,
other than those mentioned in sections ninety-three and ninetyfour,
against a corporation created by the laws of this state, may
be brought in the county in which it is situated or has its principal
office or place of business, or in which its chief officer resides ; but
if such corporation is a bank or insurance company, the action may
be brought in the county in which there is a branch of the bank,
or agency of the company, where it arises out of a transaction of
such branch or agency. (Notes.)
Sec. 102. Against railroad and stage owners. An action against
a railroad company, or an owner of a line of mail stages or other
coaches, for transporting a slave as a passenger, or for an injury
to person or property, upon the road or line of stages or coaches
of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be brought in
any county through or into which the road or line of stages or
coaches of the defendant, upon which the cause of action arose,
passes.
Sec. 103. Against turnpike companies. An action, other than
one of those mentioned in sections ninety-three and ninety-four,
against a turnpike road company, may be brought in any county
in which any part of the road of the defendant lies.
Sec. 104. Against boats, brought wherever boat found. An action
to subject a steamboat or other vessel, upon a liability by statute,
for the removal of a slave, or for an injury to another boat or craft,
or for a trespass of its officers or crew, or to enforce a lien upon
a steamboat for the wages of its officers or crew, or for work, mate
rials, or supplies, may be brought in any county in which such boat
or vessel may be found.2
Sec. 105. Against non-residents. An action other than one of
those mentioned in sections ninety-three and ninety-four, against
a non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation, may be brought
in any county in which there may be property of, or debts owing to,
the defendant.
Sec. 106. Other actions, where defendant resides or is summoned.
Every other action may be brought in any county in which the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides, or is summoned.1
(Notes.)
Sec. 107. Single defendant—action where he is summoned or re
sided at commencement of action. Where any action, embraced in
the last section, is against a single defendant, the plaintifff shall not
be entitled to judgment against him on the service of a summons in
any other county than that in which the action is brought, unless he
resided in that county at the commencement of the action, or un
less, having appeared therein, he fails to object, before the trial, to
its proceeding against him. (Notes.)
Sec. 108. Several defendants—judgment against one in county
before judgment against others. Where any action embraced in sec
tion one hundred and six is against several defendants, the plaintifff
shall not be entitled to judgment2 against any of them, on the ser
vice of a summons in any other county than that in which the
action is brought, where no one of the defendants is summoned
in that county, or resided therein at the commencement of the
action, or where, if any of them resided or were summoned in that
county, the action is discontinued or dismissed as to them, or judg
ment therein is rendered in their favor ; unless the defendant
summoned in another county, having appeared in the action, failed
to object, before the judgment, to its proceeding against him.
(Notes.)
Sec. 109. Objection waived unless made before judgment The
objection that one of several defendants was summoned in another
county, if he appears, shall be deemed to be waived, unless it is
made before judgment as to him.2
Sec. 110. Defendant removing after action commenced. If, after
the commencement of an action in the county of the defendant's
residence, he removes therefrom, the service of a summons upon
him in any other county shall have the same effect as if it had been
made in the county from which he removed.
Sec. 111. What causes of action may be united. Several causes
of action may be united in the same petition, where each affects
all the parties to the action, may be brought in the same county, be
prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings, and all belong to one
of the following classes:
1. Claims arising out of contract, express or implied^
2. Claims for the recovery of specific real property, and the
rents, profits and damages for withholding the same.
3. Claims for the recovery of specific personal property,
and damages for the taking or withholding the same.
4. Claims for partition of real or personal property, or both.
5. Claims arising from injuries to character.
6. Claims arising from injuries to person and property.
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law. (Notes.)
Sec. 112. A cause of action may be stricken out by plaintifff
before submission of the case. The plaintifff may strike from his pe
tition any cause of action, at any time before the final submission
of the case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the
court. (Notes.)
Sec. 113. Court may strike out cause improperly joined. The
court, at any time before the defense, shall, on motion of the de
fendant, strike out of the petition any cause or causes of action
improperly joined with others. (Notes to 112.)
Sec. 114. Objection to misjoinder waived, unless made before
defense. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action
shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provided in the last
section; and all errors in the decisions of the court thereon are
waived, unless excepted to at the time. (Notes.)
Sec. 115. Pleading defined. The pleadings are the written
statements, by the parties, of the facts constituting their respective
claims and defenses. (Notes.)
Sec. 116. Forms of pleading abolished. The forms of plead
ings in civil actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished ;
and hereafter, the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the
rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, are those pre
scribed in this code.1 (Notes to 115.)
Sec. 117. Wlial pleadings allowable under the code. The only
pleadings allowed, are:
1. The petition by the plaintifff.
2. The demurrer, or answer, by the defendant.
3. The demurrer, or reply, by the plaintifff. (Notes to 115.
Sec. 118. What the petition must contain. The first pleading by
the plaintifff is the petition. The petition must contain :
1. The style of the court in which the action is brought.
2. The style of the action, consisting of the names of all
the parties thereto, distinguishing them as plaintifffs and de
fendants, followed by the word " petition," if the proceedings
are ordinary, and by the words "petition in equity," if the
proceedings are equitable.
3. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, of the facts constituting the plaintifff's cause of ac
tion.
4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff considers
himself entitled.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 119. Hack cause of action to be separately stated and num
bered. Where the petition contains more than one cause of action,
each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and num
bered. (Notes.)
CHAPTER HI.
THE DEMURRER.
120. The grounds of demurrer.
121. Must specify the grounds.
122. If sustained, plaintifff may amend.
123. Certain objectious waived, unless stated by demurrer or answer.
124. Defendant may answer part, and demur to part
Sec. 120. Grounds of demurrer. The defendant may demur to
the petition, where it appears on its face, either—
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintifff has not capacity to sue ; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause.
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant;
or,
5. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action. {Notes)
Sec. 121. Grounds must be specified. The demurrer shall dis
tinctly specify the grounds of objection to the petition ; unless it
does so, it shall be regarded as objecting only that the petition does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
[Demurrer may be filed with answer, and in vacation, see sec. 141.]
Sec. 122. Demurrer sustained, plaintifff may amend. If the
court sustains the demurrer, the plaintifff may amend, with or with
out costs, as the court may order.
Sec. 123. Certain objections waived, unless taken by demurrer.
When any of the matters enumerated in section one hundred and
twenty do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection
may be taken by answer. If no such objection is taken, either by
demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court
over the subject of the action, and the objection that the petition
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (ATotes.)
Sec. 124. Defendant may answer part, and demur to part The
defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes of action
alleged in the petition, and answer as to the residue. (Notes.)
CHAPTER IV.
THE ANSWER.
125. What the answer must contain.
126. Counterclaim defined.
127. New party may be made to the counterclaim.
128. Setoff, when it may be pleaded.
129. New party may be made to a setoff.
130. If answer be insufficient, plaintifff may demur.
131. The nature of guardian and committee's answer.
Sec. 125. Wluit the answer must contain. The answer shall
contain :
1. The style of the court, and the style of the action, followed
by the word " answer." But where there are several plaintifffs
and defendants, it shall only be necessary to give the one first
named of each class, with the words "and others."
2. A denial of each allegation of the petition controverted
by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof,
sufficient to form a belief.
3. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense,
counterclaim1 or setoff, in ordinary and concise language, with
out repetition.
4. The defendant may set forth, in his answer, as many
grounds of defense, counterclaim and setoff, whether legal or
equitable, as he shall have.2 Each shall be distinctly stated in
a separate paragraph, and numbered. The several defenses,
must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to
answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly dis
tinguished.'
[Amended, December 16, 1857.] 1. Where a defendant has
a cause of action against a co-defendant, or a person not a
party to the action, and affecting the subject matter of the
action, he may make his answer a cross ,petition against the
co-defendant, or other person.
2. The defendant to such cross-petition may be actually or
constructively summoned, and defense thereto shall be made in
the time and manner prescribed in regard to the original peti
tion, and with the same rights of obtaining provisional remedies
applicable to the case.
3. The filing and prosecution of the cross,petition shall not
delay the trial and decision of the original action, when a
judgment can be rendered therein that will not prejudice the
rights of the parties to the cross-petition.
4. In actions pending in the circuit court, cross-petitions
which have been filed may be prosecuted as if filed after this
act takes effect.
[Furtlier amended, December 19, 1861.] Sec. I. That an
act entitled " an act to amend title seven, chapter four, of the
code of practice," be so amended that" the provisions thereof
shall apply to a plaintifff who has a cause of action against a
co-plaintifff, or other person, growing out of, or connected with
the subject matter of the counterclaim or offset set up in the
defendant's answer; and such plaintifff may, either by amended
petition, or in his reply to such offset or counterclaim, set
forth and present said cause of action as in a cross-petition, and
introduce any new parties that may be necessary to an adjudi
cation of the same ; and the same shall be prosecuted in such
manner as is provided by the act to which this is an amend
ment, in relation to cross-petitions, by a defendant, growing
out of matters set up in the petition of a plaintifff.
Sec. II. This act shall apply to proceedings, in conformity
therewith, which have been instituted in actions already pend
ing, and it shall take effect from and after its passage.
(Notes.)
Sec. 126. Counterclaim defined. The counterclaim mentioned
in this chapter must be a cause of action in favor of the defend
ants, or some of them, against the plaintifffs, or some of them,
arising out of the contract or transactions set forth in the petition,
as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with the
subject of the action.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 127. New party may be made to the counterclaim. When
it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision upon
the counterclaim, the court may either permit the new party to be
made, by a summons, to reply to the counterclaim in the answer,
or may direct that it be stricken out of the answer, and made the
subject of a separate action.
Sec. 128. Setoff—when it may be pleaded. A setoff can only
be pleaded in an action founded on contract, and must be a cause
of action arising upon contract, or ascertained by the decision of a
court.2 (Notes.)
Sec. 129. New party may be made to a setoff. Where it appears
that a new party is necessary to a final decision upon the setoff,
the court shall permit the new party to be made, if it also appears
that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff, or
other cause, the defendant may be in danger of losing his claim un
less permitted to use it as a setoff. (Notes.)
Sec. 130. Answer insufficient—plaintifff may demur. Where the
facts stated in answer are not sufficient to constitute a defense,
counterclaim, or setoff, the plaintifff may demur.
Sec. 131. The nature of a guardian and committee's answer.
It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant, or committee of
a person of unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner to
file an answer denying the material allegations of the petition pre
judicial to such defendant.1
CHAPTER V.
THE REPLY.
132. In what cases a reply to be filed.
133. What the reply must contain.
134. If reply is insufficient, the defendant may demur.
Sec. 132. In what cases reply may be fled. There shall be no
reply, except upon the allegation of a counterclaim or setoff in the
answer. (Notes.)
Sec. 133. What it must contain. When the answer contains
new matter constituting a counterclaim or setoff, the plaintifff may
reply to such new matter, denying each allegation controverted
by him, or ivny knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form
a belief, and may allege, in concise language, any new matter not
inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to the coun
terclaim or setoff.2
Sec. 134. If insufficient, defendant may demur. Where the
facts stated in the reply do not amount to a sufficient defense, the
defendant may demur. (Notes.)
Sec. 135. When the defense must be filed in ordinary proceedings.
The defense to an action prosecuted by ordinary proceedings must
be filed on the day of the term on which the case is set for trial.1
1. Where the summons has been served ten days before the
commencement of the term, in the county in which the action
is brought, or in the adjoining county;
2. Where it has been served twenty days, elsewhere in the
state,2 or sixty days out of the state ; or,
3. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned
thirty days.
Sec. 136. When the reply to he filed. The reply shall be filed on or
before the calling of the cause for trial.
Sec. 137. When the defense to be filed in equitable proceedings.
In an action prosecuted by equitable proceedings, the defense must
be filed t>n the third day of the term :
1. Where the summons has been served twenty days before
the commencement of the term, in the county in which the ac
tion is brought, or an adjoining county ;
2. Where it has been served thirty days elsewhere in the
state, or sixty days out of the state ; or,
3. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned
thirty days. (Notes.)
Sec. 138. Service not in time, when defense to be filed. Where
the service of the summons was before the commencement of the
term, but not the length of the time mentioned in the last section,
the defense shall be filed in thirty days after the service.
[See the amendment to sec. 141.]
Sec. 139. When reply to be filed inequitable proceedings. If the
answer, in equitable proceedings, contains a counterclaim or setoff",
the plaintifff shall reply within twenty days after the answer is filed,
or ninety days before the ensuing term.
Sec. 140. Court may extend lime of pleading. The court may,
for good cause shown, extend the time for filing an answer or reply
to eome subsequent day in that or the next succeeding term : the
party applying for the same paying the costs occasioned thereby.
Sec. 141. Filing pleading in vacation. The filing of an answer
or reply, in the clerk's office, in vacation, within the time allowed,
with notice thereof to the opposite party or his attorney, shall be
equivalent to a filing in court.
[Amended, January 26, 1866.] Sec. I. That, where an an
swer to a petition, or to a petition in equity, is filed in vacation,
the party answering may file a demurrer with the answer.
Sec. II. The party demurring, at the same time he files the
answer, must present the grounds of the demurrer for the
consideration of the court, at the first term thereof after the
same is filed with the answer ; if he fails to do so, the demurrer
shall be regarded as waived as to all points except the jurisdic
tion of the court, and that the pleading demurred to does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or a defense,
counterclaim or setoff.
Sbc. 142. Pleadings to be verified by oath of party. Every plead
ing must be subscribed by the party or his attorney, and the peti
tion, answer and reply must each be verified by the affidavit1 of the
party, to the effect that he believes the statements thereof to be
true ; such verification shall not make other or greater proof nec
essary on the side of the adverse party. The verification of any
pleading of a corporation may be by any officer or agent on whom
the summons in an action against the corporation may be served, or
by its attorney in the action. (Notes.)
Notes. —1. When the party is mentally incapable of taking an oath, or
physically unable to attend before an officer to do so, his agent or attorney may
make it See amendment to sec. 611.
2. Each of several joint plaintifffs or defendants may be required to verify their
pleading, upon the opposite party filing an affidavit that he does not believe that
those who have not verified can truthfully do so. See amendment to sec. 760.
3. A party whose pleading is verified by an agent or attorney, may be required
to verify in person, upon the opposite party filing an affidavit that he does not
believe the party whose agent verifies, can truthfully verify the pleading himself
See amendment to sec. 611.
Sec. 143. Certain pleadings need not be verified. The verifica
tion by affidavit, mentioned in the last section, shall not be required
to the answer of a guardian or committee defending for an infant,
or person of unsound mind, or imprisoned ; nor in any case where
the admission of the truth of the allegations of the petition or
answer might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution;
nor to pleadings affecting injuries to person or character; nor to
petitions in actions founded on a note, bond, bill of exchange,
mortgage, or other written obligation of the defendant; nor to de
fenses founded on the written obligation, release, or written acknowledgment of' the plaintifff, unless the writing on which the
action or defense is founded is lost, mutilated, or destroyed.
Sec. 144. Presumptions of law and matters judicially noticed need
not be stated. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading. {Notes.)
Sec. 145. Writing and accounts to be filed with the pleadings.
If the action, counterclaim, or setoff, is founded on a note, bond,
bill, or other writing, as evidence of indebtedness, it must be filed
as a part of the pleading, if in the power of the party to produce it.
If not filed, the reason thereof must be stated in the pleading. If
upon an account, a copy thereof must, in like manner, be filed
with the pleading.1 {Notes.)
Sec. 146. Pleadings to be liberally construed. In the construc
tion of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its al
legations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial jus
tice between the parties.2 (Notes.)
Sec. 147. Irrelevant matter to be stricken out. If irrelevant or
redundant matter is inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out,
on motion of any person aggrieved thereby, at the cost of the party
whose pleading contained it. (Notes.)
Sec. 148. Pleading a judgment—facts giving jurisdiction need not
be stated. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of a
court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or deter
mination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such
allegation is made in a petition, and is not controverted in the
answer, or made in the answer in relation to a counterclaim or set
off, and is not controverted in the reply, it need not be proved on
the trial. (Notes.)
Sec. 149. Performance of precedent condition may be staled generally.
In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such
performance, but it may be stated, generally, that the party duly
performed all the conditions on his part; and if such an allegation
is not controverted as stated in the last section in regard to judg
ments, it shall not be necessary to prove it on trial. (Notes.)
Sec. 150. In action for libel or slander, no inuendo need be stated.
In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in
the petition any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the ap
plication to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state, generally,
that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff;
and if such allegation is not controverted as stated in section one
hundred and forty-eight, in regard to judgment, it shall not be ne
cessary to prove it on the trial. (Notes.)
Sec. 151 . Truth of defamatory matter may be pleaded, also mitigat
ing circumstances. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances legally
admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount of damages ; and
whether he proves the justification or not, he may give in evidence
the mitigating circumstances. (Notes.)
Sec. 152. Real property to be described with convenient certainty.
In an action for the recovery of real property, it must be described
in the petition with such convenient certainty as to enable an officer
holding an execution to identify it.
Sec. 153. Material allegations taken as true, if not denied. Every
material allegation of the petition, not specifically controverted by
the answer, and every material allegation of new matter, in the an
swer, constituting a counterclaim or setoff, not specifically contro
verted by the reply, must, for the purposes of the action be taken
as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer not relat
ing to a counterclaim or setoff, or of new matter in a reply, is to
be deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct de
nial, or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value,
or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true, by the
failure to controvert them.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 154. What is a material allegation. A material allegation in
a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could
not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.
(Notes.)
Sec. 155. Deeds and other writings relied on in pleading, must be
fled. If either party shall rely upon any deed or other writing, he
shall file, with his pleading, the original deed or writing, if in his
power.1 If he can not produce such deed or writing, he shall so
state in his pleading, together with the reason therefore ; and if such
reasons are sufficient, he may file the best evidence of the contents
of such deed or writing in his power. Original deeds and other
writings, filed by either party, as above provided, shall remain on
file for the inspection of the other party, until allowed by the court
to be withdrawn ;% and, in such case, copies, attested by the clerk,
shall be substituted by the party withdrawing the originals. (Notes.)
thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon
such terms as may be just. (Notes.)
Sec. 157. Facts to be found according to proof. Where the vari
ance is not materia], as provided in the last section, the court may
direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and may order
an immediate amendment without costs.
Sec. 158. Claim or defense unproved in general scope, fatal.
Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense, to which
the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particu
lars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be
deemed a case of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure
of proof. (Notes.)
Sec. 159. Plaintiff may amend without leave before answer. The
plaintifff may amend his petition, without leave, at any time before
an answer is filed, and without prejudice to the proceedings already
had. (Notes.)
Sec. 160. Demurrer overruled, party may answer or reply. Upon
a demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may answer or
reply.
Sec. 161. Amendments to be liberally allowed—immaterial errors
disregarded. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, amend1 any pleadings or pro
ceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case ;
or, when the amendment does not chnnge substantially the claim or
defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer
or reply to be made after the time limited in this code, or, by an
order, enlarge such time.2 And whenever any proceeding taken by
a party, fails to conform, in any respect, to the provisions of this
code, the court may permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as
to make it conformable thereto. And when the allegations of a
pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
olaim or defense is not apparent, the court may require the plead
ing to be made definite and certain by amendment. The court
must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in
the proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of the
adverse party;1 and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect. (Notes.)
Sec. 162. Supplemental pleading allowed. The plaintifff and de
fendant, respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supple
mental complaint, answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the
case, occurring after the filing of the former petition, answer, or
reply. (Notes.)
Sec. 163. Pleading amended—opposite party may have continu
ance if not ready. When either party shall amend any pleading or
proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or other
wise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial in conse
quence thereof,2 a continuance may be granted to some day in tho
same term, or to another term of the court.
Sec. 164. Verification, may be made on calling action for trial.
Where petitions are filed without verification, as required by sec
tion one hundred and forty-two, the action shall not, on that ac
count, be dismissed, if the verification be made on or before the
calling of the action for trial.
Sec. 165. After judgment, no objection for want of verification.
No objection shall be taken, after judgment, to any pleading for
the want of, or defect in, the verification.
SeC. 166. Court may permit amendment without verification.
Courts may permit the amendments authorized by this chapter to
be made without being verified, as prescribed in section one hun
dred and forty- two, unless a new and distinct cause of action or de
fense is thereby introduced.
Sec. 167. Interrogatories in equity proceedings. In actions by
equitable proceedings, either party may annex to his petition,
answer, or reply, written interrogatories to any one or more of the
adverse parties, concerning any of the material matters in issue
in the action. The answers to which, on oath, may be read by
either party, as a deposition between the party interrogating and
the party answering.1
Sec. 168. Party answering may state new matter. The party
answering shall not be confined to responding merely to the inter
rogatories, but may state any new matter concerning the same
cause of action, which shall likewise be read as a deposition.
(Notes.)
Sec. 169. When interrogatories to be answered. Where the inter
rogatories are annexed to the petition, they shall be answered at
the same time the party is required to answer the petition ; where
annexed to the answer or reply, then in twenty days after notice
shall be given thereof to the adverse party or his attorney ; but if
answered twenty days before the term at which the action stands
regularly for trial, the action shall not be postponed on account of
their not being sooner answered.
Sec. 170. Interrogatories in ordinary proceedings. In actions by
ordinary proceedings, either party may, in like manner, annex
written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse parties
to his petition, answer, or reply, concerning any material matter in
issue in the action, in the following cases :
1. Where the party interrogated does not reside in the same
or an adjoining county.
2. Where the party interrogated is unable to attend court
on account of age, infirmity, or imprisonment, or is a female.1
Sec. 171. When to be answered. Where the interrogatories, in
action by ordinary proceedings, are annexed to the petition, they
shall be answered at the same time the petition is required to be
answered ; where annexed to the answer or reply, at or before the
calling of the cause for trial, where the party interrogated had rea- :
sonable notice of their being filed.
Sec. 172. Failing to answer—when ground of continuance. The
trial of an action, by ordinary proceedings, shall not be postponed
on account of the failure to answer the interrogatories, if the party
interrogated is present in court at the trial, so that he may be orally
examined ; nor, in case of his absence, without an affidavit showing
the facts the party believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and
that the party has not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted to file
them, for the purpose of delay. Whereupon, if the party will con
sent that the facts stated in the affidavit shall be considered as ad
mitted by those interrogated, the trial shall not be postponed for
that cause.
Sec. 173. Section one hundred and sixty-eight applies to answers
in ordinary proceedings. The proceedings in section one hundred
and sixty-eight shall apply to the answers to interrogatories in ac
tions by ordinary proceedings.
Sec. 174. Answers to distinguish between knowledge and informa
tion. The party, in answering such interrogatories, shall distinguish
clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge, and what
is stated from information or belief merely. An unqualified state
ment of a fact shall be considered as made of his personal knowl
edge.
Sec. 175. Must be verified by oath—-form of oath. The answers
to the interrogatories shall be verified by the affidavit of the party
answering, to the effect that the statements in them, made of his
own personal knowledge are true, and those made from the informa
tion of others, he believes to be true.
Sec. 176. When adverse party may be summoned to testify. When
the party resides in the same, or an adjoining county, he may be
summoned by the adverse party, and compelled to testify on the
trial of an action, by ordinary proceedings, as any other witness.
Sec. 177. How interrogatories taken as confessed. Where a party
filing interrogatories shall also file an affidavit that he verily believes
the subject of the interrogatories, or any of them, is in the personal
knowledge of the opposite party, and that his answers thereto, if truly
made from such knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense, or any
part thereof, and the opposite party shall fail, after reasonable time
allowed therefore, to answer them, the claim or defense, or the part
thereof, according to such affidavit, shall be deemed to be sustained,
and judgment given accordingly.
Sec. 178. Court may compel answers to interrogatories. The court
may compel answers to interrogatories, by process of contempt, and
may, on the failure of the party to answer them, after reasonable
time allowed therefore, dismiss the petition, or quash the answer of
the party so failing.
Sec. 179. Defendant may be held to baU. A defendant in a civil
action, can be arrested and held to bail only upon the conditions,
and in the manner prescribed, in this chapter.
Sec. 180. Manner and grounds of obtaining order of arrest An
order for the arrest of the defendant shall be made by the clerk of
the court in which the action is brought, at its commencement, or
at any time before judgment, when there is filed in his office an
affidavit1 of the plaintifff,2 showing:
1. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The amount or value which the affiant believes the plain
tiff ought to recover.
4. That the affiant believes, either that the defendant is
about to depart from this state, and, with intent to defr:iud his
creditors, has concealed, or removed from this state, his prop
erty, or so much thereof that the process of the court, after
judgment, can not be executed ; or that the defendant has
money, or securities for money, or evidences of debt, in the
possession of himself, or of others for his use, and is about to
depart from this state, without leaving property therein suf
ficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim. (Notes.)
Sec. 181. Not to be issued until bond and security given. The
order of arrest shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has
been executed, in his office, by one or more sufficient sureties3
of the plaintifff, a bond,4 to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to
the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, if the order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double
the amount of the plaintifff's claim stated in the affidavit.
Sec. 182. Form and requisites of an order of arrest The order
of arrest shall be addressed and delivered,5 with a copy thereof, to
the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to the action,
the court in which the action is brought, and the amount of the
plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit, and shall require the
sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in the sum of
the plaintifff's claim, with the probable costs of the action, not ex
ceeding twenty-five dollars, and to make return of the order on a
day to be named therein, with the bail bond, if any is taken.6
Sec. 183. When order returnable. The return day of the order
of arrest, when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be
the same as that of the summons ; when issued afterward, it may be
another day in term,, at the option of the plaintifff.
ARTICLE II.
PROCEEDINGS UPON AN ORDER OF ARREST.
184. How executed.
185. The defendant to be committed to jail, unless bailed.
186. The defendant may deposit the amount in the order of arrest, and be dis
charged.
187. Sheriff to pay into court all deposits in his hands.
188. Court to make proper orders for keeping the money.
189. Sheriff officially liable for money deposited with him.
190. Manner of giving bail.
191. Qualifications of bail.
192. Plaintiff may object to bail. Proceedings thereon.
193. Officer not liable, unless bail be adjudged insufficient on motion.
194. Bail adjudged insufficient, not released, but defendant re-arrested.
195. Executions against defendant's body may be issued on judgment, where a
defendant has been arrested and held to bail, but may be discharged
on taking the insolvent's oath.
Sec. 184. How order executed. The sheriff shall execute the
order of arrest by arresting the defendant, and delivering to him a
copy thereof.1
Sec. 185. Defendant to be committed, unless bailed. The defend
ant, when arrested, shall be committed, by the sheriff, to the jail of
his county, a copy of the order of arrest being delivered to the jailor;
and, unless bailed, kept in custody in the manner provided by law in
the case of a defendant taken in execution upon a judgment in a
civil action, until discharged in the mode and upon the conditions
such defendant may be.
Sec. 186. Deposit received in lieu of bail. The defendant may,
before or after giving bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in
court, the amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest;
whereupon he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any is given, shall be
released.
Sec. 187. Slieriff to pay deposit into court The sheriff shall pay
into the court the money received by him, in vacation, in lieu of bail,
on the first day of the next term. Where it is received during a
term, he shall pay it into the court immediately.
Sec. 188. Court to make proper order for its keeping. The court
shall make proper orders for the safe-keeping of money deposited
in lieu of bail. It may direct the sheriff to keep the money, and,
after final judgment in the action, shall order it to be paid to the
party entitled thereto, according to the result.
Sec. 189. Sheriff liable for money deposited with him. Money
deposited in the hands of the sheriff, in lieu of buil, or directed by
the court to be kept by him, shall be held upon his official responsi
bility; and he and his sureties shall be liable, and may be pro
ceeded against, for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases
of delinquency.
Sec. 190. Manner of giving bail. Bail may be given, by the
defendant, on his arrest, or at any time afterward before judgment.
It shall be done by causing one or more sufficient ' bail to execute a
bond2 to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, or of the jailor
where the defendant has been committed to jail, to the effect that,
if judgment shall be rendered in the action against the defend
ant, he will render himself amenable to the process of the court
thereupon. The bond, when accepted, shall be returned to the
clerk's office, and the defendant discharged. (Notes.)
Sec. 191. Qualifications of bail. The bail must be a resident of
this state, and be worth double the sum specified in the order of ar
rest, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property in this
state, subject to execution, at least equal in value to that sum. If
two or more become bail, they must, in the aggregate, possess the
same qualifications. The bail, if it is required by the sheriff, shall
make affidavit of their qualification before him.
Sec. 192. Plaintiff may object to bail—proceedings thereon. If
the plaintifff objects to the bail for insufficiency, he may move his
objections in court during the term at which the bail bond is re
turned, and not afterward, except where the bond is returned within
the last three days of the term ; in which case, the motion may be
made on the first day of the succeeding term. The motion can not
be made unless the plaintifff has given to the sheriff, or to the jailor,
■where the bond was taken by him, notice thereof. And if the notice
is adjudged unreasonable, the court may continue the motion to
some day in the same or the succeeding term.
Sec. 193. Insufficient bail—when officer liable for. If the mo
tion is not made, or the bail is not thereupon adjudged insufficient,
the officer shall be exonerated from liability by reason of the insuf
ficiency of the bail.
Sec. 194. Proceedings when bail adjudged insufficient The bail
adjudged insufficient shall not be thereby released, but an order
shall forthwith be made to re-arrest the defendant ; and, thereupon,
the same proceedings may be had, and with the like effect, as are
directed upon an order of arrest.
Sec. 195. Execution against body—defendant imprisoned may
take insolvent oath. Upon judgments in actions in which the de
fendant has been arrested and held to bail, and in which the order
of arrest has not been vacated, an execution against the body of
the defendant may be issued, upon which the same proceedings shall
be had, and the defendant shall be dealt with in the same manner aa
provided by law in the civil actions in which executions may be
issued against the body of the defendant, except that the oath of
insolvency, upon reasonable notice, may be taken at any time after
the arrest, by delivering to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, a
schedule of the property intended to be surrendered, although said
schedule may not have been delivered ten days before the taking of
such oath. This exception shall also apply to section one hundred
and eighty-five of this code.
ARTICLE IIL
LIABILITY AND DISCHARGE OP BAIL, AND OF OFFICER.
196. Bail may surrender defendant and be discharged.
197. Bail may arrest or cause an officer to arrest defendant to sur
render him.
198. How the liability of bail is fixed.
199. Bail to be proceeded against in a separate action.
200. Causes of exoneration of bail.
201. When the sheriff is liable.
202. How his liability is fixed.
203. The bail adjudged insufficient liable to officer.
Sec. 196. Bail may surrender defendant and be discharged. A
surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the county in which he
was arrested, with a delivery to him of a copy of the order of arrest
and of the bail bond by the defendant himself, or by his bail, at any
time before the liability of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail.
The sheriff shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment of the
surrender, and commit the defendant to the jail of his county with
his order indorsed upon the copy of the bail bond delivered to the
jailor.
Sec. 197. How defendant may be arrested and surrendered. For
the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail may, at any
time or place, arrest him, or authorize, in writing indorsed upon a
copy of the order of arrest and bail bond, the sheriff or any con
stable to do so.
Sec. 198. How liability of bail fixed. A return of " not found "
upon an execution against the body of the defendant, placed in the
hands of the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, within
twenty days after it might have issued upon the judgment, shall be
necessary to fix the liability of the bail, which shall be, to pay the
amount of the judgment and costs. {Notes.)
Sec. 199. Bail to be proceeded against in separate action. The
bail can be proceeded against in a separate action only. (Notes.)
Sec. 200. Causes of exoneration of bail. He will be exonerated
by the death of the defendant, or his removal from this state under
process of law as a fugitive, before the return day of the summons
served upon the bail in the action to enforce his liability, or by the
imprisonment of the defendant in the penitentiary, or his legal dis
charge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the pro
cess of the court, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county
in which he was arrested in execution thereof, by the return day of
the summons in the action against the bail, or within such further
time as the court in which the action is pending may allow. If the
defendant is confined in any jail of this state, the bail will be exon
erated by delivering to the jailor thereof, at any time before the
return day of the summons in the action against the bail, a certified
copy of the order of arrest and of the bail bond, with a written or
der thereupon to detain the defendant in custody until discharged by
law from the action in which the bond was given. The jailor shall
give a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the order, which
shall be filed with the original bond.
Skc. 201. When the sheriff is liable. If, after being arrested, the
defendant escapes or is rescued, or bail is not taken or is adjudged
insufficient, or a deposit is not made, the sheriff shall be liable as
bail, unless he had committed the defendant to jail and obtained a
written acknowledgment thereof from the jailor, in which case the
jailor shall be so liable. Either officer may discharge himself from
such liability by putting in sufficient bail at any time before judg
ment.
Sec. 202. How sheriff's liability fixed. The liability of the officer
as bail shall be fixed it the manner provided in section one hundred
and ninety-eight, and can be enforced only in a separate action
against him, or against him and his sureties in his official bond, as
in other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 203. Bail adjudged insufficient, liable to officer for damage.
The bail adjudged insufficient shall be liable to the officer for the
damages he may sustain by reason of such insufficiency.
ARTICLE IV.
MOTION TO VACATE AN ORDER OF ARREST.
204. Court or judge, in vacation, may vacate an order of arrest, or reduce the
bail, on motion of defendant, after reasonable notice.
205. Motion may be supported or opposed by affidavits.
206. Writ of scire facias against bail abolished.
Sec. 204. How order vacated, and bail reduced. A defendant
against whom an order of arrest has been obtained, may, at any
time before judgment in the action, and before a decision of a mo
tion on account of the insufficiency of the bail,1 apply to the court,
or, in vacation, and before executing a bail bond, to the judge
thereof, or to any circuit judge, or to the presiding judge of the
county court, by motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of the motion shall be given
to the plaintifff. If satisfied that the bail ought not to have been
required,2 or that the sum for which it was demanded is too large,
the court or judge may vacate the order of arrest, or reduce the
amount of bail. The decision of the motion shall be final in the
action, but shall not affect the rights of the parties in any other ac
tion. Upon the vacation of the order of arrest, the defendant shall
be discharged, or the bail bond, if any is given, shall be canceled.
Sec. 205. Motion may be supported or opposed by affidavit If the
motion is supported by affidavits, or other evidence out of the rec
ord, the plaintifff may oppose it by affidavits' or other evidence, in
addition to that on which the order of arrest was obtained.
Sec. 206. Scire facias abolished. The writ of scire facias
against bail is abolished.
CHAPTER n.
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
207. Plaintiff may claim immediate delivery, in any action to recover personal
property.
208. How and for what causes an order for delivery may be made.
209. Affidavit must state the value of each article.
210. To whom the order for delivery must be addressed, and how executed.
211. Delivery not to be made unless plaintifff executes a bond.
212 Provisions of the bond to be executed when the action is against an officer
acting under an execution or distress warrant
213. The manner of executing an order for delivery of property.
214. The property to be delivered to the plaintifff, if it was taken under execu
tion or distress warrant
215. In other cases, to be delivered to the defendant, if he executes bond, with
security, in two days. If bond is not executed, to be delivered to the
plaintifff.
216. Either party may cause the property to be valued before bond is given.
217. The expenses of keeping the property to be taxed in the costs.
218. Proceedings where the property is claimed by a stranger.
219. The order may be issued to another county at any time before judgment
220. Defendant may be compelled to disclose the situation of property concealed
or disposed of.
Sec. 207. Plaintiff may claim immediate delivery. The plaintifff,
in an action to recover the possession of specific personal property,
may, at the commencement of the action,1 or at any time before
judgment, claim the immediate delivery of the property, as herein
provided. (Notes.)
Sec. 208. How and for vohat causes an order for delivery may
be made. An order for the delivery of property to the plaintifff
shall be made, by the clerk, when there is filed in his office an affi
davit1 of the plaintifff, showing :
1. A particular description of property claimed.
2. Its actual value,2 and the damages2 which the affiant be
lieves the plaintifff ought to recover for the detention thereof.
3. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or has
a special ownership or interest therein, stating the facts in re
lation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate posses
sion of the property.
4. That the property is wrongfully detained by the de
fendant.
5. That it has not been taken for a tax or fine against the
plaintifff, or under any order or judgment of a court against him,
or seized under an execution or attachment against his proper
ty, or, if so seized, that it is by statute, exempt from such seizure.
6. That the plaintifff's cause of action has accrued within
one year.
Where the action is brought to recover property taken under
an execution or distress warrant, the affidavit must state the
fact of the taking, and the nature of the process under which
it was done.
Sec. 209. Value of each article to be stated. Where the delivery
of several articles of property is claimed, the affidavit must state the
value of each.
Sec. 210. To whom order addressed, and hotv executed. The
order for the delivery of the property to the plaintifff shall be ad
dressed and delivered,3 with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall
state the names of the parties to the action, and the court in which
the action is brought, and direct the sheriff to take the property,
describing it and stating its value, as in the affidavit of the plaintifff,
and deliver it to him, and make return of the order on a day to be
named therein. The order shall be made returnable as an order of
arrest is directed to be returned.4
Sec. 211. Plaintiff to give bond before delivery. The order shall
not be complied with by the sheriff, until there has been executed in
his presence, by one or more sufficient1 sureties of the plaintifff, a
bond2 to the defendant to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly pros
ecute the action, and that he shall perform the judgment of the
court therein, by returning the property, if a return thereof shall
be adjudged, and by paying such sums of money as may be ad
judged against him in the action, not exceeding double the value
of the property, and the costs of the action. (Motes.)
Sec. 212. Property taken in execution —what the bond to contain.
Where the action is brought against a sheriff, or other officer, to re
cover the possession of property taken by him, under an execution
against a person other than the plaintifff, or under a distress war
rant, the bond3 provided for in the last section shall be to the effect
that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall
perform the judgment of the court therein, by returning the prop
erty, a return thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying to the de
fendant, or to the plaintifff in the execution, or party who sued out
the distress warrant, as may be directed by the court, such sums of
money as may be adjudged against the plaintifff in the action, not
exceeding double the value of the property, and the costs of the
action.
SeC. 213. How order executed. The sheriff shall execute4 the
order by taking the property therein mentioned, if it is found in the
possession of the defendant or of his agent, or of any other person
who obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly or in
directly, after the order was placed in the sheriff's hands. He shall
also deliver a copy of the order to the defendant, or to the person
from whose possession the property is taken, or if neither can be
found, leave it at the usual place of abode of either, with some
white person of the age of sixteen years.
Sec. 214. Property taken from levying officer to be delivered to
plaintifff. If the affidavit of the plaintifff states that the property
was taken under an execution or distress warrant, the sheriff shall
deliver it to the plaintifff. In every other case, he shall retain the
property in his possession for two days, unless the bond mentioned
in the succeeding section shall be sooner executed.
Sbc. 215. Defendant may retain property, and how. Within two
days after the taking of the property by the sheriff, the defendant,
or any one for him, may, in the case in which the property was
not taken under an execution or distress warrant, cause a bond1 to
be executed to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, by one
or more sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property to
the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the court
in the action; wherupon the sheriff shall restore the property to the
defendant, or to the person in whose possession it is found. If
such bond is not executed within the time above limited, the sheriff
shall deliver the property to the plaintifff. He shall return the
bonds with the order. (Notes.)
Sec. 216. Either party may cause property to be valued. Before
taking any bond, the sheriff shall, upon the suggestion of either
party that the value of the property is not truly stated in the order
for its delivery, and, where the suggestion is on the part of the
defendant, on his producing the property to the sheriff, select three
disinterested housekeepers, to appraise the same under oath, to be
administered by him ; whose appraisement, indorsed upon the or
der, shall be regarded as the value of the property, in taking the
bonds.
Sec. 217. Expense of keeping property to be taxed as cost. The
sheriff shall safely keep the property, and shall be allowed by the
court the necessary expenses of doing so, to be paid by the plain
tiff, and taxed in the costs.
Sec. 218. Proceedings when property claimed by stranger. If an
other person than the defendant or his agent claims the property
token by the sheriff, and delivers to the sheriff his affidavit that he
is entitled to the possession thereof, the sheriff shall not be bound
to keep it, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless he shall, within two
days after the delivery to him, or to his agent or attorney, by the
sheriff, of a copy of the affidavit, indemnify the sheriff against
the claim, by a bond2 executed by one or more sureties, in double
the value of the property. No claim to such property by any other
person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the
sheriff unless so made. He shall return the affidavit of the claim
ant, with his proceedings thereon, to the clerk's office. '
Sec. 219. Order may go to another county. An order may, at any
time before judgment, be directed to any county for the delivery of
the property claimed. And several orders may issue at the same
time, or successively, at the option of the plaintifff. But only one
of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the
court.
Sec. 220. Defendant required to disclose situation of property.
Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or by the return
of the order of delivery, that the property claimed has been dis
posed of or concealed,1 so that the order can not be executed, the
court may compel the attendance of the defendant, examine him on
oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a disobedience
of its orders in this respect as in cases of contempt.
[As to the trial and judgment in actions for personal property, see sees. 360,
374, 418.]
Sec. 221. Gfrounds of attachment The plaintifff, in a civil action,
may, at or after the commencement thereof, have ati attachment
against the property of the defendant, or of a garnishee in the ac
tion,1 in the cases, and upon the grounds hereinafter stated, as a
security for the satisfaction of such judgment as may be re
covered :
First In action for the recovery of money,2 where the action
is against:
1. A defendant, or several defendants, who, or some one of
whom, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the state ;
or,
2. Who has been absent therefrom four months ; or,
3. Has departed from the state3 with intent to defraud his
creditors ; or,
4. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service
of a summons; or,
5. So conceals himself that a summons can not be served
upon him ; or,
6. [As amended, December 18, 1861, and March 14, 1862.]
Is about to remove, or has removed, his property, or a material
part thereof, out of this state, not leaving enough therein to
satisfy the plaintifff's claim, or the claims of said defendant's
creditors; or,
7. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his prop
erty, or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the fraudulent
intent to cheat, hinder or delay his creditors ; or,
8. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his prop
erty, with such intent.
But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that
the defendant, or defendants, or any of them, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state, for any claim other
than a debt or demand arising upon contract.
[Amended, March 10, 1856.] That the non-residence of one
or more of several defendants to a civil action, shall be no
cause for attachment against the separate property of any of
the said defendants who are residents of this state; and, in
proceeding to attach upon the ground of non-residence only,
the estate or interest of the non,resident alone shall be subject
to attachment.
Secondly. In an action to recover the possession of personal
,property, where it has been ordered to be delivered to the plain
tiff, and where the property, or part thereof, has been disposed
of, concealed or removed, so that the order for its delivery can
not be executed by the sheriff.1 (Notes.)
Note. —1. Where the amount in controversy is less than fifty dollars, and the
defendant is a non-resident having real, but not personal, estate in this state,
the action may be brought, and the attachment obtained, in the circuit court
See amendment to sec. 18.
2. When and how plaintifff may have an attachment against the property of
a garnishee. See amendment to sec. 248.
SUBDIVISION II.
HOW AN ATTACHMENT IS ORTAINED.
222. In an action to recover money, clerk to grant the attachment upon affida
vit. Nature of the affidavit
223. May be granted upon the return of a summons by the proper officer.
224. No attachment to be issued until the plaintifff executes bond with security.
225. How, and by whom, the attachment to be executed.
226. Attachments may be issued to several counties, but only those executed to
be taxed in the costs.
Sec. 222. When clerk may issue the order. An order of attach
ment shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action
is brought, in any case mentioned in the first subdivision of section
two hundred and twenty,one, when there is filed in his office an
affidavit of the plaintifff,2 showing :
1. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.
2. That it is just.
•S. The amount which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought
to recover ; and,
4. The existence, in the action, of some one of the grounds
for an attachment enumerated in that subdivision ; and in the
case mentioned in the second subdivision of section two hun
dred and twenty-one, where it is shown, by such affidavit, or
by the return of the sheriff upon the order for the delivery of
the property claimed, that the facts mentioned in that subdi
vision exist.1 {Notes!)
Sec. 223. Departure to avoid service may be shown by return of
officer. Where the return, by the proper officer, upon a summons
against a defendant, states that he has left the county to avoid the
service of the summons, or has concealed himself therein for that
purpose, it shall be equivalent to the statement of the fact in the
affidavit mentioned in the last section.
Sec. 224. No order issued till bond executed. The order of at
tachment shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been exe
cuted, in his office, by one or more sufficient2 sureties of the plain
tiff, a bond to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
the order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintifff's claim.3 (Notes.)
Sec. 225. Hoio, and by whom, the order executed. The order of
attachment shall be directed and delivered4 to the sheriff, with as
many copies thereof as the plaintifff may direct. It shall require
him to attach, and safely keep, the property of the defendant in his
county, not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as will satisfy
the plaintifff's claim, specified in his affidavit, which shall be stated
in the order, and the probable costs of the action, not exceeding
thirty dollars ; also, to summon the garnishees to answer in the
action on the return day of the order, and to make due return
thereof. The order shall be made returnable, as an order of arrest
is directed to be returned^
[Amended, February 28, 1863.] Orders in provisional remedies,
issued from the circuit, chancery or quarterly courts, may be
directed, at the request of the plaintifff, to any officer to whom, by
section sixty-six of the civil code of practice, the summons in such
cases might be directed.
Sec. 226. Orders may go to several counties. Orders of attach
ment may be issued to the sheriff of other counties, and several of
them may, at the option of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time,
or in succession. But such only as have been executed, in whole or
in part, shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the
court.
SUBDIVISION III.
EXECUTION AND RETURN OF ATTACHMENT.
227. Attachments against the same defendant to be executed in the order re
ceived by the officer.
228. Manner of executing an attachment—1. Upon real property. 2. Personal
property capable of delivery. 3. Upon other personal property.
229. Duty of garnishee to inform the sheriff of the amount of debt, etc., upon
which the attachment is levied.
230. Attachments must be levied, first, on personal property; next, on slaves;
and lastly, on real property.
231. Attachments levied on a fund in court by leaving with the clerk a copy of
the order, and notice of the fund attached.
232. Before possession is taken of personal property held jointly or in common,
bond must be executed by plaintifff to joint tenant, etc.
233. Attachment creates a lien to the same extent and similar to an execution.
234. Sheriff may, in twenty-four hours after removal of property to another
county, pursue and take it
235. Sheriff may deliver property to the person in possession, upon bond with
security being given.
236. Property thus delivered to be first appraised.
237. No defense, to an action on the bond, that the property was not subject to
the attachment
238. The return by the sheriff of an attachment
Sec. 227. To be executed in the order in which they are received.
Where there are several orders of attachment against the same de
fendant, they shall be executed in the order in which they were
received by the sheriff. (Notes.)
Sec. 228. Bow executed. The order of attachment shall be exe
cuted by the sheriff,1 without delay, in the following manner :
1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or, if there is no occupant, in a conspicuous place
thereon, a copy of the order.
2. Upon personal property, capable of manual delivery, by
taking it into his custody, and holding it subject to the order
of the court.
3. Upon other personal property, by delivering a copy of the
order, with a notice specifying the property attached, to the
person holding the same ; or, as to a debt or demand, to the
person owing it ; or, as to stock in a corporation, or property
held, or a debt or demand owing by it, to the chief officer, or
to the secretary, cashier, treasurer, or managing agent thereof,
and by summoning the person or corporation to answer as a
garnishee in the action. The sheriff shall deliver copies to
and summon such persons as garnishees, as the plaintifff may
direct. (Notes to 227.)
Sec. 229. Garnishee to disclose to sheriff amount due. It shall be
the duty of every person mentioned in the third subdivision of the
last section, to whom the sheriff shall apply therefore, to furnish him
with a certificate of the number of shares of the defendant in the
stuck of the corporation, or a description of the property held by
such corporation or person belonging to or for the benefit of the
defendant, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant, by
such corporation or person, whether due or not ; and a failure to per
form this duty may be punished by the court as a contempt.
Sec. 230. Order in which personalty, slaves, and realty levied on.
The defendant's personal property, other than slaves, shall be first
taken under an attachment ; if enough thereof is not found, then
his slaves, and, lastly, his real property. »
Sec. 231. How fund in court attached. Where the property to be
attached is a fund in court, the execution of the order of attach
ment shall be, by leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof,
with a notice specifying the fund ; and where several orders of attachment are executed upon such fund on the same day, they shall
be satisfied out of it ratably.
Sec. 232. How levied upon interests held jointly with others. The
sheriff shall not, in executing an order of attaohment upon per
sonal property, held by the defendant jointly or in common with an
other person, take possession of such property, until there has been
executed a bond to such other person, by one or more sufficient t
sureties of the plaintifff, to the effect that he shall pay to such per
son the damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the
order, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim.2
Sec. 233. Lien created by attachment. An order of attachment
binds the defendant's property in the county which might be seized
under an execution against him, from the time of the delivery of the
order to the sheriff, in the same manner as an execution would bind
it ; and the lien to the plaintifff is completed upon any property or
demand of the defendant, by executing the order upon it in the
manner directed in this article. (Notes.)
Sec. 234. Property removed from county—sheriff may pursue and
retake. If, after an order of attachment has been placed in the
hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed from
the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in another
county, within twenty-four hours after the removal.
Sec. 235. Person in possession may retain property by giving bond.
The sheriff may deliver any attached property to the person in
whose possession it was found, upon the execution, in the presence
of the sheriff, of a bond to the plaintifff, by such person, with one or
more sufficient 3 sureties to the effect that the obligors are bound,
in double the value of the property, that the defendant shall per
form the judgment of the court in the action, or that the property,
or its value, shall be forthcoming, and subject to the order of the
court for the satisfaction of such judgment.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 236. Property so retained, to be appraised. For the purpose
of taking this bond, the sheriff shall cause the property to be
appraised by three disinterested housekeepers, to be selected and.
sworn by him to make a fair appraisement, who shall indorse their
appraisement on the order of attachment.
Sec. 237. Action upon bond—that property not liable, no defense.
In any proceeding on this bond, it shall not be a defense that the
property was not subject to the attachment.
Sec. 238. What sheriff's return to show. The sheriff shall return,
upon every order of attachment, what he has done under it. The
return must show the property attached, the time it was attached,
and the disposition made of it. Where garnishees are summoned,
their names, and the time each was summoned, must be stated.
And where real property is attached, the sheriff shall describe it
with sufficient certainty to identify it, and, where he can do so, by a
reference to the deed or title under which the defendant holds it.
He shall return with the order all bonds taken under it.
SUBDIVISION IV.
DISPOSITION OF ATTACHED PROPERTY.
239. Court to make orders concerning attached property. When sale may be
ordered, in term or vacation. Terms oi saie.
240. Sheriff to be allowed expenses of keeping property attached. Amount
allowed on steamboats attached.
241. Defendant or claimant of attached property may be compelled to give in
formation on oath concerning it
Sec. 239. Preservation and use of property—sales of perishable
property. The court shall make proper orders for the preservation
and use of the property during the pendency of the action, and for
paying into court or securing the debts and funds attached. It may
direct a sale of the property, other than slaves, where, by reason
of its perishable nature, or of the cost of keeping it, a sale would
be for the benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be
ordered by the judge of the court, or, of any such property other
than a steamboat, by the presiding judge of the county court. The
sale shall be public, after advertisement, and be made in such man
ner, and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court or
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may
direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, together with all
the monies received by him from garnishees, shall be held and paid
over by him under the same requirement and responsibilities of him
self and his sureties, as are provided in respect to money deposited
in lieu of bail.
[Amended, March 8, 1862.] *But no such sale shall be ordered
in vacation, without reasonable notice, in writing, to the opposite
party, or his attorney (if either of them reside in the county ia
which the case is pending), of the time and place of the application
therefore.
[Further amended, February 16, 1863.] That section two hun
dred and thirty-nine, of subdivision four, of article first, chapter four,
of the civil code of practice, be and the same is hereby amended, so
that the judge of the court, and the presiding judge of the county
court, in vacation of the circuit court, shall have power and author
ity, in the mode now provided by law for the sale of personalty,
to appoint a receiver to take charge of, collect and account for all
choses in action, attached in any action ; and said receiver shall
have full power to collect the same. He shall give bond, and, in
all respects, be subject to the same responsibilities, as if appointed
by the court in term time. (Notes.)
Sec. 240. Expense of keeping property allowed sheriff. The sheriff
shall be allowed, by the court, the necessary expenses of keeping
the attached property, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the
costs. In the case of a steamboat attached, he may be allowed, for
his own superintendence thereof, not exceeding one dollar per day,
and such sums as he may actually expend for the safe-keeping of
the boat, not to exceed, for the pay of persons employed, the usual
wages of a mate and a deck hand, unless more than two persons
have been employed by the order of the court, or the judge
thereof.
Sec. 241. Defendant compelled to give information touching
attached property. The defendant or claimant of any attached prop
erty may be required by the court to attend before it, and give in
formation, on oath, concerning the property.
[Amended, February 3, 1858.] That, where it appears by the
affidavit of the plaintifff, or by the return of an order of attachment,
that no property is known to the plaintifff, or the officer, on which
the order of attachment can be executed, or not enough to satisfy
the plaintifff's claim, the defendant may be required, by the court,
to attend before it, and give information, on oath, respecting his
property ; and where it also appears, by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
that some person, other than the defendant, has in his possession
property of the defendant, or evidences of debt, such person may
also be required, by the court, to attend before it, and give informa
tion, on oath, respecting the same.
SUBDIVISION V.
FHOCEEDISQH UPON ATTACHMENTS.
242. Defendant may have attachment discharged by giving bond and security.
243. Such bond may be executed before the sheriff or clerk.
244. Garnishee may pay money to the sheriff, or into court, and be discharged
of liability. When liable for, when exempt from, and when entitled
to costs
245. Garnishee summoned, must appear and make full disclosure.
246. Garnishee may be examined, and money, etc., disclosed, paid as court
directs, or retained by garnishee upon bond and security.
247. Appearance and examination of garnishee may be compelled. If he does
not appear, other proof may be made.
248. Plaintiff may proceed against garnishee, after he is summoned, by regular
action.
249. If judgment is rendered for defendant, attachment to be discharged.
250. If judgment is for plaintifff, attached property and money to be applied to
its payment
251. Real property attached, not to be sold unless defendant was summoned or
appeared, or an affidavit by the plaintifff of the insufficiency of personal
property.
252. Surplus of attached property to be returned to defendant
253. Manner and terms of selling attached property.
254. Court may compel delivery of attached property for sale.
255. Court to make orders concerning attached property, its sale and application.
256. Sheriff may be ordered to repossess himself of attached property for
sale, etc.
257. Any person may prefer a claim to attached property, and his claim shall
be adjudicated. Where there are several attachments on the same
property, reference to ascertain priorities.
258. Plaintiff may be required to give additional security.
Sec. 242. Defendant may give bond, and have attachment dis
charged. If the defendant, at any time before judgment, causes a
bond to be executed to the plaintifff, by one or more sufficient sure
ties,1 to be approved by the court, to the effect that the defendant
shall perform the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be
discharged, and restitution made of any property taken under it, or
the proceeds thereof.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 243. Bond to be executed before sheriff or clerk. The bond
mentioned in the last section, may, in vacation, be executed in the
presence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands,
or, after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same
effect upon the attachment as if executed in court ; the sureties, in
either case, to be approved by the officer.
Sec. 244. How garnishee to proceed. The garnishee may pay
the money owing to the defendant by him, to the sheriff having in
his hands the order of attachment, or into, court. He shall be dis
charged from liability to the defendant, for any money so paid, not
exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be subjected to costs
beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim against him ;
and if he discloses the property of the defendant in his hands, or
the true amount owing by him, and delivers or pays the same ac
cording to the order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.
Sec. 245. Garnishee must appear and make disclosure. Each
garnishee summoned shall appear. The appearance may be in per
son, or by the affidavit of the garnishee filed in court, disclosing
truly the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether due or
not, and the property of the defendant in the possession, or under
the control of the garnishee ; and in the case of a corporation, any
shares of stocks therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant,
at or after the service of the order of attachment. (Notes.)
Sec. 246. Garnishee may be examined, and required to pay hi to
court Where a garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned
as a garnishee, appears in person, he may be examined on oath :
and, if it is discovered on such examination, that, at or after the
service of the order of attachment upon him, he or the corporation
was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to
him, the court may order the delivery of such property, and the
payment, or security for the payment, of the amount owing by the
garnishee into the court, or to such person as it may direct, who
shall give bond, with security, for the same ; or the court may per
mit the garnishee to retain the property, or the amount owing, upon
the execution of a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the
effect that the amount shall be paid, or the property shall be
forthcoming, as the court may direct. Performance of these bonds
may be summarily enforced by orders and proceedings as in cases
of contempt {Notes to 245.)
Sec. 247. Garnishee may be required to appear. The court may,
on the motion of the plaintifff, compel the appearance, in person, and
examination of any garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned
as a garnishee, by process as in cases of contempt ; or, where a gar
nishee makes default by not appearing, it may hear proof of any
debt or property owing, or held by him, to or for the defendant,
and make such order in relation thereto as if what is so proved had
appeared on the examination of the garnishee. {Notes to 245.)
Sec. 248. Plaintiff may proceed against garnishee by action.
Upon the service of a summons upon any garnishee, or after his
failure to make a disclosure satisfactory to the plaintifff, the latter
may proceed in an action against him, by filing a petition verified as
in other cases, and causing a summons to be issued upon it ; and
thereupon such proceeding may be had as in other actions, and
judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, to subject the prop
erty of the defendant in the hands of the garnishee, or for what
shall appear to be owing to the defendant by the garnishee. The
judgment may be enforced by execution, or other proper means.
[Amendment of February 12, 1866.] The plaintifff, in a civil ac
tion, may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an attach
ment against the property of a garnishee who is made a defendant
thereto, upon any of the grounds stated in subdivisions of section
two hundred and twenty-one of the civil code of practice. The
attachment herein allowed shall be obtained, executed, returned,
and attached property disposed of, and the proceedings the same as
required by subdivisions two, three, four and five, of article first,
chapter third, title eight, except that, in addition to the affidavit
required by section two hundred and twenty-two, the plaintifff shall
state in the affidavit that the garnishee is justly indebted to the
principal debtor the amount garnisheed, and the plaintifff shall exe
cute a bond to the garnishee, as required by section two hundred
and twenty-four. {Notes to 245.)
Sec. 249. If judgment for defendant, attachment discharged.
If judgment is rendered in the action for the defendant,1 the
attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its
proceeds, shall be returned to him.
Sec. 250. If for plaintifff,, property, etc., applied to judgment
If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the court shall apply, in
satisfaction thereof:
1. The monies arising from the sales of perishable prop
erty.
2. The proceeds of the debts and funds attached in the hands
of the garnishees.
If these are not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, the
court shall order a sale, by the sheriff, of any other attached
property which may be under its control, in the following order :
1. Personal property, other than slaves.
2. Slaves.
8. Real property, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy the plaintifff's claim.
Sec. 251. Wlten real property attached may be sold. No order
for the sale of real property1 attached in virtue of the provisions
of this article, shall be made in ant action in which the defendant
has not appeared or been actually summoned, until there has been
filed an affidavit of the plaintifff, or of his agent or attorney, to the
effect that the defendant has no personal property, or not enough
to satisfy the claim of the plaintifff, in this state, known to the
affiant. (Notes.)
Sec. 252. Surplus to be returned to defendant Any surplus of
the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the
defendant.
Sec. 253. Manner and terms of sale. The sales shall be public,
upon such notice, and at such time and place as the court may
direct. When credits are given, bonds, with security, shall be
required ; and the credit shall not be longer than three months for
personal property, and not less than three nor more than twelve
months for real property, or on installments equivalent to not more
than twelve months' credit on the whole,1 and, upon real property, a
lien shall be retained. The sales shall be subject to the confirma
tion of the court. (Notes.)
Sec. 254. Court to compel delivery of property and payment of
proceeds, summarily. The court may compel the delivery to the
sheriff, for sale, of any attached property for which a bond may
have been given, and may proceed summarily on such bond to en
force the delivery of the property, or the payment of such sums as
may be due upon the bond, by rules and attachments as in cases of
contempt.
Sec. 255. To enforce proper order* respecting the property. The
court may, from time to time, make and enforce proper orders res
pecting the property, sales, and the confirmation thereof, and the
application and payment of the monies collected.
Sec. 256. Sheriff may be ordered to retake attached property.
It may order the sheriff to repossess himself, for the purpose of
selling it, of any of the attached property which may have passed
out of his hands, without having been sold or converted into money ;
and the sheriff shall, under such order, have the same power to take
the property, as upon an order of attachment.
Sec. 257. Any person may prefer claim to property—liens and
priorities to be ascertained. Any person may, before the sale of
any attached property, or before the payment to the plaintifff of the
proceeds thereof, or of any attached debt, present his petition,1
verified by oath, to the court, disputing the validity of the attach
ment, or stating a claim to the property, or to an interest in, or
lien on it under any other attachment, or otherwise, and setting
forth the facts on which such claim is founded, and his claim shall
be investigated. A nonresident petitioner shall, in all such cases,
give security for costs. The court may hear the proof, or may order
a reference to a commissioner, or may impanuel a jury to inquire
into the facts. If it is found that the petitioner has title to, a
lien oh, or any interest in such property, the court shall make such
order as may be necessary to protect his rights. The costs of this
proceeding shall be paid by either party, at the discretion of the
court.
Where several attachments are executed on the same property,
the court, on the motion of any one of the attaching plaintifffs, may
order a reference to a commissioner, to ascertain and report the
amounts and priorities of the several attachments. (Notes.)
Sec. 258. Plaintiff may be required to give additional security.
The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable
notice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security on the
part of the plaintifff; and if on such motion, the court is satisfied
that the surety in the plaintifff's bond has removed from this state,
or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order
of attachment, and direct restitution of any property taken under
it, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient
security is given by the plaintifff.
ARTICLE II.
ATTACHMENTS IN CERTAIN ACTION*.
259. Plaintiff may obtain attachment before his debt is due. Facto
authorizing such attachment
260. May be granted by circuit or county judge.
261. The order must specify the amount for which it is allowed.
262. Bond to be executed before attachment is issued.
263. Provisions of first article, after section two hundred and twentyfive, to apply to attachments under this article.
Sec. 259. Attachment before debt due—grounds. In an action
brought by a creditor against his debtor, the plaintifff may, before
his claim is due,1 have an attachment against the property of the
the debtor, where,
1. He has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his
property, or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the fraud
ulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or
delay them in the collection of their debts ; or
2. Is about to make such fraudulent sale, conveyance, or
disposition of his property, with such intent ; or,
3. Is about to remove his property, or a material part
thereof, out of this state, with the intent, or to the effect of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering or delay
ing them in the collection of their debts.
Sec. 260. By whom granted. The attachment authorized by the
last section, may be granted by the court in which the action is
brought, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge, or by the
presiding judge of the county court,2 where the petition, verified by
the oath of the plaintifff, shows any of the grounds for an attach
ment enumerated in that section, and the nature and amount of
the plaintifff's claim, and when the same will become due. (Notes.)
Sec. 261. Requisites of an order. The order of the court or
judge granting the attachment shall specify the amount for which
it is allowed, not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's
claim and the probable cost of the action.
Sec. 262. Bond to be executed before lecy. The order of at
tachment as granted by the court or judge, shall not be issued by
the clerk, until there has been executed in his office such bond on
the part of the plaintifff as is directed in section two hundred and
twenty-four.1
Sec. 263. Proceeding, regulated. The provisions in the first arti
cle of this chapter subsequent to section two hundred and twentyfive,
shall, so far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments
authorized by this article.
k
ARTICLE III.
ATTACHMENTS AGAINST SPECIFIC PROPERTY.
Surdivision 1. Against steamboats.
2. Other specific attachments.
3. General provisions.
SUBDIVISION I.
AQAIK8T STEAMBOATS.
264. The liabilities of steamboats for which an attachment may be issued. Or
der granted by circuit or county judge, and must specify the sum.
265. Persons having distinct claims may unite in the action. Where the claim
is under $50, and plaintifff unable to give security, may be granted
without
266. No attachment to be issued unless bond be given or dispensed with accord
ing to last section.
267. To be issued, directed, executed, and returned as a general attachment
268. Sheriff may deliver boat to the master or person in charge, upon bond
with security being executed.
289. No defense to a proceeding on such bond, that the boat was not liable to
the attachment
270. Defendant, before judgment, may give bond and security, and have the
attachment discharged.
271. Such bond may be given before sheriff or clerk.
272. Boat may be appraised, and bond confined to that value.
Sec. 264. Attachments against steamboats —for what and by
whom issued. In an action to enforce the liability, by statute, of a
steamboat or other vessel,1 for the removal of a slave, or to enforce
a lien upon a steamboat for the wages of its officers or crew, or for
work, materials, provisions, stores, or supplies, or to enforce the
liability of such boat for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a
trespass of its officers or crew, if the petition shows a sufficient
cause of action and the amount of the plaintifff's claim, and is veri
fied by his oath, an attachment may be granted against such boat or
vessel, and her engine and furniture, by the court in which the action
is brought, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge, or the
presiding judge of the county court.2 Every order for such attach
ment must specify the sura for which it is granted, not exceeding the
plaintifff's claim for principal and interest, as existing at the time of
the order, with three year's interest thereon, and the probable costs
of the action. (Notes.)
Sec. 265. Persons having distinct claims may unite in action.
Where the action mentioned in the last section is for the wages of
the officers or crew of a steamboat, or for work done upon, or ma
terials, provisions, stores or supplies furnished to such boat, and
there are several plaintifffs, having distinct claims, separately, stated
in the petition, an attachment may be granted in favor of each
plaintifff for his olaim. And where, in any such case, the plaintifff,
or any one of several plaintifffs, shall annex to the petition his affi
davit that he is unable to give security, and the affidavit of some
disinterested person that his claim is just, the court, or judge grant
ing the attachment for such claim may direct that it shall issue for
an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, without security on the part
of such plaintifff. (Notes to 2(34.)
Sec. 266. Bond to be executed before attachment issues, unless dis
pensed with. The order of attachment, as granted by the court,
shall not be issued by the clerk, except where security is dispensed
with, as provided in the last section, until there has been executed,
in his office such bond, on the part of the plaintifff, as is directed in
section two hundred and twenty-four.3 (Notes to 244.)
Sec. 267. How issued, executed and returned. The order of at
tachment shall be issued, directed, executed and returned as an
order of general attachment is directed to be returned.1 (Notes
to 264.)
Sec. 268. Master may retain boat by giving bond. The sheriff
may deliver any steamboat or other vessel attached, to the master or
person in charge of such boat or vessel when attached, upon the
execution of a bond2 to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff,
by such person, with one or more sureties, sufficient for the sum for
which the attachment was granted,3 to the effect that the obligors
will pay to the plaintifff such sums of money as may be adjudged to
him in the action, or that the boat or vessel shall be forthcoming,
and subject to the order of the court, for the satisfaction of such
judgment as may be rendered therein—whichever shall be directed
by the court.4 (Notes to 264.)
Sec. 269. Giving bond, admits boat liable to attachment In any
proceeding on the bond mentioned in the last section, it shall be no
defense that the boat or vessel was not subject to the attachment.
(Notes to 264.)
Sec. 270. How owner may have attachment discharged. If the
defendant, or any owner of the boat, shall, at any time before judg
ment cause a bond5 to be executed to the plaintifff, by one or more
sureties, sufficient for the sum for which the attachment was granted,
to be approved by the court, to the effect that the defendant shall
perform the judgment of the court,6 the attachment shall be dis
charged, and restitution made of the boat. (Notes to 264.)
Sec. 271. Bond may be executed before clerk or sheriff. The bond
mentioned in the last section may, in vacation, be executed in the
presence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands,
or, after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same
effect as if executed in court. The sureties shall be such as are
approved by the officer. (Notes to 264.)
Sec. 272. Boat may be appraised and bond confined to that value.
Where the attachment is for a sum exceeding the value of the boat,
which the sheriff may have appraised, as provided in section two
hundred and thirty-six, he may take the bond of the master, or person in charge of the boat when attached, mentioned in section two
hundred and seventy-one, with sureties sufficient for the appraised
value of the boat ; and such bond, in that case, shall provide that
the liability of the obligors shall not exceed such appraised value.
(Notes to 264.)
SUBDIVISION II.
OTHER SPECIFIC ATTACHMENTS.
273. In cases of lien, joint ownership, or a future interest, an attachment may be
obtained to prevent sale or removal of property.
274. In action to cancel a contract for fraud, an attachment may be obtained.
275. Attachments granted by the court, or circuit or county judge, upon terms
to be prescribed in the order.
276. In all such cases, plaintifff to give security for the damages sustained bv
the defendant
277. Attachment not to be issued until the bond required is given.
278. The order must describe the property, and direct the disposition of it
279. Sheriff must dispose of the property as directed by the order. If no direc
tion, keep it safely.
280. Attachments in this subdivision to be discharged upon such bond and
security being given as the court may prescribe.
Sec. 273. Liens—■joint oumership—-future interest, authorize at
tachment In an action to enforce a mortgage of, or lien upon, per
sonal property, or for the recovery, partition, or sale of such prop
erty, or by a plaintifff having a future estate or interest therein, for
the security of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears by the pe
tition verified on oath, or by affidavits, or the proofs in the cause,
that the plaintifff has a just claim, and that the property is about to
be sold, concealed or removed from the state, or where the plaintifff
states on oath that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does be
lieve, that, unless prevented by the court, the property will be sold,
concealed or removed from the state, an attachment may be granted
against the property.1
Sec. 274. Actions to cancel contract for fraud, attachment may be
had. In an action by a vendor of property fraudulently purchased,
to vacate the contract and have a restoration of the property, or
compensation therefore, where the petition show^s such fraudulent
purchase of property, and the amount of the plaintifff's claim, and
is verified by his oath, an attachment against the property may be
granted.
Sec. 275. By whom attachment granted. The attachments in the
cases mentioned in the last two sections, may be granted by the
court in which the action is brought, or by the judge thereof, or
any circuit judge, or the presiding judge of the county court,1
upon such terms and conditions, as to security, on the part of the
plaintifff, for the damages which may be occasioned by them, and
with such directions as to the disposition to be made of the attached
property as may be just and proper under the circumstances of each
case.
Sec. 276. Plaintiff to give security for damage. In every case,
the plaintifff shall be required to give security for the damages to
the defendant, in an adequate sum, to be specified in the order
granting the attachment ; and, where it may be proper, the court
or judge may direct that the defendant, or person in possession
of the attached property, shall be permitted to retain it, upon giving
such bond, with security, and for such sum as the court or judge
may prescribe.
Sec. 277. Bond to be given before attachment issues. No order of
attachment shall be issued by the clerk until the bond, on the part
of the plaintifff, required by the order of the court or judge, is exe
cuted in his office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff.
Sec. 278. Requisites of the order. The order of attachment shall
describe the specific property against which it is issued, and shall
have indorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge, as to the
disposition to be made of the attached property. It shall be
directed, executed and returned as other orders of attachment.2
Sec. 279. How sheriff to dispose of property. The sheriff shall
make such disposition of the attached property as may be directed
by the court or judge, and where there is no direotion upon the sub
ject, he shall safely keep the property, subject to the order of the
court.
Sec. 280. How attachment discharged. The court may, in any of
the cases mentioned in sections two hundred and seventy-three and
two hundred and seventy-four, direct the terms and conditions of the
bond to be executed by the defendant, with security, in order to ob
tain a discharge of the attachment.
Sec. 281. Sheriff may pursue property into another county.
Where, after an order of attaohment against a steamboat or other
specific property has been placed in the hands of the sheriff, such
boat or property is removed from the county, the sheriff may pur
sue and attach it in another county within twenty-four hours after
such removal.
Sec. 282. Defendant must disclose situation of his property.
Where it appears, by the return of the sheriff, or by the affidavit of
the plaintifff, that any specific property against which an order of
attachment is issued has been concealed or removed by the defend
ant, the court may require him to attend and be examined on oath
respecting such matter, and may enforce its orders in this respect
as in cases of contempt.
Sec. 283. Performance of bonds summarily enforced. Perform
ance of bonds to obtain discharge of specific attachments, or for
the forthcoming of steamboats or other property specifically at
tached, may, in all cases, be summarily enforced by rules and pro
ceedings as in cases of contempt.
Sec. 284. Provisions of article one apply to specific attachments.
The provisions of the first article of this chapter not inconsistent
with the foregoing sections of this article may be applied, so far as
shall be proper, to regulate the proceedings in cases of attachments
against specific property.
Sec. 285. When attachment sustained or discharged. An attach
ment obtained at the commencement of the action shall be sustained
or discharged at the time that judgment is rendered in the action,
unless for sufficient cause the court extends the time of deciding
upon it. An attachment obtained after the commencement of the
action, shall not be sustained until the defendant has had the time
for controverting it provided in this chapter. (Notes.)
Sec. 286. If judgment for defendant, attachment discharged. If
judgment is rendered in favor of the defendant the attachment
shall be discharged.1 (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 287. If for plaintifff, sustained unless controverted. If judg
ment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and no affidavit or answer
verified by oath by the defendant filed, denying the statements
of the affidavit upon which the attachment was issued, or motion
made to discharge it, the court shall sustain the attachment.
(Notes to 285.)
Sec. 288. When sustained, property applied to satisfaction of
judgment. Upon an attachment being sustained, the property
attached, or its proceeds, or the securities taken upon the attach
ment, shall, by appropriate orders, be applied in satisfaction of the
judgment.2 (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 289. Defendant may file affidavit and deny grounds of attach
ment. The defendant may file his affidavit, denying all or any of
the material statements of the affidavit on which the attachment
is issued ; and, thereupon, the attachment shall be considered as
controverted, and the affidavits of the plaintifff and defendant shall
be regarded as the pleadings in the attachment, and have no other
effect. Where the attachment was obtained at the commencement
of the action, the defendant may file his affidavit at such time after
the levy of the attachment as is given by this code for filing his
defense, after the service of the summons, which period may be
extended by the court for sufficient cause. (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 290. Affidavits and oral proof. Either party may take
proof by deposition, to be read on the trial of the attachment, or,
by the permission of the court, the witnesses may be orally examined
in court. (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 291. Motion to discharge. At any time before the attach
ment is sustained, the defendant, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, may move the court to discharge the
attachment, the hearing of which may be postponed by the court,
upon sufficient cause, from time to time; and, upon the hearing, if
the court is of the opinion that the attachment was obtained with
out sufficient cause, or that the grounds of the attachment being
controverted are not sustained, the attachment shall be discharged.
(Notes to 285.)
Sec. 292. Appeal allowed from final order sustaining or dis
charging. The order for the discharge of an attachment, made at
or after the rendition of judgment in the action, shall be final,
and not subject to be reinstated as provided in this article, but
shall be the subject of appeal where the amount in controversy is
such as to authorize an appeal. The order sustaining the attach
ment shall also, in like manner, on the rendition of judgment in
the action, be subject to appeal. (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 293. Reinstatement binding only till final judgment. The
reinstatement of attachments, as provided in this article, shall only
be binding on the inferior court until judgment; and when judg
ment is rendered in the action, the inferior court shall make a dis
position of the motion to discharge, which shall, in like manner, be
final. (Notes to 285.)
Sec. 294. Motion to discharge for irregularity made in vacation.
The defendant, on reasonable notice to the plaintifff, may, at any
time before the term next after the levy of the attachment, move
the judge of the court in vacation to discharge the attachment, on
the ground of its having been issued contrary to the provisions of
article one of this chapter ; and the judge, on an inspection of the
papers in the action, or of authenticated copies of them, shall have
the same power of discharging the attachment, by his written order,
filed by the clerk, as he would have in court, and shall have like
power to permit amendments by the plaintifff.
[Amended,1 March 15, 1862.] In any proceeding by attach
ment now pending, or hereafter commenced, the affidavit or grounds
of attachment may be amended so as to embrace any grounds of
attachment that may exist up to and until the final judgment upon
the same. If the amendments embrace only grounds existing at
the time of the commencement of said proceeding, the lien created
by the suing out or levying the original attachment shall be held
good ; but if the amendments embrace new grounds not existing at
the time of the suing out of the original attachment, the lien shall
exist on the property levied upon from the time of filing the same.
(Notes to 285.)
Sec. 295. Time may be allowed for reinstatement Where the
plaintifff desires a reinstatement of the attachment, he may have an
entry made upon the record of leave to apply therefore within a rea
sonable time, not exceeding twenty days. And in such case, the
order of discharge shall be made to take effect at the end of the
period so limited, unless the attachment is reinstated in the mean
time. (Notes to 285.) *
Sec. 296. By whom reinstatement made. A judge of the court
of appeals, in any case in which the plaintifff has secured the right
to apply therefore, in the manner provided in the last section, may,
upon an inspection of copies of the record, and of the depositions
and affidavits read upon the motion to discharge, reinstate the
attachment; and, if the order of reinstatement shall be filed in the
clerk's office of the court in which the action is pending, within the
time limited as provided in the last section, the execution of the
order of attachment shall proceed; otherwise, it shall stand dis
charged, and restitution shall be made of any property taken under
it. {Notes to 285.)
Sec. 297. Existing injunctions not affected by the code. Injunc
tions to stay proceedings in actions or proceedings commenced be
fore this code takes effect, are not affected by its provisions, but are
to be granted to proceed ip all respects, and be determined as if it
had not been adopted. (Notes.)
Sec. 298. Injunction defined. The injunction provided by this
code is a command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the
final judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional
remedy; and where so allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of
injunction is abolished. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 299. Causes for which it may be granted. Where it appears
by the petition that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the com
mission or continuance of some act which would produce great or
irreparable injury to the plaintifff, or where, during the litigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be
granted to restrain such act. It may also be granted in any case
where it is specially authorized by statute.1 (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 300. By whom granted. The injunction may be granted at
the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment,
by the court, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, or by
the presiding judge of the connty court,2 where it appears by the
petition that the plaintifff is entitled thereto. And, during a liti
gation, it may be granted by the court, or by the judge thereof or
any circuit judge, where it satisfactorily appears by affidavits that
aufficient grounds exist therefore. (Notes to 299.)
Sec. 301. Court may authorize clerk to grant The judge of the
circuit court for any county may, if he deem it right and proper,
by an order duly entered on the order book of said court, author
ize the clerk of said court to grant injunctions and restraining
orders, in the same manner and under like restrictions that the pre
siding judge's of county courts may grant injunctions and restrain
ing orders ; but no such authority shall be conferred on any deputy
of such clerk. {Notes to 297.)
Sec. 302. Granted before judgment subject to further order. All
injunctions granted before final judgment, shall be subject to tho
further order of the court.
Sec. 303. Notice to opposite party. The court or judge to whom
an application for an injunction is made, may direct a reasonable no
tice to be given to the party against whom the injunction is asked,
to attend and show cause against it at a specified time and place,
and may, in the meantime, restrain such party. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 304. Not to be granted without notice where defendant has
answered. An injunction shall not be granted against a defendant
who has answered, unless he has had notice of the application
therefore. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 305. Certain injunctions granted only on notice. An injunc
tion to stop the general and ordinary business of a corporation, or
the operations of a turnpike, railroad, or canal company, or of a
municipal corporation, or of the trustees of a town or any building,
erection, or other work, or to restrain a nuisance, or the unlawful
issue or circulation of small notes or bills, can only be granted by
the court, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge, upon rea
sonable notice of the time and place of the application therefore,
to the party enjoined. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 306. Where notice given, either party may read affidavits.
On the hearing of an application for an injunction of which notice
has been given, each party may read affidavits. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 307. Injunction bond—terms and amount In every case,
the court or judge granting an injunction shall specify in the order
therefore an amount, for which the party obtaining it shall give secu
rity in a bond to the party enjoined, before the injunction shall be
come effectual ; which amount shall be sufficient to cover all the
probable damages and costs that may be occasioned by the injunc
tion. The court or judge may prescribe the effect of the bond, so
as to secure to the party enjoined the damages to which he may be
come entitled, if it is finally decided that the injunction ought not
to have been granted. Where the injunction is to stay proceedings
upon a judgment or final order for money, the amount for which se
curity is required shall be sufficient to cover, with other damages,
the sum enjoined, with five years' interest thereon. Where the in
junction is to stay proceedings upon a judgment for property, the
amount specified in the order shall be sufficient to cover also the
rent, hire, or value of the use thereof for two years; and in case
of personal property, its value likewise. {Notes to 297.)
Sec. 308. Bond to be executed—terms where judgment stayed.
The order of injunction shall not be issued by the clerk, until the
bond mentioned in the last section has been executed in his office by
one or more sufficient sureties1 of the party obtaining the injunc
tion. Where the injunction is to stay proceedings upon a judgment
or final order, the bond shall be to the effect that the party obtain
ing the injunction will satisfy the judgment or order, or so much of
it as is enjoined, to the extent to which the injunction may be dis
solved; and that he will also satisfy any modified judgment or order
that may be rendered or made in lieu of it, or so much of it as ex
ceeds the amount left unenjoined. In other cases, unless otherwise
directed by the court or judge, the bond shall be to the effect that
the party giving it will pay to the party enjoined such damages as
he may sustain, if it is finally decided that the injunction ought not
to have been granted.2
[Amended, February 15, 18b'6.] That in cases of injunction to
stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the officer grant
ing the injunction shall authorize a bond to be executed to the effect
that the party obtaining the injunction will pay to the party en
joined such damages as he may sustain, if it is finally decided that
the injunction ought not to have been granted: Provided, however,
If, at the time such injunction is granted and bond executed, any
execution or attachment has been levied upon the property of the
party obtaining the injunction, said levy shall not be discharged by
reason of said injunction, but shall remain in full force until the
final decision as to the injunction, unless the party obtaining the
injunction shall give bond in the form now prescribed by law.
{Notes to 297.)
Sec. 309. Clerk to take the bond. Sureties in injunction bonds
shall be taken by the clerk, under the same responsibilities as in
other cases of sureties taken by him. {Notes to 297.)
Sec. 310. By whom order issued and served. The order of in
junction shall be addressed to the party enjoined, shall state the
injunction, and shall be dated and signed by the clerk. Where it is
issued at the commencement of the action, it shall be indorsed upon
the summons, and a copy thereof delivered to the sheriff. Where it
is issued during the litigation, it shall be delivered to him with as
many copies thereof as there are parties enjoined.1 The sheriff shall
forthwith serve it by delivering a copy to each party enjoined, and
make return thereof on the order. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 811. Notice of the application equivalent to service. Where
notice of the application for an injunction has been given to the
party enjoined, it shall not be necessary to serve the order upon
him ; he is bound by the injunction as soon as the bond required of
the adverse party is executed. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 312. Injunction binds from the time party informed of it.
An injunction binds the party from the time he is informed thereof.
(Notes to 297.)
Sec. 313. Certain judgments not to be enjoined. No injunction
shall be granted to stay proceedings upon a judgment of a justice
of the peace, or of a county court where the value of the matter in
dispute does not exceed five pounds. Notes to 297.)
Sec. 314. Judgment only enjoined in court that rendered it—but
one injunction granted. An injunction to stay proceedings on a
judgment or final order of the court, shall not be granted in an ac
tion brought by the party seeking the injunction, in any other court
than that. in which the judgment or order was rendered or made.
Nor shall such injunction be granted unless the party applying
therefore makes affidavit that no injunction has been previously
granted to stay proceedings on such judgment or order. (Notes
to 297.)
Sec. 315. Application heard and refused, can not be renewed. No
injunction shall be granted by a judge after a motion therefore has
been overruled by the court. Nor shall any be granted by a judge
of a county court, where it has been refused by the judge of the
court in which the action is brought, or by any circuit judge. A
judge refusing an application for an injunction, shall, if requested
by the defendant, give him a certificate thereof. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 316. Disobedience of injunction—how punished. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished by the court, or by the
judge thereof, or any circuit judge in vacation, as a contempt An
attachment may be issued by the court or judge, upon the produc
tion of evidence, by affidavit, of the breach of the injunction, against
the party committing the same. And unless he purges the con
tempt, if in vacation, the judge may commit him to jail until the
sitting of the court, or take a bond with security for his appearance
to answer for the contempt at the next term of the court, and, in
the meantime, to obey the injunction. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 317. Affidavits to obtain to be filed. The affidavits read upon
an application for an injunction shall be filed with the papers of the
case. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 318. Party enjoined may move for additional security. A
party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, upon reasonable
notice to the party who has obtained the injunction, move the court
for additional security on behalf of such party ; and, if it appears
on such motion that the surety in the injunction bond has removed
from this state, or is insufficient, the court may vacate the order of
injunction, unless, in a reasonable time, sufficient security is given.
(Notes to 297.)
ARTICLE II.
DISSOLUTION AND REINSTATEMENT OP INJUNCTION.
319. Party enjoined may, upon notice, move the party to modify or dissolve an
injunction obtained without notice.
320. Judge in vacation, or any circuit judge, may dissolve or modify an injunc
tion granted by county judge.
321. After answer filed, the party enjoined may move dissolution or modification
of an injunction, on all the papers and evidence filed.
322. Motion may be postponed for causa
323. Judge to decide the motion on hearing.
324. Only one motion on the whole case allowed.
325. On dissolution of injunction, in whole or part, damages to be assessed
How much on judgment for money, and how much on property.
326. Reasonable time to be given, if desired, when injunction is dissolved, to
apply for a reinstatement
327. Judge of court of appeals may reinstate an injunction.
Sec. 319. Motion to dissolve upon face of papers. The party
enjoined may, at any time, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff,
move the court, upon the plaintifff's petition and affidavits alone, to
dissolve or modify an injunction of the application for which no no
tice was given. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 320. Motion to dissolve or modify in vacation. A motion to
dissolve or modify an injunction granted by a county judge, may, at
any time, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, be made before the
judge of the court or any circuit judge, upon the plaintifff's peti
tion and affidavits alone. The order of the judge overruling the
same, or dissolving or modifying the injunction, with the notice,
shall be returned to the office of the clerk of the court. They shall
be noted upon the record and the order obeyed, as if made by the
court. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 321. Motion to dissolve after answer filed. After answer
filed by the party enjoined, he may give notice to the plaintifff of a
motion to be made to the court in not less than ten days thereafter
upon the whole case, to dissolve or modify the injunction. Upon
such motion, each party may read depositions and other competent
evidence it writing.1 The court shall, not be bound to take the
answer as true. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 322. Motion postponed for cause. The motion upon the
whole case to dissolve or modify the injunction, may be postponed
on the application of either party, to a subsequent day, or to the
next term, where the court is satisBed that, under the circumstances
of the case, the delay is proper. When delay is asked, in order to
obtain the testimony of a witness, it must appear by affidavit what
facts the witness is expected to prove, that the affiant believes his
testimony will be true, and that it could not have been obtained by
due diligence. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 323. Judge to decide motion on hearing. After hearing the
motion, the court or judge shall overrule the same, or dissolve or
modify the injunction, according to the right of the case. (Notes
to 297.)
Sec. 324. But one motion allowed. Only one motion to dissolve
or moiiify an injunction upon the whole case shall be allowed.
(Notes to 297.)
Sec. 325. Damage upon dissolution. Upon the dissolution, in
whole or in part, of an injunction to stay proceedings upon a judg
ment or final order, the damages shall be assessed by the court,
which may hear the evidence, and decide in a summary way, or may,
at its discretion, cause a jury to be impanneled, to find the damages.
Where money is enjoined, the damages may be any rate per cent.
on the amount released by the dissolution, which, in the discretion
of the court may be proper, not exceeding ten per cent. And,
■where the delivery of property has been delayed by the injunction,
the value of the use, hire, or rent thereof shall be assessed. Judg
ment shall be rendered against the party who obtained the injunc
tion for the damages assessed ; and the assessment shall be conclu
sive against the surety of such party. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 326. Time allowed to apply for reinstatement Where the
plaintifff desires to apply for a reinstatement of an injunction dis
solved or modified on motion, the court or judge shall make the
order of dissolution or modification, to take effect in a reasonable
time thereafter, not exceeding twenty days, and shall express in the
order that the plaintifff has leave to apply in the meantime for
a reinstatement of the injunction. (Notes to 297.)
Sec. 327. Judge of court of appeals may reinstate. A judge of
the court of appeals, in any case in which the plaintifff has secured
the right to apply therefore, as provided in the last section, may, upon
inspection of copies of the record, and of the depositions and evi
dence read upon the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction,
reinstate the same in whole or in part. And if the order of rein
statement is filed in the clerk's office in the time limited, as pro
vided in the last section, the injunction, as reinstated, shall be
obeyed ; otherwise, the order of dissolution or modification shall
take effect. (Notes to 297.)
CHAPTER V.
RECEIVER.
328. Cases in which the court may appoint a receiver.
329. May be appointed to take charge of mortgaged property.
330. No person interested or attorney in the action to be appointed.
331. Receiver to be sworn, and give bond and security.
332. Powers of a receiver.
Sec. 328. When court may appoint receiver. In an action by a
vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor
to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or
others jointly owing or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of plaintifff or of any party whose right to or inter
est in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is probable,
and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being
lost, removed, or materially injured, the court may appoint a re
ceiver to take charge thereof during the pendency of the action,
and may order and coerce the delivery of it to him. {Notes.)
Note. —Receiver may be appointed to take charge of and collect choses in
action attached. See amendment to see. 239.
Sec. 329. May be appointed to take charge of mortgaged property.
In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage,
and sale of the mortgaged property, a receiver may, in like manner,
be appointed, where it appears that the mortgaged property is in
danger of being lost, removed or materially injured, or that the
condition of the mortgage has not been performed, and that the
property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
Sec. 330. Who may be appointed. [Amended, February 17, 1866.]
No party or attorney, or person interested in an action, except ex
ecutors, administrators, curators, guardians, and committees of per
sons of unsound mind, shall be appointed receiver therein.
Sec. 331. Receiver to be sworn and give bond. Before entering
upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faith
fully, and with one or more sureties approved by the court, execute
a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to
the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in
the action, and obey the orders of the court therein.
Sec. 332. Powers of a receiver. The receiver has, under the con
trol of the court, power to bring1 and defend actions, to take and
keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and
generally do such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize.
Sec. 333. When deposit may be ordered—what may be subject of
deposit. Where it ia admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession or under his control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which being the subject of the
litigation is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the same
to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, with or without
security, subject to the further direction of the court.
Sec. 334. Court may enforce order. Wherever, in the exercise
of its authority, a court has ordered the deposit or delivery of
money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides
punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the
sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in con
formity with its direction.
Sec. 335. Sheriff to have custody of certain deposits—expenses
allowed him. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely any
property delivered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and
may allow him the necessary expenses attending the same, to be
paid by such party as the court shall direct, and taxed in the costs
of the action.
Sec. 336. Money may be confided to sheriff—officially responsible.
It may confide to the sheriff money ,deposited or paid into court,
which shall be kept by him under the same requirements and re
sponsibilities of himself and his sureties as are provided by this
code in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
Sec. 337. Money may be placed in bank. A court sitting in a
county in which, or in any county adjoining which, there is a bank,
or a branch of a bank, created by the laws of this state, transacting
regular banking business, may order money paid into court, to be
deposited in such bank or branch to the credit of the court, in the
action or proceeding in which the money was paid. Money so de
posited shall be paid only upon the check of the clerk of the court,
annexed to its certified order for the payment, and in favor of the
person to whom the order directs the payment to he made.
Sec. 338. Deposit not to be loaned unless parties consent. Money
deposited or paid into the court, in any action, shall not he loaned
out by the court unless with the consent of all the parties having
an interest in, or making claim to, the same.
Sec. 339. Definition of an issue. Of two kinds—law and fact.
Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or conclusion of law is
maintained by one party and controverted by the other.1 They are
of two kinds :
1. Ot law.
2. Of fact.
Sec. 340. How an issue of fact arises. An issue of fact arises ;
1. Upon a material allegation in the petition, denied by the
answer.
2. Upon a setoff or counterclaim presented in the answer,
and denied by the reply.
3. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, which
shall be considered as controverted by the opposite party
without further pleading.1
Sec. 341. Trial defined. A trial is a judicial examination of
the issues, whether of law or of fact, in an action.
Sec. 342. Issues of law and of fact—how tried. Issues of law
must be tried by the court. Issues' of fact, arising in action by
ordinary proceedings, for the recovery of money, or of specific real
or personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
waived. (Notes.)
Sec. 343. Certain issues of fact to be tried by court All other
issues of fact, whether arising in ordinary or equitable proceedings,
shall be tried by the court, subject to its power to order any issue or
issues to be tried by a jury. (Notes to 342.)
Sec. 344. Order in which actions to be tried. The trial, in each
action, shall be in the order in which it stands upon the docket.
Sec. 345. Sow and for what trial postponed. A motion to post
pone a trial on account of the absence of evidence, can be made
only upon affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expected
to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it;
and, if it is for an absent witness,' the affidavit must show what
facts the affiant believes the witness will prove, and not merely the
effect of such facts in evidence, and that the affiant himself believes
them to be true. If, thereupon, the adverse party will consent that,
on the trial, they shall be taken as true, the trial shall not be post
poned for that cause. (Notes.)
ARTICLE IL
TBI lL BT JURY.
Surdivision 1. Formation of the jury.
2. Conduct of the trial
3. Verdict
SUBDIVISION I.
FORMATION OF til JUST.
346. Mode of summoning and impanneling a jury not changed by code.
Sec. 346. How jury summoned and impanneled. The general
mode of summoning, impanneling, challenging, and swearing the
jury, is not changed by this code.
SUBDIVISION II.
CONDUCT OF III TRIAL.
347. Order of conducting trial—1. Plaintiff opens his case. 2. Defendant opens
his defense. 3. The affirmative commences proof, followed by the
proof of adverse party. 4. Then confined to rebutting evidence. 5. In
structions may be asked. 6. Argument—affirmative has the conclu
sion, the opposite side the opening.
348. When and how a view by the jury is had.
349. Duty of court and jury after the cause is submitted.
350. Jury to be admonished by the court of their duty when permitted to sepa
rate.
351. If jury disagree as to law or fact, may be brought into court
352. Causes for which a jury may be discharged.
353. If jury are discharged, when cause to be tried.
354. Manner of delivering verdict Jury may be polled.
355. Verdict to be in writing and signed by foreman.
Sec. 347. Order of conducting trial. When the jury has been
sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the
court, for special reasons, otherwise directs :
1. The plaintifff must briefly state his claim, and the evi
dence by which he expects to sustain it.
2. The defendant must then briefly state his defense, and
the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
3. The party on whom rests the burden of proof in the
whole action, must first produce his evidence;1 the adverse
party will then produce his evidence.
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence,
unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice per
mits them to offer evidence in their original case.2
5. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request
instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given
or refused by the court ; which instructions shall be reduced to
writing if either party require it.
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the
jury. In the argument, the party having the burden of proof
shall have the conclusion, and the adverse party the opening.
If there is more than one speech on either side, or if several
defendants having separate defenses, appear by different coun
sel, the court shall arrange their relative order. (Notes.)
Sec. 348. When and how a view by a jury is had. Whenever, in
the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of
real property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted
in a body nnder the charge of an officer to the place, which shall be
shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that pur
pose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the
person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected
with the trial.
Sec. 349. Duty of court and jury after cause submitted. When
the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide in court
or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept to
gether in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer,
until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court, sub
ject to the discretion of the court to permit them to separate tem
porarily at night, and at their meals. The officer having them
under his charge, shall not suffer any communication to be made to
them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, unless by order of the court ; and he shall not,
before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state
of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 350. Jury to be admonished when they separate. If the jury
are permitted to separate either during the trial or after the case is
submitted to them, they may be admonished by the court that it is
their duty not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed
by, any other person, on any subject of the trial ; and, during the
trial, that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon,
until the cause is finally submitted to them. (Notes.)
Sec. 351. Disagreeing, as to law or fact, may be brought into
court After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there is a dis
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed as to any point of law arising in the case, they
may request the officer to conduct them into court, where the in
formation required shall be given in the presence of or after no
tice to the parties or their counsel.
Sec. 352. Causes for which jury may be discharged. The jury
may be discharged by the court on account of the sickness of a
juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or
by consent of both parties, or after they have been kept together
until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their
agreeing.
Sec. 353. If jury discharged, when cause to be retried. In all
cases where the jury are discharged during the trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again, immediately or at
a future time, as the court may direct.
Sec. 354. Manner of delivering verdict—jury may be polled.
When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be con
ducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and the verdict
rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is announced, either
party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk
or court asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers
in the negative, the jury must again be sent out for further delibe
ration.
Sec. 355. Verdict to be in writing, signed by foreman. The ver
dict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read by the clerk
to the jury, and the inquiry made, whether it is their verdict. If
any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again ; but if no dis
agreement is expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be
polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the
case.
\
SUBDIVISION III.
TIRDICT.
356. Verdict may be general or special.
357. Jury have discretion as to kind of verdict
358. If special fmding mconsistent with general verdict, former controls.
359. Jury must assess amount of recovery.
360. Value of property, and damages for detention, to be assessed.
Sec. 356. Verdict may be general or special. The verdict of a
jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by
which they pronounce, generally, upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is
that by which the jury find the facts only. It must present the
facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and they must be so presented, as that nothing remains to
the court, but to draw from them conclusions of law. (Notes.)
Sec. 357. Jury have discretion as to kind of verdict In all ac
tions, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special
verdict, but may be required, by the court, in any case in which
they render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writing. This special finding is
to be recorded with the verdict.
Sec. 358. Special finding inconsistent with general verdict, former
controls. Where the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court may
give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 359. Jury must assess amount to be recovered. When, by
the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money of the adverse
party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of re
covery.
Sec. 360. Value of property, and damage for detention. In ac
tions for the recovery of specific personal property, the jury must
assess the value of the property, as also the damages for the taking
or detention,1 whenever, by their verdict, there will be a judgment
for the recovery or return of the property.
Sec. 361. Jury may be waived, and trial had by court. The trial
by jury may be waived by the parties, in actions arising on contract,
and, with the assent of the court, in other actions, in the following
manner :
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.
(Notes.)
Sec. 362. When court to state facts specially. Upon trials of
questions of fact by the court, it shall not be necessary for the
court to state its finding, except generally, for the plaintifff or de
fendant, unless one of the parties requests it, with the view of ex
cepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of law
involved in the trial ; in which case, the court shall, state, in writing,
the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of
law.
ARTICLE IV.
EXCEPTIONS.
363. What is an exception.
364. When to be taken.
365. No form necessary in filing exceptions.
366. Bow to be taken where the facts appear of record.
357. Where they do not appear on record —and how exception may be
obtained from bystanders.
368. Exception must be material, and prejudicial to the party excepting.
Sec. 363. What is an exception. An exception is an objection
taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law.
Sec. 364. When to be taken. The party objecting to the decision,
must except at the time the decision is made, and time maybe given
to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the succeeding
term. (Notes.)
Sec. 365. No form of exception requisite. No particular form
of exception is required. The exception must be stated, with so
much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it, and no more,
and the whole as briefly as possible. (Notes.)
Sec. 366. Mow taken when facts appear of record. Where the
decision objected to is entered on the record, and the grounds of
objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the
party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he
excepts.
Sec. 367. How, when facts appear of record, exceptions obtained
from bystanders. Where the decision is not entered on the record,
or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry,
the party excepting must reduce his exception to writing, and pre
sent it to the judge for his allowance and signature. If true, it shall
be the duty of the judge to allow and sign it; whereupon, it shall be
filed with the pleadings, as part of the record, but not spread at
large on the order book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall
correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and sign it. If the
party excepting, is not satisfied with the correction, upon his pro
curing the signatures of two bystanders, attesting the truth of his
exception as by him prepared, the same shall be filed as part of the
record ; but the truth of the exceptions may be controverted and
maintained by affidavits, not exceeding five in number on each side,
to be filed with the clerk within ten days after the filing of the ex
ception. (Notes.)
Sec. 368. Exception must be material a7id prejudicial. No ex
ception shall be regarded, unless it is material, and prejudicial to
the rights of the party excepting.1 (Notes.)
ARTICLE V.
NEW TRIALS.
369. For what causes a new trial may be granted.
370. For what causes it shall not be granted.
371. Application for new trial must be made at same term judgment is rendered.
372. Grounds to be in writing, and sustained by affidavits.
373. New trial may be granted, after the end of a term, for grounds afterward
discovered. Application by petition. Must be in three years.
Sec. 369. For what causes new trials granted. A new trial is
& re-examination, in the same court, of an issue of fact, after a
verdict by a jury, or a decision by the court. The former verdict
or decision may be vacated, and a new trial granted, on the applica
tion of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting
materially the substantial rights of such party :
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or pre
vailing party, or any order of court, or abuse of discretion, by
which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under
the influence of passion or prejudice.
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,
whether too large or two small, where the action is upon a con
tract, or for the injury or detention of property.
6. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contrary to law.
7. Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party apply
ing, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have dis
covered and produced at the trial.1
8. Error of law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by
the party making the application. (Notes.)
Skc. 370. For what causes not granted. A new trial shall not be
granted on account of the smallness of damages, in an action for an
injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other action where
the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained. (Notes.)
Sec. 371. When application for to be made. The application for
a new trial must be made at the term the verdict or decision is ren
dered, and except for the cause mentioned in subdivision seven, of
section three hundred and sixty-nine, shall be within three days
after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably pre
vented. (Notes.)
Sec. 372. Grounds may be in writing, and sustained by affidavit
The application must be made by motion, upon written grounds,
filed at the time of making the motion. The grounds mentioned in
the second, third and seventh subdivisions of section three hundred
and sixty-nine, must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth,
and may be controverted by affidavits. (Notes.)
Sec. 373. New trial, in certain cases, within three years. Where
grounds for a new trial are discovered after the term at which the
verdict or decision was rendered, the application may be made by a
petition filed with the clerk not later than the second term after the
discovery t on which a summons shall issue, as on other petitions,
requiring the adverse party to appear and answer it, on or before
the first day of the next term. The application shall stand for
hearing at the term to which the summons is returned executed,
and shall be summarily decided by the court. The evidence
may be either by depositions or by witnesses examined in court.
But no such application shall be made more than three years after
the final judgment is rendered.'
ARTICLE VL
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
374. Plaintiff to recover such damages as his cause of action entitles him to.
375. Provisions as to jury trials apply to trials by the court
Sec. 374. Plaintiff to recover such damages as his cause entitles
him to. Wherever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim
and recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for
the cause of action established.3 (Notes.)
Sec. 375. Provisions, as to jury trials, apply to trials by court
The provisions of this title respecting trials by jury, apply, so far
as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.
Sec. 376. Clerk to keep three dockets. The clerk shall keep three
separate dockets, which shall be called the " common docket," the
" equity docket," and the " motion docket." (Notes.)
Sec. 377. Common docket, what to be entered on. On the com
mon docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by ordinary
proceedings, in the order in which they were brought.
Sec. 378. How to be kept and arranged. The common docket
shall be made out for each term of the court ; and the actions shall
be set for particular days, and so arranged by the clerk that the
cases set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on that
day.
Sec. 379. At what time ordinary case may be tried. The trial of
any issue of fact or assessment of damages by a jury in any case,
shall be on or after the day which it is set, on the docket. (Notes.)
Sec. 380. Equity docket—what to be entered thereon. On the
equity docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by equitable
proceedings in the order in which they were brought.
[Amended, May 2, 1861.] A final judgment shall not be. ren
dered at any equity or criminal term of the circuit court, in any
action, which, according to section five, of title one, of the code of
practice in civil cases, must be prosecuted by ordinary proceedings ;
nor shall any such action be instituted or docketed as an appearance
to any equity or criminal term. {Notes to 379.)
Sec. 381. Motion docket. On the motion docket may be entered
any motion relating to proceedings in the court. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 382. Names of parties and their attorneys to be entered on
docket. The entry on all the dockets shall give the names of the
plaintifff and defendant, or, if there are more than one, then of the
first named in the pleadings, with the words " and others " added
thereto, and the names of the attorneys. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 383. What common docket to show. The entry on the com
mon docket shall also show whether or not the summons has been
fully served in due time for trial, and whether or not the issue has
been formed. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 384. What the motion to show. The entry on the motion
docket shall show the date of the entry, and the object of the mo
tion. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 885. First hour of each day devoted to motions. The first
hour of each day of the term shall be devoted to hearing motions,
in which the court shall first call the motion docket, and then, upon
the attorneys present, for motions. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 386. If not consumed, equUy docket to be called. If the
hour is not consumed in motions, the court may proceed, during the
remainder thereof, to call the equity docket. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 387. Common and equity dockets—when called. At the ex
piration of the motion hour, the court, except on the third day of
the term, shall proceed to the call of the common docket, and the
trial of the issues until the call is completed, and then to the call of
the equity docket. (Notes to 879.)
Sec. 388. When cases called for pleading. On each day of the
term, the court shall, immediately after the hearing of motions, call
all the cases on the common docket set for that day in which the
summons has been served in due time, as provided in section one
hundred and thirty-five, and in which no issue of fact has been
formed; and, upon failure to defend, may render judgment; and,
at the same time, may hear and determine all issues of law in such
actions, and render judgment, or give further time for hearing and
deciding them. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 389. On third day equity docket called for pleading. On the
third day of each term, the court shall call all cases on the equity
docket, in which the summons has been served, as provided in sec
tion one hundred and thirty-seven, and, upon failure to defend, may
give judgment. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 390. Issues of lata tried on thai day. On the third day, the
court may hear and decide all issues of law, in the actions as they
are called, and render judgment, or give further time for hearing
or deciding them. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 391. Motion made by entering it on docket The entry of a
motion on the motion docket, shall be considered as making the
motion. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 392. When ordinary action stands for trial: may be tried as to
part, and continued as to others. Actions by ordinary proceedings
shall stand for trial at the first term after process has been served
on the defendant, as specified in section one hundred and thirty five.
An action upon contract, wherein the summons has been served in
due time, as provided in section one hundred and thirty-five, upon
part only of the defendants, shall stand for trial at the first term, as
to those so summoned, and may be continued, as to the others, for fur
ther proceedings. In other actions by ordinary proceedings, the
plaintifff can only demand a trial, at any term, as to part of the de
fendants, upon his discontinuing his action, on the first day of such
term, as to the others. (Notes to 379.)
Sec. 393. When actions by equity proceedings stand for trial. Ac
tions prosecuted by equitable proceedings shall stand for trial at
any term, where the pleadings have been, or, by the provisions of
sections one hundred and thirty-seven, one hundred and thirty-eight
and one hundred and thirty-nine, should have been completed ninety
days before the commencement of such term. But where they have
not been so completed, though they should have been by those sec
tions, the party in default, as to time, shall not be entitled to de
mand a trial. (Notes.)
Sec. 394. Where interrogatories to be answered. Where interroga
tories have been annexed to a pleading in an action by equitable
proceedings, the party interrogated shall not be entitled to demand
a trial, unless he has answered the interrogatories either within
twenty days after they were filed, or twenty days before the term.
(Notes to 393.)
Sec. 395. When plaintifff entitled to trial in equity cause. The
plaintifff shall be entitled to a trial in actions by equitable proceed
ings, at the first term after the summons has been served on all the
defendants, as provided in section one hundred and thirty-seven,
where no issue of fact is made, by the pleadings, or where the plain
tiff consents that the statements of the answer may be taken as true.
(Notes to 393.)
Sec. 396. How trial as to part may be had in equity cause. Where
the summons in an action by equitable proceedings has been served
in due time on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss
his action as to those not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the
others, in all cases where he could have maintained his action against
them without joining those not summoned.
CHAPTER ni.
JUDGMENT.
ARTICLE 1. Judgment in general.
2. Judgment upon failure to answer.
3. Judgment by confession.
4. Manner of giving and entering judgment
5. Conveyance by commissioners under a judgment
ARTICLE L
JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.
397. Judgment defined.
398. Judgment may be given for or against some of the parties.
399. May be rendered against part and continued as to part of defendants.
400. How an action may be dismissed without prejudice to a future action.
401. Defendant may proceed with his setoff or counterclaim, though plaintifff has
dismissed his action.
402. Judgments may be rendered severally against the defendants.
403. Final judgments on mortgages may be rendered without interlocutory orders.
404. A sale of mortgaged property must be decreed.
405. Terms of sale of mortgaged property.
406. In action on a mortgage, judgment may be rendered for the debt personally.
407. Judgments for money may be set off. Proceedings for that purpose.
408. Injunctions may be obtained before judgment, to prevent loss.
Sec. 397. Judgment defined. A judgment is the final determin
ation of the rights of the parties in an action. (Notes.)
Sec. 398. Judgment for or against some of (he parties. Judgment
may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for
or against one or more of several defendants. {Notes.)
Sec. 399. Against part, and continued as to part In an action
against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render
judgment against one or more of them,1 leaving the action to pro
ceed against the others whenever a several judgment is proper.
(Notes to 398.)
Sec. 400. Sow action dismissed without prejudice. An action
may be dismissed, without prejudice to a future action,
1. By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the case to
the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
2. By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear on the
trial.
3. By the court, for the want of necessary parties.
4. By the court, on the application of some of the defend
ants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prose
cute with diligence.
5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of an order
concerning the proceedings in the action.
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must
be upon the merits. (Notes.)
Sec. 401. Dismissal of petition does not dismiss counterclaim or
setoff. In any case where a setoff or counterclaim has been pre
sented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial
of his claim, although the plaintifff may have dismissed his action or
failed to appear.
Sec. 402. Several judgments—when plaintifff entitled to. Though
all the defendants have been summoned, judgment may be rendered
against any of them severally,2 where the plaintifff would be entitled
to judgments against such defendants if the action had been against
them alone. (Notes.)
Sec. 403. On foreclosure, no interlocutory order necessary. It shall
not be necessary, in any action upon a mortgage or lien, to enter an
interlocutory judgment or give time for the payment of money, or
for doing any other act; but final judgment may, in such cases, be
given in the first instance.
Sec. 404. Sale of mortgaged property must be adjudged. In the
foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the mortgaged property shall,
in all cases, be ordered. (Notes.)
Sec. 405. Terms of sale of mortgaged property. Sales of per
sonal property or slaves, made by order of court, shall be on a credit
of three months ; sales of real property, on a credit of not less than
three nor more than twelve months, or on installments equivalent to
not more than twelve months' credit on the whole, to be determined
by the court.1 In all sales on credit, the purchaser shall execute
bond, with good surety, to be approved by the person making the
sale, which bond shall have the force of a judgment ; and in sales
of real property, a lien shall be retained on the property for its
price. (Notes to 404.)
Sec. 406. Personal judgment may be had in actions on mortgages.
In an action on a mortgage or lien, the judgment may be rendered
for the sale of the property, and for the recovery of the debt against
the defendant personally. (Notes.)
Sec. 407. Judgments for money may be set off, and how. Judg
ments for the recovery of money may be set off against each other,
having due regard to the legal and equitable rights of all persons
interested in both judgments. The setoff may be ordered upon mo
tion, after reasonable notice to the adverse party, where both judg
ments are in the same court, or in an action by equitable proceedings
in the court in which the judgment sought to be annulled by the set
off, was rendered.
Sec. 408. Injunction may be obtained before judgment, to prevent
loss. During the pendency of an action, the judgment in which,
when recovered, could be used as a setoff against a judgment in favor
of the defendants, or either of them, the court, to prevent loss by
insolvency, non-residence, or otherwise, may enjoin the collection
of the judgment in favor of such defendants, according to the pro
visions of chapter four, of title eight.2
Sec. 409. Upon failure to answer, how fact or damage ascertained.
If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the assess
ment of damages, is necessary to enable the court to pronounce
judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue
of law, the court may take the account, hear the proof, and, in ac
tions founded on contract, assess the damages, or may refer the
same to a commissioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained
or assessed by a jury. If a jury is ordered, it shall be on or after
the day on which the action is set for trial. (Notes.)
Sec. 410. Part of claim controverted, judgment as to balance. If
only a part of the plaintifff's claim is controverted by the defend
ant's answer, judgment may, at any time, be rendered for the part
not controverted.
ARTICLE IIL
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.
411. Defendant may appear in court, and confess judgment
412. Cause of action to be stated.
413. Such judgment may be enforced, and operate as a release of errors.
Sec. 411. Defendant may appear in court and confess judgment
Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action exists,
may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and,
with the assent of the creditor or person having such cause of ac
tion, confess judgment therefore; whereupon, judgment shall be
entered accordingly.
Sec. 412. Cause of action to be stated. The debt, or cause of
action shall be briefly stated in the judgment, or in a writing to be
filed as pleadings in other actions.
Sec. 413. Such judgments may be enforced—to operate as a release
of errors. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for
its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought
and prosecuted, and the confession shall operate as a release of
errors.
Sec. 414. Clerk to enter judgment in conformity to verdict When
a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the
clerk, in conformity with the verdict, unless it is special, or the
court orders the case to be reserved for future argument or consid
eration.1
Sec. 415. Judgment on special verdict Where the verdict is
special, or where there has been a special finding on particular
questions of fact, or where the court has ordered the case to be
reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be entered.
Sec. 416. Judgment notwithstanding the verdict Where, upon
the statements in the pleadings, one party is entitled by law to
judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so entered by the court,
though a verdict has been found against such party.
Sec. 417. In case of counterclaim or setoff, hoio given. If a setoff,
established at the trial, exceeds the plaintifff's claim so established,
judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or, if it
appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative re
lief, judgment shall be given therefore.
Sec. 418. How to be rendered in actions for personal property.
In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judg
ment for the plaintifff may be for the delivery of the property, or for
the value thereof, in case a delivery can not be had, and damages
for the detention.1 Where the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff, and the defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the
defendant may be for the return of the property, or its value, in
case a return can not be had, and damages for the taking and with
holding of the property. {Notes.)
Sec. 419. Special damages by statute — how judgment given.
Where special damages are given by statute, and it appears by the
verdict of the jury or other decision of the action, that such special
damages are due and recoverable by one of the parties against the
other, the court shall render judgment for them; and if, in ascer
taining the amount thereof, it is necessary to assess the value of
any property, or amount of any debt or claim, the court may hear
the proof, and assess such value or amount, or have the same made
by a jury.
Sec. 420. How judgment entered and what to specify. The judg
ment must be entered on the order book, and specify clearly the re
lief granted, or other determination of the action. (Notes.)
Sec. 421. Time for infants need not be reserved. It shall not
be necessary to reserve, in a judgment or order, the right of an
infant to show cause against it after his attaining full age ; but in
any case in which, but for this section, such a reservation would
have been proper, the infant, within twelve months after arriving
at the age of twenty-one years, may show cause against such order
or judgment.* (Notes.)
Sec. 422. Judgment book—how kept and its purposes. The clerk
must keep among the records of the court, a book to be called the
"judgment book," in which shall be alphabetically cross-indexed all
the judgments of the court, according to the surnames of the plain
tiff and defendant; and if there is more than one plaintifff and de
fendant, then of the plaintifff and defendant first named in the petition.
It shall be so arranged that all the judgments in cases of plaintifffs
whose surnames commence with the same letter shall be together,
and all of each term shall immediately succeed each other. The en
try in the judgment book must show the names of the plaintifff and
defendent, and if more than one, then of the first named of each
in the pleadings, with the words " and others," the term at which
the judgment was entered, and a reference to the order book and
page at which the judgment is to be found, with a space left for the
entry of the satisfaction of the judgment.
Sec. 423. How satisfaction of judgment to be entered. Whenever
the whole judgment shall appear to be satisfied by the return of an
execution, it shall be the duty of the clerk, to enter in the judgment
book, in the space left for that purpose, " satisfied by execution."
Whenever a judgment is satisfied otherwise than upon execution,
it shall be the duty of the party or his attorney to enter satisfac
tion in the judgment book, which shall be sufficiently done by writ
ing the words " satisfied in full," with the date of the entry, and the
signature of the party making it; and the court may, on motion
and notice, compel an entry of satisfaction to be made.
ARTICLE V.
CONVEYANCE BY COMMISSIONERS.
424. Cases in which real property may be conveyed by commissioner.
425. Deed to refer to judgment
426. Commissioner's deed passes title of parties ordered to convey.
427. Conveyance made in pursuance of sale passes the title of all the parties.
428. Conveyance must be approved by court, and approval indorsed on it
429. Conveyance to be signed with name of commissioner only.
430. Where to be recorded.
Sec. 424. Cases in which commissioner may convey. Real prop
erty may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court,
1. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered
to convey such property to another.
2. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or
order of the court, and the purchase money paid. (Notes.)'
[Parties dying after sale, no revivor is necessary before conveyance. See Sup
plement to Revised Statutes, p. 113.]
Sec. 425. Deed to refer to judgment The deed of the commis
sioner shall so refer to the judgment, orders and proceedings au
thorizing the conveyance, as that the same may be readily found.
{Notes to 424.)
Sec. 426. What passes by comvxissioner's deed. A conveyance
made in. pursuance of a judgment, shall pass to the grantee the title
of the parties ordered to convey the land. (Notes to 424.)
Sec. 427. Conveyance irl pursuance of sale passes title of all par
ties. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the ac
tion or proceeding.1 (Notes to 424.)
Sec. 428. Conveyance to be approved by court, and approval to be
indorsed on deed. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass
any right, until it has been examined and approved by the court,
which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance, and recorded
with it. (Notes to 424.)
Sec. 429. To be signed by commissioner only. It shall be neces
sary for the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only, with
out affixing the names of the parties whose title is conveyed; but the
names of such parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.
(Notes to 424.)
Sec. 430. Where to be recorded. The conveyance shall be re
corded in the office in which, by law, it should have been recorded,
had it been made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.
(Notes to 424.)
CHAPTER IV.
REVIVOR OF JUDGMENTS.
431. Execution may be issued on a judgment until barred by limitation.
432. Death of plaintifff does not prevent Names of representatives to be in
dorsed.
433. Surviving plaintifff, or representatives of plaintifff, to be regarded as the
plaintifff.
434. Affidavit to be filed before making indorsement, and certificate of qualifica
tion as representative.
435. Death of part of defendants does not prevent execution against the survivors.
436. If execution is improperly issued, may be enjoined and quashed.
437. Judgments revived by ordinary action.
Sec. 431. Execution may issue on judgment till barred by limita
tion. An execution may be issued upon a judgment at any time until
the collection of it is barred, by the statute of limitations, although
no execution may have been previously issued within a year and a
day. (Notes.)
Sec. 432. Death of plaintifff—names of representatives to be in
dorsed. The death of one or all the plaintifffs shall not prevent an
execution being issued thereon, but on such execution the clerk shall
indorse the death of such of them as are dead, and if all are dead,
the names of the personal representatives, or the last survivor, if the
judgment passed to the personal representatives, or the names of
the survivor's heirs, if the judgment was for real property.
[Amended, June 3, 1865.] Sec. I. That sections four hundred
and thirty-two and four hundred and thirty ,four, of chapter
four, title nine, of the civil code of practice, be so amended that
the provisions thereof shall apply to the successor of any per
sonal representative, public administrator, or creditor, into
whose custody an estate may be committed.
Sec. II. That the provisions of said sections shall also apply
to the personal representatives and their successors, of any non
resident decedent: Provided, That before issuing the execution
therein provided for, the applicant shall file an authenticated
copy of the order appointing him, and execute the bond re
quired by the act approved 18th February, 1854, entitled " an
act to permit the personal representatives of non,resident de
cedents to sue in this state." (Notes.)
Sec. 433. Surviving plaintifff, or his representative, to be regarded
as plaintifff. The sheriff, in acting upon an execution indorsed as
provided in the last section, shall proceed as if the surviving plain
tiff or plaintifffs, or the personal representatives or heirs, were the
only plaintifffs in the execution, and take sale, replevy, and forth
coming bonds accordingly. (Notes to 432.)
Sec. 434. Affidavit, etc., to be filed before indorsement. Before
making the indorsements named above, an affidavit shall be filed with
the clerk by one of the plaintifffs, or personal representatives, or
heirs, or their attorney, of the death, and that the persons named as
such are the personal representatives or heirs; and in the case of
personal representatives, they shall file with the clerk a certificate
of their qualification in some county court of this state. (Notes to
432.)
[See amendment to section 432.]
Sec. 435. Death of part of defendants, execution may go against
survivors. The death of part only of the defendants shall not pre
vent execution being issued, which, however, shall operate alone on
the survivors and their property. (Notes to 432.)
Sec. 436. Execution improperly issued may be enjoined or
quashed. The defendant may move the court to quash an execution,
on the ground that the personal representatives or heirs of a de
ceased plaintifff are not properly stated in the indorsement on the
execution, and during the vacation of the court, may obtain an in
junction, upon its being made to appear that the persons named are
not entitled to the judgment on which the execution was issued.
(Notes to 432.)
SeC. 437. Judgment revived by ordinary action, or by rule. A
judgment may be revived against the personal representatives, heirs
and devisees, or either of them, of a deceased defendant, by an ac
tion prosecuted by ordinary proceedings, without verification of the
petition.1
[Amended, January 19, 1866.] Sec. I. That the four hun
dred and thirty-seventh section, chapter four, "revivor of judg
ments," of the civil code of practice, be so amended, that,
■when any or all of the defendants in an action against whom
there is judgment, die after the rendition of the judgment, and
before levy of execution issued thereon, or before the enforce
ment of the judgment, the plaintifff may, by rule in the action,
revive the judgment against the personal representatives of the
deceased defendant, and against his heirs, devisees or legatees,
jointly or severally; but no such judgment shall be revived, or
execution issued thereon, or the judgment enforced against the
personal representative of deceased defendant, until six months
after his qualification ; nor against the heir, devisee or legatee,
until twelve months after the death of any such defendant,
and not until the rule or notice to show cause why the judg
ment should not be revived, is executed ten days before the
motion to revive is made, and the rule returned executed, by
delivering a copy to the persons against whom the judgment is
sought to be revived.
Sec. II. That the motion for the rule herein shall be placed
on the motion docket of the court, and be heard as other mo
tions; and the court may sit any day of the term to hear it,
or may continue it until the next term, and may cause execu
tion to issue, without delay. (Notes to 432.)
Sec. 438. Defendant, constructively summoned, may appear and
defend before judgment A defendant, constructively summoned,
shall be allowed, at any time, before judgment, to appear and de
fend the action ; and, upon a substantial defense being disclosed,
time may be given, on reasonable terms, to prepare for trial.
Sec. 439. Petition not to be taken as true, unless a certain affidavit
is filed. The statements of the petition, as against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared,1 except such
as are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true, but are to be estab
lished by proof. But where the defendant files with the petition his
own affidavit, stating that any of the allegations thereof recited in
the affidavit are true, and known to be so by the defendant, and that
they can not be proved or shown otherwise than by his answer, so
far as affiant knows or believes, such allegations, unless denied by
the answer, shall be taken as true. (Notes.)
Sec. 440. Before judgment, an attorney must be appointed and bond
executed. [Amended, January 20, 1863.] Before judgment is ren
dered against a defendant constructively summoned, and who has not
appeared, it shall be necessary,
1. That an attorney be appointed, at least sixty days before
the judgment is rendered, to defend for the defendant, and in
form him of the action, and of such other matters as may be
useful to him in preparing for his defense. The attorney may
be appointed by the clerk when the warning order is made, or
by the court, and shall receive a reasonable compensation for
his services, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs :
Provided, He may take any step in the progress of the action,
except filing an answer, without it having the effect of entering
the appearance of such defendant.
2. That a bond, to be executed to such defendant, by one or
more sufiicient sureties of the plaintifff, to the effect that, if the
defendant, within the period prescribed by law, shall appear,
make defense, and set aside the judgment, the plaintifff shall re
store to him the property taken under any attachment in the
action, or under the judgment therein, the restoration of which
may be adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums of money
as the court may award to him.
[Amended, February 28, 1865.] That in suits brought by
the personal representative or creditor of a deceased person, to
have a settlement of his estate, and a sale of his real estate for
the payment of his debts, and the heirs or devisees are non
residents, it shall not be required of the personal representative,
or any creditor, to execute the bond required by the second par
agraph of the four hundred and fortieth section of the code of
practice in civil cases. (Notes.)
Sec. 441. Qualifications of an attorney appointed to defend. The
attorney appointed pursuant to the last section, shall be a regular
practicing attorney of the court; and before an order for his com
pensation is made, he must make a written statement of all that he
has done in the case, which shall be signed by him, and filed with
the papers of the action.
Sec. 442. If bond not given, court must retain control of property
five years. If the bond mentioned in section four hundred and forty
is not given, the court may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights
of the parties, but shall retain control over and preserve any money
or property, or the proceeds thereof, which may have been attached
in the action, until the expiration of the period allowed to the de
fendant to appear and make defense ; when, if no defense is made,
such money, or property, or its proceeds, shall be delivered accord
ing to the judgment.
Sec. 443. Plaintiff may be examined touching his claim. Before
rendering judgment against a defendant constructively summoned,
and who has not appeared, the court may cause the plaintifff to ap
pear personally in court, or before a commissioner, and answer, un
der oath, interrogatories concerning the matters in the petition, or
any matters of defense thereto, including matters of setoff or coun
terclaim, and may order the examination to be reduced to writing
and filed with the papers of the action. (Notes.)
Sec. 444. If counterclaim or setoff disclosed, to be allowed. If,
upon the examination provided in the last section, any matters of
setoff or counterclaim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted and
allowed in the judgment. (Notes to 443.)
Sec. 445. Defendant may appear within five years after judgment
and have re-trial. [Amended, February 8, 1864.] Where a judg
ment has been rendered against a defendant or defendants construct
ively summoned, and who did not appear, such defendants, or any
one or more of them, may, at any time within five years after the
rendition of the judgment, appear in court, and move to have the ac
tion re-tried;1 and, security for the costs being given, they shall be
admitted to make defense ; and, thereupon, the action shall be re
tried as to such defendants, as if there had been no judgment; and,
upon the new trial, the court may confirm the former judgment, or
may modify or set it aside, and may order the plaintifff to restore
any money of such defendant paid to him under it, or any property
of the defendant obtained by the plaintifff under it, and yet remain
ing in his possession, and pay to the defendant the value of any prop
erty which may have been taken under an attachment in the action,
or under the judgment and not restored. But the provisions of this
section shall not apply to judgments granting a divorce, where the
defendant shall have been served with a copy of the petition, with a
summons annexed, sixty days before the commencement of the term
at which the judgment shall be rendered, as provided in section
eighty-six: Provided, The question of alimony shall not be affected
by such suit for divorce; and, provided further, That the provisions
of section three hundred and seventy-three shall not apply to such
cases. (Notes.)
Sec. 446. If copy of judgment served on defendant, time reduced
to one year. The plaintifff may, at any time after the judgment,
cause a certified copy thereof to be served on a defendant construct
ively summoned; whereupon, the period in which such defendant is
allowed to appear and have a new trial, shall be reduced to one year
after such service.
Sec. 447. Manner of serving such copy. The service of the copy
of the judgment, if in this state, shall be made and proved in the
same manner as the service of a summons ; and, if out of this state,
in the manner prescribed in section eighty, six, as to the service of
a copy of the petition and summons, and proof thereof.
Sec. 448. Title of purchaser, other than plaintifff, not to be affected.
The title of purchasers in good faith to any property sold under an
attachment or judgment, shall not be affected by the new trial per
mitted by section four hundred and forty-five, except the title of
property obtained by the plaintifff and not bought of him in good
faith by others.
Sec. 449. Liens can only be created by attachment or judgment
No lien on the property of a defendant constructively summoned,
shall he created otherwise than by an attachment as provided in chap
ter three of title eight, or by judgment. Nor shall any other defend
ant be restrained from paying or delivering any money or property
in his hands belonging or due to such defendant, by notice indorsed
on the summons, or otherwise than by attachment or judgment
(Notes.) *
Sec. 450. No personal judgment against defendant who has not
appeared. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a de
fendant, constructively summoned, or summoned out of this state,
as provided in section eighty-six, and who has not appeared in the
action. (Notes.)
CHAPTER II.
IN ACTIONS AGAINST STEAMBOATS.
451. When actions against steamboats stand for trial.
452. Any party to the action may obtain an attachment
453. Statements of the petition must be proved, unless owner is sum
moned, or appears.
454. An action for an injury must be tried by jury.
455. An action on contract may be tried by the court
456. Credit of six months on sales of steamboats.
Sec. 451. When actions against steamboats stand for trial. An
action to enforce the liability, by statute, of a steamboat or other
vessel, for the removal of a slave, or to enforce a lien upon a steam
boat for the wages of its officers or crew, or for work done upon, or
materials, supplies, stores or provisions furnisheil to such boat, or
the liability thereof for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a
trespass of its officers or crew, shall stand for trial at the first term
of the court commencing not less than ten days after the service of
the summons.
Sec. 452. Any party to an action may have an attachment. In
any action mentioned in the last section, a person made a party
pursuant to the provisions of section forty-eight, may obtain an
attachment, in the same manner, and upon the same conditions as
are prescribed concerning the attachment of the plaintifff in the
action.
Sec. 453. Statements of petition must be proved, unless owner
summoned or appears. Where, in any action mentioned in section
four hundred and fifty-one, no owner of the boat has been summoned
or has appeared,1 the statements of the petition shall not be taken as
true upon the trial, but are to be established by proof.
Sec. 454. An action for an injury must be tried by jury. Where
any action mentioned in section four hundred and fifty -one, is for
an injury, the fact shall be tried by a jury, upon such issue or issues
as the court may prescribe ; and, in every such case, the damages
shall be assessed by a jury.
Sec. 455. An action on contract may be tried by the court Where
any action mentioned in section four hundred and fifty-one is upon
contract, the court may determine the facts, and assess the
damages or amount of recovery, or, in its discretion, may direct a
trial or assessment by a jury, or a reference to a commissioner, to
ascertain the facts or make an assessment.
Sec. 456. Credit of six montlis on sales of boats. Sales of steam
boats or other vessels, ordered in any action mentioned in section
four hundred and fifty one, shall not be upon a credit longer than
six months, nor, where by installments, upon credits longer than an
average of six months for the whole.
Sec. 457. Action for divorce to be by equitable proceedings. The
action for alimony or divorce shall be by equitable proceedings.
Sec. 458. Pleadings need not be verified—but answers to interroga
tories must be on oath. The pleadings are not required to be veri
fied by affidavit. But either party may file interrogatories to the
other, in regard to any matter of property involved in the action,
which shall be answered on oath, as interrogatories in other actions,
and have the same effect.
Sec. 459. Statements of petition must be proven. The statements
of a petition for a divorce shall not be taken as true because of the
defendant's failure to answer, or his or her admission of their truth.
(Notes.)
Sec. 460. What plaintifff must allege and prove in addition to
ground of divorce. The plaintifff to obtain a divorce must allege and
prove, in addition to a legal cause of divorce —
1. A residence in the state for one year next before the com
mencement of the action.
2. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed in this state,
or if out of the state, either that it was a legal cause of divorce
in the state where it occurred or existed, or that the plaintifff's
residence was then in this state.
3. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed within five
years next before the commencement of the suit.
Sec. 461. During the action wife may be allowed a support Dur
ing the pendency of an action for divorce or alimony, the court
may allow the wife maintenance, and enforce the payment of the
same by orders and executions, and proceedings as in cases of con
tempt. (Notes.)
Sec. 462. Upon divorce each party's property to be restored. In
every final judgment for a divorce from the bond of matrimony, an
order shall be made, that each party be restored to all property not
disposed of at the commencement of the action, which either party
obtained from or through the other during the marriage, and in con
sideration or by reason thereof. The proceedings for enforcing this
order may be by petition of either party, specifying the property the
other has failed to restore ; upon which the court may proceed to
hear and determine the same, in a summary manner, after ten days'
notice to the opposite party. (Notes.)
Sec. 463. Sow divorce annulled. The proceedings of annulling
a final judgment for a divorce from the bond of matrimony, shall
be a joint petition of the parties, verified by both parties in person,
filed in the court rendering the judgment, upon which the court .
may forthwith annul the divorce.
Sec. 464. To annul divorce from bed and board either party may
file petition. To annul a divorce from bed and board, either party
may file a petition setting forth a sufficient cause for annulling the
same ; on which a summons shall issue against the other, and other
proceedings be had as in actions by equitable proceedings.
Sec. 465. Who may sue for a settlement The personal repre
sentative, an heir, devisee, legatee, distributee, or creditor of a de
ceased person, may institute an action1 by equitable proceedings for
the settlement of his estate, and in such action may make all hav
ing an interest in the estate and settlement defendants. (Notes.)
Sec. 466. Lands, slaves, and choses in action may be sold. In an
action for the settlement of the estate of a deceased person, if it
shall appear that the personal estate is insufficient for the pay
ment of all debts, the court may order the slaves and real property,
or either, descended or devised to the heirs or devisees, who may
be parties to the action, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, to
be sold for the payment of the residue of such debts.
[Amended, March 2, I860.] Sec. I. That it shall and may
be lawful for the chancery and circuit courts, in all cases now
pending, or which may be hereafter commenced, wherein the
settlement of any estate of an insolvent decedent, or the fore
closure of a deed of trust for the payment of debts, is sought,
to decree the sale of any and all notes, bonds, bills, choses in
action, and judgments belonging to the assets of such intes
tate's estate, constituting a part of the trust or assigned prop
erty, whenever .it appears to the satisfaction of the court that
such notes, bonds, bills, choses in action or judgments can not
be collected in a reasonable time by the use of ordinary dili
gence, and when it shall also appear that such sale is necessary
for the payment of debts.
Sec. II. That the circuit and chancery courts of this com
monwealth shall be authorized to decree a sale of bonds, notes,
or other choses in action brought into court in all cases where
a discovery may be had against insolvent debtors.
Sec. III. The sales provided for in the preceding section
shall be on the same terms as is or may be provided by law for
the sale of other personal property, and the court may make
all proper orders necessary to cause such assets sold under its
order to be transferred to the purchaser or purchasers by the
party holding the legal title, or by an officer of the court.
(Notes to 465.)
Sec. 467. Notice to creditors to appear and prove claims. In all
actions for the settlement of the estates of deceased persons, the
court shall make an order for the creditors of such decedents to ap
pear before a commissioner, to be appointed by the court, and prove
their claims by a certain day to be named in the order, notice of
which shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper ; or, if none
is published in the county, then by such other modes as the court
may judge best calculated to give such creditors actual notice of the
order ; and in addition to the advertisement in a newspaper, the court
may direct publication in other modes.
Sec. 468. Creditor appearing becomes party, and concluded by
judgment A creditor appearing before the commissoner and pre
senting his claim, becomes thereby a party to the action, and is con
cluded by the final judgment of the court allowing or rejecting his
claim.
Sec. 469. Failing to appear, no claim on administrator after es
tate paid out Creditors failing to appear and prove their claims,
agreeably to such order, shall have no claim against the executor or
administrator, who has actually paid out the estate in expenses of
administration, and to creditors, legatees, or distributees.
Sec. 470. Liability of legatees and distributees to creditors. Leg
atees and distributees shall be liable to a direct action by a creditor
to the extent of estate received by each of them, notwithstanding
the failure of the creditor to appear, and the discharge of the per
sonal representative, as prescribed in the preceding section ; and that
liability shall continue for the same period that the liability of the
personal representative would have continued but for said discharge.
Sec. 471. Refunding bond may be required of distributee, etc. The
court shall require the distributee or legatee, before receiving his
distributive share or legacy, to execute bond, with good surety, to
the commonwealth, conditioned to pay his proportion, not exceeding
the amount received by him, of any debt which may appear against
the estate of the decedent within five years after the grant of admin
istration on the estate. Any creditor may institute an action on
said bond, within five years after the grant of administration, but
not after. (Notes.)
Sec. 472. Injunction against other suits may be granted. Upon
the institution of the action mentioned in this chapter, an order en
joining the prosecution of actions against the personal representa
tive, or heir, by creditors, for their demands, shall be entered. But
wch enjoining shall not be made, unless the action for the settlement
of the estate be commenced in three years after the qualification of
the personal representative.
Sec. 473. Affidavit required of creditors not dispensed with.
Nothing in this code shall be construed as dispensing with the affi
davit required in sections thirty-five and thirty-six, of article two,
chapter thirty-seven, of the Revised Statutes; but said sections, as
well as section thirty-eight of the same article, shall remain in full
force, and be applicable to all actions or proceedings to enforce a
claim against the estate of a person deceased ; and no suit shall be
brought against a personal representative until after a demand is
made of him, accompanied with the affidavit required.
[Amended, December 20, 1861.] That section four hundred
and seventy-three of the civil code of practice be, and the same
is hereby, so amended that when the personal representative of
any estate of any decedent is a non-resident of this state, or
shall have been absent from said state for four months, or shall
voluntarily have been in the so-called Confederate States of
America, or shall have left the place of his residence, and vol
untarily remained within the lines of the army of said Confed
erate States for two months, no demand of the payment of the
debt due by the estate shall be necessary before the institution
of the suit ; but this act shall not be construed so as to dispense
with the affidavit required in sections thirty-five and thirty-six
of article two, chapter thirty-seven, of the Revised Statutes.
[Further amended, February 28, 1865.] Sec. I. That it shall
only be necessary for the claimant to make affidavit of all pay
ments, credits, or discounts, of which he has any knowledge or
belief, that may exist against the estate of any person who has
been a trustee or fiduciary of any kind, on account of said trust
or fiduciary fund, and present the same to the personal repre
sentative of such trustee or fiduciary, and demand a settlement
of such accounts before the bringing of a suit for the settlement
of the same.
Sec. II. That where any suit is brought, and any adult per
son is a defendant to such suit, claiming an interest in any such
trust or fiduciary fund, he shall not be entitled to enforce the
judgment for any part going to him until he shall first file his
affidavit disclosing any credit, discount, or payment, of which
he has any knowledge, on the part going to him ; which amount
shall be credited by the court or clerk upon any execution or
other process by which he attempts to enforce the payment of
said judgment. (Notes.)
CHAPTER V.
FOR ENFORCING THE SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS.
474. After return of execution, " no property found," an equitable action may be
brought for discovery of money, choses in action, etc.
475. The answers of defendants to be verified by their own oath, and discoveries
enforced.
476. Attachments to be issued without affidavit or bond.
477. Lien created by levying attachments or. serving summons with the object
indorsed.
478. Court to enforce surrender of money, property, eta
m
Sec. 474. Proceedings to enforce satisfaction of judgment, after return
of " no property." After an execution of fieri facias, directed to the
county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the county of the
defendant's residence, is returned by the proper officer, either as to
the whole or part thereof, in substance, no property found to satisfy
the same, the plaintifff in the execution may institute an action, by
equitable proceedings, in the court from which the execution issued,
or in the court of any county in which the defendant resides, or is
summoned, for the discovery of any money, chose in action, equita
ble or legal interest, and all other property to which the defendant
is entitled, and for subjecting the same to the satisfaction of the
judgment ; and in such actions, persons indebted to the defendant
in the execution, or holding the money or property in which he has
an interest, or holding the evidences or securities for the same, may
be also made defendants. {Notes.)
Sec. 475. How answer to be verified and discoveries enforced.
The answers of all the defendants shall be verified by their own
oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the court shall
enforce full and explicit discoveries, in such answers, by process of
contempt. (Notes to 474.)
Sec. 476. Attachment to issue without affidavit or bond. In'the
action mentioned in the preceding sections, the plaintifff may have
an attachment against the property of the defendant in the execu
tion, similar to the general attachments provided for in chapter three,
of title eight, without either the affidavit or bond therein required.
Sec. 477. How lien created. A lien shall be created on the prop
erty of the defendant, by the levy of the attachment, or service of
the summons, with the object of the action indorsed thereon, on the
person holding or controlling his property.
Sec. 478. Court to enforce surrender of money, property^ etc. The
court shall enforce the surrender of the money, or securities there
for, or of any other property of the defendant in the execution which
may be discovered in the action, and, for this purpose, may commit
to jail any defendant or garnishee failing or refusing to make such
surrender, until it shall be done, or the court is satisfied that it is
out of his power to do so.
CHAPTER VI.
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS.
479. Tn what cases judgments may be obtained on motion.
480. Notice to be given ten days before judgment
481. Notice to specify the nature of the motion, and the day it will be made.
482. Unless made or entered on the day specified, the motion is abandoned.
483. May be made on any day of the term.
484. No written pleadings required.
Sec. 479. In what cases judgment may be rendered on motion.
Judgments and final orders may be obtained, on motion, by sureties
against their principals ; sureties against their co-sureties, for the
recovery of money due them on account of payments made by them
as such ; by clients against attorneys ; plaintifffs in execution against
sheriffs, constables, and other officers, for the recovery of money or
property collected for them, and damages ; and in all other cases
specially authorized by statute. (Notes)
Sec. 480. Ten days' notice to be given of motion. Notice of such
motion shall be served on the party against whom the judgment or
order is sought, at least ten days before the motion is made. {Notes
to 479.)
Sec. 481. What the notice to state. The notice shall state, in
plain and ordinary language, the nature and grounds of the motion,
and the day on which it will be made.
Sec. 482. Unless made or entered on the day, motion abandoned.
Unless the motion is made or entered on the motion docket on the
day specified in the notice, it shall be considered as abandoned.
Sec. 483. May be made on any day of the term. The motion
mentioned in this chapter may be made on any day of the term of
the court.
Skc. 484. No written pleadings required. The motion shall be
heard and determined without written pleadings, and judgment
given according to law and the rules of equity. (Notes.)
CHAPTER VII.
CTVIL PROCEEDINGS ON BEHALF OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
485. All debts due the state recoverable by motion in Franklin circuit court
486. Notice is not required when the motion is made at the first court after debt
became due.
487. Nor where made at the first court after certain penalties become due.
488. Notice to be given ten days before motion in all other cases.
489. Notice to be signed by attorney-general, and specify the nature and grounds
of the motion, and the day it will be made.
490. Certificate of balance by auditor, etc., to be evidence of indebtedness.
491. All questions of law or fact to be decided by the court
492. Attorney-general may bring an action when he thinks proper.
493. Precedence in all courts to be given to suits in which the commonwealth
sues for its own use.
494 How depositions are to be taken, and compensation therefore.
495. Auditor may institute suit and employ counsel, where a public debtor makes
fraudulent conveyances, etc.
496. Money collected on judgments to be paid into public treasury.
497. Court to certify to the auditor the amount of judgment and fees of officers,
' witnesses, etc.
498. Attorney-general to be allowed his postages.
Sec. 485. All debts due the state recoverable by motion. All debts
due to the commonwealth of Kentucky are recoverable by motion in
the Franklin circuit court.
Sec. 486. When notice not required. [Amended, December 21,
1861.] Where the debt is due by a sheriff, clerk, or collector of the
revenue, or any other receiver of public monies, for money collected
or received, and such officer, collector, or receiver has failed to pay
the same, in the manner and at the time prescribed by law, the mo
tion for the recovery of such debt may be made at the regular term
of the Franklin circuit court next after such failure, or at any sub
sequent term of said court, without notice to such debtor or his
sureties.
Sec. 487. When notice not required—'penalty. [Amended, Decem
ber 21, 1861.] Where officers, corporations, or officers of corpora
tions, are required to report to the auditor of public accounts the
monies in their hands belonging to the commonwealth, or due by
them, or by a corporation, to the commonwealth, at a certain period
or periods fixed by law, and a fine or penalty is imposed for such
failure, the motion for the recovery thereof may be made at the term
of the Franklin circuit court next after such failure, or at any sub
sequent term, without notice to said party in default.
Sec. 488. Wlien notice to be given. In all other cases, notice of
such motion shall be served on the debtor, or person in default, ten
days before the making thereof.
Sec. 489. Who to sign the notice, and what to specify. The notice
shall in general terms state the nature and grounds of the motion,
and the day on which it will be made. The notice must be signed
by the attorney-general.
Sec. 490. Auditors certificate to be evidence. Where a debt due
to the commonwealth appears upon the books of the auditor of pub
lic accounts, or of any other public officer, whose duty it shall be to
audit and keep an accurate account of such debt, a copy of the bal
ance due upon the books of such auditor or officer, certified by him
to be the correct and true balance, shall be sufficient evidence of such
indebtedness.
Sec. 491. Court to try both law and fact. All questions of law
or fact arising on said motion, shall be determined by the court.
Sec. 492. Attorney,general may bring an action when he things it
proper. Where the debt due the commonwealth is uncertain in
amount, or depends on the settlement of a complicated account or
transaction, or in any other case in which the attorney-general thinks
proper, he may bring an action therefore by ordinary or equitable
proceedings in the Franklin circuit court.
Sec. 493. In all courts, commonwealth's business to have precedence.
Precedence shall be given in all courts to actions, motions, and other
proceedings in which the commonwealth is a party, for its own use,
over any other business of the court.
Sec. 494. How depositions taken and compensation therefore. When
depositions are required to be taken in any civil proceeding in be
half of the commonwealth, the attorney-general may require the com
monwealth's attorney of the district, or the county attorney of the
county in which the depositions are" to be taken, to attend to the tak
ing of the same, and examine or cross-examine the witnesses, whose
duty it shall be to attend to the taking of the same, and he shall be
allowed five dollars per day for each day he may be so engaged in
taking such depositions.
Sec. 495. Public debtor conveying fraudulently, auditor may sue
and employ counsel. Whenever an execution against a public debtor
shall not be satisfied in the regular course of proceeding, and the
auditor shall be of opinion that the same is caused by fraudulent
conveyances, or a fraudulent concealment of the debtor's property,
or by any other obstruction thereto, he may cause actions to be
brought either in the court in which the judgment was obtained, or
in any other circuit court where the property may be or the debtor
found, to set aside such fraudulent conveyances, remove any obstruc
tions to the execution, or to obtain satisfaction of the judgment as
provided in chapter five of this 'title, and for that purpose may em
ploy an attorney to bring such action, or an agent to prepare the
suit and attend to the collection of the judgment, and may agree as
to a compensation to be paid for their services, either certain or con
tingent on success ; but the amount of such contingent compensation
shall not exceed twenty per cent, on the first three hundred dollars,
and ten per cent. on any excess over said amount—for which com
pensation, when due, he shall issue a warrant on the treasurer.
Sec. 496. Money collected on judgment to be paid into treasury.
The sheriff, or other officer, collecting any money due to the com
monwealth, shall pay the same into the public treasury and obtain
a quietus therefore, and not to the attorney-general or any other at
torney or agent employed in the collection of the same, or to any
other person unless otherwise directed by law.
Sec. 497. Court to certify amount of judgment, costs and fees.
The court rendering a judgment in favor of the commonwealth,
shall certify the amount thereof, together with the costs, to the au
ditor ; and shall also certify the fees due to officers taking deposi
tions, and to witnesses for attendance on behalf of the common
wealth, for which the auditor shall issue his warrant on the treas
urer to the person entitled.
Sec. 498. Attorney-general allowed his postage. The attorneygeneral may make out and certify to the auditor an account of the
postage he may have paid in sending out notices and process, and
upon letters sent or received by him relating to actions or proceed
ings in which the commonwealth is interested, who shall thereupon
issue his warrant on the treasurer for the amount thereof
CHAPTER VIE.
ARBITRATIONS AND AWARDS.
499. Proceedings to be according to chapter three of Revised Statutes. 1.
Manner of submitting controversy by rule of court 2. The arbitra
tors to be sworn. Their oath. May examine parties on oath. 3. May
issue subpenas for witnesses, and report to court the failure of witnesses
to attend or testify. 4. Personal representative, committees and guard
ians may make a submission. 5. If arbitrator refuses to act, reference
may be set aside. 6. Trial before arbitrators, and their award. 7. How
the award to be made the judgment of the court 8. No award to be
set aside for defect of form. Courts of equity to have jurisdiction over
awards. 9. Matters in justices jurisdiction may be submitted by rule or
order in justice's court, on which same proceedings may be had. Sub
ject to apnea! .
Sec. 499. How arbitration conducted. The proceedings upon
arbitrations and awards made under an order or rule of court, shall
be according to the provisions of chapter three of the Revised
Statues, except the words "of chancery," in the eighth section,
which shall be stricken out; which provisions as amended are as
follows :
1. All controversies which might be subject of a suit or action
may be submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators,
or to two and their umpire, in the manner provided in this
chapter. Parties may make such submission by rule of any
court having jurisdiction of the subject matter. The parties
making such submission, shall, where there is no suit or action,
pending, by written agreement filed, and noted on the record,
or by an entry on the record, state what matter is submitted.
The rule of court shall state the time in which the award is to be
made and returned. The court may enlarge the time for mak
ing and returning an award.
2. Arbitrators and the umpire, if there be one, before they
proceed to act, shall take an oath to decide the controversy to
them submitted according to law and evidence and the equity
of the case, to the best of their judgment, without favor or af
fection ; and a certificate of such oath shall be returned to the
court with the award. Thej shall have power to examine
either party on oath at the request of his adversary.
8. Any one of the arbitrators shall have power to issue subpenas
for witnesses to attend their sittings and give evidence
touching the matters referred .to them, to which all sheriffs
and other like officers shall give obedience. Witnesses failing
to attend before arbitrators at the time and place designated,
or who shall refuse to give evidence when they do attend, shall
be reported to court by the arbitrators, and proceeded against
and punished as if the case had been pending in court.
4. The personal representative of a decedent, guardian of
an infant, committee of an idiot or lunatic, or any trustee,
may make a submission, as herein provided for, touching the
estate of such decedent, infant, or insane person, or in respect
to which he is trustee. Any such submission, so made in good
faith, and the award made thereupon, shall be binding, and en
tered as the judgment or decree of the court. No such fidu
ciary shall be responsible for any loss sustained by an award
adverse to the interest he represents, unless the same be
caused by his fault or neglect.
5. If any arbitrator shall fail or refuse to act, the court may
set aside the order of reference.
6. The arbitrators and umpire, if there be one, shall meet at
such convenient times and places as may be necessary (of
which the parties shall have reasonable notice), and hear such
evidence as either party may adduce. They shall have power
to administer oaths. They shall make their award in writing,
stating therein the time when it is made, and sign the same.
When the award is made out, one copy thereof shall be deliv
ered to each of the contending parties, and the original re
turned to the court, on which the arbitrators shall note the
time of delivering a copy to each party.
7. If such award be made out and returned, and copies deliv
ered ten days before the term of the court next succeeding such
delivery, the same shall be entered of record, and made the
judgment or decree of the court, unless, on exceptions filed, the
award shall be set aside.
8. No award shall be set aside for the want of form. But
courts shall have power over awards, on equitable principles, as
heretofore.
9. Matters within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace
may be submitted to arbitrators, by an order, rule or agree
ment entered on his record book, in the same manner, and the
proceedings under it shall be the same, in every respect, as are
authorized and required in other courts. Either party may
appeal to the circuit court, from the judgment of the justice,
on the award, as in other cases. (Notes.)
CHAPTER IX.
FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.
500. Forcible entry and forcible detainer defined.
501. Not necessary that tenant should have received possession from the landlord.
502. How warrant to be issued, and its form.
503. How notice to be given.
504. The warrant to be returned on the premises to any justice attending.
605. Justice attending to preside on the trial.
506. Subpenas for witnesses may be issued by any justice.
507. The inquest of jury to be signed and returned to the justice.
508. Justice to enter judgment on the inquest
509. If the losing party does not traverse the inquest in three days, execution to
be issued. Its form.
510. Justice to preserve all papers.
511. The losing party may traverse the inquest in three days. Manner of tra
versing, and form of bond to be executed.
512. Amount of damages recoverable on traverse bond.
513. Proceedings in circuit court on the traverse.
514. Executions to be issued by circuit court on a traverse.
515. Court may enjoin waste
516. Proceedings on forcible entry, not to bar an action for trespass, etc.
517. Limitation of two years.
518. Jefferson county court to have jurisdiction of traverses in that county.
Sec. 500. Forcible entry and forcible detainer defined. A forci
ble entry, in the meaning of this chapter, is an entry into lands or
tenements without the consent of the person having the possession,
in fact, of the premises. A forcible detainer is the refusal of a
tenant to surrender to his landlord the land or tenements demised,
after the expiration of his term ; or of a tenant at will, after the
determination of the will of the landlord. (Notes.)
Sec. 501. Not necessary that tenant should have received premises
from landlord. It shall not be material whether the tenant received
possession of the demised premises from his landlord, or became his
tenant after obtaining possession of them.
Sec. 502. How and by whom warrant issued. [Amended, Febru
ary 26, 1863.] Upon complaint being made, by the person
aggrieved thereby, that a forcible entry or a forcible detainer has
been committed to a justice of the peace [or a country judge] of the
county in which the land or tenement, or a principal part thereof,
lies, he shall issue his warrant to the sheriff, in substance, as
follows :
" The Commonwealth of Kentucky to the Sheriff of County:
Whereas A. B. hath made complaint to me, J. S., a justice of the
peace for said county, that C. D. and E. F. did, on the day of
, forcibly enter into [or forcibly detain from the said A. B.]
one house and field on the waters of , in the county aforesaid
[or other general description of the lands or tenements], which were
in the peaceable possession of A. B. [or which the said C. D. and E.
F., tenants of the said A. B., now hold against him]. You are,
thereforee, commanded to summon a good and lawful jury of your
county, to meet on the premises, on the day of , to inquire
into the forcible entry [or forcible detainer] aforesaid, and give
to the said C. D. and E. F. at least three days' notice of the time
and place of the meeting of the jury, and have then there this writ.
Witness," etc.
Sec. 503. How notice to be given. The sheriff, or other officer,
shall give to the defendants notice, according to the directions of
the warrant, which notice shall be given to each defendant ; and no
inquiry shall be made against any defendant who has not been noti
fied as aforesaid. If, however, the notice has been given, but not
three days before the day of the meeting of the jury, the inquest
shall, on his motion, be adjourned until the expiration of the three
days.
Sec. 504. How and to whom warrant returned. [Amended, Feb
ruary 26, 1863.] At the time appointed for holding the inquisition,
the sheriff, or other officer, shall return, on the warrant, upon whom
and when it had been executed, and shall deliver the same, together
with a panel of the jury, to any justice of the peace of the county
who may attend [or to the judge of the county court], whereupon
the justice [or county judge], whether the defendants be present, or
departed, shall, on the premises, or some place convenient thereto,
within his discretion, administer an oath to the jurors, in substance
as follows : " You, and each of you, shall well and truly inquire
into and return whether the defendant [or defendants] be guilty of
the forcible entry [or detainer] complained of in the warrant in this
cause : so help you God."
Sec. 505. Justice [or judge] attending, to preside at the trial.
[Amended, February 26, 1863.] Such justice [or judge] shall
superintend the taking of the inquisition, swear witnesses, decide
incidental points of law which may arise and be referred to him by
either party, preserve the peace, enforce the rules of decorum, and
punish, according to law, contempts of his authority.
Sec. 506. Subpenas may issue for witness. Any justice of the
peace may issue subpenas for witnesses at the request of either
party, and their attendance and testifying, may be coerced by the
justice who presides at the inquest.
Sec. 507. Inquest to be signed and returned to presiding officer.
The jurors, after hearing the evidence, shall, by their inquest,
say whether the defendants, or either of them, be guilty or not
guilty, of the forcible entry or detainer complained of, and shall
return their inquest, signed by one of their body, to the judge or
justice of the peace. If the jury do not agree, they may be dis
charged by the justice presiding, and another ordered to be sum
moned to meet, either immediately, or at some future day, to be then
and there fixed and indorsed on the warrant, and this proceeding
continued until a jury does agree in an inquest. (Notes.)
Sec. 508. Judgment to be entered on the inquest Upon the re
turn of the inquest [the judge] or justice of the peace shall enter a
judgment according to the inquisition, either for the plaintifff, in sub
stance, that he have restitution of the premises aforesaid, and
recover of the defendants his costs in this behalf expended ; or for
the defendants, in substance, that they recover of the plaintifff their
costs in this behalf expended; or for the plaintifff against some of
the defendants, and for the other defendants against the plaintifff,
where Some are found guilty, and others not guilty.
Sec. 509. Judgment to be entered on the inquest If the party
against whom the inquisition is found, shall not file a traverse of the
inquisition with [the judge] or justice, on or before the third day
after the finding of the inquest, the justice shall, on request, issue
his execution for the costs; and if the inquisition be in favor of the
plaintifff, he shall also issue his warrant of restitution, in substance
as follows :
" County. To the Sheriff of County : Whereas, C. D.
and E. F. have, by an inquisition taken before me, J. P., a justice
of the peace for said county, been found guilty of a forcible entry,
[or detainer] in one house and field, lying on the waters of , in
the county aforesaid [or other general description of the posses
sions], to the injury of A. B. You are, thereforee, in the name of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, commanded, that, with the power
of the county, if necessary, you put the said A. B. in possession of
said premises, and make return, within days, to me, how you
have executed this warrant.
" Given tinder my hand, this day of .
, J. P."
Sec. 510. Papers to be preserved. The justice of the peace
shall carefully preserve all papers, records, and proceedings relating
to the cause, except where he transmits them to the clerk, as here
inafter directed, and shall deliver to any person requiring it, a
transcript thereof, such person paying him therefore two cents for
every twenty words in such transcript
Sec. 511. Traverse—time and manner of. If either party con
ceive himself aggrieved by the finding of the jury, he may file a
traverse thereof with the justice within three days next after the
finding aforesaid, in substance as follows :
"A. B. against C. D., on a writ of forcible entry [or detainer]:
The plaintifff [or the defendant] saith that the inquisition returned
in this cause is not true; wherefore, he prays that proceedings
thereon may be stayed until the same can be tried according to
law. A. B." And shall also, within the same time, before said
justice, give bond, with sufficient surety, to be approved of by the
justice, to his adversary, in a reasonable penalty, to be fixed by the
justice, with a condition, in substance, as follows :
•" The condition of the above bond is such, that, whereas, an in
quisition of forcible entry [or detainer], in which A. B. was plain
tiff, and C. D. and E. F. were defendants, was found before , a
justice of the peace for said county, in favor of said A. B., on the
day of , which inquisition hath been traversed by the said
C. D. and E. F. Now, should the said C. D. and E. F. pay to said
A. B. all costs of suit, and all damages that may be sustained by
said A. B., in consequence of said traverse, if it be not prosecuted
with effect, then this obligation to be void." Upon giving which
bond, the justice shall stay all further proceedings on the inquisi
tion, and return the whole of the papers and proceedings, or a fair
transcript thereof, to the office of the circuit court for said county,
within ten days thereafter. (Notes.)
Sec. 512. What damage recoverable on traverse bond. Upon this
bond, if the traverser fails to prosecute his traverse with effect, he
and his surety shall be liable for the damages for withholding the
possession which the traversee may be entitled to recover against
the traverser, during the period of the pendency of the traverse,
either in the circuit court or court of appeals, as well as .the reason
able expenses of the traversee in defending the traverse, not exceed
ing the penalty of the bond.
Sec. 513. Proceedings in the circuit court on the traverse. The
clerk shall docket the traverse as other actions ; it shall stand for
trial as docketed ; the traversee shall join issue on the traverse ; it
shall be tried by a jury, and judgment given on the verdict, as in
other cases : Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall
be construed to prevent the court from giving judgment against
either party for default, nor from deciding any matter of law prop
erly brought before them, as in other cases. (Notes.)
Sec. 514. Execution on judgment upon the traverse. After a cause
is returned to the circuit court, executions for cost, or for restitu
tion, shall issue from the office of that court, according to the judg
ment in the cause.
Sec. 515. Court may enjoin waste. The court before whom such
cause may be depending, or any judge thereof in vacation, may make
any order restraining waste or destruction of the premises, and
punish by fine and imprisonment, or either of them, a disobedience
of such order.
Sec. 516. Proceedings on forcible entry no bar to trespass. The
proceedings under a writ of forcible entry or forcible detainer, shall
not be a bar to an action of trespass, or for waste, or for rent, or for
mense profits.
Sec. 517. Limitation of two years. No inquisition of forcible
entry or forcible detainer shall be taken at any time after two years
from the forcible entry or detainer complained of.
Sec. 518. Jefferson county court has jurisdiction. That the Jef
ferson county court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all traverses
of forcible entry and detainer arising in said county.
CHAPTER X.
PROBATE OF WILLS.
519. The proving and contesting wills to be as provided in sections twenty,seven
to forty-two of chapter one hundred and six of Revised Statutes. 1. In
what county wills are to be proven and recorded. 2. Writ of error or
appeal in circuit court, and thence to court of appeals. Time of pro
secuting them. 3. Will not to be received in evidence until probated,
and the probate conclusive until superseded. 4. Court may compel the
production of the will. 5. Manner of proving the will of a non-resi
dent 6. When the deposition of a subscribing witness may be taken.
7. Parties interested may be summoned. 8. Court may cause all inter
ested to be summoned. 9. Warning order as to absentees. Appoint
ment of guardians for infants, etc. 10. On appeal to circuit court, all
necessary parties to be summoned, and the trial to be by jury, if de
manded. 11. County court may proceed ex parte and summarily.
12. Non-residents, infants, and persons not made parties, may contest
the will by bill in chancery. 13. The proceeding in chancery to oper
ate no further than is necessary to protect the rights of the contestant
14. Record of what was proven in court to be evidence on the trial in
the chancery proceeding. 15. Will to remain in the clerk's office where
recorded. 16. A will may be deposited in the clerk's office for safe
keeping.
Sec. 519. Manner of proving wills. The manner of proving
wills and contesting their probate shall be as directed in sections
twenty-seven to forty-two, inclusive, of chapter one hundred and
six of the Revised Statutes, except that a petition in equity shall be
filed wherever a bill in chancery is directed therein, which sections
are as follows :
1. In what county to be proved and recorded. Wills shall be
proved before, and admitted to record by, the county court of
the county of the testator's residence; if he had no known
place of residence in this state, and land is devised, then in
the county where the land, or the greater part thereof, lies ; if
no land is devised, then in the county where he died or that
wherein his estate, or the greater part thereof, shall lie, or
where there may he any debt or demand owing to him.
2. Writs of error and appeal. A writ of error, or an appeal,
shall lie from the county court to the circuit court of the same
county, and thence to the court of appeals, upon every order
admitting a will to record, or rejecting it. The circuit court
and court of appeals shall try both law and fact, but the court
of appeals shall not hear or adjudge any matter of fact per
taining thereto, other than such as may be certified from the
circuit court. The writ of error from the circuit court shall be
sued out/ within five years after rendering the order of probate
or rejection in the county court, and from the court of appeals
within one year after the final decision in the circuit court.
3. Will not evidence till proved—then conclusive. No will
shall be received in evidence until it has been allowed and ad
mitted to record in a county court, and its probate before such
court shall be conclusive, until the same is superseded, re
versed, or annulled.
4. Court may compel production. Any such court, on being
informed that a person has in his custody the will of a testa
tor, may summon him, and, by proper process, compel him to
produce the same.
5. How non-resident's will proved. When a will of a non
resident of this state relative to estate within this state has
been proved without the same, an authenticated copy thereof,
and the certificate of probate thereof, may be offered for pro
bate in this state. When such copy is so offered, the court to
which it is offered shall presume, in the absence of evidence to
the contrary, that the will was duly executed and admitted
to probate as a will of personalty in the state or country of the
testator's domicil, and shall admit such copy to probate as a
will or personalty in this state. And if it appears from such
copy that the will was proved in the foreign court of probate
to have been so executed as to be a valid will of lands in this,
state by the law thereof, such copy may be admitted to probate
as a will or real estate.
6. Depositions of subscribing witness may be taken. When
any will or any such authenticated copy is offered for probate,
and a witness attesting the same resides out of this state, or,
though in the state, is in confinement in another county or cor
poration under legal process, or is unable from sickness, age or
other infirmity, to attend the court before which the same is
offered, or resides at a distance of more than fifty miles, such
court may cause a commission to be issued, annexed to the said
will or copy, and delivered to the person authorized by law to
take depositions in other cases, to take his deposition. The
deposition of such witness shall be taken and certified as de
positions are taken in other cases, except that no notice need
be given of the time and place of taking the same, unless it is
in a case in which the probate is opposed by some person who
has made himself a party. And the proof so given shall have
the same effect as if it had been given in the court from which
the commission issued.
7. Parties interested may he summoned. A person offering
or intending to offer to a county court a will for probate, may
obtain from the clerk of such court process directed to the
proper officer of any county, requiring him to summon any
person interested in such probate to appear at the next term
of such court, and show cause why the said will should not be
admitted to record.
8. Court may cause all persons interested to be summoned.
The court to which a will is offered for probate, may cause all
persons interested in the probate to be summoned to appear on
a certain day.
9. Warning order as to absentees. Any person interested in
such probate may be summoned, or proceeded against by order
of appearance, and to any person so interested who is an in
fant or of unsound mind, a guardian ad litem may be assigned
as in other cases.
10. Appeal to circuit court—parties—trial by jury. When the
proceeding is taken to the circuit court, all necessary parties shall
be brought before the court ; and upon the demand of any one
of them, a jury shall be impanneled to try which, or how much,
of any testamentary paper produced is, or is not, the last will
of the testator. If no jury be demanded, the court shall deter
mine that question, and the final decision given shall be a bar
to any other proceeding to call the probate or rejection of the
will in question—subject to the right of appeal, or writ of error
to the court of appeals, as hereinbefore named ; but nothing
in this section shall preclude a court of chancery from its juris
diction to impeach such final decision, for such reason as would
give it jurisdiction over any other judgment at law.
11. County court may proceed ex parte and summarily. A
county court may, however, without summoning any party, pro
ceed to probate and admit the will to record, or reject the
same.
12. Persons not made parties, non-residents and infants may
contest Any person interested, who, at the time of the final
decision in the circuit court, resided out of this state, and was
proceeded against by order of appearance only, without actual
appearance, or being personally served with process, and any
other person interested, who was not a party to the proceeding
by actual appearance, or being personally served with process,
may, within three years after such final decision in the circuit
court, by bill in chancery, impeach the decision, and have a
re-trial of the question of probate ; and either party shall be
entitled to a jury for the trial thereof. An infant, not a party,
shall not be barred of such proceeding in chancery until twelve
months after attaining full age.
13. Effect of proceedings in chancery to contest. But no such
proceeding in chancery, for establishing or avoiding a will,
shall operate further than is necessary to the rights of such in
fant, non, resident, or other party, or otherwise affect the rights
of any other person interested in the probate.
14. Record of proof on trial in circuit court to be evidence in
chancery proceeding. The record of what is proved or deposed
in court, by witnesses on the motion to admit a will to record,
and any depositions lawfully taken out of court on such motion
of witnesses who can not be produced on a trial afterward be
fore a jury, may, on such trial, be admitted as evidence, to have
such weight as the jury shall think they deserve.
15. Will to remain in clerk's office where recorded. Every will
or authenticated copy so admitted to record by any court, shall
be recorded by the clerk thereof, and remain in his office, ex
cept during such time as the same may be carried to another
court under a subpena duces tecum.
16. Witt may be deposited in clerk's office for safe-keeping.
A will may be deposited by the person making it, or any one
for him, with the clerk of the county court of the county of
his residence for safe-keeping, upon payment of a fee of one
dollar to the clerk, who Bhall receive, keep, and deliver the
same, according to the directions on a sealed envelop. If there
are no such directions, or the party entitled does not apply,
the will shall be handed to and opened by the next or some
succeeding county court, after the death of the testator, and
there retained for probate. (Notes.)
CHAPTER XI.
ON THE SETTLEMENT OF THE ACCOUNTS OF PERSONAL REPRESENTA
TIVES, GUARDIANS, COMMITTEES OF IDIOTS AND LUNATICS, AND
TRUSTEES IN THE COUNTT COURT.
520. Their accounts to be settled as prescribed in article twenty-two of chapter
twenty,seven, of Revised Statutes. 1. Presiding judge to make settle
ments. His compensation. If judge can not act, the clerk may make
the settlement Judge may appoint a standing commissioner to settle.
2. In making settlements, he may hear evidence. Must reduce verbal
evidence to writing. To allow no credit without evidence. His report
must show the debits and credits, and the vouchers and evidence to sus
tain them. Report to lie over one term for exceptions. If no excep
tions, report to be recorded, if approved. On exceptions, report may be
altered. Vouchers to be filed. New evidence in court must be reduced
to writing. Settlements prima facie evidence. Notice must be given
to those interested who reside in the county. Witnesses may be sum
moned, and attendance coerced. May adjourn from time to time. May
interrogate fiduciary on oath. No evidence presumed except that re
ported.
521. Trustees may settle in the county court where the deed or will is recorded.
Sec. 520. Mow their account* to he settled. The accounts of per
sonal representatives, guardians, committees of idiots and lunatics
may be settled in the manner, and by the mode of proceeding pro
vided in chapter twenty-seven, article twenty-two, of the revised
statutes, which are as follows :
1. Who to make settlement—compensation therefore. The pre
siding judge of the county court shall make settlements with
personal representatives and guardians in his county. He
shall be allowed one dollar and fifty cents for each settlement.
If the same occupies him more than one day, then one dollar
and fifty cents per day, to be paid out of the estate settled.
The law requiring three commissioners to be appointed, to
make such settlements, is hereby repealed. If, in any case,
the judge can not make such settlement with propriety, then
the clerk of the county court may make the same. If he can
not act with propriety, the court may employ some discreet
person, not of kin to either party, to make the settlement.
The judge may, if he thinks proper, appoint a standing com
missioner to make such settlement.
[Amended, February 3, 1864. Sec. I. That the twentysecond
article of the twenty-seventh chapter of the Revised
Statutes, concerning the settlement of the accounts of fiducia
ries, etc., be, and the same is hereby, so amended as to allow
the county judges of this commonwealth, for settling the ac
counts of fiduciaries in this commonwealth, the sum of three
dollars per day, to be paid out of the estate settled.
Sec. II. This act shall not apply to the county of JefFerson.3
2. How the settlement to be conducted—evidence—vouchers—
exceptions—confirmation. It shall be the duty of the presiding
judge of each county, when called on by a personal repre
sentative or guardian, or committoe, or any person interested,
to state and settle the accounts of such fiduciary. He shall
have power to hear testimony on such settlement in support or
in opposition to any item. He must reduce to writing all
verbal evidence adduced before him. He is in all cases to be
governed by law and justice, and shall give no credit to a fidu
ciary for disbursements or for services without evidence to just
ify the same. His report, in writing, he shall return to the
clerk of the county court. The report shall show the result,
giving items of debit and credit, and he shall return therewith
all vouchers and evidence adduced before him on the settle
ment. The clerk shall indorse on the report the time of filing
the same, and it shall lay over one term for exceptions to be
filed by any person interested. If no exceptions are filed by the
second term of the court, the report shall, if approved, be re
corded. If exceptions are taken, other evidence besides that re
ported may be heard, and the court shall, upon the whole case,
alter or amend the report and order it to be recorded, or so or
der it without altering or amending it, as shall appear right and
legal. The vouchers accompanying the report shall not be
recorded, but must be carefully kept on file in the clerk's office.
Any new evidence given in court must be reduced to writing
and filed with the report. Settlements so made and recorded
shall be prima facie evidence between the parties interested.
Notice of the time and place of such settlement must be given
to all parties interested, if resident in the county. Any fidu
ciary failing to settle when so notified, without good excuse,
shall, on notice thereof, be fined by the court twenty dollars.
Witnesses may be summoned at the instance of either party,
to give evidence before the judge on the settlement, or on the
trial of exceptions by the court, and their attendance may be
coerced by attachment and fine. In making settlements the
judge may adjourn from day to day, so long as the business
requires it. He may interrogate personal representatives and
guardians, on oath, touching any matter drawn in question in
making a settlement, and their statements, when so interro
gated, must be reduced to writing and returned with the report.
No evidence shall be presumed to have been given on a settle
ment except such as is reported. (Notes.)
Sec. 521. Where trustees to settle their accounts. The accounts of
trustees may be settled in the same manner, and the settlements
shall have the same effect as prescribed in regard to the settlements
of the fiduciaries named in the last section. The county court, in
the clerk's office of which the deed or will creating the trusts is re
corded, shall have the jurisdiction of making the settlements.
(Notes to 520.)
Sec. 522. Caveats regulated by Revised Statutes. The proceed
ings on caveats shall be according to the provisions of chapter
eleven of the Revised Statutes, which are as follows :
1. How to proceed. If any person obtains a survey of land
to which another claims a better right, such other may enter a
caveat with the register, to prevent the issuing of a grant until
the right is determined. The caveat shall state the plaintifff's
claim, and the reason why the grant should not issue. It shall
be verified by his affidavit, or by that of his agent, and declare
that it is entered in good faith, with the intention of procuring
the land for the plaintifff, and not for the benefit of the person
against whom it is entered. A copy of the caveat, certified by
the register, shall, within fifteen days from the time it was en
tered, be handed to the clerk of the circuit court of the county
where the land, or the greater part thereof, lies, who shall im
mediately issue a summons thereon, returnable to the first day
of the next term of the court, against the defendant, and renew
the same, from term to term, if required. If the summons be
not returned, or be returned not executed, the caveat shall be dis
missed at the costs of the plaintifff, unless it appear that the
non-return or non-execution was not occasioned by the neglect
of the plaintifff. If the summons is executed fifteen days before
the first day of the term, and the caveat shall stand for trial at
that term, and the defendant shall, on or before its call, file his
written response thereto, verified by his affidavit. If the sum
mons be not so executed, it shall stand for trial at the next
term after it is so executed. All issues of fact made by the
caveat and the response, shall be tried by a jury, if required
by either party. If the defendant be a non-resident of this
state, he may be proceeded against, and with the like effect as
is permitted against a non-resident in any other suit. Upon
service of the summons, or upon notice to the plaintifff of the
filing of defendant's response in the clerk's office, during vaca
tion, either party, respectively may proceed to take depositions.
The court may permit an amendment of the statement con
tained in the caveat or response, and may give time for further
preparation. If the copy of the caveat be not lodged with the
clerk within the fifteen days, it shall be deemed to be abandoned ;
and upon certificate from the clerk that none such has been left
with him, the register may proceed in disregard of the caveat.
The court may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to give
security for costs, and on his failure to give the same, dismiss
his suit.
[Amended, March 1, I860.] 1. That hereafter when a caveat
shall be filed with the clerk of the circuit court, it shall be
placed on the ordinary docket, and stand for trial as an ordin
ary action. •»
2. This act shall apply to caveats now pending, and shall
take effect from its passage.
[Further amended, February 21, 1863.] That no caveat
shall be dismissed in consequence of the same not having been
filed with or handed to the clerk of the circuit court of the
county where the land or the greater part thereof lies, within
fifteen days from the time it was entered with the register; but
in all cases where a caveat has been or may be filed in the
clerk's office of the circuit court of the county in which the
land or the greater part thereof lies, such court shall dispose
of and decide the case on its merits, disregarding the time it
was filed or handed to the clerk ; Provided, however, the plain
tiff or plaintifffs in the caveat shall not have a longer period
than the second term of the court after the caveat is entered
with the register, for filing the same in the clerk's office.
[Further amended, March 3, 1865.] 1. That the third and
tenth subdivisions of the first section of chapter eleven of the
Revised Statutes, entitled " caveat," be, and the same are here
by, so amended, as to allow the plaintifff in the caveat, or his
agent, or attorney, to file a copy of the caveat, certified by the
register, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the
county in which the land, or the greater part thereof, lies, within
sixty days from the time when the caveat was entered.
2. Appeals lie from judgments upon caveats. The judgment
upon a caveat shall be liable to revision in the court of ap
peals, by appeal or writ of error, in the same manner, in all
respects, as any other judgment of the circuit court.
3. Copy of the judgment to be delivered into land office. A
copy of the judgment, if in favor of the defendant, must be de
livered into the laud office within three months from the time it
is rendered, or a new caveat may, for that cause, be entered
against the grant. If the judgment be for the plaintifff, and a
copy thereof not delivered into the land office within six
months from the time it was rendered, any other person may,
for that cause, enter another caveat against the grant.
3. No grant to plaintifff until caveat disposed of. No grant
shall issue to the land in contest to the plaintifff in the caveat,
or to another for his use until the caveat is dismissed or
decided ; and any such grant, to the extent of such land, shall
be void.
4. But one caveat against same grant. Where the plaintifff
does not prosecute his caveat, as herein required, or the same
is dismissed or decided against him, neither he, nor any other
for his use, shall have another caveat against the same grant.
CHAPTER Xin.
WRITS OF MANDAMUS AND PROHIBITION.
523. Write of mandamus and of prohibition obtained on motion, made on peti
tion, and motion, and answer.
524. The court to decide all questions. The granting or refusing the writ final.
525. Temporary preventive orders to be made.
526. Mandamus defined.
527. The commonwealth may appeal without security.
528. Prohibition defined.
Sec. 523. How mandamus or prohibition obtained. Writs of
mandamus, except where used by a court, for enforcing its judg
ments or orders, and writs of prohibition, shall be obtained by mo
tion, and prosecuted in the manner provided in the chapter of
" Summary Proceedings," except that the applicant shall file a pe
tition wherein he shall state the cause and ground of his applica
tion, before giving notice of his motion ; to which the party against
whom the mandamus or prohibition is sought, shall file an answer,
wherein he shall state the reason why the writ should not be
granted, which answer shall be filed at or before the time fixed for
making the motion.
Sec. 524. Court to decide all questions—granting or refusing writ
final. The court shall hear and decide all questions of law or fact
arising in the motion, and the granting or refusing of the writ shall
be the final order in the motion.
Sec. 525. Temporary preventive order may be made. During the
pendency of the motion, the court or judge in vacation may make
temporary orders for preventing damage or injury to the applicant
until the motion is decided.
Sec. 526. Mandamus defined. The writ of mandamus, as treated
of in this chapter, is an order of a court of competent and original
jurisdiction, commanding an executive or ministerial officer to per
form an act, or omit to do an act, the performance or omission of
which is enjoined by law, and is granted on the motion of the party
aggrieved, or of the commonwealth, when the public interest is
affected. (Notes.)
Sec. 527. Commonweallh may appeal without security. Where
the interests, rights or claims of the commonwealth are affected by
the final order, on an application for a writ of mandamus, the attor
ney-general may prosecute an appeal without any security what
ever.
Sec. 528. Prohibition defined. The writ of prohibition is an
order from a circuit court to an inferior court of limited jurisdic
tion, prohibiting it from proceeding in a matter out of its jurisdic
tion. (Notes.)
CHAPTER XIV.
FOR REPEALING OR VACATING CHARTERS, AND PREVENTING THE USURP
ATION 0? AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISec.
529. Ordinary action to be brought
530. To vacate a charter, the action must be in the name of the commonwealth.
531. Actions to vacate certain charters only to be brought by order of the legis
lature.
532. Action to deprive usurper of an office or franchise may be in the name of
the commonwealth, or party entitled. .
533. When the duty of the commonwealth's attorney to institute action.
534. When by the attorney-general.
535. A person holding an office after a forfeiture, is a usurper.
536. What judgment to be rendered against usurper.
537. How fees received by usurper to be recovered.
538. Pleadings only to be verified in actions by individuals.
Sec. 529. Ordinary action to be brought In lieu of the writs of
scire facias and quo warranto, or of an information in the nature of
a quo warranto, actions by ordinary proceedings, may be brought to
vacate or repeal charters, and to prevent the usurpation of an office
or franchise. (Notes.)
Sec. 530. To vacate charter, action must be in name of common
wealth. The action to repeal or vacate a charter shall be in the
name of the commonwealth, and brought and prosecuted by the
attorney- general, or under his sanction and directiom, by an attor
ney for the commonwealth. (Notes to 529.)
Sec. 531. To vacate certain charters, to be brought by order of legis
lature only. In the cases of municipal corporations, banks, railroad
and turnpike road companies, the actions to vacate or repeal their
charters, shall only be instituted by order of the legislature, except
where otherwise expressly provided. (Notes to 529.)
Sec. 582. Against usurper—in what name brought Whenever a
person usurps an office or franchise, to which he is not entitled by law,
an action by ordinary proceedings may be instituted against him,
either by the commonwealth or the party entitled to the office or
franchise, to prevent the usurper exercising the office or franchise.
(Notes to 529.)
Sec. 533. When duty of commonwealth's attorney to bring action.
It shall be the duty of the several commonwealth attorneys to insti
tute the actions mentioned in this chapter, against all persons who
have or shall usurp county offices or franchises, where there is no
other person entitled thereto, or the person entitled fails to institute
the same for three months after the usurpation. (Notes to 529.)
Sec. 534. When by attorney-general. For usurpation of other
than county offices or franchises, the action by the commonwealth
shall be instituted and prosecuted by the attorney-general. (Note*
to 529.)
Sec. 535. Person holding office after forfeiture, is a usurper. A
person who continues to exercise an office after having committed aa
act, or omitted to do an act, the commission or omission of which, by
law, creates a forfeiture of his office, shall be subject to be pro
ceeded against for a usurpation thereof. (Notes to 529.)
Sec. 536. What judgment to be rendered against usurper. Where
a person is adjudged to have usurped an office or franchise, he shall
be deprived thereof by the judgment of the court, and the person
adjudged entitled thereto reinstated therein; but no one shall be
adjudged entitled thereto, unless the action is instituted by him. And
the court shall have power to enforce its judgment, by causing the
books and papers, and all other things pertaining to the office or
franchise, to be surrendered by the usurper, and by preventing him
from further exercising or using the same, and may enforce its
orders by fine and imprisonment until obeyed. {Notes to 529.)
Sec. 537. How fees received by him to be recovered. Where the
usurper has received fees and emoluments arising from the office or
franchise, he shall be liable therefore to the person entitled thereto,
who may claim the same in the action brought to deprive him of the
office or franchise, or in a separate action. If no one be entitled to
the office or franchise, the same may be recovered by the common
wealth, and paid into the public treasury. (Notes to 529.)
Sec. 538. How pleadings to be verified. The pleadings in the
actions named in this chapter, are not to be verified by affidavit,
unless prosecuted by a private individual. (Notes to 529.)
CHAPTER XV.
PROCEEDINGS FOR THE SALE OF THE REAL PROPERTY AND SLAVES OF
INFANTS, MARRIED WOMEN, AND PERSONS OF UNSOUND MIND.
539. Chapter eighty,six of Revised Statutes to regulate sales, except as provided
in this chapter.
540. No security to be required of husband when wife is of sound mind, of full
age, and desires no reinvestment
541. Sales of lands and slaves of persons of unsound mind, when not necessary
to pay debts, or for his maintenance.
542. Sales where persons of unsound mind are joint tenants with others.
543. How city or town lots, and land highly improved, held by joint tenants, etc.,
may be sold. •
544. When a sale of land or slaves shall be deemed in contravention of a deed
or will.
645. Proceedings where land or slaves are held by a trustee
Sec. 539. Sales regulated by chapter eighty-six of Revised Stat
utes and this chapter. That the provisions of the Revised Statutes,
in chapter eighty-six, shall regulate the proceedings for the sale of
the real property and slaves of infants, married women, and per
sons of unsound mind, except as provided in the following sections.
(Notes.)
Sec. 540. In certain cases no security required. No security
shall be required of the husband, upon the sale of the real property
or slaves of his wife, where she is of sound mind, over the age of
i
I
twenty-one years, and upon privy examination before the judge or
a commissioner by him appointed, requests that no order be made
for the investment of the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 541. Property of person of unsound mind may be sold
though not required for his support. The land and slaves of a per
son of unsound mind may be sold by the order of the circuit court
or other court of equal equitable jurisdiction, though not necessary
for the payment of his debts or for his maintenance, where it shall
appear —
1. That the person of unsound mind has a wife and chil
dren.
2. That his unsoundness of mind is confirmed and incurable.
3. That his estate is more than sufficient to pay his debts
and maintain him.
4. That the sale will be beneficial to his estate, and pros
pectively beneficial to his wife and children.
5. That his wife and children being made parties to the pro
ceedings in proper person if of full age, or by their guardians
if infants, consent to such sale as beneficial to them by their
answers, which shall ba, sworn to by their guardians.
Sec. 542. Sales where person of unsound mind is joint owner
with others. The land and slaves of a person of unsound mind,
held jointly with another or others, though not necessary for the
payment of the debts of said person, or for his or her maintenance,
may be sold by the order of a circuit court, or other court of equal
jurisdiction, where it shall appear to the court, from affidavits,
depositions, or other legal evidence, that the interest of such other
joint owner or owners would be advanced thereby, and the interest
of said person of unsound mind would not be injuriously affected
thereby ; and the proceeds of the sale shall be disposed of in the
same manner as the proceeds of real estate of lunatics, now author
ized by law to be sold.
Sec. 543. City and toum lots and property highly improved held
by joint tenants may be sold. Where town or city lots, or land outside
of a town or city, but having on it a building of more value than
the land, shall be held by or in trust for coparceners, joint tenants,
or tenants in common, some of whom are infants, or persons of un
sound mind, the circuit court, or other court of similar equitable
jurisdiction, may, upon the "petition of a part of such owners
against the others, or of the trustee against such owners, or of th
owners against the trustee, and upon its being proven that a divi
sion of such, land would materially impair its value, order a sale
thereof, and a division of the proceeds among those entitled. Be
fore such sale is ordered, the court shall appoint some suitable
persons to take care of the interests of the infants, or persons of
unsound mind ; and the shares of such infants, or persons of un
sound mind, shall not be paid by the purchaser, but remain a lien
upon the land, bearing interest, until they become capable in law of
receiving their respective shares, or until statutory guardians shall
be appointed for the infants, or committees for the persons of
unsound mind, or the infants shall become married, and such guar
dians, committees, or husbands, give bond as required in chapter
eighty-six of the Revised Statutes. (Notes.)
Sec. 544. When a sale shall not be deemed in contravention of a
deed or will. A sale of land or slaves of infants, persons of unsound
mind, or married women, shall not be deemed to be prohibited as be
ing in contravention of the deed, will or contract under which
they hold, unless a sale is expressly forbidden by such deed, will, or
contract.
Sec. 545. Proceedings where land and slaves held by trustee.
Where the legal title of land or slaves is held by a trustee, he shall
be a party to the proceedings for their sale ; and in all other res
pects the proceedings for the sale of land and slaves, held in trust
for infants, married women, and persons of unsound mind, shall be
the same as where they hold the legal title, except that the trustees
shall give bond and security, instead of the guardian, committee, or
husband, where the proceeds of sale are to go into the hands of such
trustee.
CHAPTER XVI.
PROCEEDINGS FOR THE DIVISION OF LANDS AND SLAVES, AND THE
ALLOTMENT OF DOWER IN THE COUNTY COURT.
54Q. Petition to be filed—what it shall contain.
547. When it stands Tor hearing and decision.
548. Guardians, committees and husbands to be parties.
549. A party may contest by answer, and proceeding may be removed into
circuit court
550. When removed, the original papers to be filed in circuit court
551. Parties may be constructively summoned.
Sec. 546. Petition to be filed—what it must contain. Any person
desiring a division of land or slaves held in joint tenancy, in com
mon, or in coparcenary, or an allotment of dower, by the county court,
shall file in said court, or in the clerk's office thereof, in vacation, a
written petition, in which a description of the property, the names
of those having an interest in it, and the amount of such interest
shall be briefly stated, in ordinary language, with a prayer for the
division or allotment, and thereupon all persons interested in the
property, who have not united in the petition, shall be summoned
to appear and answer the petition, on the first day of the next term
of the court. (Notes.)
Sec. 547. When it stands for hearing and decision. Upon such
a petition by all interested in the property being filed, or upon a
summons being served upon all who have an interest in the prop
erty, and who have not united in the petition ten days before the
commencement of the term, the county court may make an order
for the division or allotment of dower, according to the rights of the
parties, by commissioners appointed according to the provisions
of chapter fifty-seven of the Revised Statutes.
Sec. 548. Guardians, committees and husbands to be made parties.
The statutory guardian of an infant, committee of a person of un
sound mind, and husband of a married woman, may file or unite in
the petition, in the names of, and in conjunction with, such infant,
person of unsound mind or married women, and if the petition is
filed against infants, married women, or persons of unsound mind,
the guardian, committee or husband may appear and defend for
them, and protect their interests ; and if they do not, the court shall
appoint some discreet person for that purpose.
Sec. 549. Party may contest, and proceedings be removed to circuit
court If any person summoned, as provided in the last three sec
tions, desires to contest the rights of the petitioners, or the state
ments in the petition, he shall do so by a written answer, and the
questions of the law and fact thereupon arising, shall be tried and
determined by the county court, or the case, on the motion of either
party, shall be removed into the circuit court for trial.
Sec. 550. Upon removal, original papers to he fled in circuit court
Upon such removal being ordered, the clerk of the county court
shall deliver to the clerk of the circuit court the petition, summons,
answer, and other papers filed therewith, and a copy of the order
of removal, whereupon the case shall be placed on the common
docket, and be tried and decided as an action by ordinary proceedings,
but all questions of law and fact shall be tried and determined by
the court.
Sec. 551. Parties may be constructively summoned. Parties inter
ested may be constructively summoned, as provided in title four,
chapter two, article two, of this code, either in the county or circuit
court.
Sec. 552. After trial, court may order division or allotment. The
circuit court, upon the case being tried and decided, may order the
division or allotment of dower, according to the rights of the
parties.
Sec. 553. Report may be confirmed, or set aside. Upon a report
of the division or allotment of dower, by the commissioners ap
pointed for that purpose, being returned, either in the county or
circuit court, such court may confirm or set aside the report, or re
mand it to commissioners for correction.
Sec. 554. Deeds to be made on division of land. On the confirm
ation of the report of the division of lands, the commissioners, or
some commissioner appointed for the purpose, shall make a deed, or
deeds, of partition, conveying to each party the lands allotted to him
in severalty, which shall be approved by the court, and recorded as
other deeds.
Sec. 555. Cost to be apportioned. The costs of the division and
allotment shall be apportioned among the parties in the ratio of their
interests, and the costs arising from any contest of fact or law,
shall be paid by the party adjudged to be in the wrong.
Sec. 556. No verification of pleadings. No verification shall be
required to the petition or answer.
Sec. 557. Several parties—if one die, and the right survives, ac
tion may proceed as to survivors. Where there are several plaintifffa
or defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, if the right of action survives to or
against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the death of
the party, or the cessation of his powers, being stated on the record.1
{Notes.)
Sec. 558. In certain cases, court may decide case between remain
ing parties. Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants dies, or
his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause of action
does not admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion that the
merits of the controversy can be properly determined, and the prin
ciples applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the
cause as between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall
not prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial.
{Notes to 557.)
Sec. 559. Action may be revived after death of party. Where one
of the parties to an action dies, or his powers as a personal repre
sentative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action survives
in favor of or against his representatives or successor, the action
may be revived, and proceed in their names.
Sec. 560. Action revived by order of court The revivor shall be
by an order of the court that the action be revived in the names of
the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose
powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.
Sec. 561. Order made on motion of either party, or his repre
sentative. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse
party, or of the representatives or successor of the party who died,
or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death or the cessation of his
powers, which, with the names and capacities of his representatives
or successor, shall be stated in the order.
Sec. 562. Hoio order of revivor served. If the order is made by
consent of the parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived ; and,
if not made by consent, the order shall be served, in the same man
ner as a summons, upon the party adverse to the one making the
motion. And, at the first term, commencing not less than ten days
after such service, the party upon whom it is made may show cause,
against the revivor ; and, if sufficient cause is not then shown, the
action shall stand revived. {Notes.)
Sec. 563. If ten days' notice be given of motion, the order is for
immediate revivor. If ten days' notice has been given to the repre
sentatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, of the motion by the adverse party for an order to revive
the action in their names, or to the adverse party, where the motion
is by such representatives or successor, and due return is made of
the service of the notice, the court may, if sufficient cause is not
shown to the contrary, make an order reviving the action in the
names of such parties ; whereupon the action shall stand revived.
[Amended, February 2, 1866.] Sec. I. That section five
hundred and sixty-three, of the civil code of practice, be, and
is hereby, amended, by adding the following words thereto, towit : Provided, When it appears to the court, by the affidavit
of the party applying for the order of revivor, that the oppo
site party, or any of them, are non-residents of this state, or
have been absent therefrom for four months, or so conceal
themselves that the order can not be served on them, an order
may be made by the court warning such party to appear on
the first day of its next term, and show cause why the action
shall not be revived against them ; and if said warning order
is made sixty days prior to the commencement of the term to
which the party is warned to appear, the action shall stand
revived at that time, unless sufficient cause is shown to the
contrary.
Sec. 564. Order of revivor may be constructively served. Where
it appears to the court by the affidavit of the plaintifff that the rep
resentatives of defendant, or any of them, in whose name the action
is ordered to be revived, are non-residents of this state, or have left
the same to avoid the service of the order, or have been absent
therefrom four months,or so conceal themselves that the order can
not be served upon them, or that the names of the heirs of the de
fendant against whom the action is ordered to be revived, or of some
of them, are unknown to the affiant, an order may be made by the
court warning such representatives or unknown heirs to appear on
the first day of its next term, and show cause why the action should
not be revived against them. The parties so warned shall be
deemed constructively served with a copy of the order of revivor
ten days before the term at which they are warned to appear ; and,
if sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary, the action shall, at
that term, stand revived.
Sec. 565. Death of plaintifff—in whose name action to be revived.
Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action, it may be revived in the
names of his representatives, to whom his right has passed. Where
his right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall
be in his name ; where it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees,
who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may be
in their names.
Sec. 566. Death of defendant—against whom revivor to be made.
Upon the death of a defendant in an action wherein the right, or
any part thereof, survives against his personal representative, the
revivor shall be against him ; and it may also be against the heirs
or devisees of the defendant, or both; and where one year has
elapsed after the death of the defendant and no person has qualified
as his personal representative, the action may be revived and pro
ceed against his heirs or devisees, or both.
Sec. 567. In actions for land, to be against his heirs or devisees.
Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the recovery of real
property only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to such
property, the action may be revived against his heirs or devisees,
or both, and an order therefore may be forthwith made in the manner
directed in the preceding sections of this title.
Sec. 568. When case may be revived against a personal repre
sentative. An order to revive an action against the personal repre
sentative of a defendant, or against him and the heirs or devisees of
the defendant, can not be made, unless by consent, until after six
months from the qualification of the personal representative.
Sec. 569. No revivor against defendant unless within a year.
An order to revive an action against the representatives or succes
sor of a defendant shall not be made, without the consent of such
representatives or successor, unless in one year from the time it
could have been first made.
Sec. 570. JVo revivor in name of plaintifff's representatives unless
within a year. An order to revive an action in the names of the rep
resentatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made forthwith, but
shall not be made without the consent of the defendant after the ex
piration of one year from the time the order might have been first
made ; except that, where the defendant shall also have died or his
powers have ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor on both
sides may be made in the period limited in the last section.
Sec. 571. If time of revivor past, action may be stricken from
docket When it appears to the court by affidavit that either party
to an action has been dead, or, where he sues or is sued as a per
sonal representative, that his powers have ceased for a period so
long that the action can not be revived in the names of his repre
sentatives or successor without the consent of both parties, it shall
order the action to be stricken from the docket.
Sec. 572. Defendant may have it stricken from docket upon fail
ure to revive. At any term of the court succeeding the death of the
plaintifff, whilst the action remains on the docket, the defendant
having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose
names the action might be revived, ten days' notice of the applica
tion therefore, may have an order to strike the action from the docket,
and for costs against the estate of the plaintifff, unless the action is
forthwith revived.
Sec. 573. The action stands for trial at the term when revived.
When by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action stands
revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason of the
revivor, if the action would have stood for trial at the term the re
vivor is complete, had no death or cessation of powers taken place.
Sec. 574. What court may reverse or modify. A judgment1 ren
dered or final order made in the circuit court may be reversed, va
cated or modified, either by the court of appeals, or by the court in
which the judgment was rendered or order made.
Sec. 575. The court of appeals, for errors on the record. A judg
ment or final order may be reversed or modified by the court of
appeals for errors appearing in the record.2 (Notes.)
Sec. 576. Proceedings by appeal or writ of error. The proceed
ings to obtain such reversal or modification, shall be by appeal or
writ of error prosecuted as prescribed by law.
Sec. 577. Clerical misprision not ground for reversal. A misprision of the clerk shall not be ground for an appeal or writ of er
ror, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the circuit
court.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 578. Rendering judgment prematurely, a clerical misprision.
Rendering judgment before the action stood for trial, according to
the provisions of this code, shall be deemed a clerical misprision.
(Notes to 577.)
Sec. 579. Causes for which a court may vacate or modify its own
judgment. The court in which a judgment or final order has been
rendered or made, shall have power, after the expiration of the term,
to vacate or modify such judgment or order : *
1. By granting a new trial, for the cause and in the manner
prescribed in section three hundred and seventy-three.
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants
constructively summoned,* as prescribed in chapter one, of
title ten.
3. For misprisions of the clerk.
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in the obtain
ing of the judgment or order.
5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant,4 married
woman, or person of unsound mind, where the condition of such
defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error in the
proceedings.
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment
in the action.
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the
party from appearing or defending.
8. For errors in a judgment, snown by an infant in twelve
months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section four
hundred and twenty-one. (Notes.)
Sec. 580. Misprision corrected, on motion, in same court. The
proceedings to correct misprisions of the clerk, shall be by motion,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney in the
artion. The motion to vacate a judgment because of its rendition
before the action regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the
first three days of the succeeding term.5
Sec. 581. When proceeding to vacate must be by petition. The pro
ceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or order, on the grounds
mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six, seven and eight, of section
five hundred and seventy-nine, shall be by petition, verified by affi
davit, setting forth the judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or
modify it, and the defense to the action, if the party applying was
defendant. On the petition, a summons shall issue and be served,
and other proceedings had, as in an action by ordinary proceedings.
{Notes.)
Sec. 582. Condition on which a reversal or modification made. A
judgment shall not be vacated, on motion or petition, until it is
adjudged that there is a valid defense1 to the action in which the
judgment is rendered, or, if the plaintifff seeks its vacation, that
there is a valid cause of action ; and where a judgment is modified,
all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the
modified judgment.
Sec. 583. Grounds relied on to vacate, to be first tried. The court
may first try and decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a
judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of
the defense, or cause of action.
Sec. 584. Party seeking to vacate may have injunction. The party
seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may obtain an
injunction suspending proceedings, on the whole or part thereof,
which injunction may be granted by the court, or any officer author
ized to grant injunctions, upon its being rendered probable, by affi
davit or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to
have such judgment or order vacated or modified.
Sec. 585. Premature judgment to be suspended without valid de
fense. Where the judgment was rendered before the action stood
for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last sec
tion, although no valid defense to the action is shown; and the court
shall make such orders concerning the executions to be' issued on
the judgment, or on any replevy or forthcoming bond taken under
it, as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay that he
would have had if the judgment had been rendered at the proper
time.
Sec. 586. Party holding affirmative must prove it The party
holding the affirmative of an issue, must produce the evidence to
prove it.1
Sec. 587. On whom is the burden of proof. The burden of proof
in the whole action lies on the party who would be defeated if no
evidence were given on either side.1
Sec. 588. Certain writings read without proof, if genuineness not
denied by affidavit Where a writing purporting to have been exe
cuted by one of the parties, is referred to in, and filed with, a pleading, it may be read as genuine against such party, unless he denies
its genuineness by affidavit before the trial is begun.1 (Notes)
CHAPTER n.
MEANS OF PRODUCTION.
589. The subpena, its object and form.
590. The clerk to issue subpenas for witnesses at request of parties.
591. Officer authorized to take depositions may issue subpenas.
592. How a subpena is served.
593. By whom a subpena may be served.
594. Witness can not be compelled to attend court beyond adjoining county, nor
to give his deposition out of his county.
595. Disobedience of a subpena may be punished as a contempt
5%. Witness liable to costs of continuance and damages, for failure to attend,
where his mileage and attendance have been tendered.
597. Warrant of arrest may be issued for a witness, for failure to attend.
698. Extent of punishment of witness for failure to attend and refusal to testify.
599. Witness imprisoned by an officer authorized to take depositions, may be
released by county judge.
600. Warrant of commitment must specify the offense, and be directed to the
sheriff.
601. Persons imprisoned, except on conviction for felony, may be ordered to be
produced for oral examination in the county.
602. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he is in the control of the officer.
603. Witness not to be sued out of his county.
Sec. 589. The subpena —its object and form. The process by
which the attendance of a witness is required, is a subpena.1 It is
a writ directed to the sheriff, requiring him to summon the person
named therein, to attend at a particular time and place, to testify
as a witness. It may, when the court or the judge thereof so
directs, require the witness to bring with him any book, writing or
other thing under his control, which he is bound by law to produce
in evidence.
Sec. 590. Clerk to issue subpenas at request of parties. Where
the attendance of the witness is required before the court, or on the
trial of an issue ordered by it, or before a commissioner directed to
take evidence, the subpena shall be issued by the clerk on the re
quest of either party.
[Amended, March 3, 1863.] That master commissioners in
chancery shall have power to issue subpenas for witnesses,
whose evidence may be required, touching any matter pending
before such commissioner, directed to any constable, sheriff, or
marshal. Any person failing to attend, as required by such
summons, when the same shall have been duly executed, shall
be liable to be attached. The master commissioner shall have
power to issue an attachment against the person so failing to
appear in obedience to the summons, fixing the day for the re
turn of the attachment, and allowing the person against whom
the attachment issues to give bond, with security, for his or
her appearance on the day fixed for the return of the attach
ment, in a penalty not exceeding twenty-five dollars. Upon
the appearance of the person attached the commissioner shall
have power to impose a fine for contempt of the summons, in
any sum not exceeding ten dollars, or may discharge the party
without fine, if in his judgment it would be proper. Commis
sioners shall, in cases where they impose a fine, report the
same, together with the statement of the cost, to the cirouit or
chancery court of his county; and the court shall render judg
ment in conformity with the judgment of the commissioners,
unless good reasons be shown why judgment should riot be
rendered. In case any person against whom an attachment is
issued gives bond for his or her appearance, and fails to attend,
the fact shall be certified on the bond of the commissioner, and
the bond returned to the circuit or equity court of his county;
and the court shall have power to enforce such bond and pro
ceed thereon as in other cases of like character.
Sec. 591. Officers authorized to take depositions may issue sub
penas. Where the attendance of the witness is required for the
purpose of giving his deposition, the subpena shall be issued by an
officer authorized to take the deposition.'
Sec. 592. How a subpena served. The service of the subpena is
made by showing the original, and delivering a copy or a ticket
containing the substance thereof to the witness.
Sec. 593. By whom served. A subpena may be served by the
sheriff, jailor, coroner, or any constable of the county, whose return
thereof shall be proof of the service ; it may also be served by any
white person of full age, whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be
proof of the service, or the witness may acknowledge service in writ
ing on the subpena.
Sec. 594. Witness not compelled to go beyond adjoining county to
testify, nor out of county to depose. A witness shall not be obliged
to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action, except in
the county of his residence or an adjoining county, nor to attend
to give his deposition out of the county where he resides, or where
he may be when the subpena is served on him. {Notes.)
Sec. 595. How disobedience of subpena punished. Disobedience
of a subpena,1 or a refusal to be sworn or to answer as a witness, or
to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when lawfully ordered, may be
punished as a contempt of the court or officer by whom his attend
ance or testimony is required.
[Amended, February 9, 1864.] That if any person, against
whom a subpena is issued for his attendance as a witness,
shall conceal himself, or otherwise intentionally evade the ser
vice of the subpena; or if any person who has a minor under
his control, for whom a subpena is issued, shall do so, he shall
be deemed guilty of a contempt of the court from which the
subpena issued, and shall be punished as contempts are now
punished by law.
Sec. 596. Witness liable to cost and damage for disobedience.
Where a witness is brought before a court for contempt, by disobe
dience of a subpena, if it is shown that the legal fees for travel and
one day's attendance were paid or tendered to him when the sub
pena was served, and that he failed to attend without reasonable
cause, the court may summarily order him to pay to the party, on
whose behalf he was summoned, the costs occasioned to him by the
disobedience of the subpena, not exceeding twenty dollars, besides
being liable for any damages occasioned by the failure to attend.
Sec. 597. Failing to attend, warrant of arrest may issue. Where
a witness fails to attend in obedience to a subpena, the court or officer
before whom his attendance was required, may issue a warrant 2 for
arresting and bringing him before the court or officer, at a time and
place to be fixed in the warrant, to give his testimony, and answer
for the contempt. If the warrant is not for immediately bringing
the witness before the court or officer, a sum shall be fixed in which
the witness may give bond with surety for his appearance, and if no
sum is fixed by the court or officer, it shall be one hundred dollars.
Sec. 598. Extent of punishment of witness for contempt The
punishment for the contempt mentioned in section five hundred and
ninety-five, shall be by fine, not exceeding thirty dollars, and impris
onment, not exceeding twenty-four hours. But in the case of refusal
by the witness to testify or be sworn, or to give a deposition, he shall
continue to be imprisoned so long as he refuses ; and, if the court
finally adjourns before he submits, he shall remain imprisoned until
the next term. The final disposition of the case in which he so re
fuses, shall discharge him from imprisonment.
Sec. 599. How witness imprisoned may be released. A witness so
imprisoned or fined by an officer before whom his deposition is be
ing taken, may apply to the presiding judge of the county court,
who shall have power to discharge him, if it appears that his impris
onment is illegal.
Sec. 600. Warrant of commitment—what to specify. Every war
rant of commitment to prison, issued by a court or officer pursuant
to this chapter, must specify particularly the cause of the commit
ment ; and if it is for refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest or com
mit a witness must be directed to the sheriff of the county where he
may be, and executed in the same manner as process from the
court.
Sec. 601. Certain prisoners may be ordered to be produced for ex
amination. A person confined in any prison in this state for any
other cause than a sentence for felony, may, by order of court, be
required to be produced for oral examination in the county where he
is imprisoned; but in all other cases, his examination must be taken
by deposition.
Sec. 602. While prisoner giving deposition, to be under control of
officer. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he shall re
main under the control of the officer having him in custody, who
shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition.
Sec. 603. Witness not to be sued out of his county. A witness
shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he does not re
side, by being served with a summons in such county while going,
returning or attending in obedience to a subpena.
Sec. 604. Modes of taking testimony. The testimony of witnesses
is taken in three modes :
1. By affidavit.
2. By deposition.
3. By oral examination.
Sec. 605. Affidavit defined. An affidavit is a written declaration
under oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
Sec. 606. Deposition defined. A deposition is a written declara
tion under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the pur
pose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine ; or, upon written
interrogatories.
Sec. 607. Oral examination defined. An oral examination is an
examination in presence of the tribunal which is to decide the fact
or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the tribunal from the
lips of the witness.
ARTICLE L
AFFIDAVIT.
608. For what purpose an affidavit may be read.
609. In what cases an affiant must be produced for cross-examination.
610. Before whom an affidavit out of the state must be made
611. Before whom it must be made in this state.
612. Affidavit must be subscribed by affiant, followed by the certificate
of the officer.
Sec. 608. For what purpose an affidavit may be read. An affida
vit may be read to verify a pleading, to prove the service of a sum
mons, notice, or other process in the action, to obtain a provisional
remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or
a warning order, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted
by law.
Sec. 609. In what cases an affiant must be produced for oral ex
amination. Where a provisional remedy is granted upon an affidavit,
and a motion is made to discharge or vacate it, the party against
whom it is granted may, by written notice to the party by whom it
was obtained, or by order or rule of court, require the production
of the person who made the affidavit for cross-examination ; where
upon, the party notified shall produce the affiant within ten days
before an officer authorized to take depositions, at a time and place
of which he shall give the adverse party three days' notice. If the
affiant is not produced, his affidavit shall be suppressed ; and if pro
duced, he may be examined by either party.
Sec. 610. Affidavit out of the state—before whom made. An affi
davit may be made out of this state before a commissioner appointed
by the governor of this state to take depositions, or before a judge
of a court, mayor of a city, notary public, or justice of the peace,
whose certificate shall be proof of the time and manner of its being
made.
Sec. 611. Before whom made in the state. An affidavit may be
made in this state before a judge of a court, a justice of the peace,
a notary public, an examiner, or a clerk of a court. Wherever, by the
provisions of this code, the affidavit of the plaintifff or defendant is
required to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order, a provis
ional remedy, or any other order in an action, or on a motion or pro
ceeding therein, it may, unless otherwise expressed, be made by
the agent or attorney of the party, if he is absent from the county,
in which case the affidavit shall state his absence, and that the affi
ant is his agent or attorney.
[Amended, March 2, I860.] That where the party plaintifff
or defendant may be in the county, but mentally incapable of
taking an oath, or physically unable to attend before the
court or officer for the purpose of making an affidavit, the
agent or attorney of the party may make an affidavit for any
of the purposes mentioned in said section ; in which case the
affidavit shall state the inability of the party; and that affiant
is agent or attorney.
[Amended, March 4, 1865.] That section six hundred and
eleven of the civil code of practice be amended by adding to
said section the following, to-wit : But whenever such affi
davit or pleading shall be verified by agent or attorney of the
plaintifff or defendant, the opposing party may make and file
his affidavit that he does not believe that the party whose agent
or attorney verified such pleading or affidavit, can truthfully veri
fy the same with his oath, and that the matters therein alleged
are in the personal knowledge of such party; upon the filing
of such affidavit, it shall be the duty of the court to compel
such party to verify the said affidavit or pleading in person,
reasonable time therefore being given; and upon the failure of
such party to make the verification as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty of the court to dismiss the petition or suppress the
answer, reply, or affidavit, and render judgment accordingly.
{Notes.)
Sec. 612. Must be subscribed by affiant and certified by officer.
Every affidavit shall be subscribed by the affiant, and the certificate
of the officer before whom it is made, shall be written separately,
following the signature of the affiant. (Notes.)
ARTICLE IL
DEPOSITION*.
Surdivision 1. When to be used.
2. Officers authorized to take depositions.
3. Manner of taking depositions.
4. Exceptions to depositions.
5. Depositions to be used in other states.
SUBDIVISION I.
Till TO RI DSHD.
613. To be used on all equitable issues and motions.
614. Of certain persons, to be used in all trials.
615. Witness not to be coerced to attend court where his deposition can be used.
616. Cases in which he may be coerced to attend, though his deposition might
have been used.
617. When parties may commence taking depositions.
618. Depositions may be taken de bene esse.
Sec. 613. To be used on all equitable issues. Depositions may
be used on the trial of all issues, and upon all motions in actions by
equitable proceedings, except where the court otherwise directs on
an issue tried by a jury.
Sec. 614. Of certain persons, to be used in all trials. They may
be used on the trial of all issues in any action in the following
cases :
1. Where the witness does not reside in the county where
the action is pending, or in an adjoining county, or is absent
from the state.
2. Where the witness is the governor, secretary of state,
register, auditor, or treasurer of this state, a judge or clerk of
a court, a president, cashier, teller or clerk of a bank, a prac
ticing physician, surgeon, or lawyer, or keeper, officer, or guard
of the penitentiary.
8. [As Amended, February 4, 1863.] Where, from age,
infirmity or imprisonment, the witness is unable to attend court,
or is dead, or is in the military service of the United States or
of this state.
[Amended, January 14, 1856.J That, in equity actions, any
person, a party thereto, may take the deposition of any other
person or party to the action, without any previous order au
thorizing the same, subject to legal exceptions to the compepetency
of the witness and the legality of the evidence.
[Further amended, January 14, 1858.] Either party to an
ordinary action may take the deposition of a witness, to be read
in chief on the trial of such action, where the witness resides
thirty miles from the place where the court sits in which the
action is pending.
[Further amended, February 16, 1864.] 1. That, in all ac
tions at law or in equity, now pending, or that may be hereafter
instituted, in any of the courts of this commonwealth, it shall
be lawful for the parties to take the deposition of any person
to be read in evidence upon the trial of such action, who may
be in the service of the regular or volunteer armies of the
United States, or the State of Kentucky, or attendant upon,
or doing work or service with said armies in either a civil or
military capacity.
2. That the depositions authorized to be taken by the pre
ceding section, when taken in any states now in rebellion, may
be taken before any judge advocate, colonel, lieutenant colonel,
major, or adjutant of a regiment, who is hereby authorized to
swear the witness, and take, certify and transmit the deposi
tions in the manner now prescribed by law, or by private hand ;
the officer taking the deposition shall append to his name to
the certificate, his official position, and it shall be taken as
prima facie evidence that he holds the position so stated by
him : Provided, that all depositions taken under this act shall
be taken upon interrogatories, and the parties shall have the
same time to file interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, and
the same regulations shall apply as in cases where depositions
are, by law, now required or authorized to be taken on inter
rogatories. (Notes.)
Sec. 615. Witness not compelled to attend court, if his deposition
may be taken. A witness shall not be compelled to attend in court
for oral examination, where his deposition may be used, unless he
has failed, when duly summoned, to appear and give his deposition.
Sec. 616. In certain cases witness to be produced in court, though
deposition might be taken. Where it is made to appear, by the affi
davit of the party, and the written statement of his attorney, that
the testimony of a witness is important, and that the just and proper
effect of his testimony can not, in a reasonable degree, be obtained
without an oral examination before the jury, the court may, at its
discretion, order the personal attendance of the witness to be co
erced, although such witness may otherwise be exempt from per
sonal attendance by the provisions of this code.
Sec. 617. When parties may commence taking depositions. The
plaintifff may commence taking depositions immediately after the
service of the summons ; and the defendant, immediately after filing
his answer.
Sec. 618. May be taken de bene esse. A party may take the de
position of any witness de bene esse, which may be used under the
circumstances prescribed in section six hundred and fourteen
Sec. 619. Examiners to be appointed in each county. The circuit
judges shall appoint at least two examiners in each county of their
respective districts, who, before acting, shall be sworn in open court
to discharge faithfully and impartially the duties of their office.
Sec. 620. Where examiner to keep office. An examiner's office
shall be kept in or near the county seat ; and if there is more than
one, the others at such place as the court may direct.
Sec. 621. Number of examiners in a county. There shall not be
more than three examiners' offices in any one county, unless a
majority of the members of the bar, resident in said county,
shall, by a petition, filed in the circuit court, state that more exam
iners' offices are necessary to the convenient dispatch of business ;
whereupon the judge may appoint more examiners and order more
examiners' offices to be kept, not exceeding one examiner and ex
aminer's office in each election precinct, except at the county seat,
where two examiners' offices may be kept for each precinct.
[Amended, March 8, 1856.] 1. That section six hundred
and twenty-one, title thirteen, of the civil code of practice, be
so amended as to allow four regular examiners to the county
of Jefferson, with authority to the circuit judge thereof to in
crease the number as therein provided.
2. The examiners of this commonwealth shall hold their
offices at the will of the circuit judge of their respective
counties.
Sec. 622. Examiner may administer oaths as justices of the peace.
The examiners shall be authorized to administer oaths and give cer
tificates thereof in all cases in which justices of the peace are so
authorized.
Sec. 623. In vacation, judges may make temporary appointments.
The judges in vacation, may make temporary appointments of exam
iners by written orders signed by such judge and filed in the circuit
court clerk's office, and the examiner so appointed, being qualified
before such clerk, and a certificate thereof indorsed on the order,
shall remain in office until the expiration of the next regular term
of the circuit court.
Sec. 624. Before whom depositions to be taken in this state. All
depositions taken in this state to be used in the courts thereof, shall
be taken before an examiner, except :
1. Where an examiner can not be obtained in the county in
which the deposition is to be taken.
2. Where the witness is unable, from age, infirmity, or im
prisonment, to attend at the examiner's office, and the exam
iner refuses to go to him.
4. Where all the examiners of the county are interested in
the action.
[Amended, February 11, 1858.] That justices of the peace
in this commonwealth, be, and they are hereby authorized and
fully empowered to take depositions, in all cases of law and
equity, the parties consenting in writing, to be made part of
the record ; and the laws in force relating to examiners shall
in such cases apply to justices of the peace.
Sec. 625. Excepted cases—before whom taken. In the cases men
tioned in the exceptions to the last section, the depositions may
be taken before a judge of a court, a justice of the peace, a notary
public, or a clerk of a court.
Sec. 626. Cause of its not being taken by examiner to be stated.
Where a deposition is taken before any other officer than an exam
iner, the cause of it being so taken shall be made to appear by an
accompanying affidavit.
Sec. 627. Examiner not bound to go out of his office. It shall not
be the duty of an examiner to go out of his office to take deposi
tions, but he may take them at any place in the county for which he
is appointed.
Sec. 628. Deposition out of the state—before whom taken. Depo
sitions may be taken out of this state, before a commissioner ap
pointed by the governor thereof, a judge of a court, a justice of the
peace, mayor of a city, notary public, or any other person empow
ered by a commission directed to him by consent of the parties, or
by order of the court. '
Sec. 629. May be taken on notice or interrogatories. Depositions
shall be taken upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or upon
interrogatories.
Sec. 630. What the notice must contain. The notice must be in
writing, signed by the party giving it, or his attorney, addressed to
the party on whom it is to be served, and specify the time and place
of taking the deposition, and the action or proceeding in which it is
to be used.
Sec. 631. How the notice must be served. Where the notice is to
be given to the defendant, it may be served as the summons in tho
action is authorized to be served.
Sec. 632. What deemed reasonable notice. A notice shall be
deemed reasonable that allows one day for each thirty miles of dis
tance which the party will have to travel, an|l one day for prepara
tion where the distance is less than one hundred miles, and two days
where it is more. When the distance exceeds fifty miles, and the
usual mode of travel for the whole or a part of the distance is by
steamboat, railroad cars, or other public conveyance, then the time
ordinarily required by such mode of travel, with the days given for
preparation, shall be deemed sufficient in the notice. Where the
distance is less than thirty miles, a notice which gives to the party
a reasonable opportunity to be present shall be sufficient.
Sec. 633. Wlien taking may be adjourned to another day or place.
Where a notice has beengiven to take a deposition at an examiner's
office, but the attendance of the witness can not be procured, owing
to his age, infirmity or imprisonment, the taking of the deposition
may be adjourned to the next day, and to some other convenient
place—a written notice of which shall be posted upon the front door
of the examiner's office, before noon of the day on which the depo
sition was to have been taken.
Sec. 634. When it may be adjourned to another place on same day.
Where a notice has been given to take a deposition at an examiner's
office, but from any cause not mentioned in the last section, the de
position can not be taken at that office, an adjournment to the near
est convenient place shall be made—a written notice of which shall
be posted upon the front door of the examiner's office for one hour
before the deposition is commenced at the place to which the ad
journment is made.
Sec. 635. Cause of such adjournment—how to be .proved. Where
an adjournment has been made, pursuant to either of the last two
sections, an affidavit as to the causes thereof, with a copy of the no
tice certified by the sheriff, constable or examiner, or sworn by a
private person to have been posted upon the' door, as therein
directed, shall accompany the deposition.
Sec. 636. When opposite party may require depositions taken on
interrogatories. A party to whom more than three days' notice to
take a deposition out of this state is given, may, by notice to the
adverse party, or his attorney, served in one day after the service
of the first notice, require the deposition to be taken upon interrog
atories.
Sec. 637. Cases wherein court may permit them to be so taken.
The court, on motion of either party, may permit depositions to be
taken upon interrogatories :
1. Where the ascertainment of a fact, or the stating jf an
account, is referred to a commissioner.
2. Where the party against whom the depositions are to be
read is absent from the state, and has not appointed an agent
or attorney in the county where the action is pending, known
to the party taking the deposition.
3. Where the parties against whom the deposition is to be
read are numerous, and have not designated agents or attorneys
residing in the county, on whom notice may be served.
4. In cases where an infant, lunatic or married woman is a
party, by the consent of the guardian, committee or husband.
5. In any action mentioned in section forty-six, where the
owner of the boat or vessel has not appeared.
Sec. 638. Interrogatories and cross-interrogatories—how filed.
The interrogatories shall be filed in the' clerk's office; and, if the
adverse party, or his agent or attorney, resides in the same county,
notice thereof shall be given to either of them ; and, while they
remain in the clerk's office, the adverse party may file cross-inter
rogatories. If cross-interrogatories are not filed, the clerk shall
file the following :
1. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action,
and, if interested, explain the interest you have ?
2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made
from your own personal knowledge ; and if not, do your answers
show what are made from your personal knowledge, and what
from information, and the source of that information ?
3. State everything you know concerning the subject of
this action favorable to either party.
Sec. 639. How long interrogatories to remain in office. The in
terrogatories shall remain in the clerk's office fifteen days, or, if
notice is served as provided in the last section, ten days after such
service, unless the cross-interrogatories are sooner filed.
Sec. 640. Clerk to issue commission with copies of interrogatories.
After remaining the due length of time in ^he clerk's office, one or
more commissions, at the request of the party, shall be issued by
the clerk, with copies of the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories
annexed, authorizing the person to whom it may be directed, to
examine witnesses on them —which commission may be directed
generally, " to any officer authorized to take depositions in or out
of this state."
Sec. 641. Officer to issue subpena and coerce attendance. Upon
filing, with an examiner, or other officer authorized to take deposi
tions, a notice duly served, or a commission with interrogatories to
take a deposition, it shall be the duty of such officer to issue his
subpena1 requiring the witness whose deposition is desired, to appear,
at a time and place to be named in the subpena, for examination ;
and if the witness fails to attend, after being duly summoned, the
officer may issue his warrant for arresting* and bringing the witness
before him to give testimony, and answer for the contempt of dis
obedience of the subpena.
Sec. 642. To decide all questions. The officer before whom the
deposition is taken shall decide summarily, all objections to questions,
but, in matters of doubt, shall permit the questions to be answered,
noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power to pre
vent insulting questions being put to a witness, and to stop a course
of interrogation pursued unreasonably long, and for mere vexation
and delay.
Sec. 643. How and by whom statements reduced to writing. The
statements of the witness shall be written, in the presence of the
officer taking it, either by the witness or the officer.
Sec. 644. Who to be present when deposition taken on interroga
tories. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories, neither
party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at the examination
of the witness, unless both parties are present, or represented by an
agent or attorney, or unless the opposite party or his agent or attor
ney has been reasonably notified of the time and place of taking the
depositions or the party attending has been notified by the opposite
party to attend.
Sec. 645. What shall be certified by officer. The certificate* of the
officer shall state the time and place of taking the deposition, that
the witness was duly sworn before he gave his testimony, and that his
testimony was written, read to, and subscribed by him, in the pres
ence of the officer; and also, state by whom it was written, and
which of the parties, in person or by agent or attorney, was present
at the examination of the witness. (Notes.)
Sec. 646. How deposition transmitted to clerk. When the deposi
tions are completed, they shall be sealed up by the officer and directed
to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, with a note
showing them to be depositions, and the style of the case in which
they were taken, and either delivered to the clerk or mailed to him
by the officer taking them.
[Amended, October 3, 1861.] That where depositions have
been taken out of this state to be used in this commonwealth,
any such deposition or depositions may, after being sealed up
by the officer taking the same, and directed to the clerk, or
court, or justice, where or before whom the action is pending,
in which the deposition is to be used, be delivered to the party
taking the ,same, his agent or attorney ; and when deposited by
such party, his agent or attorney, with such clerk, court, or
justice, shall be sufficient to authorize the reading of such depo
sition or depositions upon the trial, if, in other respects, they
have been legally taken : Provided, That the person or persons
conveying and delivering the depositions shall take an oath
that the same have not been opened by him, nor by any other
person, to his knowledge or belief.
[Amended, March 4, 1865.] That in all cases where the
mail service is so interrupted, from any cause, between the
place of taking depositions and the place where they are to be
used, that they can not be conveyed by mail, it shall be lawful
for the officer taking said depositions to transmit said deposi
tions by private conveyance : Provided, The person conveying
said depositions shall make oath that the depositions were not
opened by himself or any person in their transit.
[Amended, February 2, 1866.] That section six hundred
and forty-six of the civil code of practice be, and the same is
hereby, amended, by adding thereio the following words, towit
: When the depositions are taken in the county in which
the action is pending, the officer taking the same may deliver
them to the clerk of the court without sealing, directing and
indorsing the same, as hereinbefore required. (Notes.)
Sec. 647. Fees for taking depositions. The fee allowed an officer
for taking depositions shall be one dollar for each deposition, and
five cents per mile for each mile that an examiner may have to
travel, in going to and returning from the place of the taking—the
distance to be estimated from his office. But whatever is the num
ber of depositions taken in one day for the same party, in any ac
tion, the fees therefore shall not exceed three dollars.
[Amended, December 21, 1863.] That section six hundred
and forty-seven, subdivision three, article two, chapter three,
of the civil code of practice, entitled " Evidence," be, and the
same is, so amended, as to allow examiners and other officers
now authorized by law to take depositions, two dollars per day
for each day they may be engaged in taking any one deposi
tion : Provided, that one or more days be consumed in the
taking of the same.
Sec. 648. Fees for subpenas and warrants of arrest For issuing
a subpena or warrant of arrest, and for summoning or arresting the
•witnesses, the same fees shall be paid as are allowed to clerks and
sheriffs for similar services.
SUBDIVISION IV.
EXCEPTIONS TO DEPOSITIONS.
649. No deposition to be read, unless filed in the papers before trial.
650. Exceptions must be written.
651. Not regarded, unless filed and noted of record before trial.
652. Court, if desired, must decide exceptions before trial.
653. Errors of court waived, unless excepted to.
654. Swearing of the jury, commencement of jury trial.
Sec. 649. No deposition read unless filed before trial. No depo
sition shall be read on a trial, unless, before the commencement
thereof, it was filed with the papers of the case. (Notes)
Sec. 650. Exceptions to be written. Exceptions to depositions
shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, filed with
the papers of the case, and noted on the record. (Notes.)
Sec. 651. Exceptions not regarded, unless fled and noted of record
before trial. No exception, other than to the competency of the
■witness, or to the relevancy or competency of the testimony, shall
be regarded, unless filed and noted on the record before the com
mencement of the trial.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 652. Court, if desired, must decide exceptions before trial.
The court, on the motion of either party, shall decide upon the ex
ceptions before the commencement of the trial.
Sec. 653. Errors of court waived, unless excepted to. Errors
of the court, in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions, are
waived, unless excepted to.
Sec. 654. Swearing of jury, commencement of jury trial. Where
the trial is by jury, the swearing of the jury shall be deemed the
commencement thereof.
SUBDIVISION V.
DEPOSITION'S TO BE USED IN OTHER STATES.
655. Mode of taking depositions to be used in other states.
Sec. 655. How depositions taken to be used in other states. A
party desiring to take depositions in this state, to be used in judicial
proceedings in other states, may produce to a judge of the county
court, in the county where the witnesses reside, a commission author
izing the taking of such depositions, or a notice duly served ;
whereupon, it shall be the duty of the judge to issue a subpena re
quiring the witnesses to attend, at a specified time and place, for
examination ; and in case of their failure to attend, or refusal to be
sworn or to testify, they may be punished as provided in section
five hundred and ninety-eight.
ARTICLE IIL
GENERAL RULES OF EXAMINATION.
656. Order in which proof is given on the trial.
657. Court to exercise control over interrogation of witnesses.
658. Direct and cross-examination.
659. What is a leading question, and by whom it may be asked.
660. Party can not impeach, but may contradict his own witness.
661. How a witness may be impeached by the adverse party.
662. Before evidence of a contradictory statement is admissible, witness
must be questioned concerning the statement
663. Evidence of good character inadmissible before general character
has been impeached.
664. Re-examination of witness.
665. Witnesses may be examined out of hearing of each other.
666. Persons present, though not summoned, may be compelled to testify.
667. Judge or juror may be examined as a witness.
668. Writings shown to a witness must be shown to the adverse party.
Sec. 656. Order in which proof to be given on trial. The party
who begins the case must ordinarily exhaust his evidence before the
other begins. But the order of proof shall be regulated by the court,
so as to expedite the trial, and enable the tribunal to obtain a clear
view of the whole evidence.1
Sec. 657. Court to exercise control over interrogatories to witnesses.
The court shall exercise a reasonable control over the mode of in
terrogation, so as to make it rapid, distinct, as little annoying to the
witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth as may be ;
but subject to this control, the parties may put such legal and per
tinent questions as they may see fit. The court, however, may
stop the production of further evidence on a particular point,
where the evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reason
able doubt.
Sec. 658. Direct and cross-examination. The examination of a
witness by the party producing him is the direct examination ; the
examination of the same witness upon the same matter, by the ad
verse party, the cross-examination. The direct examination must
be completed before the cross-examination begins, unless the court
otnerwise directs.
Sec. 659. What are leading questions, and by whom asked. A
question that suggests to the witness the answer which the examin
ing party desires, is a leading question. On the direct examination,
leading questions are not allowed, except under special circum
stances, making it appear that the interests of justice require it.
On cross-examination the adverse party may put leading questions ;
but if he examines the witness on new matters, such examination is
subject to the same rules as the direct examination.
Sec. 660. Party can not impeach, but may contradict his own wit
ness. The party producing a witness, is not allowed to impeach
his credit, by evidence of bad character, unless it is a case in which
it was indispensable that the party should produce him ; but he may
contradict him by other evidence, and by showing that he has made
statements different from his present testimony. {Notes.)
Sec. 661. How witness impeached by adverse party. A witness
may be impeached by the party against whom he is produced, by
contradictory evidence, by showing that he has made statements
different from his present testimony, or by evidence that his gen
eral reputation for truth or immorality renders him unworthy of
belief, but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts, except that
it may be shown by the examination of a witness, or record of judg
ment, that he has been convicted of a felony. (Notes to 660.)
Sec. 662. Before contradictory statement admissible, witness must
be questioned concerning it. Before other evidence can be offered
of the witness having made, at another time, a different state
ment, he must be inquired of concerning the same, with the
circumstances of time, place, and persons present, as correctly as
the examining party can present them ; and if it is in writing, it
must be shown to the witness and he allowed to explain it. (Notes
to 660.)
Sec. 663. Evidence of good character, when admissible. Evi
dence of the good character of a witness is inadmissible until his
general reputation has been impeached. (Notes to 660.)
Sec. 664. Re-examination of witness. A witness once examined,
can not be re-examined as to the same matter, without leave of the
court. But he may be re-examined as to any new matter upon
which he has been examined by the adverse party. After the ex
amination on both sides is concluded, the witness can not be recalled
without leave of the court. (Notes.)
Sec. 665. Witnesses may be examined out of each other's hearing.
If either party requires it, the judge may exclude from the court
room any witness of the adverse party not at the time under exam
ination, so that he may not hear the testimony of the other wit
nesses.
Sec. 666. Persons present, though not summoned, must testify.
A person present before a court or a judicial officer, may be com
pelled to testify in the same manner as if he was served with a
subpena.
Sec. 667. Judge or juror may be examined. The judge or a juror
may be called as a witness by either party, but in such case, it is in
the discretion of the court to suspend the trial and order it to take
place before another judge or jury ; and where a party knows, at
the time the jury are sworn, that a juror is to be called by him as
a witness, he shall then disclose it, and the juror shall be excluded
from the jury.
Sec. 668. Writings shown witness must be shown adverse party.
Whenever a writing is shown to a witness, it may be inspected by
the adverse party, and if proved by the witness, it must be read to
the jury before his testimony is closed ; otherwise, it can not be
read, unless the witness is recalled.
Sec. 669. All persons competent, except those in next section. All
persons, except those enumerated in the next section, shall be com
petent to testify in a civil action.
Sec. 670. Who are incompetent—exceptions. The following per
sons shall be incompetent to testify :
1. Persons convicted of a capital offense, or of perjury, sub
ornation of perjury, burglary, robbery, larceny, receiving
stolen goods, forgery, or counterfeiting.
2. Infants under the age of ten years, and over that age, if
incapable of understanding the obligation of an oath.
3. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of being
produced as witnesses.
4. Husband and wife, for or against each other, or concern
ing any communication made by one to the other, during the,
marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation sub
sisted or afterward.
5. An attorney, concerning any communication made to him
by his client, in that relation, or his advice thereon, without the
client's consent.
6. [Amended, March 2, I860.] Persons interested in an
issue, in behalf of themselves, and parties to an issue, in be
half of themselves or those united with them in the issue. But
this sixth division shall not hereafter be so construed as to ex
clude a witness from testifying who has no interest in the issue
to be tried.
[Further amended, March 2, I860.] That subdivision six, of
section six hundred and seventy, of the civil code, be, and the
same is hereby, so amended as to allow the plaintifff or owner,
in an action to recover the value of lost baggage against com
mon carriers, innkeepers or wrongdoers, to testify in his own
behalf as to the contents and value thereof.
[Further amended, January 10, 1866.] That subdivision
six, of section six hundred and seventy, of the civil code of
practice, be, and the same is hereby, so amended, as to allow
the plaintifff's or owner's wife, in an action to recover the
value of lost baggage against common carriers, innkeepers or
wrongdoers, to testify as to the contents and value thereof, in
the same manner and to the same extent that the husband is
now allowed to testify by law.
7. Negroes, mulattoes or Indians, in any action or proceed
ing where a white person, in his own right, or as representa
tive of a white person, is a party, except in actions brought to
recover a penalty or forfeiture for a violation of law, against a
negro, mulatto or indian.
[Amended, February 14, 1866.] That negroes and mulat
toes shall be competent witnesses in all civil proceedings in
which negroes and mulattoes are the only parties interested in
the issue, and in all criminal proceedings where a negro or
mulatto is a defendant. (Notes.)
Sec. 671. All other objections go to the credit of witnesses. All
other objections to witnesses shall go to their credit alone, and be
weighed by the jury or tribunal to which their evidence is offered.
{Notes)
Sec. 672. New matter stated in answer to interrogatories, adverse
party may testify. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a party,
in answering interrogatories,1 state new matters not responsive to
the inquiries, the party interrogating may, before the trial, file hia
written statement, under oath, concerning such new matters, which
shall be read as a deposition. (Notes.)
Sec. 673. Same in ordinary proceedings. In actions by ordinary
proceedings, if a party, in answering interrogatories,2 or when in
troduced as a witness, states new matters not responsive to the inquiries of the adverse party, the latter shall be allowed to testify
orally concerning such new matter.
Sec. 674. Trustees, etc., not personally interested may testify. A
personal representative or trustee not personally interested in the
action shall not be incompetent to testify by reason of being a
party.1
Sec. 675. Officers or trustees of a corporation. An officer or in
habitant of a county, city or town, or an officer, member or trustee
of a corporation or religious society, although a party to the action,
shall be competent to testify on behalf of such county, city, town,
corporation, or religious society. (Notes.)
PART III.
PERPETUATION OF EVIDENCE
676, 677, 678, 679. Mode of perpetuating evidence.
689. Depositions to be filed in the clerk's office.
681. The circumstances under which the depositions may be read.
682. If the trial is in another county, copies to be read.
683. Evidence heretofore perpetuated to be read.
Sbc. 676. Mode of perpetuating evidence. [Sees. 676, 677, 678,
679, amended, March 10, 1856, old sections repealed^] That any
person desiring to perpetuate the testimony of a witness residing in
this state, may present to a judge of the circuit court, or the pre
siding judge of a county court, a petition subscribed by the peti
tioner, and verified by his affidavit, to the effect that he believes the
statements thereof are true, stating,
1. That the petitioner expects to be a party to an action in
a court of this state ; also, the name, if known, of the adverse
party, whether or not he is a resident of this state, and whether
or not of full age.
2. That the evidence of a witness, whose name and resi
dence, together with the facts, generally, expected to be proved,
shall be stated, is believed by the petitioner to be material for
him.
3. The obstacles pi,eventing the action being immediately
brought ; where the petitioner expects to be plaintifff.
The judge may, thereupon, in his discretion, make an order
for the examination of the witness, stating in said order the
time, place, and manner of taking the deposition ; and if the
judge making the order be a judge of the circuit court, he shall
file said petition and order in the office of the clerk of his
court ; and if the order is made by the presiding judge of the
county court, and he would have jurisdiction of the matter in
controversy, he shall file said petition and order as other peti
tions are filed in his court ; otherwise he shall file said petition
and order in the clerk's office of the circuit court. Where the
petition and order are filed in the office of the clerk of the cir
cuit court, and the adverse party is a resident of this state,
said clerk shall issue a summons thereon, according to the pro
visions of this code applicable to other cases ; and if filed with
the presiding judge of a county qpurt, said judge shall issue a
summons thereon, according to the provisions of this code reg
ulating other cases in his court, and the summons from either
court may be served, as in other cases. If the adverse party
be an infant, non-resident or unknown, the judge may order a
guardian ad litem, and attorney to be appointed to defend and
cross-examine for the adverse party, and warning orders to bo
made, subject to all the rules and regulations of this code in
regard to the 'appointments of guardians ad litem, and attor
neys, and the making of warning orders in other cases; and
where the foregoing provisions of this act have been complied
with, the petitioner may proceed to take the deposition of the
witness in the manner prescribed in this code ; Provided, the
parties seeking to perpetuate the testimony shall pay all costs
incurred.
[Amended, February 28, I860.] 1. That the evidence of
non-resident witnesses may also be perpetuated.
2. That the provisions of part three, title thirteen, of the
civil code of practice, shall govern the proceedings in such
cases : Provided, That the person or persons desiring to per
petuate such evidence shall, in addition to the statements
therein required, also state that the witness or witnesses whose
evidence he or they desire to perpetuate, is a non-resident of
this state : And provided further, That the deposition or depo
sitions, when completed, together with the affidavit, order, no
tice, and proof of service, shall be filed in the clerk's office
of the circuit court of the county in which the adverse party
resided at the time of taking said depositions ; And provided
further, That when the trial is not in the circuit court of the
countv in which the deposftion or depositions are filed, a certi
fied copy thereof and of the affidavit, order, notice, and proof
of service may be read as evidence by either party, when the
witness or witnesses are still non-residents of this state, or if
residents of this state, and of sound mind, where his, her or
their attendance for oral examination can not be required.
Sec. 680. Depositions to be fled in clerk's office. The deposition,
when completed, together with the affidavit, order, notice and proof
of service, shall be filed in the clerk's office of the circuit court of
the county in which the deposition was taken.
Sec. 681. When the depositions may be read. In the event of a
trial between the persons named in the affidavit as expected parties,
or their successors in interest, the deposition taken as above
described, may be read by either party, where the witness is dead
or insane, or, if alive and of sound mind, where his attendance for
oral examination can not be required; and every part of it shall be
subject to like objections as if taken pending the action.
Sec. 682. If the trial is in another county, copies to be read.
Where the trial is not in the county in which the deposition is filed,
a certified copy of it and of the affidavit, order, notice and proof
of service may be read as evidence.
Sec. 683. Evidence heretofore perpetuated to be read. That evi
dence which has been, or may be, perpetuated agreeably to the pro
visions of part three, title thirteen, may be read, subject to the ob
jections and requirements of said provisions, on the trial of any
action or suit which has been or may be commenced in any court
of this state since the first day of August, 1851, whether the action
or suit, or the court, at the time of such perpetuation, was or shall
be embraced or not in the provisions of the code of practice.
Sec. 684. Who to give security for cost A plaintifff who is a non
resident of this state, or a corporation other than a bank created
by the laws of this state, before commencing an action shall file in
the clerk's office a bond of a sufficient surety, to be approved by the
clerk, for the payment of all costs, which may accrue in the action
in the court in which it is brought, or in any other to which it
may be carried, either to the defendant, or to the officers of the
courts. {Notes)
Sec. 685. Action to be dismissed, if bond not given. An action in
which a bond for costs is required by the last section, and has not
been given, shall be dismissed, on the motion of the defendant, at
any time before judgment, unless, in a reasonable time, to be allowed
by the court, after the motion is made therefore, such bond is filed,
securing all past and future costs ; and the action shall not be dis
missed or abated, if a bond for costs is given in such time as the
court may allow.
Sec. 686. Plaintiff becoming non-resident must give security. If
the plaintifff in an action, after its institution, becomes a non-resi
dent of this state, he shall give security for costs in the manner
and under the restrictions in the preceding sections of this chapter.
Sec. 687. Guardians and trustees, if insolvent, must give security.
A guardian, committee, or next friend, suing for an infant or per
son of unsound mind, and every plaintifff suing as an assignee, ex
cept an indorsee of a bill of exchange, or a promissory note placed
upon the footing of a bill of exchange, when insolvent, may be re
quired to give security for costs ; and on failure to do so in a rea
sonable time after it is directed by the court, upon the motion of the
defendant, his action shall be dismissed.
Sec. 688. Additional security may be required. In an action in
which a bond for costs has been given, the defendant may, at any
time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move
the court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if,
on such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's
bond has removed from the state, or is not sufficient for the amount
thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless, in a reasonable time, to
b* fixed by the court, sufficient security is given by the plaintifff.
Sec. 689. Attorney liable for cost, till bond given. Where process
is issued in an action, by the direction of an attorney for a plaintifff
who is required, by the first section of this chapter, to give security
for costs, but who has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as
surety for the costs of the action, until a bond is given ; and his lia
bility may be enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for
contempt, if they are not obeyed.
Sec. 690. What is an ordtr. Every direction of a court or judge
entered upon the order book, or made in writing, in a civil action,
and not included in the judgment, is denominated an order.
Sec. 691. What is a motion. An application for an order is a
motion.
Sec. 692. Notices must be in writing—by whom served. The
notices mentioned in this code shall be in writing, and may be
served by a sheriff, constable, jailor, coroner, or marshal of a town
or city, whose return thereon shall be proof of the service. Notices
may also be served by any person not a party or interested in the
action or proceeding, whose affidavit shall be proof of the service.
Sec. 693. How a notice may be served. The service of a notice
shall be by giving a copy thereof to the person to whom it is directed,
or, if he can not be found at his usual place of abode, by leaving a
copy there with a white .person over the age of sixteen years, resid
ing in the same family with him, or, if no such white person is there,
then by affixing a copy to the front door of such place of abode. If
the person to whom the notice is directed can not be found, and has
no known place of abode in this state, the notice may be served by
delivering a copy to his attorney. The return of the officer, or the
affidavit of the person who served the notice, shall state the time
and manner of the service ; and where a copy of the notice is not
given to the person to whom it is directed, the return or affidavit
shall state the facts authorizing the manner of service pursued.
(Notes.)
Sec. 694. Cases where the court may direct the mode of service.
Where the party has no known place of abode in this state, and no
attorney in the county where the action is pending, or where the
parties, plaintifffs or defendants, are numerous, the court may direct
the mode of serving notices, and to what persons they shall be
given.
Sec. 695. Sow served on an infant or person of unsound mind.
A notice to an infant or person of tfnsound mind, shall be served
on the guardian, committee or next friend, bringing or defending
the action for him.
Sec. 696. How served on a corporation. A notice to a corpora
tion may be served in the same manner as a summons in an action
against it.
Sec. 697. How on husband and wife. Where husband and wife
unite in bringing or defending an action, the service of a notice on
the husband shall be deemed a service on the wife.
Sec. 698. How on persons constructively summoned. A notice to
a person constructively summoned, and not appearing, shall be served
on the attorney appointed to defend for him.
Sec. 699. In what cases on the counsel. Where it is not other
wise specially provided in this code, a notice to a party in an action
of any motion or proceeding to be made or taken therein in court,
or before a judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney;
but the service upon the attorney, in any such case, must be by de
livering to him a copy of the notice.
Sec. 700. How served when party not a resident of the county.
Where a party to an action does not reside in the county in which
it is pending, a notice to him to take depositions may be served by
delivering a copy thereof to his attorney.
Sec. 701. Officers must serve all notices delivered to them. It shall
be the duty of the sheriff, and of every constable to whom any no
tice in an action may be delivered for service, within his county, to
serve and return such notice to the party who delivered it to
him. A failure to perform this duty may be punished as a dis
obedience of the process of the court.
Sec. 702. Offer to compromise before trial. The defendant in an
action for the recovery of money only, may, at any time before the trial,
serve upon the plaintifff, or his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified therein. If
the plaintifff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to the defend
ant, or his attorney, within five days after the offer was served, the
offer, and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in
the time limited, may be filed by the plaintifff, or the defendant may
file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit, and
in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted upon the rec
ord; and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice
of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer shall be
deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned
on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment for more than
was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs
from the time of the offer. (Notes.)
Sec. 703. Offer to allow judgment for certain sum. In an action
for the recovery of money only, the defendant having answered,
may serve upon the plaintifff, or his attorney, an offer in writing,
that, if he fails in his defense, the amount of the recovery shall be
assessed at a specified sum. If the plaintifff accepts the offer, and
gives notice thereof to the defendant, or his attorney, within five
days after it was served, and the defendant fails in his defense, the
judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintifff
does not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to be recovered,
as if the offer had not been made. The offer shall not be given in
evidence or mentioned on the trial. And if the amount recovered
by the plaintifff does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the
defendant shall recover his costs incurred in the defense, in respect
to the question of amount, to be taxed under the direction of the
court. (Notes to 702.)
Sec. 704. Making offer to compromise, no ground of continuance.
The making of any offer, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
shall not be a cause for a continuance of an action, or a postpone
ment of a trial.
Sec. 705. Parties may agree upon a case, and submit to court for
decision. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil
action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts
upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an ac
tion had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine
the rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and de
termine the case, and render judgment as if an action were pend
ing. (Notes.)
Sec. 706. What constitutes the record in such case. The case, the
submission and the judgment shall constitute the record.
Sec. 707. Costs may be adjudged—appeal. The judgment shall
be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in
the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless
otherwise provided in the submission.
CHAPTER V.
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.
708. Defendant may offer to confess judgment, and if plaintifff refuses to
accept, he shall be subject to costs, unless he recovers more than
the offer. •
Sec. 708. Offer to confess judgment After an action for the re
covery of money is brought, the defendant may offer in court to
confess judgment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the
causes involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintifff, being
present, refuses to accept such confession of judgment in full of his
demands against the defendant in the action, or having had such
notice, that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time
of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, fails to attend,
and, on the trial, does not recover more than was so offered to be con
fessed, such plaintifff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred
after the offer. The offer shall hot be deemed to be an admission
of the cause of action, or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled,
nor be given in evidence upon the trial.
Sec. 709. Officer may require indemnifying bond before selling. If
an officer who levies, or is required to levy, an execution upon per
sonal property, doubts whether it is subject to the execution, he
may give to the plaintifff therein, or his agent or attorney, notice
that an indemnifying bond is required. Bond1 may, thereupon, be
given by or for the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the officer, to the effect that the obligors therein will
indemnify him against the damages which ho may sustain in conse
quence of the seizure or sale of the property, and will pay to any
claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in consequence of the
seizure or sale, and will warrant to any purchaser of the property
such estate or interest therein as is sold ; and, thereupon, the officer
shall proceed to subject the property to the execution, and shall
return the indemnifying bond to the circuit court of the county in
which the levy is made. (Notes.)
Sec. 710. Unless bond given, officer may refuse to proceed. If the
bond mentioned in the last section is not given, the officer may re
fuse to levy the execution ; or, if it has been levied, and the bond
is not given in a reasonable time after it is required by the officer,
he may restore the property to the person from whose possession it
was taken, and the levy shall stand discharged. (Notes to 709.)
Sec. 711.' Claimant or purchaser must look to the bond. The
claimant or purchaser of any property, for the seizure and sale of
which an indemnifying bond has been taken and returned by the
officer, shall be barred of any action against the officer levying on
the property, if the surety in the bond was good when it was
taken.1 And such claimant or purchaser may maintain an action
upon the bond, and recover such damages as he may be entitled to.
(Notes to 709.)
Sec. 712. How surplus proceeds of sale disposed of. Where property,
for the sale of which the officer is indemnified, sells for more than
enough to satisfy the execution under which it was taken, the sur
plus shall be paid into the court to which the indemnifying bond is
directed to be returned. That court may order such disposition or
payment of the money to be made, temporarily or absolutely,
as may be proper, in respect to the rights of the parties inter
ested.
Sec. 713. How sale of personal property suspended by claimant.
The sale of personal property upon which an execution is levied,
shall be suspended at the instance of any person, other than the de
fendant in the execution, claiming the property, who shall execute,
with one or more sureties, sufficient for double its value, a bond1 to
the plaintifff in the execution, to the effect that, if it shall be adjudged that the property, or any part of it, is subject to the execu
tion, he will pay to the plaintifff the value of the property so subject,
and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount due on the
execution, and ten per cent. thereon.
Sec. 714. Property to be appraised for purpose of taking bond.
For the purpose of taking the bond mentioned in the last section,
the officer shall select three disinterested housekeepers, and admin
ister to them an oath to make a fair appraisement of each article of
the property, whose appraisement in writing shall be recited in the
bond.1
Sec. 715. Where bond and appraisement returned. The bond
with the appraisement annexed shall be returned to the circuit
court of the county in which the levy was made. (Notes.)
Sec. 716. Party to wliom bond given, may move judgment thereon.
The party to whom the bond is executed, may move the court to
which it is returned, for a judgment thereon against all or any of
the obligors or their representatives, having given to them ten days'
notice of the motion. The court shall direct a jury to be impanneled,
and may cause such issues to be tried as it may prescribe, and di
rect which party shall be considered plaintifff in the issues. If the
property, or any part of it, is found subject to the execution, judg
ment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintifff therein for the value
of the property so subject, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceed
ing the amount due on the execution and ten per cent. thereon.
An execution may be issued upon the judgment forthwith, on
which the same indorsement shall be made as on the execution in
Tirtue of which the property has been seized.
Sec. 717. On the trial the appraisement may be contested. Upon
the trial of the motion, either party may object that the property
was not fairly appraised ; and, thereupon, the jury trying the
facts shall hear evidence respecting, and find the value of, the prop
erty.
Sec. 718. Bond does not discharge lecy. The giving of the bond
mentioned in section seven hundred and fourteen, shall not dis
charge the levy of the execution upon the property claimed. But
the officer may leave it, subject to the lien of the levy, with the per
son in whose possession it was found, pending the proceeding on the
bond ; and may, in the meantime, proceed with the execution against
any other property of the defendant.
Sec. 719. Foregoing provisions apply to justices of the peace and
quarterly courts. The provisions of the preceding sections of this
chapter, shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued by jus
tices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds, in such cases, shall be re
turned with the executions under which they are taken, and bonds
of claimants of property may be returned to any justice of the
county, and motion thereon made before him on five days' notice.
He shall cause a jury to be impanneled to find whether the property
was subject to the execution, subject to an appeal where the value
of the property exceeds ten dollars.
[Amended, January 8, 1864.] That section seven hundred
and nineteen, of the civil code of practice be so amended, as to
apply to proceedings upon executions issued by judges of the
quarterly courts in this commonwealth.
Sec. 720. Also to proceedings on distress warrant The provis
ions on the preceding sections of this chapter, shall also apply to
proceedings upon distress warrants1 levied or about to be levied upon
personal property claimed by any person other than the tenant, his
assignee, or under-tenant. In every such case the bond of the
claimant of the property, where it exceeds the value of fifty dollars,
shall be returned to the circuit court of the county, and the motion
thereon made in that court, and, where the value of the property
does not exceed fifty dollars, to some justice of the peace of the
county, and the motion may be made before him. Indemnifying
bonds in such cases shall be returned with the warrants under which
they are taken.
Sec. 721. Under distress warrant, tenant may execute bond.
Where an officer levies er is about to levy a distress warrant upon
any property, the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant may execute,
with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the officer, a
bond2 to the party in whose favor the warrant issued, to the effect
that he will pay to such party the amount of the rent specified in
the warrant, with ten per cent. thereon, if the property is of the
value of the rent so specified ; or, if it is of less value, that he will
pay to such party the value thereof, and ten per cent. thereon. For
the purpose of taking this bond, the officer shall cause the property
to be appraised as provided in section seven hundred and fourteen.
The appraisement shall be annexed and referred to in the bond.
Upon the giving of the bond, the levy, if one is made, shall be dis
charged, and the bond and warrant shall be returned to some justice
of the peace of the county, where the amount claimed does not ex
ceed fifty dollars ; and, where it does exceed that sum, to the clerk's
office of the circuit court of the county.
Sec. 722. Proceedings to enforce the bond. The party to whom
the bond is executed, may move the justice of the peace or the court
for a judgment thereon, against all or any of the obligors or their
representatives, having given to them five days' notice of the mo
tion. The defendants may make defense, upon the ground that the
distress was for rent not due in whole or in part, or was otherwise
illegal ; or, if property was levied upon, that it was by statute ex
empt from the levy.
Sec. 728. Facts to be tried by jury. Where the motion is made
before a justice of the peace, he shall cause a jury to find the facts,
subject to an appeal where the amount exceeds ten dollars.
Sec. 724. Same. Where the motion is made in court, it shall
direct a jury to find the facts.
Sec. 725. Judgment may be for amount and ten per cent, damages.
If the judgment is against the defendants, it shall be for the rent
due, and ten per cent, thereon, not exceeding the amount secured
by the bond. An execution may be issued forthwith.
Sec. 726. Where part of the amount claimed is not due. Where
the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant, contends that a part of
the rent is not due, he may suspend the distress warrant for such
part, by giving bond, with a surety, for it, upon which proceedings
may be taken, as prescribed in the preceding sections.
Sec. 727. Trial of right of property abolished. Trials by juries
summoned by sheriffs or other officers, of the right of property
taken by them under execution or distress warrant are abolished.
Sec. 728. Surety may sue principal to compel him to discharge debt
A surety may maintain an action against his principal to compel
him to discharge the debt of liability for which the surety is bound,
after the same has become due. (Notes.)
Sec. 729. May sue for indemnity before debt due. A surety may
maintain an action against his principal, to obtain indemnity against
the debt or liability for which he is bound, before it is due, when
ever any of the grounds exist, upon which, by the provisions of
chapters one and three, of title eight, an order may be made for
arrest and bail, or for an attachment.1 (Notes to 728.)
Sec. 730. May obtain provisional remedies. In such action, the
surety may obtain any of the provisional remedies mentioned in
title eight, upon the grounds, and in the manner, therein prescribed.
(Notes to 728.)
Sec. 731. JVb process to issue till petition fled. No summons or
order for a provisional remedy shall be issued by the clerk, in any
action, before the plaintifff's petition therein is filed in his office.
Sec. 732. No objection to process or bond that it is dated on a
holiday. It shall be no objection to any process, writ, summons,
affidavit, or order for a provisional remedy, that it was issued, made,
or is dated on a holiday ; nor shall it be an objection to any bond
given by or for any party to an action, or taken by an officer in
the course of the same, that it was made or is dated on any
such day.
Sec. 733. Process may be issued on a holiday. A summons or
order for a provisional remedy may be issued on a holiday, where
an affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person, is made, to the
effect that, unless it is issued on that day, there is reasonable cause
to believe that it can not be executed.
Sec. 734. When attachment, or order of delivery, may be executed
on a holiday. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of prop
erty, may be executed on a holiday, when the officer having the
process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person,
is made, to the effect that the affiant believes that the property is
about to be concealed or removed, or that the process can not be
executed after such holiday.
Sec. 735. When other process may be executed on a holiday. A
summons, subpena, notice, or order of arrest, or of injunction, may
he executed on a holiday, where the officer having the process be
lieves, or an affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person, is made,
to the effect that the affiant believes, that the process can not be ex
ecuted after such holiday.
_Sec. 736. When defendant exempt from process. The defendant
shall have no privilege of exemption from the service of the process
mentioned in the last section, except from an arrest, by reason of his
attendance at any muster, election, or order of survey, or as a wit
ness at any court or other place.
Sec. 737. To whom process directed, when sheriff interested or a
party. An order for a provisional remedy, or any other process, in
an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is interested, shall be
directed to the coroner, or, if he is interested, to the jailor.1 If
both these officers are interested, the process shall be directed to,
and executed by, any constable of the county. (Notes.)
Sec. 738. Court may appoint a person to execute process. The
court, for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a particular
process or order, who shall have the same power to execute it which
a sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the motion of the
party obtaining the process or order, and the return must be verified
by his affidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to sheriffs
for similar services.'
Sec. 739. Clerk to indorse time of fling papers, and return of
orders and bonds. The clerk shall indorse, upou every paper filed
in an action, the day of filing it ; and upon every order for a pro
visional remedy, and upon every bond taken thereunder, the day of
its return to his office.
Sec. 740. To enter service of summons on docket He shall, upon
the return of every summons served, enter upon the docket the
name of the defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of the
service upon each one.1 The entry shall be evidence of the service
of the summons, in case of the loss thereof.
Sec. 741. Clerks may administer oath. [Amended, January 8,
1864.] He may administer any oath, or take any affidavit required
or permitted in the progress of an action, and shall make orders of
surveys, during vacation, upon the application of any party to a
pending action, after service of process, and shall, indorse the same
upon the petition, noting the date thereof, and the name of the party
for whom it was made ; which orders of services shall have the same
effect as if made by the court, provided the party obtaining the
order shall give the opposing party notice that such order has been
made, as well as of the time when the same is to be executed.
Sec. 742. Must prepare bonds. He shall prepare, in a proper
manner, every bond to be taken by, or given before, him or his
court.
Sec. 743. May refuse security for cost. He shall refuse any
surety offered in a bond to be taken by him who is, in his opinion,
insufficient.2
Sec. 744. Sheriff to indorse day and hour of receiving process.
The sheriff shall indorse, upon every summons, order of arrest, or
for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction, in his
hands, the day and hour it was received by him.
Sec. 755. May break doors to execute attachments and orders of
delivery. A sheriff having an order of attachment, or for the de
livery of property, may enter any building or enclosure containing
the property to take it; and, if necessary for this purpose, may
break the building or enclosure, having first publicly demanded the
property.
Sec. 746. Also, to make an arrest A sheriff having an order of
arrest,1 may enter any house or enclosure in which the party to be
arrested may be, to arrest him, and, if necessary for this purpose,
may break the house or enclosure, after having informed any person
therein of his object, or, where no person appears to whom such
information can be given, after having publicly demanded the per
son to be arrested, and, in either case, after having given sufficient
time for the house or enclosure to be opened.
Sec. 747. Not a sufficient return that he is kept off by force. It
shall not be a sufficient return of any process, that the officer was
kept off by force from executing it.
Sec. 748. Code regulates all civil proceedings in all courts. The
code of practice in civil actions, as herein amended, shall regulate
the procedure in all civil actions and proceedings in the courts of
this commonwealth, and that all laws coming within the purview of
its provisions shall be repealed : Provided, however, that actions
and proceedings commenced before this act goes into effect, shall
riot be affected by the provisions of this section.1
Sec. 749. Duties of ministerial officers may be performed by
deputy. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial officer,
and any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his
lawful deputy.
Sec. 750. Authority to several—majority may act An authority
conferred vn three or more persons, may be exercised by the major
ity of them ; and a majority of three or more,persons may do any
act directed to be performed by them.
Sec. 751. Affirmation equivalent to oath. Wherever an oath is re
quired by this code, the affirmation of a person conscientiously scru
pulous of taking an oath, shall have the same effect.
Sec. 752. Mode of computing days. Where a certain number
of days is required to intervene between two acts, the day of one
only of the acts may be counted.
Sec. 753. A good bond may be executed in place of a defective one.
When any bond provided for by this code is adjudged to be defect
ive, a new and sufficient one may be executed in such reasonable
time as the court may fix, with the same effect as if originally exe
cuted.
Sec. 754. Persons offered as security may be sworn as to their suf
ficiency. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a surety in
any bond provided for by this code, shall have the right to require
the person offered as surety to make affidavit of his qualification,
which affidavit may be made before such officer. The taking of
such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to
which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient security.1
Sec. 755. Qualifications of sureties. The surety in every bond
provided for in this code, must be a resident of this state, and worth
double the sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and
have property liable to execution in this state equal to the sum to
be secured. Where there are two or more sureties in the same
bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualification prescribed
in this section.
Sec. 756. In what cases actions of discovery may be brought. No
action to obtain a discovery shall be brought, except in aid of some
other action pending when this code takes effect.
[Amended, February 3, 1858.] 1. That where any person or
corporation is liable, either jointly or severally with others, by
the same contract, an action may be brought against any of the
parties who are liable, to obtain discovery of the names and
residences of the others who are also liable.
2. In such action, the plaintifff shall state in his petition, in
effect, that he has used due diligence, without success, to obtain
the information asked to be discovered, and that he does not be
lieve the parties to the contract who are known to him, have
property sufficient to satisfy his claim. The petition shall be
verified as other petitions, and the cost of such action shall be
paid by the plaintifff, unless the discovery be resisted.
Sec. 757. Successive actions may be brought whenever new cause
arises. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of
action has arisen therefrom.
Sec. 758. Writ of ne exeat abolished. The writ of ne exeat, as a
remedy in a civil action, is abolished.
Sec. 759. Provisional remedies may be granted by two justice* of
the peace. Where, by the provisions of this code, a provisional rem
edy may be granted by the judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or any circuit judge, or by the presiding judge of the county
court, it may be granted by any two justices of the peace of the county.
Sec. 760. One of several parties may verify a pleading. Where
there are several plaintifffs, the verification of the petition or reply
may be made by any one of them ; and, where several defendants
unite in the same answer and defense, the verification may be by
either of them.
[Amended, March 4, 1865.] But the plaintifff or defendant
may file his affidavit that he does believe that the plaintifff
or defendant, who has not verified the petition, answer, or reply,
can truthfully verify such pleading by his oath, and that the
matters therein set out are in the personal knowledge of such
party; it shall, in such case, be the duty of the court to compel
such party to verify such pleading, reasonable time therefore being
given, and, upon the failure of such party to verify such plead
ing, if a petition or cross-petition to dismiss the same, if an
answer or reply to suppress the same and render judgment in
the action as to such defaulting party, as though no answer or
reply had ever been filed.
Sec. 761. Executing bond in an action is an appearance. In an
action where an attachment has been granted, the execution, by or
for the defendant, of a bond whereby the attachment is discharged,
or the possession of the attached property is obtained or retained
by him, shall be an appearance of such defendant in the action.
Sec. 762. Same in steamboat cases. In an action against a
steamboat or other vessel, the execution, by or for an owner of the
boat, of a bond whereby the attachment is discharged, or the posses
sion of the boat is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appear
ance of such owner as a defendant in the action.
Sec. 763. Code not to apply to existing actions. The provisions of
this code do not apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending
when it takes effect. They shall he conducted, in all respects, as if
it had not been adopted.1
Sec. 764. Equitable relief may be had against judgments, etc.,
brought before the code. Where, by the existing laws, a party would
be entitled to proceed, by bill in chancery, to enjoin a judgment or
other proceeding at law, in an action brought before this code takes
effect, he may proceed, in such case, for relief, as if this code^had
not been adopted, and its provisions shall not affect his case.2
Sec. 765. Depositions may be taken under the code in all actions.
That, after this act goes into effect, either party, at their discretion,
may take depositions, according to the provisions of title thirteen,
to be used as evidence in actions, suits or proceedings which had
been commenced before the first day of August, one thousand eight
hundred and fifty one, or which, though commenced since that time,
were excepted from, or in a court not embraced by, the provisions
of the code.
Sec. 766. Code applies to all courts now existing, or hereafter
created. The provisions of this code shall apply to aid regulate the
proceedings of all courts of this commonwealth, though not expressly
enumerated, and of all that may hereafter be created.
Sec. 767. How courts hereafter created to be classed. Where
courts have been, or may be hereafter, created, having a similar ju
risdiction, in whole or in part, with circuit courts, they shall be
considered as circuit courts in the meaning of this code ; where a
similar jurisdiction with quarterly courts, or justices' courts, they
shall be considered as quarterly courts, or justices' courts, in the
meaning of this code. (Notes.)
Sec. 768. Code applies to circuit courts. The provisions of this
code shall regulate proceedings in civil cases in the circuit courts
of this commonwealth, subject, in respect to the Jefferson Circuit
court, to the modifications made in this chapter, which apply to that
court alone.
Sec. 769. flow cases transferred from Jefferson circuit to Louis
ville chancery court Where, by the provisions of title one, an ac
tion commenced in the Jefferson circuit court, by ordinary proceed
ings, is changed into equitable proceedings, the court shall order it
to be transferred to the Louisville chancery court. Whereupon, the
papers in the action, with a copy of the order for its transfer, shall
be delivered by the clerk to the clerk of the chancery court, who
shall place the case upon the docket of that court, and the action
shall proceed as if originally brought therein.
Sec. 770. TfTiere equitable issue, in ordinary suit, in Jefferson cir
cuit court, to be tried. Where, by the provisions of section ten, any
issue arising in an action, is to be tried as in cases of equitable pro
ceedings, without a change of the whole action into such proceed
ings, the trial of such issue shall be by the Jefferson circuit court ;
and where all the issues are such as, before the adoption of this
code, were cognizable in chancery, and the defendant elects to
have them all tried as in cases «f equitable proceedings, the court
shall order the action to be transferred to the Louisville chancery
court ; whereupon, the same proceedings shall be had as are directed
in the last section.
Sec. 771. Certain sections not to apply to Jefferson circuit court.
The provisions of sections three hundred and eighty-eight, three
hundred and eighty-nine, and three hundred and ninety shall not
apply to the court.
Sec. 772. Order of calling the docket in that court On each day
of the term, the court shall, immediately after hearing the motions,
call all the cases on the common docket for that day, in which the
summons had been served in due time, as provided in section one
hundred and thirty-five, and in which no issue of fact has been
formed ; and upon failure to defend, may render judgment.
Sec. 773. When issues of law to be decided. The court may hear
and decide all issues of law in the actions as they are called, and
render judgment, or give further time for hearing and deciding
them.
Sec. 674. When actions stand for trial. An action by ordinary
proceedings shall stand for trial at the first term after the process
has been served on the defendant, as provided in section one hun
dred and thirty-five. An action upon contract, wherein the sum
mons has been served in due time, as provided in that section, upon
part only of the defendants, shall stand for trial at the first term as
to those so summoned, and may be continued as to the others for
further proceedings. In other actions by ordinary proceedings, the
plaintifff can only demand a trial as to part of the defendants, upon
his discontinuing his action as to the others.
Sec. 775. Jurisdiction of Louisville chancery court not affected by
the code. The jurisdiction of the Louisville chancery court is^not
affected by this code, except as provided in section seven hundred
and seventy. The proceedings in that court shall conform to the
provisions of this code respecting actions by equitable proceedings,
subject to the modifications contained in this chapter, which are ap
plicable to that court alone.
[Amended, December 19, 1857.] 1. The Louisville chancery
court shall have no other than equitable or chancery jurisdic
tion, and no action of exclusively common law jurisdiction,
shall hereafter be commenced or prosecuted in said court.
2. That, if any such action or proceeding be instituted or
prosecuted in said court, the chancellor shall, at the cost of the
plaintifff in such action or proceeding, order the same to be
transferred to the Jefferson circuit court ; provided, however,
that if judgment be rendered in any such action, and the error
as to the kind of proceedings adopted shall have been waived,
as provided in section twelve of the code, such judgment shall
not be regarded as erroneous or reversible on the ground of
any such error.
Sec. 776. Certain actions transferred to the Jefferson circuit court
Where, by the provisions of title one, an action commenced in the
Louisville chancery court, by equitable proceedings, is changed into
ordinary proceedings, the court shall order it to be transferred to
the Jefferson circuit court ; whereupon, the papers in the action,
■with a certified copy of the order for its transfer shall be delivered
by the clerk to the clerk of the Jefferson circuit court, who shall
place the case upon the docket of that court, and the action shall
proceed as if originally brought therein.
Sec. 777. Court always open. There shall be no stated terms of
the court. It shall be deemed to be always open for the transac
tion of business ; and may be held at any time by the judge there
of, or in case of his sickness or unavoidable absence, by the judge
of the judicial district which includes the county of Jefferson.
Sec. 778. To whom summons may be directed. The summons
in an action shall be directed to the marshal of the court, or at the
request of the plaintifff, to the sheriff, coroner, or jailor of Jefferson
county ; and shall be made returnable to any day, at the option
of the plaintifff, not less than ten, nor more than sixty days after
its date.
[Amended, March 1, I860.] That section seven hundred
and seventy -eight, chapter three, of the civil code, be so
amended as to authorize all processes and other orders of the
Louisville chancery court to be executed by the sheriff of Jef
ferson county, and all processes and other orders of the Jeffer
son circuit court may be executed by the marshal of the Louis
ville chancery court
Sec. 779. When the defendant to answer. The time fixed in the
summons for the defendant to answer shall be twenty days after the
service thereof, if in Jefferson county, and thirty days if elsewhere
in the state.
Sec. 780. Warning order. The warning order shall warn the
defendant to answer within sixty days after the time of making
the order.
Sec. 781. When defendant deemed to be constructively summoned.
A defendant against whom a warning order is made, shall be
deemed to be constructively summoned thirty days after the making
of the order, and the action shall proceed accordingly.
Sec. 782. When defendant must put in defense. The defense to
an action must be filed within twenty days after the service of the
summons in Jefferson county, or within thirty day after such service
elsewhere in the state. Where the service is out of this state, as
provided in section eighty-six, the defense must be filed within sixty
days thereafter.
Sec. 783. When plaintifff must reply to setoff. If the answer con
tains a counterclaim, or setoff, the plaintifff shall reply within
twenty days after the answer is filed.
Sec. 784. Filing a pleading in clerk's office equivalent to filing in
court The filing within the proper time of an answer or reply, in
the clerk's office, and causing it to be noted upon the clerk's memo
randum book and rule docket, shall be equivalent to a filing in
court. Exhibits may be filed in the same manner in the clerk's
office.
Sec. 785. Where interrogatories are to be answered. Where inter
rogatories are annexed to a petition, they shall be answered at the
time the party is required to answer the petition ; where they are
annexed to the answer or reply, they shall be answered within
twenty days after notice of the filing thereof is given to the ad
verse party or his attorney.
Sec. 786. Amendments to pleadings not taken as true without no
tice. No amendment of a petition or answer containing a counter
claim or setoff, in a material part, shall, without' consent, be taken
as true at the trial, unless the adverse party shall have had such
reasonable notice of the filing thereof as the court may by rule
prescribe.
Sec. 787. Three dockets to»be kept The clerk shall keep three
separate dockets, which shall be called the "rule docket," the
" trial docket," and the " motion docket."
Sec. 788. Rule docket The rule docket shall be kept, and all
actions shall be placed and shall remain thereon without continu
ance, as authorized by the existing law, until they are put upon the
trial docket.
Sec. 789. Trial docket On the trial docket shall be entered
the actions that are ready for trial. Where further time is al
lowed by the court to plead or prepare for trial in an action, it may
be remanded to the rule docket.
Sec. 790. Motion docket On the motion docket may be entered
any motion relating to proceedings in the court.
Sec. 791. Call of trial and motion dockets. The cases upon the
trial and motion dockets shall be called at such times as the court,
with a view to the dispatch of business, may deem to be proper.
Sec. 792. When case may be placed on trial docket. Where the
summons has been served in Jefferson county twenty days or else
where in the state thirty days, or out of state sixty days, or where
a regular warning order has expired, and no defense is made, the
plaintifff may place the action upon the trial docket.
Sec. 793. When answer admitted to be tru,e, action may at once be
placed on trial docket Where defense is made by an answer, which
the plaintifff consents may be taken as true, the action may be imme
diately placed upon the trial docket.
Sec. 794. When to be placed on trial docket, if answer not ad
mitted to be true. Where defense is made by an answer, which the
plaintifff does not consent may be taken as true, the action may be
placed on the trial docket thirty days after the pleadings have been,
or, by the provisions of sections seven hundred and eighty, two and
seven hundred and eighty-three, should have been completed. But
where they have not been so completed, though they should have
been by those sections, the party in default as to time, shall not be
entitled to place the action on the trial docket.
Sec. 795. When, if interrogatories are annexed to pleadings.
Where interrogatories are annexed to a pleading, the party inter
rogated shall not be entitled to place the action on the trial docket,
within twenty days after he has answered the interrogatories.
Sec. 796. Application for a new trial to be within fifteen days.
An application for a new trial, except for the cause mentioned in the
seventh subdivision of section three hundred and sixty-nine, shall be
made within fifteen days after the decision is rendered ; and where
the application is for the cause mentioned in that subdivision, it shall
be made within sixty days after the decision.
Sec. 797. In certain cases, may be made in two monilis after dis
covery of grounds. Where grounds for a new trial are discovered
after the expiration of sixty days from the decision, the application
may be made as provided in section three hundred and seventythree;
within two months after the discovery. The proceedings
thereupon shall be such as are directed in that section, and subject
to the limitation therein prescribed.
Sec. 798. When execution may issue. No execution shall be had
of any judgment within fifteen days after its rendition, unless other
wise ordered by the court.
Sec. 799. When appeal may be granted. An appeal may be
granted within fifteen days after a final judgment or order.
Sec. 800. Power of court over its judgment continues sixty days.
The power which the court has heretofore had over its orders and
decrees during the term in which they are rendered, shall continue
as to any final judgment or order for sixty days after its rendition.
{Notes.)
Sec. 801. Certain proceedings to be in accordance with certain sec
tions. The proceedings authorized by section five hundred and
seventy-nine, and the succeeding sections of title twelve, may be had
in reference to any judgment or final order of the court, after the
expiration of sixty days from its rendition. The proceedings upon
the petition authorized by section five hundred and eighty-one shall
be as in an action by equitable proceedings. A motion to vacate a
judgment, because of its rendition before the action could regularly
be placed upon the trial docket, can only be made within three
months after its rendition.
Sec. 802. Party may show cause against a revivor in thirty days
after notice. Within thirty days after the service of an order to re
vive an action, as provided in section five hundred and sixty-two, the
party upon whom it is made, may show cause against the revivor,
and, if sufficient cause is not shown within that time, the action shall
Stand revived.
Sec. 803. Warning order for revivor to allow sixty days for appear
ance. An order warning parties to appear and show cause why an
action should not be revived, in the cases mentioned in section five
hundred and sixty-four, shall allow not less than sixty days for their
appearance ; and if, within the period mentioned in the order, suf
ficient cause is not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand re
vived.
Sec. 804. Court to appoint a commissioner—his duties and fees.
A commissioner shall be appointed by the court, and shall hold his
office during its pleasure. He shall discharge the duties of the
present masters of the court, and may receive the fees therefore
which are authorized to be taken by them. He shall perform such
other duties as are provided by this code, or as, by rules and orders
pursuant thereto, may be directed by the court.1
Sec. 805. Commissioner to be sworn. Before entering upon the
performance of his duties, the commissioner shall take, in open
court, the oath prescribed by the existing laws for a master of the
court.
Sec. 806. May appoint deputies with consent of court The com
missioner may, with the approbation of the court, appoint one or
two deputies, who shall, in open court, take an oath to perform
faithfully their duties.
Sec. 807. May administer oaths. The commissioner may admin
ister any oath and take an affidavit directed or permitted in an ac
tion or proceeding in the court.
Sec. 808. Court may require all depositions to be taken on inter
rogatories. The judge of the court may require all depositions to
be taken upon interrogatories filed in the clerk's office.
Sec. 809. Manner of taking and certifying depositions. Deposi
tions to be read in the court shall be taken and certified in the
manner, and by the officers directed by the provisions of this code,
subject to the following modifications, viz :
1. Depositions in the city of Louisville shall be taken before
the commissioner of the court.
2. Notice to the adverse party of the filing of interrogato
ries shall not be necessary. The court shall by rules prescribe
days for the filing of interrogatories, and the time they shall
remain in the clerk's office.
3. A deposition may be taken by the commissioner of the
court without a commission therefore.
4. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories, neither
party, nor his agent or attorney shall be present at the exam
ination of the witness, unless the adverse party or his agent or
attorney is present, or unless such party or his attorney has had
reasonable notice of the time and place of taking the deposi
tion. But a party notified to attend may be present, although
the party who gave the notice is not.
6. Where it appears by the certificate of the officer that one
only of the parties was present at the examination of the wit
ness, the reason for his being permitted to be present shall be
stated, and, where a notice to attend has been given, the evi
dence thereof shall be annexed to the certificate.
6. Depositions to be read in the court may be taken by the
commissioner at any place in the state.
Sec. 810. Credits on sales of property ordered by court Sales of
personal property made by order of the court shall be upon such
credits as the court may direct, not exceeding four months ; but the
court may, in its discretion in a special case, direct a sale of such
property to be for cash. Sales of real property shall, unless by con
sent of the parties, be upon a credit of not less than three or more
than twelve months, or on installments equivalent to not more than
twelve months' credit on the whole; but the court may direct a sale
of real property over the value of three thousand dollars, to be on
a credit, or, if on installments, an average of credits not exceeding
two years. (Notes!)
Sec. 811. Where sales to be made. Sales of property in Louis
ville or the county of Jefferson, by order of the court or under ex
ecution from it, if not otherwise specially directed by the court,
shall be made at the court-house door, after ten days' notice by
printed advertisements posted at that and such other places as the
court may, by rule, direct. The court may, by rule, from time to
time, prescribe a day or days of the week, and the hours of the day,
within which all sales shall be made.
Sec. 812. Manner of selling real estate. In the sale of a
small portion of real estate, if the defendant does not require less
than the whole to be sold, where less will produce the debt, the
officer making the sale may exercise his discretion, with a view to
the interest of the defendant, whether to sell the whole or less than
the whole, as he may or not think it advantageously susceptible of
division. The officer shall be allowed no commission for any excess
over the amount of the debt, and an abuse of his discretion either
way, shall be a sufficient cause to set aside the sale. (Notes.)
Sec. 813. To whom bonds of purchaser payable and their effect.
The bonds of the purchasers of property sold by order of the court,
shall bear interest from the day of sale, and shall be made payable
to the " clerk of the Louisville chancery court," and shall be signed
or acknowledged before, and attested by the officer who made the
sale. Proceedings on such bonds may be had in the name of the
u
clerk of the Louisville chancery court," without using the name of
the clerk for the time being, at the instance, as relator, of any per
son interested—he being responsible for the costs. Performance
of such bonds may be summarily enforced by orders of court,
and by proceedings as for contempt if they are not obeyed. The
bonds shall have the force of judgments, and, upon executions there
on, no replevy shall be allowed, and sales shall be for cash.
Sec. 814. When objections to bail must be made. An objection
to bail for insufficiency, can only be made by motion, within ten
days after the return of the bail bond.
Sec. 815. Where indemnifying bonds on executions returnable.
An indemnifying bond pursuant to section seven hundred and nine,
to obtain a levy or sale of property, in Jefferson county, under an
execution from the court, shall be returned to it.
Sec. 816. So of bonds to suspend sales under execution. A bond
pursuant to section seven hundred and thirteen, to suspend a sale
of property levied upon in Jefferson county, under an execution
from the court, shall be returned to it, and the proceedings author
ized in section seven hundred and sixteen may be had therein.
Sec. 817. Process may be directed to and executed in other coun
ties. Process of court to other counties may be issued and directed,
and shall be executed and returned, as such process from a circuit
court.
Sec. 818. Provisions of the code in regard to sheriffs apply to
marshals. Wherever, by the provisions of this code, any process is
to be directed to the sheriff of the county in which an action or
proceeding is brought or is pending, or any act is required or per
mitted to be done by him, the word "sheriff" shall, in reference to
any action or proceeding in the Louisville chancery court, be taken
to mean the marshal thereof. And where the marshal is a party
to or interested in any action or proceeding in the court, any pro
cesa therein may be directed to the sheriff of Jefferson county, or
if he is interested, to the coroner or jailor thereof.
Sec. 819. Money due from a receiver, a preferred debt over all
except the commonwealth. A debt incurred by any person or corpo
ration, as receiver or depositary of money paid into the court, shall
rank with debts due to the commonwealth, and shall have priority
over other debts owing by such receiver or depositary, and prece
dence over any mortgage or lien upon his property made after its
appointment. Accounts shall be kept of all monies paid into the
court, and with every receiver or depositary of such monies, by the
clerk or commissioner, as may be directed by the court.
Sec. 820. Where actions on official bonds may be brought An ac
tion upon the official bond of the clerk or marshal of the court, may
be brought and prosecuted therein as other actions of which it has
cognizance, subject to the right of the defendant to a trial by jury.
Sec. 821. Court may prescribe rules for conducting business. The
court may, from time to time, prescribe and enforce rules for the
orderly conduct and dispatch of the business of the court, and of its
officers, pursuant to the provisions of this code, and of the existing
laws not inconsistent therewith.1
Sec. 822. Code regulates the proceedings, except as provided in this
chapter. The provisions in this code shall regulate the proceedings
in civil actions in the quarterly courts, county courts, police courts,
city courts, mayors' courts, and courts of justices of the peace, ex
cept as provided in this chapter.'
Sec. 823. To whom the summons to be directed. The summons,'
orders for provisional remedies,1 and other process from the courts
of justices of the peace, shall be directed to a constable ; of the
quarterly courts or county courts, either to the sheriff, coroner or a
constable, at the option of the plaintifff; of the police, city and may
ors' courts, to the marshal or constable ; but the summons may be
served by any officer or person authorized by this code to serve a
summons.
[Amended, February 17, 1858.] Justices of the peace shall
have power to appoint special agent to execute orders of arrest,
attachments, and other provisional remedies, and the summons
which accompanies such orders, wherever an affidavit is filed
with such justice, by the plaintifff or his agent, to the effect
that he believes that, owing to the absence or difficulty of pro
curing a proper officer, the process or orders can not be exe
cuted unless such special agent be appointed. The appoint- '
ment shall be made by an indorsement on the writ or order,
which the agent is authorized to execute or serve, which in
dorsement shall be signed by the justice.
Sec. 824. Provisions of code as to clerk, apply to judge or justice
acting as clerk. The duties and powers enjoyed and conferred in
this code upon clerks, shall devolve on the judge or justices of such
courts, where, by law, the judge or justices are required to act as
the clerk of their court.
Sec. 825. When process, etc., may be issued by clerk of county court.
Where the judge of the county court does not keep an office at or
within one mile of the county seat, or is absent from his office, the
clerk of the county court may issue the summons, in an action in the
quarterly court, in the same manner and under the same circum
stances as the judge, and also subpenas for witnesses, and shall be
allowed therefore the same fees as the judge. The clerk shall, before
the next term of the quarterly court, deliver to the judge all papers
filed wi^h him upon which he has issued any summons, and a list of
the process issued by him, for the purpose of being properly taxed
in the costs.
[Amended, February 15, 1858.] 1. That it shall be the duty
of the judge of the county court to keep regularly open an
office for the transaction of business appertaining to the quar
terly court, at the county seat ; but he shall be absolved from
this duty upon his entering upon the records of the county court
an order empowering the clerk of the county court to act as
clerk of the quarterly court ; and, upon such order being made
said clerk shall be authorized to issue the summons, the ordera
for provisional remedies, and process for witnesses, in actions
in the quarterly court, and issue executions upon the judgments
rendered therein, and shall be entitled to the fees, and be sub
ject to the liabilities and penalties for his acts and omissions to
act in the premises, as the judge of said court is, by law, entitled
and subject : Provided, that said judge shall not be prevented,
by such order, from issuing such writs, processes and orders
whenever he thinks proper to do so.
2. That, when an order shall be entered, as provided in the
first section, it shall be the duty of the judge, at the termina
tion of each term of said court, to deposit in the hands of the
clerk of the county court, the book wherein the judgments of
the court of such term are entered, to enable the clerk to issue
executions thereon, and also his docket and execution book ;
and it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter all actions brought
on such docket, and all executions issued by him on the execu
tion book ; and he shall safely keep all papers and pleadings
filed with him, and all writs and process delivered to him by the
returning officer, and deliver all such books, papers, process,
pleadings, writs and orders to the judge, when so required by
him: Provided, that Kenton" county is hereby exempted from
the provisions of this act ; also, the counties of Washington and
Marion, so far as it relates to the place of holding or keeping
the office.
3. In case the judge of the quarterly court fails to attend
and hold his court, or shall refuse to sit in a particular case, an
election may be held of a special judge, in the manner pre
scribed in regard to circuit judges, which election shall be con
ducted by the clerk of the county court, who shall administer
to the special judge the same oath administered to special
judges of the circuit court, and make an entry thereof on the
book of proceedings of said court ; and thereupon the special
judge shall have all the powers of the quarterly judge, until the
term is concluded, or the regular judge shall attend and hold
the court : Provided, however, that if no such election be held,
the court shall be held, in the absence or refusal to act of the
judge, in the manner now prescribed by law.
[Further amended, February 22, I860.] 1. That, in the cases
where it is made lawful, by chapter three, article one, section
eight hundred and twenty-five, of the civil code of practice, for
the clerk of the county court to issue summons in an action in
the quarterly court, and also subpenas for witnesses, it shall and
may be lawful for the judge of the county court to appoint a
deputy to issue the same, and to perform all other duties en
joined upon said judge as clerk of the quarterly court, in the
same manner, and under the same circumstances, and for the
same fees as the judge. Said deputy shall possess the same
qualifications, and take the same oaths, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, as is required by law of a deputy clerk
of a court.
2. The county of Harrison shall be exempted from the pro
visions of this act.
Sec. 826. Only one docket to be kept Only one docket is required
to be kept, on which shall be entered all the actions and motions
as they shall be returned before them.
Sec. 827. Pleadings oral where amount does not exceed fifty dollars.
Where the matter in controversy does not exceed fifty dollars, the
pleadings in the action may be oral, and without verification. But
before the summons is issued, the plaintifff shall file with the justice
the account, or the written contract, or a short written statement of
the facts on which the action is founded.
Sec. 828. How long after summons served, before judgment In the
actions named in the last section, the service of the summons five
days before the time of trial, shall authorize a trial and judgment.
Where the matter in controversy exceeds fifty dollars, the service
of the summons ten days before its return day, shall authorize a
trial and judgment, whether the proceedings are ordinary or
equitable.
Sec. 829. How pleadings completed and trial to progress. On the
calling of an action for trial, if the summons has been served as
prescribed in the last section, the defendant shall put in his defense
and the plaintifff his reply, if a reply be necessary, and the trial
forthwith proceed, unless the court give further time, or grant a con
tinuance.
Sec. 830. In equity proceedings, testimony may be oral or by de
position. In actions by equitable proceedings, the parties may either
take the depositions of witnesses, or examine them orally in court.
Sec. 831. Delivery of a copy of the summons not required. The
delivery of a copy of the summons shall not be necessary in its
service, nor a copy of a subpena, or a ticket stating its substance, in
its service' on a witness.
Sec. 832. In what district the summons to be returned. Where
the defendant resides in the county in which the summons was issued,
the summons shall be returned for trial in the district of his resi
dence, unless he otherwise consents, in writing, signed by him, and
indorsed on the summons, or unless the justices in such district are
interested, or refuse to act, in which case it shall be returned in an
adjoining district.
[Amended, February 16, 1858.] When the defendant to any
action before a justice of the peace in this commonwealth, re
sides in the county where the summons was issued, the sum
mons shall be returned for trial in the district of his residence,
unless the justices in such district are interested in the subject
of the suit, or refuse to act, in which case the summons shall
be returned to an adjoining district, with the facts indorsed
thereon : Provided, however, that this shall only apply to the
city of Louisville.
[Further amended, March 4, I860.] That nn act, entitled
" an act to amend section eight hundred and thirty-two, of
chapter three, and article one, code of practice," approved Feb
ruary 16, 1858, be amended as follows, to-wit : Any constable
who shall hereafter return any summons or other process re
turnable before a justice of the peace, in any other district
than that in which the defendant resides at the date of such
return, shall be fined for each offense the sum of twenty dollars,
to be recovered by indictment in the city court of Louisville.
All judgments which may be hereafter rendered by a justice
of the peace against defendants who do not reside in the dis
trict of such justice of the peace when judgment may be ren
dered, or did not reside in such district when process was
served, shall be null and void. If, however, the justices in
the district of the defendant's residence are both interested in
the subject of the suit, or refuse to act, it shall be the duty of
the constable to return the summons in an adjoining district,
with such facts indorsed thereon ; and thereupon, and not
otherwise, judgment may be rendered as if such defendant resided
in said district; Provided, however, That this act shall only
apply to the city of Louisville.
Sec. 833. Where defendants reside in different districts, summons
returnable in either. Where there are two or more defendants
residing in the county, but in different districts, the summons shall
be returnable to either district.
Sec. 834. Where returnable if defendant transient or summons is
sued, by judge of county court Where a defendant transiently in a
county is served with a summons issuing in said county, it shall
be returned in the district in which he is served, unless he other
wise consents in writing signed by him. Where the summons is
issued by the judge of the quarterly court, it shall be returned be
fore him, unless the defendant or defendants all reside in one dis
trict, and there is an acting justice of the peace and an acting con
stable in such district.
Sec. 835. Where trial by jury allowed. The parties shall not be
entitled to a trial by jury unless the matter in controversy exceeds
in value sixteen dollars. Upon a jury trial being claimed, where
the same is allowable, the presiding judge or justice shall order a
jury to be forthwith impanneled to try the action. The jurors shall
be qualified as required in the circuit courts.
Sec. 836. New trial may be granted in ten days. A new trial or
re-hearing may be granted in the quarterly courts or courts of justice
of the peace, upon motion made within ten days after a judgment
or final order has been made or rendered, of which motion notice
shall be given to the opposite party.
Sec. 837. A record of proceedings to be kept. Each presiding
judge and justice of the peace shall, in a book provided for that
purpose, keep a full and fair record of his judicial proceedings in
his court, and keep a good cross-index in the names of the litigants,
referring to the pages of the book of every entry in each case.
Sec. 838. Depositions may be taken before justices of the peace.
The depositions to be read in the quarterly courts, county courts,
police courts, city courts, mayors' courts, or courts of justices of
the peace, may be taken before justices of the peace, examiners,
presiding judges of county courts, or police judges.
Sec. 839. Each party may examine the other on oath or file inter
rogatories. Either party may examine the other on oath, and for
that purpose may cause him to be summoned to attend the trial if
he reside in the county, or if he reside out of the county, may file
written interrogator^ s with the clerk of the county court, or pre
siding officer in whose court the trial is to be had, together with an
affidavit that he believes the answers to them are necessary to his
obtaining justice, and cause a copy of said interrogatories to be
delivered to the party required to answer them, who shall make out,
swear to, and file with such county court, or presiding officer, on or
before the day of trial, a plain, direct response to the interrogato
ries, which may be read by either party.
Sec. 840. Judgment to be rendered against party failing to attend
or answer interrogatories. The court shall render judgment against
the party who refuses to attend and be examined when summoned
two days before the trial, or to make proper responses to interrog
atories where a copy shall have been delivered to him three days
before the trial, where he resides within fifty miles of the place of
trial, and one additional day for every additional thirty miles he
may reside therefrom ; but the court may grant further time for at
tending or answering.
Sec. 841. Last two sections apply to appeals. The last two sec
tions apply to appeals from judgments of quarterly, justices', city,
police, and mayors' courts.
Sec. 842. Sow judgment to be renewed when record lost Where
the record of a judgment of a quarterly, city, police, mayor's, or
justice's court has been lost or destroyed, such court may, on mo
tion of the plaintifff, after five days' notice, render a new judgment
for what may remain due thereon.
Sec. 843. Setoff or counterclaim may be used as a defense. A
setoff or counterclaim, though exceeding in amount the jurisdiction
of the court, may be used to bar and extinguish the demand of the
plaintifff; but no judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defend
ant for the excess, unless such excess is within the limits of the
court's jurisdiction as to amount. The judgment shall ascertain the
amount due to the plaintifff, and give him a credit therefore on the
claim used as a setoff or counterclaim.
Sec. 844. When trial to be had, where provisional remedy has been
granted. Where an order for a provisional remedy has been made
by a judge or justice, in an action within the jurisdiction of their
respective courts, and the order has been served or levied, the trial
of the action and disposition of the order may take place at any time
after five days' notice to the defendant, without waiting for the reg
ular term of such judge's or justice's court, which notice may be
given by the officer at the time of serving the summons, or levying
the order ; and if the justice before whom the trial should regularly
be had is sick, absent, or unable to act, the officer may return the
case for trial before the most convenient magistrate.
Sec. 845. Land not to be sold under execution. Land shall not
be levied on or sold under execution ' from a quarterly or justice's
court, or any court of similar jurisdiction.
Sec. 846. How execution obtained from circuit court which may
be levied on land. When an execution on a judgment of a quarterly
or justice's court, or court of similar jurisdiction, has been returned
by a constable or other officer, either as to the whole or a part
thereof, in substance, no property found to satisfy the same, the
plaintifff may obtain from the justice a certified copy of the judgment
and execution, and return and file the same in the clerk's office of
the circuit court of the county in which the judgment was rendered,
which copies shall be copied by the clerk in a book kept for that
purpose ; and, thereupon, the clerks shall issue writs of execution
on the judgment, for the amount due thereon and the costs, includ
ing the costs of the copies by the justice and copying by the clerk,
■which shall be levied and proceeded on as executions on judgments
of the circuit court.
[Amended, February 9, 1858.] That section eight hundred
and forty-six of the civil code of practice, be, and the same is,
hereby amended, as follows, to-wit : whenever any execution
has issued from a quarterly court, and been placed in the hands
of the proper officer for collection, and has been by him 're
turned, in whole or in part, in substance, " no property found,"
the presiding judge shall, on the application of the plaintifff, or
his attorney, furnish a certified copy of the judgment, execution
and return, which shall be filed and recorded in the clerk's office
of the circuit court, and execution issued thereon in the same
manner as is now provided in said section ; and the proceed
ings on the judgment and execution shall be, thereafter, the
same in every respect, as if the action had been originally in
stituted in the circuit court. This amendment shall apply to
all former judgments in the quarterly courts.
,
Sec. 847. How appeals to he taken. Appeals may be taken in
the following manner:1 The party appealing shall produce to the
clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken a certified copy of
the judgment and amount of costs, and cause to be executed before
said clerk, by one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the
clerk, a bond,2 to the effect that the appellant will satisfy and per
form the judgment that shall be returned upon the appeal ; where
upon, the clerk shall issue an order * to the judge, mayor or justice
rendering the judgment, to stay all further proceedings on the same,
and to transmit to the office of said clerk all the original papers
therein, and the appellee shall be summoned, actually or construct
ively, as provided in chapter two, of title four, to appear and defend
the appeal. Where the judge acts as clerk of his court, the pro
visions of this section, in regard to clerks, apply to him.
[Amended, March 3, 1863.] 1. That, upon all judgments
hereafter rendered in justices' and police courts, where the
amount in controversy is of the value of twenty dollars or more,
exclusive of interest and cost ; and where an appeal is prayed,
either party may direct that the appeal shall be taken direct to
the circuit court. If either party so direct, the justice or po
lice judge rendering the judgment shall make a minute of the
same, as part of the record. The appeal and costs, in all other
respects, shall be regulated as now provided by law.
2. That the deputy clerks of quarterly courts are hereby authorized to administer oaths and certify the same, in all cases
vhere the presiding judge is so authorized, and shall be entitled
to the same fees therefore. (Notes.)
Sec. 848. Original papers to be transmitted to court appealed to.
The judge, mayor or justic, on being served with said order, shall,
in ten days thereafter, transmit all the original papers in the action
to the clerk's office of the court to which the appeal is taken. (Notes
to 847.)
Sec. 849. How appeals docketed and tried. Appeals shall be
docketed and stand for trial as actions by ordinary proceedings.
The actions shall be tried anew, as if no judgment had been ren
dered. (Notes to 847.)
Sec. 850. Regulations as to cost on appeals. Unless the judg
ment on the appeal is more favorable to the appellant than the
original judgment, he shall pay the costs of the appeal. Where he
merely succeeds in reducing the amount of a judgment rendered
against him, it shall be at the discretion of the court to allow him
costs or not. (Notes to 847.)
Sec. 851. How cost of inferior court to be paid. The costs in the
inferior court shall be adjudged in favor of the plaintifff, when he
succeeds in obtaining, on the appeal, a judgment for any amount ;
otherwise, in favor of the defendant. (Notes to 847.)
Sec. 852. Appeals to be taken in sixty days. No appeal shall be
taken as provided in this article, except within sixty days from the
rendering of the judgment. (Notes to 847.)
Sec. 853. Where appellant moves to dismiss or fails to prosecute
the appeals. If the appellant moves to dismiss or fails to prosecute
his appeal, it shall be at the option of the appellee either to pro
ceed to trial on the appeal, or have judgment rendered for the
amount of the original judgment and costs where it was in his fa
vor, or in bar of the original judgment where it was against him.
{Notes to 847.)
Sec. 854. Copy of judgment to be furnished party taking appeal.
Whenever a party is desirous of taking an appeal, the mayor, judge,
or justice before whom the case was tried, shall deliver to him, upon
application, a copy of the judgment and amount of costs, certified
by him. (Notes to 847.)
Sec. 855. Certain words to have several different meanings.
Words used in this code in the past or present tense, include the fu
ture as well as the past and present ; words used in the masculine
gender include the feminine and neuter ; the singular number in
cludes the plural, and the plural, the singular ; the word person in
cludes a corporation, as well as a natural person ; writing includes
printing or printed paper ; signature or subscription includes mark,
when the person can not write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
Sec. 856. Terms explained in following sections to be construed
accordingly. The terms explained in the following sections of this
chapter have, in this code, the significations attached to them, unless
it is otherwise apparent from the context
Sec. 857. Actions for recovery of money. An action for the
recovery of money, in the meaning of this code, includes an action
for the recovery of damages as well as of money due by contract
Sec. 858. Real property. The words "real property" mean
lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Sec. 859. Personal property. The words " personal property "
include slaves, money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evi
dences of debt.
Sec. 860. Property. The word " property " includes property,
real and personal.
Sec. 861. Clerk. The word "clerk" means the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which the
proceeding is had; and the words "clerk's office" mean his office.
Sec. 862. Presiding judge of, the county court The words " pre
siding judge of the county court " signify the presiding judge of
the county court of the county in which the action is brought or is
pending, or in which the proceeding is had.
Sec. 863. Sheriff. The word "sheriff" means the sheriff of
the county in which the action is brought or is pending, or in
which the proceeding is had, or to which the process is directed;
and where it is used in connection with any process or order, or the
execution thereof, or of any ministerial act, shall be taken to sig
nify also any other officer to whom the process or order may be di
rected, and who may be acting under it, or by whom the ministerial
act may be performed.
Sec. 864. Coroner, justice, jailor, constable. The words " coro
ner," "justice," "jailor," and "constable," mean officers of the
county in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which the
proceeding is had, or to which the process is directed.
Sec. 865. Personal representative. The words "personal repre
sentative " signify the executor or administrator of a deceased per
son, or the officer or other person appointed to take charge of his
estate.
Sec. 866. Foreign corporation. A " foreign corporation " is one
created by the laws of some other state or country.
Sec. 867. Other country. The words "other country" signify
any part of the world out of this state.
Sec. 868. United States. The words " United States " embrace
every state in the union, all the territories thereof, and the District
of Columbia.
Sec. 869. Person of unsound mind. The words " person of un
sound mind " include every person who is an idiot, lunatic, or de
ranged.
Sec. 870. Oath. The word " oath " includes affirmation, in any
case in which it may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases,
the word " sworn " includes " affirmed."
Sec. 871. Month. The word " month " means calendar month.
Sec. 872. Process. " Process " is a writ or summons issued in
the course of judicial proceedings.
Sec. 873. Writ. " Writ " is an order or precept in writing, issued
by a court, clerk, or judicial officer.
Sec. 874. Provisions of code to be liberally construed. The rule
of the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof are to be
strictly construed, shall not be applied to this code. The provisions
of this code, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally con
strued, with a view to promote its object, and assist the parties in
obtaining justice.
Sec. 875. All laws inconsistent with it, repealed. All statutes
and laws heretofore in force in this state, in any case provided for
by this code, or inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby repealed
and abrogated ; but this repeal does not revive any statute or law
which may have been repealed or abolished by the statutes or laws
hereby repealed ; nor does it affect any right already existing, or
any proceeding already taken, except as provided in this code.
(Notes.)
Sec. 876. All cases taken to the court of appeals by appeal. The
mode of bringing the judgment1 or final order of an inferior court
to the court of appeals, for reversal or modification, shall be by ap
peal, which shall be granted as matter of right either by the court
rendering the judgment or order, on motion made during the term
at which it is rendered, or by the clerk of the court of appeals, on
application of either party. (Notes.)
Sec. 877. Hie appellant and appellee. The party taking the ap
peal shall be called the appellant, and the adverse party, the ap
pellee.
Sec. 878. When appellee to be summoned. Unless the appeal is
granted by the inferior court, or the appellee enters his appearance
in the court of appeals, he shall be summoned actually or construct
ively, as provided in chapter two, title four, of this code, to appear
and answer the appeal. (Notes.)
Sec. 879. When record must be fled in court of oppeals. It shall
be the duty of the appellant to file, in the clerk's office of the court
of appeals, within ninety days after the appeal is granted, an au
thenticated ccpy of the record, otherwise his appeal shall be dis
missed ; but the court of appeals may, for cause shown, extend the
time of filing such copy, not beyond, however, the first day of the
second term of said court after the appeal was granted. {Notes to
878.)
[Amended, December 16, 1861.] 1. That so much of section
eight hundred and seventy-nine of the civil code of practice,
which forbids the court of appeals from extending to appellants
time for filing transcripts of records beyond the first day of the
second term of said court after the appeal is granted, be, and
the same is hereby repealed.
2. That this act shall apply to all civil cases in said court,
whether the appeal ha3 been granted before or since the date
hereof; and the same shall take effect from its passage.
Sec. 880. Appellee may file copy of[the record. The appellee may
file an authenticated copy of the record in the clerk's office of the
court of appeals, with the same effect as if filed by the appellant.
Sec. 881. Either party may obtain from clerk a certiorari. Where
either party conceives that the copy of the record is imperfect, the
clerk of the court of appeals shall, on his application, issue a writ
of certiorari, commanding the clerk of the inferior court to transmit
to the court of appeals a true copy of the omitted or imperfect part
of the record, which part shall, in general terms, be described in the
writ. (Notes.)
Sec. 882. Mow an original paper may be brought up. Where a
view of an original paper in the action may be important to a cor
rect decision of the appeal, the court may have the same brought up
by a subpena duces tecum, directed to the clerk of the inferior court.
Sec. 883. When appellant may be required to give security for cost.
The appellant may be required to give security for costs, under
the same circumstances that plaintifffs in civil actions may be so
required.
Sec. 884. ^Appeals only granted in three years from judgment.
An appeal shall not be granted except within three years next after
the rendition of the judgment or order, unless the party applying
therefore was an infant, married woman, or of unsound mind, at the
time of its rendition, in which cases, an appeal may be granted to
such parties, or their legal representatives, within one year after the
removal of their disabilities, or death, whichever may first happen.
(Notes.)
Sec. 885. Tax on appeals. The tax on the appeal shall be one
dollar.
CHAPTER n.
SUPERSEDEAS ON APPEALS.
886. Appeals do not stay proceedings without supersedeas.
887. Supersedeas bond—its provisions.
888. When supersedeas to be issued by the clerk of the circuit court, and
when by the clerk of the court of appeals.
889. Not to be issued by clerk of court of appeals till record or bond, or
copy of bond, filed.
890. Proceedings where the supersedeas bond is defective.
891. Part of a judgment may be stayed by supersedeas.
892. Supersedeas defined.
Sec. 886. Appeals do not slay proceedings without supersedeas.
An appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment or order, un
less a supersedeas is issued.
Sec. 887. Supersedeas bond—its provisions. A supersedeas
Bhall not be issued until the appellant shall cause to be executed,
before the clerk of the court which rendered the judgment or order,
or the clerk of the court of appeals, by one or more sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by such clerk, a bond ' to the effect that the ap.,
pellant shall pay to the appellee all costs and damages that shall be
adjudged against the appellant on the appeal ; also, that he will
satisfy and perform the judgment or order appealed from, in case it
should be affirmed, and any judgment or order which the court of
appeals may render, or order to be rendered by the inferior court,
not exceeding, in amount or value, the original judgment or order,
and all rents, or hire, or damages to property, during the pendency
of the appeal, of which the appellee is kept out of possession bj
reason of the appeal. (Notes.)
Sec. 888. When and by whom supersedeas issued. Where the
appeal was granted by the court rendering the judgment or order,
and the bond is executed, within thirty days thereafter, before the
clerk of such court, the supersedeas shall be issued by such clerk ;
in all other cases, it shall be issued by the clerk of the court of
appeals.
Sec. 889. Not by cleric of court of appeals, till record,bond, or copy
of bond, filed. A supersedeas shall not be issued by the clerk of
the court of appeals, until an authenticated copy of the record, with
a certified copy of the supersedeas bond—if it was executed before
the clerk of the inferior court—shall be filed in his office. (Notes.)
Sec. 890. Proceedings where the supersedeas bond is defective.
If the appellee believes the supersedeas bond to be defective, or the
sureties to be insufficient, he may move the court of appeals, if in
session, or, on reasonable notice to the appellant, may move the
judge of said court in vacation, to discharge the supersedeas ; and
if the court or judge shall consider the sureties insufficient, or the
bond substantially defective in securing the rights of the appellee,
the court or judge shall issue an order discharging the supersedeas,
unless a good bond, with sufficient sureties, be forthwith executed.
The order, if made by a judge, shall be in writing, and signed by
him, upon the filing of which, or of a certified copy of the order
when made in court, in the clerk's office of the inferior court, exe
cutions and other proceedings for enforcing the judgment or order
may be immediately taken, as if no supersedeas had been issued.
But another supersedeas may be issued by the clerk of the court
of appeals, upon the execution of a new and lawful bond, with suf
ficient sureties, as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 891. Part of a judgment may be stayed by supersedeasThe
supersedeas may be issued to stay proceedings on a part of a
judgment or order, in which case the bond shall be varied, so as to
secure the part superseded.
Sec. 892. Supersedeas defined. The supersedeas is a written or
der, signed by the clerk, commanding the appellee, and all others,
to stay proceedings on the judgment or order.1
Sec. 893. When an appeal slands for trial. Appeals shall stand
for trial when the copy of the record was filed in the clerk's
office of the court twenty days before the commencement of the
term ; and, where a summons is required, the appellee summoned"
twenty days before the day on which the appeal is set for trial on
the docket, or the appearance entered before the day of trial.
Sec. 894. How the clerk to arrange the docket. The clerk shall
arrange the appeals upon the docket, setting a proper number for
each day of the term, and, in arranging them, may have due regard
to the convenience' of litigants, in placing together the appeals
from the several judicial districts.
Sec. 895. How appellee may have cross-appeal. The appellee,
at any time before trial, by an entry upon the records of the court of
appeals, may pray and obtain a cross-appeal. (Notes.)
Sec. 896. No assignment of errors necessary. No written assign
ment of errors shall be necessary, but the judgment may be re
versed or modified for any error appearing on the record, to the
prejudice of the appellant or cross-appellant. (Notes.)
Sec. 897. Motion to dismiss appeals by the, appellee. Where the
appeal was improperly granted, or the appellant's right of further
prosecuting the same has ceased, the appellee, in lieu of pleading,
may move the court to dismiss the appeal, the grounds of which mo
tion shall be stated in writing, signed by the appellee or his coun
sel, and, if not appearing on the face of the record, or by a writing,
purporting to have been signed by the appellant and filed, shall be
verified by affidavit. The motion shall not be heard or determined
before the day on which the appeal is set for trial on the docket,
unless the appellant consents thereto.
Sec. 898. Appellee may plead to the appeal by answer. The ap
pellee may, by answer filed and verified by himself, or agent, or at
torney, plead any fact or facts which renders the granting of the
appeal improper, or destroys the appellant's right of further prose
cuting the same ; to which answer the appellant shall file a reply,
likewise verified by the affidavit of himself, agent or attorney, and
the questions of law or fact thereon shall be determined by the
court.
Sec. 899. Appeals taken for delay—appellee may move to dismiss.
Where an appeal with a supersedeas has been taken, for delay
merely, the appellee may at any time move the court to affirm the
judgment or order as a delay case ; before making which motion,
he or his counsel shall indorse on the record, in substance, that he
has carefully examined the record, and believes the appeal is prose
cuted for delay merely; whereupon, the court shall examine the
record, and if they find no error in the proceedings, and believe the
appeal was prosecuted for delay merely, they shall affirm the judg
ment or order.
Sec. 900. Court may make rules for conducting business. The
court of appeals may make rules for the convenient dispatch of busi
ness, the preservation of order, the argument of cases or motions,
the manner and time of presenting motions or petitions for rehear
ing, the time of issuing its mandates and decisions, and mode of en
forcing its mandates and orders, and may change the same ; pro
vided, that no mandate shall issue, or decision become final, until
after fifteen juridical days from the time the decision was rendered,
not including the days of recess, unless the court, in delay cases, and
in cases involving no difficult question of law or fact, otherwise direct.
And if a petition for rehearing shall be filed in vacation, within fif
teen days after the decision is rendered, the mandate shall not issue,
nor the decision become final, until the court, at a subsequent term,
shall so order.
[Amended, January 13, 1856.] That, hereafter, before a
petition for rehearing shall have the effect to suspend the
decision or mandate of the court of appeals, as provided in
section nine hundred of the code of practice in civil cases, it
shall be filed during the term of said court at which such de
cision or mandate was rendered, or shall, within fifteen days
after the adjournment of said court, or the expiration of said
term, be presented to one of the appellate judges, and by him
ordered to be filed, and the decision or mandate, therein ren
dered, suspended, until the tenth day of the next succeeding
term of said court
Sec. 901. Upon affirmance of certain judgments, mandate may be
filed in clerk's office, and execution issue. Upon the affirmance of a
judgment, order or decree of a court, for the payment of money
or delivery of personal property, the appellee may file, in the clerk's
office of such court, a copy of the mandate of affirmance, upon which
the clerk shall indorse the time of its being filed, and thereupon
such writs of execution may be issued on the judgment, order or
decree, as could be issued after the mandate had been entered in
the court.
Sec. 902. Court may enforce its mandates by fine and imprison
ment. The court of appeals shall have power to enforce its man
dates upon inferior courts and officers by fine and imprisonment,
which imprisonment may be continued until they are obeyed.
(Notes.)
Sec. 903. Judgment not to be reversed for errors amendable in
lower court A judgment or final order shall not be reversed for an
error which can be corrected on motion in the inferior court, until
such motion has been made there and overruled.1 (Notes.)
Sec. 904. Damage upon affirmance. Upon the affirmance of a
judgment, order or decree for the payment of money, the collection
of which, in whole or in part, has been superseded, as provided in
this chapter, ten per centum damages on the amount superseded
shall be awarded against the appellant.
Sec. 905. Court to deliver written opinions in certain cases. The
court must deliver written opinions in all cases involving a principle
of law not previously settled by the court, and reported.
Sec. 906. Regulations as to reporting decisions. In the publication of the reported decisions of the court of appeals, it shall be the
duty of the reporter to make a short abstract of the facts of the case
involved in the decision, followed by the legal propositions made by
counsel in the argument on both sides, with the authorities relied on
for their support.
THE TIME CODE WENT INTO EFFECT.
PERIODS WHEN THE ORIGINAL AND AMENDING ACTS ESTABLISHING THE CODE OP
PRACTICE IN CIVIL CASES, WENT INTO EFFECT.
907. Original act^lst August, 1861.
90S. Amending act—let, July, 1854.
909. Supplemental act, for some purposes—from its passage, 10th March, 1854.
ORIGINAL ACT.
Sec. 907. Original act—1st August, 1851. This act shall take
effect on the first day of August next. Approved March 22, 1851.
AMENDING ACT.
Sec. 908. Amending aet—1st July, 1854. This act shall go into
effect on the first day of July, 1854.
SUPPLEMENTAL ACT.
Sec. 909. Supplemental act, for some purposes, from its passage,
10th March, 1854. This act, and the act amending the code of
practice in civil actions, passed at the present session of the legisla
ture, shall so far go into effect upon the passage of this act, that all
proceedings in pursuance of the provisions of said acts shall be
valid, but no proceeding commenced before the first day of July,
1854, shall be rendered invalid by said acts.

