SEC. 1. An action is the right given to every person to claim
judicially what is due or belongs to him, 
Action means also the exercise of that right ; that is to say, a 
judicial demand, founded on a contract, or given by law, by which
the plaintifff prays that the person against whom he proceeds, be
ordered to do that which he has bound himself towards him to 
perform.  
 
SEC. 2. Actions are divided into several kinds :
The first division of actions is into personal, real, and mixed.
SEC. 3. A personal action is that by which a person proceeds 
against one who is personally bound towards him, either by a 
contract, or by virtue of the law, in order to compel him to pay
what he owes to him, or to perform what he had promised. 
This action is called personal, because it is attached to the 
person bound, and follows him every where. 
SEC. 4. A real action is that which relates to claims made on immo­ 
vable property, or to the immovable rights to which they are
subjected.  
The object of this action is the ownership or the possession of
such property ; and they are thereforee subdivided into petitory
and possessory actions.  
SEC. 6. The petitory action is that by which he who has the pro­
perty of a real estate, or of a right upon, or growing out of it,
proceeds against the person having the possession, in order to
obtain the possession of the immovable property, or of the enjoy­
ment of the rights upon it to which he is entitled. 
SEC. 6. A possessory action is that by which one claims to be
maintained in the possession of immovable property, or of a right
upon, or growing out of it, when he has been disturbed, or to be
reinstated to that possession, when he has .been divested or
evicted.  
SEC. 7. A mixed action is one which in its nature partakes both of
the real and of the personal action ; such as a claim for the owner­
ship of real property, and also for the fruits it has produced or 
their value.  · 
SEC. 8. The second general division of actions classes them into
civil and criminal actions.  
SEC. 9. A civil action is one which is brought for private interests,
such as a suit to obtain the payment of a sum due, the restitution
of properly, or reparation for an injury done by words or actions.  
SEC. 10. A criminal action is one which is instituted in the name of
the state, by its proper officers, in order to obtain the public
reparation of any crime or misdemeanor-this action comes under
the head of penal jurisprudence.  
SEC. 11. Actions with respect to their object, are divided into two
classes ; those by which movables, and those by which immo­
vables are claimed. 
SEC. 12. Although incorporeal rights be not in reality movables nor
immovables, they are nevertheless placed by law in one of those two 
classes.
Actions tending to recover an immovable, or a real right, or an 
universality of things, such as an inheritance, are considered as
real ; while actions for the recovery of a movable or of a sum
of money, though accompanied with a mortgage, are not real
actions.  
SEC. 13. The form, the effect, and the prescription o( actions are
governed by the law of the place where they are brought ; but
contracts are governed by the law of the place where they are 
entered into.  
 
SEC. 14. Every obligation gives impliedly a right of action to enforce 
its execution ; but the obligation and the right of action do not
always arise at the same time. Thus in contracts to be performed
at a future period, the obligation which grows out of the contract,
arises at the very moment of making it, but the right of action
growing out of it, arises only when the stipulated term bas arrived. 
SEC. 15. An action can only be brought by one having a real and/4J"
actual interest which he pursues ; but as soon as that interest/~~
arises, he may bring his action. 
SEC. 16. In all actions which are to be brought at the end of a 
stated period, the right of action subsists until the last day has
expired. 
SEC. 17. Natural obligations give no right of action, but wl:at has
beeo paid pursuant to those obligations is not subject to repe­
tition. 
Those are natural obligations, for wnich the law gives no right
of action; they arise on contracts entered into by persons who,
though possessed of sound discretion and judgment enabling them
to make contracts, are nevertheless disqualified by law from con­
tracting, as are the contracts of married women made without the
authorization of their husbands.Ia) 
SEC. 18. He who pays through error, what he does not owe, has an
action for the repetition of what he has paid, unless there was a
natural obligation to make such payment; but he must prove that
he paid through error, otherwise it shall be presumed that he in­
tended to give.  
SEC. 19. Obligations contrary to justice, good faith or good morals,
such as those by which a reward is promised to another to commit
a crime, give no right of action to either party to enforce the
execution of a contract. 
But if the reward promised has been paid, no action can be
brought to obtain the re-payment of the amount.  
SEC. 20. He who has a right of action to claim what is due to him, 
bas a right yet more evident to use tho same cause of action as an
exception, in order to preserve his rights.(A.1 <..~/ 
SEC. 21. Actions do not abate by the death of one of the parties,
after answer filed.  
SEC. 22. Actions arising from obligations are the property of him in
favor of whom they have been contracted; they are transmitted
with his estate to his heirs, who may carry them on in their own
names. 
SEC. 23. The universal successor, or successors by an universal title of a deceased person, such as. his heirs, or universal legatees,
are entitled to the same actions and exceptions, as the person to
whom they succeed; but they cannot claim on their own behalf
any right which be had not himself, for this reason, that no one
can transfer a better title to another than that which he himself
had. 
SEC. 24. The rule laid down in the preceding articles takes place
also with respect to the successors of a deceased person claiming
a thing by virtue of a particular title; that is to say, by sale, do­
nation or 
legacy, but so far only as concerns the .thing itself, of
which the deceased has thus disposed of in their favor. 
I 
SEC. 26. Heirs"or universal legatees may be sued for civil reparation
of the injury caused by the crimes or misdemeanors of the deceased,
whose succession they have accepted, although no action was
instituted for that purpose against the deceased during his life, and
although neither him nor his heirs have been benefited by such an
otfence.  · 
 
SEC. 26. A personal action lies against him who has bound himself
towards another, personally and independently of the property
which he pos£Sesses. 
SEC. 27. Such action can only be brought against the debtor, or the 
obligor, or the person. who directly represents him, such as um­
versal heirs or heirs by an universal title. 
SEC. 28. Personal actions are grounded on one of the four causes
which give rise to personal obligations. These causes are contracts,
or quasi contracts, offenses, or quasi offenses.(n.) 
SEC. 29. Personal actions arise from contracts, where one has bound
himself for his own advantage, as by selling, purchasing, hiring or
letting, or by any like contracts. 
SEC. 30. Personal actions arise from quasi contracts, when they are
grounded on the obligations imposed upon him who has managed
the affairs of another, without being authorized.I I) 
SEC. 31. Personal actions arise from offenses, as when one has be­
come liable to another for the injury he has inflicted on him by 
some crime or offense, such as theft or slander.
SEC. 32. Personal actions arise from quasi offenses, when the ground 
of action is the injury done to another, by one of those faults
which are not considered as real crimes or offenses. 
SEC. 33. Personal actions arising from contracts, are divided into
direct and useful actions. 
SEC. 34. A direct, contradistinguished from an equitable action, is
that which arises immediately from contracts, and binds ipso facto 
all who have been parties to it. 
SEC. 35. An equitable action, is that which does not immediately
arise from a contract, but from equity, in favor of a third person, 
not a party to it, and for whose benefit certain stipulations have
been made: thus, if one stipulated in a contract entered into wit}0'
another person, and as an express condition of that contract, that?u..t''
this ·person should pay a certain sum on his account, or ,give a 
certain thing to a third person, not a party to the act, that third
person has an equitable action against the one who has contracted
the obligation, to enforce the execution of the stipulation. 
SEC. 36. Certain contracts, from their nature, give rise to two spe­
cies of personal actions, in favor of the contracting parties; one of
these is likewise termed direct, in contradistinction to the other,
which is called a contrary action. 
SEC. 37. A direct action, in this acceptation, is that which arises out
of a contract at the very moment of its being made, without the
occurrence of any new cause since the contract; as, in the con­
tract of loan termed commodat, where the action arises in favor of
the owner of the thing against him to whom he has lent it, in 
order to recover it.
SEC. 38. The contrars] action, is that which arises from some cause 
which has ·occurred since the contract, and has for its object the
obtaining of some indemnity, such as the action which the law
gives to the borrower in the loan called commodat, for the reco­
very of the disbursements which he has been obliged to make for
the preservation of the thing lent to him. 
SEC. 39. It is of the essence of all synallagmatic contracts, that is
to say, of those which contain reciprocal obligations between the
parties, to give rise to two species of direct actions. 
Thus, in the contract of sale, the purchaser has an action
against the seller, to compel him to deliver the thing sold, and the
vendor has likewise his action against the purchaser, to compel 
him to pay the price. ·
SEC. 40. Personal actions, being attached to the person of the debtor, 
may be brought against all his heirs, should he die without having
extinguished it, but each of them will only be liable for the amount
and portion which he has inherited from the debtor's estate. 
SEC. 43. The petitory action, or one by which real property, or any
immovable right to such property may be subjected, is claimed, 
must be brought against the person, who is in the actual posses­
sion of the immovable, even if the person having the possession 
~be only the farmer or lessee. 
But if the farmer or lessee of a real estate be sued for that 
L'-Lpause of action, he must declare to the plaintifff the name and
the residence of his lessor, who shall be made a party to the suit,
if he reside in the state, or is represented therein, and who must 
~~ci-rdefend it in the place of the tenant who shall be discharged from
the suit. 
SEC. 41. A real action lies against him who, without having con­
tracted any obligation towards the plaintifff, is nevertheless bound
towards him, as possessor of the immovable property of which
that plaintifff claims the ownership or the possession, or on whicli
he claims to exercise some immovable right. 
SEC. 42. The real action gives the right to follow the thing in what­
ever hands it may be found ; but as relates to hypothecary actions,
this rule is subject to some modifications which are established in
the paragraph which treats of that action. 
 
SEC. 44. The plaintifff in an action of reven<lication must make out
his title, otherwise the possessor, whoever he be, shall be dis­
charged from the demand. 
SEC. 45. The petitory action may he brought by one who has the 
ownership only of an undivided part of an estate, or of a real right
to which such an estate is subjected, though his ownership may be
limited to a certain period, or end by the occurrence of a certain 
event. 
 
SEC. 46. The possessory action, which is a branch of real actions,
may be brought by any possessor of a real estate, or of a real
right, who is disturbed either in the possession of the estate or in
the enjoyment of the right, against him who causes the disturbance,
in order to be maintained in, or restored to the possession, whether
he has been evicted or disturbed; provided his possession be
accompanied by the qualifications hereafter required.(u.) 
Slaves being classed as real property are likewise subject to the
possessory action.I l) 
SEC. 47. The possessors entitled to bring these actions, are those
who possess as owners. 
Persons entitled to the usufruct, or to the use of a real estate
or slaves, and others having real rights growing from such real
estate or slaves, may also bring their action, when disturbed in the
enjoyment of their rights. 
SEC. 48. Those who possess in the name of another, such as tenants,
are not entitled to the possessory action, when disturbed in the
enjoyment of the real estate which they possess in that quality, or
even when they are expelled; but they have their remedy against
the person in whose name they possess, and they are bound to
apprise him of the disturbance they have experienced, by personal
notice, if he be within the state, and bv advertisement in the news­
papers, if· he be out of the state, in order that he may quiet them,
if it can be done, otherwise they lose all right to claim damages
from him, and wiJI be liable to him besides for all the Joss and
damage which he may have sustained through their neglect. 
SEC. 49. In order that. the possessor of a real estate or slave, or 
one who claims a right to which such estate may be subjected,
may be entitled to bring a possessory action, it is required : 
1. That he should have had the real and actual possession of
the property, at the instant when the disturbance occurred: a mere
civil, or legal possession, is not sufficient :{b) 
2. That he should have had that possession quietly and without
interruption, by virtue of one of the titles prescribed in the 4 7th article, for more than a year previous to his being disturbed ; 
' provided the possession of less than one year be sufficient, in
case the possessor should have been evicted by force or by fraud: 
3. That he should have suffered a real disturbance either in
fact or in law: 
4. That he should have brought his suit, at the latest, within
the year in which the disturbance took place. 
When the possession of the plaintifff is accompanied with all 
those circumstances, it matters not whether he possesses in good
or in bad faith, or even as an usurper, he shall nevertheless be
entitled to his possessory action. 
SEC. 50. The disturbance which gives rise to the possessory action
may be of two kinds: disturbance in fact, or disturbance in law. 
SEC. 61. Disturbance in fact occurs when one by any act prevents
the possessor of a real estate, or of a right growing from such an
estate from · enjoying the same quietly, or throws any obstacle in 
the way of that enjoyment, or evicts him through violence or other­
wise. 
SEC. 52. Disturbance in Jaw takes place when one, pretending to be
the possessor of a real estate, says that he is disturbed by the real
possessor, and brings against the latter the possessory action; for
in such a case, the true possessor is disturbed by this action, and
may also bring a possessory action, in order to be quieted in his
possession. 
But in no case shall the mere demand in revendication of a
real estate, or of a real right, be considered as a disturbance in
the enjoyment of a possessor; and entitle him to bring a possessory
action. 
SEC. 63. The plaintifff in a possessory action needs only in order to
make out his case, to prove that he was in possession <?f the pro­ 
perty in question, in the manner required by this Code, and that
he has been either disturbed or evicted within the year previous
to his suit. 
So that when the possession of the plaintifff, or the act of dis­
turbing him is denied, no testimony shall be admitted, except as to
the fact of the possession, or as to the act of disturbance, and all 
testimony relative to property shall be rejected.
SEC. 64. If the possessor, who has been disturbed in, or evicted 
from his possession, bring a petitory action, that is to say, claim 
the ownership of the property, he shall not afterwards be entitled 
to the possessory, by dismissing the petitory action.
The same rule shall govern, if lie sue at the same time for the 
possession and the ownership of the property; he shall then be 
considered as having renounced the possessory in order to resort 
to the petitory action. 
SEC. 65. Petitory and possessory actions shall not be cumulated, or 
joined together, except by consent of parties.
Therefore, he who is sued in a possessory action, cannot bring 
a petitory action, until after judgment shall have been rendered in
the possessory action, and until, if he has been condemned, he 
shall have satisfied the judgment given against him. 
SEC. 56. Nevertheless, if the judgment rendered in a possessory
action require a settlement, which may occasion delay, then the
judge shall fix a term for making such settlement, at the end of
which the petitory action may be brought. 
SEC. 57. If the plaintifff, in a possess<,ry action, consent that it be
cumulated with the petitory action, he shall be considered as hav­
ing renounced the possessory action, and the judgment shall
decide only the question of ownership. 
SEC. 58. When each of the parties, in a possessory action, alleges
that he has the possession of the property, and both of them bring
suit on the allegation of having been disturbed in their possession, 
if the fact of the possession be doubtful and uncertain, the judge 
shall maintain in possession the one of the parties, who shall
appear to him to have the most apparent possession, or he may,
et the request of one of the parties, order the sequestration of the
property, until the question of ownership shall have been de­ 
cided.
SEC. 59. If one who is disturbed in, or evicted from his possession, 
suffer a year to elapse without bringing a possessory action, that
action shall be prescribed, and he must then resort to a petitory
action. 
SEC. 60. Possessory actions cannot be maintained for personal pro­
perty ; the action in revendication for that species of property
having nothing in common with the extraordinary privileges se­
cured to the owners of real estate, or of real rights, when they
are disturbed in their enjoyment. 
 
SEC. 61. An hypothecary action is a real action, which the creditor
brings against the property which has been hypothecated to him 
hv his deibtor, in order to have it seized and sold for the payment
of'his debt. 
SEC. 62. The hypothecary action, like all real actions, follows the
property to which it is attached, in whatever hand it may be found,
but it is subject to different rules, according as the property may
be in the possession of the debtor, of his heirs, or of third per­
sons. 
SEC. 63. When the hypothecated property is in the hand of the
debtor, and when the creditor, besides his hypothecary right has
against his debtor a title importing a confession of judgment, he 
shall be entitled to have the hypothecated property seized immediately and sold, for the payment of his debt, including the capi-~ 
tal, the interest, and the costs, pursuant to the rules provided here~
after for executory proceedings. 
SEC. 64. If the creditor has no executory title against his debtor, and/>
the latter be in possession of the hypothecated property, the former 
can only seize and sell such property, after having obtained judgment against the debtor in the usual form. 
SEC. 65. rr the debtor has died, leaving a single heir, who has ac­
cepted the succession, the hypothecary creditor may act against
that heir, in the same manner as he would have done against the
debtor himself, that is to say, either by pursuing the executory
or the ordinary mode of proceeding, according to the tenor of the
hypothecary act. 
SEC. 66. If, on the contrary, the deceased debtor leave several
heirs, and they have accepted the succession, in such a case it
must be ascertained whether the hypothecary act imports a con­
fession of judgment or not. 
If so, and there have been no partition of the estate among the
heirs, the creditor shall be entitled to seize and sell the hypothe­
cated property, as if the original debtor were still alive. 
But if there has been a partition among the heirs, and the hy­
pothecated 'property has fallen to the share of one or more of them,
the creditor may obtain an order of seizure against those heirs,
and sell the property for the amount of his claim, leaving to them
their recourse against their co-heirs, for their proportion of the 
debt.
SEC. 67. But if the hypothecary act do not import confession of judg­ 
ment, the creditor cannot seize and sell the hypothecated property
in the possession of the heirs of his debtor, or of any one of them,
until he has obtained a judgment against each one of the heirs, for
such a part of the debt as he is bound to pay, according to the
share he has inherited, unless the creditor prefer to have the 
judgment executed personally against the heirs or their property, 
for such sums as each of them has been adjudged to pay. 
SEC. 68. If the hypothecatcd property be neither in the possession
of the debtor nor of his heirs, but in that of a third person, the 
creditor has his action against that person, in order to compel him
either to give up the property, or pay the amount for which it 
stands hypothecated, This is the hypothecary action, properly
speaking. 
SEC. 69. If thirty days after the amicable demand made from the
debtor or his heirs of the payment of a hypothecary debt, it has
not been fully discharged, the creditor may bring his action against
the third possessor of the property hypothecated to him, to have it
seized and sold ; if that third possessor have not, within the ten
days after having been notified of such a demand, paid the amount 
of the hypothecary debt, including the interest and costs. 
SEC. 70. But the creditor who brings this action must declare on
oath, in the petition, that the debt for which he demands the
seizure of the hypothecated property is really due to him, and
that he has in vain demanded payment from his debtor, thirty days
previous to his bringing his suit.
SEC. 71. Nevertheless, if the third possessor, against whom the action
is brought, be not personally bound for the payment of the debt,
he may oppose the sale of the hypothecated property, if there be
other hypothecated property in the possession of the original
debtor, and require its previous discussion, pending which the
proceedings, \s to the sale ·of the property, shall be stayed. 
SEC. 72. The third possessor, who requires discussion, shall be
bound to designate to the plaintifff the property of the principal
debtor, which he wishes to have discussed, and advance the costs
required for carrying on the necessary proceedings, in order to 
execute the discussion.
He is not entitled to demand the discussion of such property 
of the principal debtor which may be out of the jurisdiction of
the tribunal of the place where the payment was to have been
made, nor that of property in dispute, or out of the possession
of the debtor. 
SEC. 73. The exception of discussion cannot be opposed to the pri­
vileged creditor, or to one who has a special hypothecation. 
SEC. 74. Third possessors of property which has been seized, owing
to their failure of discharging the amount of the hypothecary debt,
within ten days after having been notified that payment has been
demanded of the hypothecary debt may, until the very day of the 
sale, recover possession of the hypothecated property, by paying
the debt with interest, and all the costs incurred in the suit. 
' 
SEC. 75. Actions must be brought before competent judges. 
SEC. 76. Jurisdiction means the power of him who has the right of
judging, or sometimes that word means also the space or extent 
of country over which the judge is entitled to exercise that power.
SEC. 77. Degrees of jurisdiction means the different tribunals before 
which the same suit m.e successively pleaded, and the rules
established for proceeding in an inferior jurisdiction, previous to 
taking the suit before a superior jurisdiction. 
SEC. 78. There are several kinds of jurisdiction, according to the
nature and the extent of the powers delegated to the judge exer­ 
cising it. 
 
SEC. 79. The first division is into civil and criminal jurisdiction. 
SEC. 80. Civil jurisdiction extends to all civil matters, and criminal
jurisdiction comprises whatever relates to crimes and misde­ 
meanors.
SEC. 81. Some judges exercise general, whilst others possess only 
special jurisdiction.
Judges having general jurisdiction are those who in virtue of 
the law take cognizance of all matters but such as are specially
excepted from their jurisdiction. 
Judges having special jurisdiction are such as have an exclusive
jurisdiction in certain cases pointed out by law. 
SEC. 82. There are judges having exclusive jurisdiction such as the
special judges mentioned in the preceding article. 
There are judges with concurrent jurisdiction, that is to say,
having cognizance in matters of the same nature, though they
hold their courts in the same place or district. 
SEC. 83. There are judges having equal jurisdiction, that is to say,
that though they can only take cognizance of cases arising within
a certain space, they have a similar jurisdiction as to the nature
of cases which may be brought before them. 
SEC. 84. There are judges of original, and judges of appellate juris­
diction. 
Judges having original jurisdiction are those before whom suits
are brought in the first instance. 
Judges having appellate jurisdiction are those before whom
appeals are brought by those who complain of the judgment of the
court of the first instance, and who try the cause again, affirming
or reversing the judgment of the inferior court. 
SEC. 86. The decision of some judges are subject to appeal, others
decide in the last resort. 
Judges subject to appeal are those whose decisions may be car­
ried by appeal before a superior court having appellate jurisdiction. 
Judges in the last resort are those whose judgment cannot be
appealed from. 
SEC. 86. In matters of jurisdiction, the ri.given to a judge to take
cognizance of certain causes against rtain persons within his
jurisdiction, is termed competency. • _ 
SEC. 87. In order to ascertain whether a judge be competent or not
three points must be taken into consideration. 
1. The object or the amount in dispute:
2. The person of the defendant:
3. The place where the action is to be brought.
SEC. 88. To determine on the competency of a judge, as relates to 
the object or amount in dispute before him, it is necessary to ex­
amine what are his powers, what is the nature of the cause, and
what is the amount of the sum. 
SEC. 89. To determine his competency, as relates to the person of
the defendant, the rule which requires that the defendant be sued
at the place of his domicil or usual residence must be observed.
This rule is subject, however, to various exceptions, determined
in the chapter which treats of judicial demands and of citations. 
SEC. 90. To determine on his competency, as relates to the place
where the action is brought, we must be governed by the rule
which provides that a judge shall not exercise any jurisdiction be­
yond the limits of the territory assigned to him. 
SEC. 91. When the jurisdiction of the judge, before whom a suit
is brought, is limited to a certain sum, the question of jurisdic­
tion must be decided by the amount claimed, and not by the
sum actually due, not including, however, the interest, and the
costs which have been subsequently incurred. 
But if one, in order to give jurisdiction to a judge, demand a
sum below that which is really due to him, he shall be pre­
sumed to have remitted the overplus, and after having obtained
judgment for the sum ht: had claimed, he shall lose all right of
action for that overplus .. 
SEC. 92. The consent of parties cannot render a judge competent to 
try a cause, which from its nature cannot be brought before him, 
or when the amount in dispute exceeds the sum over which be
has jurisdiction. All judgments, rendered in contravention of
this provision, shall be void. 
SEC. 93. If one be cited before a judge, whose jurisdiction does not
extend to the place of his domicil or of his usual residence, but
who is competent to decide the cause brought before him, and he
plead to the merit, instead of declining the jurisdiction, the judg­
ment given shall be valid, except the defendant be a minor. 
SEC. 94. The same cause cannot be brought before two separate
courts, though they be possessed of concurrent jurisdiction, ex­
cept by discontinuing the suit first brought before the answer is filed. 
Hence, if the same suit be brought before two separate courts,
having concurrent jurisdiction, the judge before whom the action
was brought first, shall sustain his jurisdiction, and the defendant
shall be entitled to have the cause dismissed by the other court,
and to recover costs. 
Nevertheless, if the defendant, instead of claiming to be dis­
missed, answer in the two actions, in the two separate courts, the
first judgment rendered by either of them shall be valid and ex­
ecutory against the party cast in the action. All proceedings
shall be staid in the other court, and the plaintifff dismissed after
paying the costs. 
SEC. 96. Actions are brought before the courts by what is· termed
suit. 
SEC. 96. A suit is a real, personal, or mixed demand, made before
a competent judge, by which the parties pray to obtain their right,
and a decision of their disputes. 
In that acceptation, the words, suit, process, and cause, are
almost synonimous. 
SEC. 97. Civil actions may be prosecuted, according to the nature
of the case, by three kinds of proceedings, to wit : 
Ordinary, executory, or summary.
SEC. 98. The proceedings are ordinary, when citation takes place 
and all the delays and forms of law are observed.
They are executory, when seizure is obtained against the pro­ 
perty of the debtor, without previous citation, in virtue of an act
or title, importing confession of judgment, or in other cases pro­ 
vided by law,
They are summary, when carried on with rapidity, and without 
the observance of the formalities required in ordinary cases, as
when courts provide for the administration of vacant successions,
and the property of minors and absent heirs. 
SEC. 99. In order to constitute a suit or action, there must be, at
.east, two parties present, or duly represented, though one of the
two may fail to appear; it is thereforee that they are called the
principal parties to the suit. 
SEC. 100. The plaintifff is him who sues another for something
which he says is due, or belongs to him. 
The defendant is the one against whom this suit is brought. 
SEC. 101. Besides the plaintifff and the defendant, there are often
other parties to the suit, such as warrantors, third persons inter­
vening, and parties opposing; but such parties, whether plaintifffs
or defendants, as the case may be, are only so incidentally and
subsidiarily. A
SEC. 102. Those who are disqualified from contracting are generalJy
disqualified from suing. 
The exceptions to this rule are provided in the following ar­
ticles. 
SEC. 103. Slaves cannot sue, either as plaintifffs or as defendants,
except as relates to their freedom. 
But the earnings of slaves, and the price of their service, be­
long to their owners, who have their action to recover the amount
from those who have employed them.  
SEC. 104. Children, as Jong as they are subject to paternal power, 
that is to say, while their fathers and mothers are living, and they
not emancipated, cannot bring suit against them. 
SEC. 105. A married woman cannot sue her husband, as long as
the marriage continues, except it be to obtain a separation from.
bed and board ; or for the separation of property from him ; or
for the  restitution and enjoyment of her paraphernal property;
or in case she holds her property separate from him, by her marriage contract; but in every case, she cannot sue, without the
authorization of the court before which she brings her action. 
SEC. 106. A married woman, whether she be of age or a minor,
cannot appear in court against any one, without the authorization
of her husband, although she may be a public merchant, carrying
on her trade separate from him, unless she has obtained a separa­
tion from bed and board, by virtue of a judgment duly executed, 
or has been regularly divorced.  ._ 
SEC. 107. Husbands have under their control the personal and
possessory actions to which their wives are entitled, though they 
be themselves minors; thereforee they can proceed judicially, and
in their own name, in whatever relates to the preservation of the 
dotal property, which their wives have brought to them by marriage, as well as to the recovering of the debts due to them, these
being under their administration. 
But actions relating to the ownership of the dotal or parapher­
nal property of rhe wife, or of some real right belonging to her, 
must be brought by the wife, duly authorized by her husband, or 
by the judge, if he fails to do it.
SEC. 108. Minors, persons interdicted, or absent, cannot sue except 
· through the intervention, or with the assistance of their tutors or
curators.  
SEC. 109. When minors are undrr the age of puberty, their tutors
act themselves, in all judicial proceedings, in the name of such
minors, in all the suits which may be brought for them, without
making them parties to those actions. · 

The curators of persons interdicted, or absent, act judicially
in the name of those whom they represent, in the same manner as
the tutors of minors, under the age of puberty . 
SEC. 110. When minors have attained the age of puberty, they ap­
pear themselves and in their own names, in all their suits; but
they must be assisted by the curators ad lites appointed to assist
them generally in all suits, or specially for any one suit, unless
they have been emancipated by marriage, in which case the minor
husband may act, without the assistance of any -curator.  
SEC. 111. The curators of vacant successions, or of absent heirs,
may bring all kinds of actions, relating to their administration, in
their own name, and in their quality, without being obliged to
mention the name of the heirs they represent, because it is often
uncertain whether such heirs exist, and their names are generally
unknown.  
SEC. 112. Bodies corporate, and chartered institutions, act judici­
ally through their proper representatives, under the name or title
given to them in their act of incorporation.Is)  
SEC. 113. As the right of action may be transmitted, it passes to the
heirs; thereforee, the heirs of the deceased may sue the debtor of
the succession, in the same manner as the deceased himself could
have done. 
But actions being divisible, if there be several heirs, each
may sue for bis separate share in the same manner, as each is
only bound pro rata of his share for the debts of the succcssion. 
SEC. 114. Civil actions can only be brought against such slaves as
are claimed as slaves, and allege that they are free. 
As relates to the damages which they may occasion by their
offenses and quasi offenses, the person agrieved must sue the
owner, who is bound to repay them, unless he should prefer to
let the offending slave be seized and sold, in order that the
damages sustained may be satisfied out of the proceeds.Ia]  
SEC. 115. Actions against interdicted persons, or minors under. the
age of puberty, must be brought directly against the tutor of the
minor or the curator of the interdicted person. 
If the minor be above the age of puberty, the suit must be
brought both against him and against his curator ad lites, unless
he be a husband, emancipated by marriage, in which case he may
be sued alone; if the minor be absent, the suit may be brought 
against his curator ad lites, who shall answer both in his own
name and that of the minor.
SEC. 116. If the minor, whether under or above the age of puberty,
against whom one intends to institute a suit, has no tutor nor cura­
tor ad lites, the plaintifff must demand that a curator ad hoc be
named to defend the suit. The same course must be pursued if 
the person intended to be sued be absent and not represented in 
the state. 
SEC. 117. When the tutor of a minor, under the age of puberty, has
interests opposed to those of his ward, he cannot sue him, except 
by making the under tutor defendant in the cause.
SEC. 118. When one intends to sue a married woman for a cause of 
action reJative to her own separate interest, the suit must be brought
both agamst her and her husband. 
Should her husband be absent, the plaintifff must demand that 
she be authorized by the judge before whom the suit is brought toA""7
defend it alone, if she be of age ; if she be s minor, he must pray 
for the nomination of a curator ad hoc to assist her in her defense. 
Nevertheless if she be divorced or separated from her husband,
from bed and board, by a judgment duly executed, she may be
sued alone without the authorization of her husband or of the judge
being required.tz)  
SEC. 119. Suits against corporations, corporate bodies or chartered
companies must be brought against them under their legal titles. 
SEC. 120. If one against whom there was a cause of action die, leav­
ing one heir only, the suit shall be carried on against such heir as
it would have been against the deceased. 
If the suit had already been brought against the deceased, and
he had not answered, it shall not Le interrupted, but shall be con­
tinued against the heir, by a mere citation or notice served on him
to that effect, within the delay for original citations, according as
the distance may be from his dornicil to the court where the action
has been brought. 
If, on the contrary, the deceased have two or more heirs, the
plaintifff may proceed personally against each of them for the share 
of which he inherits, if that share be sufficiently known and
ascertained by an inventory, or partition; otherwise they can only 
be sued, each for a virile portion, that is to say, for an equal part
of the debt, dividing it in as many parts as there are heirs. 
If the suit had already been commenced against the deceased, it 
shall be continued against his several heirs, by citing each of them
separately, as if there were only 011e, but judgment can only be
given personally against each for his hereditary share, or virile por­
tion, as above provided.  
SEC. 121. The hypothecary creditors of a person deceased have, 
besides their action against each of his heirs, as provided in the
preceding article, an hypothecary action against such of the heirs, 
who have possession of some property, subject to their hypothe­ 
cation.
This action lies for the whole amount of the debt, whether the 
heir thus sued possesses the whole or only a part of the hypothe­
cated property ; he has, however, his recourse against his co­
heirs, for the share which they are bound to contribute towards
the payment of the debt, 
The heir against whom the hypothecary action is instituted
may be discharged, by relinquishing such hypothecated property 
as may have fallen to his share, if there has been a partition, or
his undivided share of such property, if the property has not been 
divided. 
But this relinquishment shall not free the heir from his liability
to the personal action, in case the creditor should prefer to pro­ 
ceed against him directly, rather than to resort to the hypothecary
action, or in case the proceeds of the sale of the hypothecated
property should be insufficient to discharge the debt. 
SEC. 122. All kinds of actions may be brought against vacant suc­
cessions, when all the heirs are absent and not represented in the
state, provided they be instituted against the curator appointed to
administer on the succession. 
The judgments rendered against the curator are as valid and
efficacious as if they had been rendered against the heirs them­
selves. 
But if some of the heirs of the deceased are present or repre­
sented in the state, the suit must he brought against the heirs
present or represented, as well as against the curator of those who 
are absent.(lc) '
SEC. 123. Testamentary executors may appear and defend all the 
actions brought against the succession they administer, when none
of the heirs are present or represented in the state; but if all the
heirs, or any one of them, be present or represented, none but per­
sonal actions can be brought against the curator alone. All real
actions, such as those of revendication, and the like, must be
brought both against the testamentary executor and the heirs pre­
sent or represented.{[) 
SEC. 124. The rules of proceedings contained in the present title,
relate only to the district and parish courts of the state when in
the exercise of their ordinary jurisdiction. 
Special rules are 'hereafter established for courts of probates and
justices of the peace. 
SEC. 125. he. rmits o t 1~ terr!torrn Juras tenon o. t e seven !strict and parish courts in this state, are estabhshed by special 
LStatutes. 
SEC. 126. The jurisdiction of district courts, excepting the court of
the first district, extends over all civil cases, when the amount in 
dispute exceeds fifty dollars.
Their judgments are in the last resort in an the causes, when 
the amount in dispute is under three hundred, and exceeds fifty
dollars; for all larger sums an appeal lies from their judgment.
The court of the first district has the same jurisdiction, except in
causes originating hi the city of New Orleans, where the said court
exercises original jurisdiction in cases above one hundred dollars
and upwards, and without appeal from one hundred to three
hundred dollars. 
SEC. 127. The parish and city court of New Orleans have a concur­
rent jurisdiction with the first district court, subject to the same
restrictions and rules 
SEC. 128. The parish courts, except that of the parish of Orleans,
have jurisdiction in all civil cases, when the value in dispute does 
not exceed three hundred dollars.
Their decisions are in the last resort, when the value in dispute 
does not exceed fifty dollars, and subject to appeal when it
exceeds that sum; but an appeal lies in all cases where the right 
to real property is in question, or where the legality of a tax, or
or of some toll, is disputed. 
SEC. 129. District and parish courts have no jurisdiction, when 
actions are brought against persons residing in the state, out of
the limits of their respective jurisdiction, except in cases . ex­
pressed in this Code, unless the defendant of his own accord,
should submit to their jurisdiction, as hereafter provided. 
SEC. 130. All judges possess the power necessary for the exercise 
or their respective jurisdictions, though the same be not expressly
given by law. 
SEC. 131. The judges of the supreme, district, and parish courts
have the power to punish all contempts of their authority, by fine,
not exceeding fifty dollars, and imprisonment for a period not
exceeding ten days, for each offense of that kind. 
SEC. 132. Attorneys and advocates, when guilty of contempt of
the courts, before which they plead, are subject to punishment,
pursuant to the provisioas of special laws.( 1) 
SEC. 133. Courts of original jurisdiction may fine jurymen, sheriffs,
constables, and the other officers attached to the courts, when they
fail to attend, or neglect their duty; but the fine cannot exceed
fifteen dollars for each offense of that descriptioo. 
SEC. 134. Those courts may enforce the personal attendance of
witnesses before them by having them properly summoned for that
purpose; provided they reside in the parish where the court is
held. 
SEC. 136. If a witness, who has been duly summoned in a suit, fait
to appear personally, the court may order at the request .of either
of the parties that he be brought by attachment before them ; and 
if he does not show good cause for not having obeyed the sum­
mon, the courttmay fine him in a sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars.  
SEC. 136. If a witness summoned in a cause, refuse to answer any
questions put to him, except such as might lead him to accuse
himself of some crime, the court may fine such witness in a sum
not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, and imprison him for
a term not exceeding thirty days. 
SEC. 137. The party aggrieved by the refusal of a witness to answer
the questions put to him, has besides his action of damage for the
loss he may have sustained through his refusal. 
SEC. 138. Courts may, nt the request of the parties, address commis­
sions to judges of other courts, justices of the peace, or other per­
sons to take the deposition of witnesses, or the answers to the
interrogatories of the parties residing out of the parish where such
courts are held; and even of witnesses residing within the parish,
whea they are old and infirm, or expected to leave the state. The
formalities to be observed in such cases are hereafter provided.tj] 
SEC. 139. Courts may likewise, at the request of either of the parties,
order that the other shall bring into court the object in dispute of
which he is in possession, if it be a slave, or such movable pro­
perty as can be produced, in order that it may be shown by testi­
mony that it is in reality the object claimed; and if the party refuse 
to comply with the order, that refusal shall be <'t>nsidered as full
proof of the identity of the object. 
SEC. 140. Courts may also at the request of one of the parties decree
that the other party bring into court the books, papers, and other 
documents which are in his possession, and which are material in
the cause, provided the party requesting their production declares 
in writing and on oath what are the facts he intends to establish by
such books, papers or other documents ; and on the refusal of the 
pany thus called upon to comply with the order of the court, the
facts stated and sworn shall be considered as having been confessed,
unless satisfactory evidence be shown of the impossibility of pro­
ducing such document. 
SEC. 141. Courts may also at the request of either of the parties in 
a suit, order a third person having in his possession papers, titles,
acts, or documents which may be important in the decision of a
cause, to bring them into court on the day fixed for the trial. 
SEC. 142. Neverthelesa notaries are not bound to produce the record 
of acts passed · before them, of which authentic copies may be
obtained, except when it is necessary to prove the genuineness of 
the signatures affixed to them. 
SEC. 143. When a party or third person has been ordered to produce
some books, deeds, or other documents, he must deliver them
previous to or on the day fixed (or the trial to the· clerk of the 
court, who shall receipt for them, have charge of them and return
them again to the party to whom they belong after the cause shall 
have been decided.
SEC. 144. Courts have the power to order the arrest and imprison­ 
ment of the parties, attachment in the hands of third persons,
sequestration, execution, and sale of their property, in the manner
and in the cases hereafter provided ; they possess besides the other 
powers specially delegated to them by the provisions of the present
code. 
SEC. 146. The courts are authorized to enact, respectively, rules esta­ 
blishing the mode of proceeding before them m all cases not pro- 
vided by this Code, provided the same be not contrary to the rules
here prescribed. 
 
SEC. 146. The word proceeding in its general acceptation means
the form in which actions are to be brought and defended, the
manner of intervening in suits, of conducting them; the mode of
deciding them, of opposing judgments and of executing them. 
The forms are different in ordinary, executory and summary
proceedings. 

SEC. 147. A demand means a civil action brought before a court of
justice, to obtain a thing to which one thinks himself entitled. 
SEC. 148. Separate actions may be cumulated in the same demand,
except in the cases hereafter expressed ; this is termed cumulation
of action. 
SEC. 149. The plaintifff is not allowed to cumulate several demands
in the same action when one of them is contrary to or precludes
another. 
As when one has bought a thing in the name of another and
with his funds, without his authorization ; the person for whom
the purchase has been made cannot demand by the same action
both the thing bought in his name and the money employed for
paying the price. 
Nor can a vendor demand at the same time the rescission of the
sale he had made, and the price for which it was made ; he must
decide for one or the other of the two causes of action, as the one 
precludes the other.  //f Z 27Z · 
SEC. 150. In possessory actions one cannot claim at the same time
both the possession and the ownership ; if the two are demanded
it shall be presumed that the possessory has been relinquished, in
order to resort to the petitory action. 
SEC. 161. H the plaintifff has several causes ofaction, tending to the
same conclusion, not contrary to nor exclusive of each other,
though they arise from different contracts, he may cumulate and
bring them in the same suit, as, for example, if one claim from
another one hundred dollars in virtue of a sale, and one thousand
dollars in virtue of a loan, or if he claim a slave from another,
both by inheritance and by purchase. 
SEC. 162. When two causes of actions, contrary to and exclusive
of each other, have been cumulated in the sa&e demand, the
defendant may refuse to plead to the merit, until the plaintifff have
made his choice as to which of the two he means to proceed with ;
and if the exception be sustained by the court, the plaintifff shall be
bound to amend his petition so as to preserve only one cause of
action, otherwise his suit shall be dismissed with costs. 
SEC. 153. Demands are principal or incidental.
The principal· demand is that by which the suit is commenced 
in court ; and for this reason it is also termed ordino:n.1 demand. 
An incidental demand is that which is made before issue joined, 
in order to obtain something relating to the principal object of the
suit ; such are demands in warranty or in intervention. 
SEC. 164. The principal demand must be brought before the court
which has the jurisdiction of the case. 
The incidental demand must be decided at the same time with
the principal; it is subject to the same jurisdiction as the suit
itself. 
SEC. 165. One should only demand in court what is really due to
him ; nevertheless if one demand more, the action shall he sus- 
tlined for the amount ar.tually due, and the defendant pay the
costs, unless he prove that previous to the snit he made a real
offer of the amount actually due to the plaint(: with the interest
and the costs which had accrued. 
SEC. 166. H one demand less than is due him, and do not amend
his petition, in order to augment his demand, he shall lose the
overplus. 
SEC. 167. In an action of debt the plaintifff" fail to claim the interest
due to him, or to amend his petition in order to include it, he can­
not, after judgment, demand such interest by another action; he 
shall be considered as having remitted it.
But as relates to the costs oi the suit, it is not required that 
they should have been claimed in the petition or answer in order
to recover them ; they are due to him in favor of whom the judg­
ment has been rendered, even if nothing is said on the subject in
the judgment. 
SEC. 168. When the demand is premature,-that is to say, when the
action had been brought before the debt has become due, the s.uit
must be dismissed, leaving to the party bis right to bring his action
in due time. 
The same rule mutt be observed if the object due be demanded
out of the place where it wu to have been delivered, or if the
obligation be conditional, and its execution be demanded before
the condition has been fulfilled.  
SEC. 169. Judicial demands are either verbal or in writing.
It is only before justices of the peace that demands may be 
made verbally, as will be provided in the rules to be observed for
proceeding before the tribunals of justice of the peace. 
All other demands brought before the courts must be in writing
and in the form of petition. 
SEC. 160. Though there be as many kinds of demands as there are
actions, those which must be made in writing are subject to no 
distinct and peculiar form; they are onJy subjected to a few
general and common rules hereafter provided.
SEC. 161. It is sufficient in all judicial demands, which are required
to be in writing, ti/" express clearly what is demanded, with such 
conclusions as may serve as a basis to the judgment to be renderejd
in the cause. 
 
162. It is a general rule in civil matters that one must be sue~<
before his own judge, that is to say, before the judge having juris-<, 
diction over the place where he has his domicil, or residence; bu~~~/#
that rule is subject to several exceptions.
SEC. 163. In actions of revendication of real property, or when pro-~
ceedings are instituted in order to obtain the seizure and the saleJ
of real property, in virtue of an act of hypothecation, importing~# 
confession of judgment, the defendant may be cited, whether in
the first instance or in appeal, either within the jurisdiction where~ 
the property revendicated or hypothecated is situated, though he
bas his Jomicil or residence out of that jurisdiction, or in that 
where the defendant has his domicil, as the plaintifff chooses.
SEC. 164. In matters relative to successions, the defendants, though 
domiciliated elsewhere, must be cited to appear before the court
of the place where the succession has been opened: 
1. In all suits brought by the heirs against each other, until
after partition, inclusively ; 
2. In all suits brought by the creditors of the deceased, pre-t"'
vious to the partition; 
3. 1n all suits relating to the execution of testamentary dispo-A
sitions, until the final settlement of the affairs of the estate has)' 
been effected.
SEC. 166. There are other exceptions to this rule, which require""'~"' 
that the defendant be sued before the judge having jurisdiction 
over the place of his domicil or residence ; they are here enu­
merated: 
1. In matters relative to the partition of real property between
several co-proprietors; for in such a case the stfft must be brought
before the court of the place where such property is situated,
though the co-proprietors may reside in different parishes ; 
2. In matters relative to partnership; as long as the partner­
ship continues, in all suits concerning it, the parties must be cited
to appear before the tribunal of the place where it is established,
or if there are several establishments, before that of the place 
obligation was entered into ; ...,
3. 'In matters relative to failure, all the suits already commen­ 
ced, or which may be subsequently instituted against the debtor,
must be carried before the court in which the failure has been 
~eclared ;
4. In matters relative to warranty, they must be carried before 
the cdou!t having cog~izance of the principal action in which deman s 10 warranty ar1se ; 
6. \Vhen the defendants are foreigners, or have no fixed · or
known place of residence in the state, they may be cited wherever 
they are found. ·
SEC. 166. If a defendant reside alternately in different parishes, he 
must be cited in that in which he appears to have his principal
establishment, or his habitual residence. 
If his residence in each appear to be nearly of the same na­
ture, in such a case he may be cited in either, at the choice of
the plaintifff, unless he has declared, pursuant to the provision of 
the law, in which of those parishes he intended to have his <lo­
micil. 
SEC. 167. If the de(endnnt change his domicil, he must be cited in
the parish where he has resided within the last year, or within 
that where he has declared, in the manner prescribed by law, that 
he intended to have bis domicil.
SEC. 168. If the defendant has not made !,UCh a declaration, he mav, 
nevertheless, be cited in the parish where he lives, though he. h~s 
not resided one whole year in it, if he has clone in that parish, acts 
which manifest sufficiently, that he intended Lo make it the place 
of his domicil. 
 
SEC. 169. It is not neces:;ary, previous to hrin~ing a snit, to make
an amicable demand in writing; and when the defendant resides
out of the state, or when the suit ii:; commenced by arrest or
attachment, an amicable demand shaJI, in no case, he neces- 
sary .  .
SEC. 170. Every demand in writing must he commenced by a peii- 
tion. 
SEC. 171. A petition is a written document, which the plaintifff ad- 
dresses to a competent judge, setting forth the cause of the action,
which he intends to bring against the defendant, and praying to
be permitted to cite that defendant before him, in order that he
may be ordered to do or to give a certain thing. 
SEC. 172. That petition, when either party speaks the French Ianguage as a mother tongue, must be drawn in both the French and 
English languages, and it must mention the name or tide of the
court to which it is addressed· 
1. The name, surname anl place of residence of the plaintifff;
2. The name, and the place of residence of the defendant, or 
the place where he lives ;
3. The petition must contain a· clear and concise statement of 
the object of the demand, as well as of the nature of the title, or
the cause of action on which it is founded ; 
4. It must not contain any insulting or impertinent expression ;
5. It must end by conclusions analogous to the nature of the 
action to which the plaintifff has resorted ;
6. It must be signed by the plaintifff or his attorney in fact, or 
by his advocate. 
SEC. 173. If the plaintifff demand a specific object, he must describe
it with certainty in his petition, in such a manner as to leave no
doubt as to the object demanded. 
SEC. 174. When the action is founded on a notarial or public act.
an authenticated copy must be annexed to the petition, in order
that it may be communicated to the defendant, if he require it. 
SEC. 175. But if the title on which the demand is founded be an act 
under private signature, or a note bearing the signature of the
defendant, the original of such an act need not be annexed to the
petition, provided that if the defendant pray a view or oyer of the
document declared upon, the court shall order the same to be filed
within a reasonable delay, and in default of the plaintifff's comply­
ing with said order, his petition shall be dismissed. 
It is not necessary to serve on the defendant copies of the acts
or documents· annexed to the petition.
SEC. 176. The petition, together with all the annexed documents,
must be delivered to the clerk of the court to which it is addressed,
who shall receive it and endorse immediately the date of the day,
month and year wheat he received it. 
SEC. 177. The defendant or his attorney may agree that the plain­
tifl's petition be drawn only in English; he may likewise waive the
service of it, provided, in the latter case, the defendant or his at­
torney certify in writing, and under his signature, on the back of
the original delivered to the clerk, that he acknowledges that the
petition has been duly served on him; in such case, the clerk
shall not be entitled to charge for a copy, nor the sheriff for cita­
tion. 
SEC. 178 The clerk, to whom the petition h~ been delivered, must,
except in the case above expressed, make out a faithful and exact
copy of the same, in the language or languages in which it was 
presented, in order that it may be served on the defendant, and
he must annex to that copy a citation addressed to the defendant, .
in the form prescribed in the following article : 
SEC. 179. The citation addressed to the defendant must be drawn in
French and English, if the maternal tongue of the defendant be
French, and it must mention, 
1. The title of the cause ;
2. The name of the defendant, to whom it is addressed, the 
place of his residence, or that where he happens to be, in the
manner set forth in the petition ; 
3. The name or .title of the court before which the defendant 
is cited to appear. 
4. It must summon the defendant, either to comply with the
demand contained in the petition, of which a copy accompanies
the citation, or to deliver his answer to the petition in the office of
the clerk of the court, in which he is cited to appear. The place
where such office is held, must be expressed. 
5. The citation must express the number of days given to the
defendant to file his answer, according to the distance from his
residence to the place where the court is held, to be reckoned
from the Jay when the citation was served ; 
6. It must express the date of the day, month and year when it
was delivered ; 
7. It must be signed by the clerk who delivers it, and express
his quality; it must be sealed with the seal of the court by whose
order it is given. 
SEC. 180. The delay to be expressed in the citation consists of ten
days, to be counted from the time the citation has been served,
which are allowed to the defendant to comply with the demand of
the petition, if the defendant reside in the place where the court is
held, or within ten miles from such place. 
If the defendant reside at a greater distance, the aforesaid delay
shall be increased by one day for every ten miles that his residence
is distant from the place of holding the court before which he is
cited to appear. 
In counting the ten days, neither the day' when the citation has
been served, nor the day when the delay expires are ineluded.
SEC. 181. If there are two or more defendants to the suit, the clerk
shall make out as many copies of the petition as there are defen­
dants in the cause, whether they all reside in the parish where the
court is held or in different parishes, even if these be out of the
jurisdiction of that court. 
SEC. 182. Nevertheless if the defendants are husband and wife, or 
minors, interdicted, or absent persons, having the same curator, 
or persons represented by the same attorney in fact, or partnejs of 
the same firm, or members of the same corporation, it will he
sufficient to deliver one single citation, and one single copy of the
peritioO-to the person representing such defendants. 
SEC. 183. The clerk must address without delay the copy of the
citation and of the petition, intended to be served on the defen­ 
fant, to the sheriff of the parish where that defendant resides. 
SEC. 184. If among the defendants there be some who reside out of 
the jurisdiction of the court before which the suit is pending, the
clerk must address to the sheriffs of the different parishes where 
they reside, copies of the citation and petition intended for 'such
defendants, in order that they may be served on them, and such
return made of the service as is hereafter provided. 
SEC. 186. The sheriff to whom the clerk delivers or addresses copies
of a petition and citation to be served on a defendant in the man­
ner above provided, shall endorse upon the same a certificate of 
the day, month, and year when those documents have been re­
ceived by or delivered to him. - ·- 
SEC. 186. The sheriff must serve those copies without any delay
on the defendant named in the citation ; and when there are sev­
eral defendants to the same suit he must make as many services
as there are citations, always conforming in either case with the
provisions hereafter enacted. 
SEC. 187. The citation and the petition accompanying it may be
served in two different ways, by being delivered to the defendant
in person or by being left at his domicil. 
SEC. 188. The service is made in person when the citation and peti­
tion are delivered to himself. 
SEC. 189. It is made at the domicil, when copies of the citation and
petition are left at the usual place of domicil or residence of the
defendant, if he be absent, by delivering them to a free person,
apparently above the age of fourteen, living in the house. 
SEC. 190. The petition and citation must be served on the defendant
in person or left at his domicil, in the manner provided in the two
preceding articles, in all cases where the defendant is of age,
enjoys civil rights, is present in the place, or has there his ac­ 
knowledged domicil or residence.
SEC. 191. But if the defendant be a minor, a person interdicted or 
absent, or a married woman, or if the suit be brought against the
members of a corporation, of a public institution, or of a com­
mercial partnership, the petition and citation must be served in
the manner hereafter provided in the following articles. 
SEC. 192. If the petition and citation be directed against a married
woman oot separated from bed and board from her husband, thee 
service may be made by delivering to either the husband or the
wife, or by leaving them at the domicil of the latter, by delivering
the same to R. free person, apparently above the ag~ of fourteen 
years, living in their house.
SEC. 193. But if the woman be separated from bed and bonrd, or 
divorced from her husband, the service must be made as if sole. 
SEC. 194. If the suit be brought against minors not emancipated, in­
terdicted or absent persons, whose property is administered by a 
curator, then the petition and citation must be served either by 
delivery in person to the tutor or curator of such minors, inter­
dicted or absent persons, or by leaving them at the usual place of 
domicil or residence of such tutor or curator. 
SEC. 195. If the minors, the interdicted or absent persons, against
whom the suit is brought, had no tutor or curator, and the plaintifff
has had a special curator appointed to defend them in the suit,
the service must he made on that curator in person, or at his
domicil. 
SEC. 196. Nevertheless if the person absent has an attorney in fact,
whose name appears in the petition, the sheriff shall serve the
same on that attorney in fact, in person or at his domicil. 
SEC. 197. When the suit is brought against an emancipated minor,
the sheriff must serve the citation and petition on such minor in 
person, or at his domicil, unless he be absent from the state, in
which case they must be served on the curator ad lites of such
minor, if he have one, or on the special curator appointed to de­
fend the minor in the suit, or at the domicil of that curator. 
SEC. 198. When a suit is brought against a corporation, a public
institution, or against persons associated in ordinary partnership, 
the service must be made as follows: 
In suits against the corporation of cities and of other places, on the
mayor in person, or on any other officer exercising similar func­
tions, or in his absence, at the place where he holds his office, by 
delivery to some of the officers employed there ; 
In suits against banking establishments, on their president in
person, or at the house where the bank is kept, by delivery to the
teller, or in his absence, to some other officer of the establish­ 
ment; 
In suits against other civil or religious corporations, or public
institutions, on their president in person, or at their office, if 
they hold such, in permanence, by delivery to some of their
agents ; 
In suits against any commercial association, trading under a title, or as a firm, on any of the partners, in person, or at their 
.store or counting house, by delivery to their clerk or agent .
SEC. 199. If the suit has been brought against the captain or mas­ 
/~ter of a ship, or other vessel, or against some one forming part of
crew of such ship or vessel, having no domicil or residence 
in the state, the petition and citation must be served, either on the
defendant in person, or on board of the ship or vessel in which
he is employed, by delivery to any free person, apparently above
the age of fourteen, belonging to the crew of that ship or vessel, 
SEC. 200. \Vhen the sheriff shall notify the defendant, of the suit
hrought against him, in some of the modes above provided, he
must make his return in writing, on the back of the original cita­
tion delivered to him, stating in what manner this notification has
been effected, conformably to the following provisions. 
SEC. 201. If the service was made at the domicil of the defendant,
by delivery to a third person, the sheriff must state, in his return : 
1. Where the domicil, or the house inhabited by the defendant,
is situated ; 
2. The name of the free person on whom the service was
made, whether such person's name was known to him, or whe­
ther he learned it by interrogating that person; or, in the latter
case, if the person refused to tell his name, the return must men­
tion that circumstance. 
SEC. 202. The same formalities, which are prescribed in the pre­
ceding articles, must be observed by the sheriff, in serving cita­
tions at the office of chartered banks, or other public institutions,
or at the counting house of commercial establishments, or on
board of ships or vessels. 
SEC. 203. The return of the sheriff must state the day, month and
year, when the process was served, and be signed by him. 
SEC. 204. Immediately after service of the process, the sheriff
must send back to the office of the clerk, from whom he received
it, the original citation on which his return has been endorsed,
in order that it may be deposited at the office, previous to the
expiration of the delay given to the defendant to file his answer. 
SEC. 206. If a sheriff', who has charge of a citation and petition,
neglect or postpone serving them regularly, or delay, without
good cause, to deliver, or to send back, the original citation, with
bis return endorsed, to the office whence it issued, he shall be lia­
ble for all the Joss and damages which the party may have sus­ 
tained through his neglect.
SEC. 206. Citation being the essential grounds of all civil actions, in 
ordinary proceeding, the neglect of that formality annuls radically 
all proceedings had, unless the defendant have voluntarily ap­
peared to the suit, and answered the demand. 
But citation is not necessary in executory proceeding, nor when
the proceedings are ( in rem) against the thing, as hereafter pro­
vided. 
SEC. 207. No citation can issue, no demand can be made, no pro­
ceeding had, nor suits instituted on Sundays, on the fourth of
July, on the eighth of January of every year, nor shall any arrest
be made after sunset, on any individual within his domicil. 
 
SEC. 208. He who brings an action, may, in certain eases provided
by law, obtain provisional orders, either against the person of his
debtor, or his property, in order to give effect to the suit, which
he has brought, or intends to institute against him. 
SEC. 209. There are five sorts of conservatory acts, to wit :
The arrest of the debtor ;
Attachment, in the hands of third persons ;
Sequestration ;
Provisional seizure ;
lnjunction. 
 
SEC. 210. The Arrest, is one of the means which the law gives the
creditor to secure the person of his debtor, while the suit is pend­
ing, or to compel him to give security for his appearance after
judgment. 
SEC. 211. Minors of both sexes, whether emancipated or not, ex­
cept for debts lega1Iy contracted by them after emancipation, 
interdicted persons, and women, married or single, cannot be arrested. 
SEC. 212. Any creditor, whose debtor is about to leave the state 
permanently, without leaving in it sufficient property to satisfy 
the judgment which he expects to obtain in the suit he intends to 
bring against him, may have the person of such debtor arrester I
and confined, until he shall give sufficient security that he shall
not depart Iroai the state for the term of three months.( d) But
no citizen of another state, shall be arrested in this state, at the
suit of a non-resident creditor, except in cases where it shall be
made to appear that the debtor has absconded from his resi­
dence.( e) 
SEC. 213. Such arrests may be ordered in all demands brought
for a debt, whether liquidated or not, when the term of payment
has expired, and even for damages for any injury sustained by the
plaintifff either in his person or property. 
SEC. 214. Previous to obtaining an order of arrest against his debtor
to compel him to give sufficient security that he shall not depart
from the state, the creditor his agent or attorney must swear, in the
petition which he presents to that effect to any competent judge, or to
the clerk of his court, that the debt or the damages, which he
claims, and the amount of which he specifies, is really due to him,
and that he verily believes that the defendant is about to depart from
the state permanently, without leaving in it sufficient property to
satisfy his demand ; and lastly, that he does not take this oath with
the intention of vexing the defendant, but only in order to secure his
demand. This affidavit may be written either at the foot of the
plaintifff's petition, or annexed to the said petition ; and in all
cases where arrests are demandable, the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney having made affidavit and given bond in conformity to
law, and having filed the same in court, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to issue, forthwith, the process required, without any peti­
tion being then presented ; but the usual petition shall be filed
on the day succeeding that on which the said process shall have
issued, except in cases where a Sunday, fourth of July, or eighth
of January shall be the succeeding day; then on the day next
succeeding such Sunday, fourth of July or eighth of January;
and the sheriff shall proceed immediately to execute said process
according to its tenor.  
SEC. 215. The oath prescribed in the preceding article may be
taken either by the creditor himself, or in his absence, by his at­ 
torney ,  attorney in fact, or his agent, provided that the
creditor can swear the debt is due from his personal knowledge ;
and in case the affidavit is made by his agent or attorney, it shall
be sufficient for the attorney or agent to swear to the best of his
knowledge and belief.  
SEC. 216. The oath which the creditor is required to take of the 
existence and nature of the debt of which he claims payment, in
the cases provided in the two preceding articles, may be taken
either before any judge or justice of the peace, or clerks of 
courts. 
SEC. 217. The above rule governs in all the cases where the agent 
or attorney in fact of the creditor swears to the existence of the
debt claimed, either to obtain the attachment in the hands of third 
per~ons, the provisional seizure, or the sequestration of the debtor's
property, or in order that he be enjoined not to dispose of the
same, while the action is pending. 
SEC. 218. The debtor who has been arrested and held to surety
may be discharged by proving to the judge, either in open court 
or at his chamber, after having given notice to the plaintifff of his
intended application, that the facts stated by the plaintifff in order
to obtain his arrest are not true, but the plaintifff shall be allowed
to support them by other testimony. • 
SEC. 219. The defendant may also be discharged by giving to the
sheriff his note or obligation for a sum exceeding by one-fourth
that which is demanded, with the security of one good and solvent
person, that he shall not depart the state for the term of three
months ; and that in case he should depart without leave, the
said security shall pay to the sheriff the amount for which defini­
tive judgment shall be rendered in the cause. 
SEC. 220. The defendant may be discharged likewise by placing in
the hands of the sheriff property of sufficient value to satisfy the
amount of the plaintifff's demand, in case judgment should be
rendered against him. 
SEC. 221. Even when the debt is not yet clue, if the debtor be about
leaving the state, the creditor may have such debtor arrested, if he
make the oath above prescribed, adding that he verily believes
that such debtor is about to depart with the intention to defraud
his creditors, and setting forth, specially, the circumstances on
which that belief is grounded; but the defendant will always be
allowed to disprove such allegations, as above provided. 
SEC. 222. The defendant thus arrested may be discharged by giving 
his note or obligation to the sheriff for a sum exceeding by one­
fourth the sum due to the creditor, at whose suit he has been ar­
rested, with the security of one good and solvent person, that he 
shall appear when the debt shall become due, and judgment shall
have been rendered on the same, and that on his failing to appear,
the said security shall be bound to pay the amount of said judg­ 
ment. 
SEC. 223. A debtor, though he has called a meeting of his creditors, 
in order to make a surrender of his property, and has obtained a 
stay of proceedings against his person, or property, may neverthe­
less be arrested, if one or more of his creditors declare on oath
Lefore the court in which the failure took place, that he or they 
verily believe that such debtor intends departing from the juris­
diction of the court to secrete his person from his creditors ; pro­ 
vided they set forth, specially, the circumstances which have in­
duced them to form such a belief. 
SEC. 224. A creditor arrested pursuant to the provisions of the pre­
ceding article, may be discharged by disproving the charge brought
against him or by giving to the sheriff his obligation for such sum 
as shall be determined by the judge, with the security of one good
and solvent person, that he shall not leave the limits of the juris­ 
diction of the court, until after the surrender of the property shall
have been accepted by· his creditors, or duly homologated, and the 
property surrendered by him delivered.
SEC. 225. When the sheriff takes an obligation with a surety, in any 
of the cases specified in the preceding articles, he must immedi­
ately return such act to the office of the clerk of the court where 
the suit is pending, in order that it may be communicated to the
plaintifff. 
SEC. 226. If no exception be taken by the plaintifff to the sufficiency 
of the security taken by the sheriff, within twenty{/,) days after said
act is so returned, no such exception shall e\.·er after be allowed,
and the act of surety shall be assigned by the sheriff to the 
plaintifff.
SEC. 227. But if within twenty( c) days after the act shall have been re­ 
turned by the sheriff to the office of the clerk of the court, the plaintifff
except to the surety accepted by the sheriff, as not being solvent
and sufficient, said plaintifff must move for a rule of the court, call­ 
ing on the sheriff to show cause, ten days after being notified of
the same, if such sheriff reside in the parish where the court
is held, why he should not be made liable, personally, to the
plaintifff as security for the debt, in the same manner as the surety
received by the sheriff would have been, had he proved good and
sufficient. Out of the first judicial district, instead of moving for
a rule of court, the plaintifff may rriake his exception before the 
judge in chambers. 
SEC. 228. In case such sheriff should reside in another parish, the
judge shall give such delay as he may think sufficient to enable
him to appear and answer to the rule granted against him, as above 
stated. · 
SEC. 229. At the expiration of this delay, the court shall decide on
the validity of the exception taken by the plaintifff, and should the
security received by the sheriff be pronounced not good and suffi­
cient, the court shall adjudge him to be bound to ihe plaintifff in
the same manner as the security thus improperly received by him
would have been. 
SEC. 230. One who has become surety that another shall not depart
the state, or leave the jurisdiction of the court by which the order 
surety was granted, or{d) that he will appear to answer to the
judgment, may be discharged from all responsibility by surrender­ 
ing to the sheriff the person of the debtor whom he had ar-.
rested. · · 
SEC. 231. Such surrender of the person of a debtor may be made 
in every stage of a cause, previous to judgment having been ren­
dered against the surety, as hereafter provided. 
SEC. 232. The sheriff to whom the person of a debtor is so surren­
dered, must deliver to the surety a certificate of his having so 
surrendered the person of the debtor, and on producing such a 
certificate to the court, after due notice having been served on the
defendant, the surety may, on motion, have the act of surety executed hy him, cancelled. · 
SEC. 233. If one who has become surety for a debtor, in any of the
cases above mentioned, wish to be discharged of such surety, by
surrendering his person, and such debtor refuse to go voluntarily, 
to be so surrendered, or attempt to leave the state, or the jurisdic­
tion of the court, without his consent, such surety may have the
debtor arrested, in order to surrender him to the sheriff, by peti­
tioning and obtaining the order of the judge to that effect; pro­
vided he annex to his petition an authentic copy of the act by
which he became surety. 
SEC. 234. If the debtor has failed, and has obtained a stay of pro­
ceedings against his person and property, the surety may, never­ 
theless, have him arrested, in the manner provided in the preced­ 
ing artic1e.
SEC. 236. But if the surety fail to present the person of the debtor, 
on execution of the definitive judgment rendered against him,
the plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment against such surety for
the amount of the judgment rendered against the debtor, by mov­
ing for it before the court by which it was rendered, after exhibit­
ing the act of surety transferred to him by the sheriff; provided
written notice of the intended motion be given to such surety, ten
days previous to taking judgment against him; and said motion
shall be tried summarily, and without the intervention of a jury,
unless the surety shall allege under oath, that the signature to the
bond, purporting to be his, is not genuine, or that the judgment
has been satisfied.  
SEC. 236. Judgment can only be rendered against the surety for the~
amount of the sum for which he became surety. It must be the~ 
same as that given against the debtor himself. 
SEC. 237. A creditor may have his debtor arrested, when such 
debtor is about leaving the state, at the very moment of instituting his action, while it is pending, in every stage of the proc~ed- 
ceeding, and even after appeal  
SEC. 238. No debtor can hereafter be arrestca, and held to surety, 
a11 laws to the contrary notwithstanding, except in the ~ases above-'....-<:.,
provided.  
SEC. 239. An attachment in the hands of third persons, is a mandate
which a creditor obtains from a competent judge, or from the~~ 
clerk of his court. commanding the seizure of any property,'/credit or right, belonging to his debtor, in whatever hands they 
may be found, to satisfy the demands which he intends to bring
against him. 
SEC. 240. A creditor may obtain such attachment of the property
of his debtor, in the following cases : 
1. When such debtor is about leaving permanently the state,/~.~
without !here being~ ~ossibility, in !he .ordinary cou~se of Judicial 
proceedings, of obtammg or executing Judgment against him previous to his departure, or when such debtor has already left the 
state permanently .
2. When such debtor resides out of the state ;
3. When he conceals himself to avoid being cited and forced 
JO answer to the suit intended to be brought against him.
SEC. 241. A creditor may, in the like manner, obtain a mandate of/~ 
seizure against a1l species of property belonging to his debtor,/,'f
real or personal, whether it consists of slaves, credits, or right of 
action ; and, whether such property be in t?e debtor's possession,
or in that of third persons, by whatever title the same be held,
either as deposit, or placed under their custody. -1, 
SEC. 242. The property ?fa de_btor !11ay be attached- in the hands
of third persons, by his creditor, m order to secure the payment 
of a debt, whatever may be its nature, whether the amount be
liquidated or not, provided the term of payment have arrived, and~ 
the creditor, (or in l1is absence) his agent or attorney, or at­
torney in fact, who prays for the attachment, state expressly and
positively the amount which he claims. 
And in cases where the debt or obligation is not yet clue, it
shall be lawful for any judge of competent jurisdiction to order a 
writ of attachment to issue, whenever the said judge shall be satisfied
by the oath of the creditor on his agent, of the existence of said
debt, and upon the said creditor or his agent taking oath to either
of the requisites in number one, two, and three of article two hundred
and forty,' and complies with article two hundred and forty-four, 
and moreover swears that said debtor is about to remove his pro. perty out of the state before said debt becomes due, that it shall 
he sufficient for the oath required to be taken by the agent, to be
to the best of his knowledge and belief; and that it shall be
deemed sufficient for the creditor, in order to obtain an attachment,
to make tho oath required to be taken by him in conformity to
any of the requisites of number one, two and 'three of article two 
hundred and forty. 
SEC. 243. A creditor wishing to have the property of his debtor
attached, must deman<l it in a petition presented to a competent
judge, or the clerk of his court, with a declaration made under
oath, at the foot of said petition, stating the amount of the sum
due ro him, and that he verily believes that the debtor has left the
state permanently, or that he resides out of the state, or conceals
himself, so that citation cannot be served on him. Said oath 
may be taken before any judge or justice of the peace, or clerks
of courts. 
SEC. 244. Such attachment may be granted on the oath of the
agent or attorney, or attorney in fact of the creditor, if such ere­
<litor be absent; and in case the debt is already due, it shall be
sufficient for the agent or attorney to swear to the best of bis
knowledge and belief.  
SEC. 245. A creditor, his agent, or attorney, or attorney in fact, pray- 
i ng such attachment, must, besides, annex to his petition his obli- 
gation in favor of the defendant, for a sum exceeding by one half in
amount of that which he claims, with the surety of one good and 
sol~ent perso_n, resJding within the ju~fdi~tion of the court, to
which the petition rs presented, as a s•r•ty for the payment of~ 
such damages, as such defendant may recover against him, in case 
it. should be decided that the attachment was wrongfutly obtained.
SEC. 246. If ? creditor know, or s~spect, th~t a third person. has; i_n
possession, property belongmg to his debtor, or that he is 
indebted to such debtor, he may make such a person a party to
,{-the suit, by having him cited, to declare on oath, what property 
/~elonging to the defendant he has in his possession, -or in what
/Lai"~um he is indebted to such defendant, even when the term of payment has not yet arrived .
The person, thus made a party to the suit, is termed the gar- 
nishee.
SEC. 247. A creditor may likewise annex to his petition, interroga- 
tori es on facts and articles, to Le answered categorically under
oath by such garnishee, as to the nature of the property belonging 
to the defendant, which may be in his possession, and as to the
amount of the sums for which he may be indebted to him. ra , ,~ 
SEC. 248. Jf a creditor, who has filed interrogatories on facts and articles, to be answered by a garni::.hee, declare upon oath, that he 
verily believes that such garnishee has in his hands property or
effects belonging to his debtor, or is indebted to the defendant in
any sum of money, whether the same be due or not, and that such 
)2'°'"".eft.,~-lgarnishee is about to depart from the state, without having filed
his answers to such interrogatories, such garnishee may be arrested
and confined, until he gives good and sufficient security, in a sum 
one half the amount claimed by the plaintifff, that he 
shall appear whenever cited so to do, before any judge or justice 
of the peace, to answer the interrogatories put to him, and that 
he shall answer them in the manner provided in the preceding article.
SEC. 249. The garnishee may nevertheless be discharged, without 
being obliged to give security, if he prove to the satisfaction of 
the court, which had given the order of arrest, after notice in
writing having been served on the defendant, of his intention of
making such proof, that he has no intention of leaving the state ; 
or, if he immediately, in the presence of the court, answer in
writing and pertinently the interrogatories put to him, and file
such answer in the office of the clerk of the court. 
SEC. 250. A garnishee may be made party to a suit, and be cited 
to answer interrogatories on facts and articles, either by praying
to that effect in the original petition, or by a supplemental peti­
tion, filed at any stage of the suit, ~us to rendering the judg­
ment. 
SEC. 251. When an order to attach property in· the hands of a third
person, has been given by a court, the clerk of such court shall
deliver, or send to the sheriff, a copy of such order, in French and
in English, when the French language is the maternal tongue of
either of the parties, as well as of the petition, together with a 
citation to the person made party to the suit, to answer such peti­
tion within the usual delay granted in ordinary cases. 
SEC. 252. If there be a garnishee made party to the suit, the clerk
must deliver, or send to the sheriff, a copy o{ the petition and of
the interrogatories annexed to it, if there be such, with a summon 
d}rect:d to ~uch ga~nishee, to answer the same within the .delay 
given m ordinary suns. ~ 
SEC. 253. The sheriff must serve such citation: __;;:::::,.,..,
1. On the person of the defendant, or at his domicil, if he has 
one in the place, or if he be about to leave the state ; ~
2. At the place where the defendant has resided last, if he had 
a domicil in the place, and conceal himself to avoid being cited.
SEC. 254. If, on the contrary, the garnishee has no known place of 
residence, conceal his person, be absent, or reside out of the state,
in such a case the sheriff shall serve the attachment and citation, 
by affixing copies of the same in French and in English, when
the French language is the maternal tongue of either of the par- 
ties, on the door of the parish church of the place, or to that of 
the room, where the court, in which the suit is pending, is held. 
SEC. 255. In the latter case, the sheriff must keep the copy of the
petition, in order to deliver the same to such party, should he
appear, or to the advocate appointed to defend him in his absence. 
SEC. 266. The sheriff, as soon as he. shall have served the copy of
the petition, in the manner prescribed in the preceding anicles,
and notified the garnishee of the same, in the form required to be
observed as relates to garnishees, if there be such made party to
the suit, must seize aod detain so much of whatever property the
debtor may 11ossess within the parish over which his powers ex­
tend, whether it consists of goods, effects, rights, credits, or right
of actions, as may be equal in value to the amount claimed in the
suit; and he must immediately after, deliver or send to the clerk
of the court, by which the attachment was granted, his return in
writing, stating the manner in which he has executed the same. 
SEC. 257. The sheriff must take charge, and keep possession of all
the goods and effects which he may have attached, with the ex­
ception of such sums which may be due by the garnishee, and he
shall make, in the presence of two witnesses, an exact and minute
inventory of the same, which he shall be bound to deliver or
send, annexeJ to his return, to the office of the clerk of the court,
whose mandate he has executed. 
SEC. 258. If the defendant, thus made a party to a suit, appear after
having been served with the citation, or prove in a summary way,
after havin~ given due. notice in writing to the adverse party, that
the allegations on which the order for attachment had been ob­ 
"tained, were false, such attachment shall be dissolved, and the party
will be allowed to proceed in his defense, as in ordinary suits.,"'-? 
SEC. 259. The defendant, if he appear, either in person or by his
attorney, may, moreover, in every stage of the suit, have such at­
tachment set aside, by delivering to the sheriff his obligation for 
the sum, exceeding by one half that which is demanded, with the
;.~urety of a good and solvent person, residing within the jurisdic- 
~,i~on of the court where the action was brought, that he will satisfy
;s_1rch judgment as may be rendered against him in the suit pending. 
the sheriff shall be bound to return the bonds so taken by
/iaim into court in the same manner as is provided for bail bonds • 
plaintifff shall have the same right and the same time to ob­
to the insufficiency of the surety on such bonds as to the se­ 
curity on bail bonds, and in case the surety on said bonds should 
,._~ t declared insufficient, the sheriff shall be liable as surety on the
said bonds, and the said acts of surety shall be assigned by the 
- sheriff to the plaintifff in the same manner as bail bonds.
?-n? in ~ase said d~fe.ndant fail to satisfy the judgmcn! rendered 
against h11n, the plamtaff may, on the return of the sheriff that no 
property has been found, and on exhibiting tu the court said ob­
ligation duly transferred to him, obtain judgment against the surety
on said obligation npon motion, after ten days previous notice
to said surety, which motion shall be tried summarily and without
the intervention of a jury, unless the said surety shall allege under
oath, that the signature to the bond purporting to be his, is not
genuine, or that the judgment has been satisfied.  
SEC. 260. If, on the contrary, the party fail to appear, either in
person or by his attorney, the court shall appoint an advocate to 
represent him and defend the suit; and a reasonable delay shall
be given to such advocate, to enable him to communicate with 
the party he represents, in order to obtain the information necessary to defend fhe suit. 
SEC. 261. If the property attached, and which has been seized, he
of a perishable nature, and subject to be lost or deteriorated
during the pendency of the suit, the court may al the request of
the plaintifff, order the sale of such property at public auction,
after the usual advertisement, and after the same have been appre­
ciated by two experts, appointed for that purpose, in order that
the proceeds of such sale may remain in deposit in the hands of the
sheriff, until the definitive decision of the suit. 
SEC. 262. The garnishee who has been cited in a suit, must put in
answer within the usual delay, declaring in the same, fairly 
~and truly, what property belonging to the defendant he has in his
br..Y"""7Possession, by whatever title he may possess the same, as well 
as what sums he may owe to such defendant, whether the same
due or not yet due ; and if interrogated on fa~ts and articles, 
1"/.t'.~,d1e must answer under oath, clearly and categorically, each ques­
tion put to him touching such matter; and in case said garnishee 
now ledges himself indebted to the defendant, it shall be lawful
for the judge to order him to be held to bail in the same cases 
as if he was originally defendant, unless he prefers depositing the
~oney in court.(n.) v 
SEC. 263. If the garnishee, to whom interrogatories have been put,
refuse or neglect to answer the Same under oath, in the delay of 
·.-<-the law, such refusal or neglect shall be considered as a confes;:;sion of his having in his hands property belonging to the debtor, 
A~'7tzufficient to satisfy the demand made against such debtor, and
shall be rendered against him for tho amount claimed by 
defendant, with interest and costs.
SEC. 264. Although the answer of the garnishee to the question put 
to him be made under oath, the defendant may, nevertheless, show
the 
same to be false, either by positive written proof, or by the
of two witnesses, worthy of belief, in the same manner as 
when interrogatories on facts and articles have been put to a party in
suit; and if it be proved by such evidence, that the garnishee has 
in his hands property or effects belonging to the party against
wwhose property the attachment has been granted, or that he be 
indebted to him in any amount, such property «nd effects, as well
as such sum as may be due by him shall he subject to satisfy such 
judgment as may be rendered against the defendant.
SEC. 265. In suits where auachment is demanded, after answer filed, 
or if the defendant has failed to answer, the plaintifff must proceed 
in the ordinary form to obtain judgment, and on execution of the
same bave so much of the property attached and sold as will
suffice to satisfy the judgment. 
SEC. 266. If the debtor, whose property has been attached, has filed 
bis answer, or has given instruction to the advocate appointed by
the court to defend him, the act of surety given by the plaintifff 
shall be cancelled es soon as judgment shall have been rendered
in favor of such plaintifff. 
But, if the residence of the debtor, whose property has been
attached, be unknown, and the advocate appointed to defend him
has been unable to communicate with him, the act of surety, so
given by the plaintifff, shall continue in full force one whole year after
the date of the judgment given in favor of the plaintifff, in order to
secure the recourse which the debtor may have, as provided in the
following article. 
SEC. 267. The absent debtor, against whom judgment has been so
rendered, may, within two years after such judgment, obtain the
reversal of the same, if he prove that the distance at which he
lived from the place where the attachment was obtained, has pre­
vented his being apprised of the proceedings had against him, and
that the plaintifff bas availed himself of his absence to obtain pay­ 
ment of a debt, either already paid in totality, or partly dis­
charged, or which did not exist. 
SEC. 268. In case such evidence be shown by the party whose pro­
perty has been attached, judgment shall be given against the
plaintifff in the first suit, pot only for such amount as he may have
recovered above the sum which was really due to him, but also
for such damages as may have been sustained by the defendant;
but as relates to the security, such action, if brought against him,
must be instituted within the year following the judgment wrong­
fully obtained. 
 
SEC. 269. Sequestration is a mandate of the court, ordering the
sheriff in certain cases to take in his possession and to keep a thing
of which another person has the possession, until after the decision
of a suit, in order that it be delivered to him who shall be adjudged
entitled to have the property or possession of that thing. This is
what is properly called a judicial sequestration. Orders of seques­
tration may be issued, either by the judge before whom the cause
is brought, or by the clerk of the court. 
SEC. 270. In this acceptation, the word squestration does not mean 
a judici,tl deposit, because sequestration may exist together with
the right of administration, while mere deposit does not admit it. 
SEC. 271. All species of property, real, or personal, as well as the
revenue proceeding from the same, may be sequestered. 
SEC. 272. Obligations and titles may also be sequestered, when their
ownership is in dispute. 
SEC. 273. Judicial sequestration is generally ordered only at the
· request of one of the parties to a suit; there are cases, neverthe­ 
less, where it is decreed by the court without such request, or is
the consequence of the execution of judgments. 
The rules relative to sequestration, in consequence of the exe­ 
cution of judgment, will be found in the chapter which treats of
the erecution. ot judgments. 
SEC. 274. The court may order, ex-officio, the sequestration of real
property in suits, where the ownership of such property is in dis­
pute, and when one of the contending parties does not seem to
have a more apparent right to the possession than the other. 
In such cases, sequestration may be ordered to continue until
the question of ownership shall have been decided. 
SEC. 275. Sequestration may be ordered at the request of one of the
parties in the suit in the following cases: 
l. When one who had possessed for more than one year has0;.1-nc,~
hee~ evicted through violence, and sues to be restored to his possession. 
2. When one sues for the possession of movable property, or o~"-?'M 
a slave, and fears that the party having possession will C()11,Cea/,, part
wit!,, or dispose of the movable or slave pending the suit, or
may ill treat the slave, or send either that slave or the property in
dispute out of the jurisdiction of the court during the pendency
of the !;Uit. 
3. When one claims the ownership or the possession of real 
property, and has good ground to apprehend that the defendant 
may make use of his possession, to dilapidate or to waste the 
fruits or revenues produced by such property,' or convert them to
his own use. 
4. When a woman sues for a separation from bed and board,
or only for a separation of property from her husband, and has
reason to apprehend that he will ruin her dotal property, or waste
the fruits or revenue produced by the same during the pendency
of the action. 
,5. When one has petitioned for a stay of proceedings, and a
meeting of his creditors, and such creditors fear that he may avail
himself of such stay of proceedings to place the whole or a part of
his property out of their resch.Iz) 
6. A creditor by special mortgage shall have the power of
sequestrating the mortgaged property, when he apprehends that/; 
it will be removed out of the state before he can have the benefit~~
of his mortgage, and will make oath of the facts which induced 
his appjehension. 
7. The pldintiff may obtain a writ of sequestration in all cases
where he has a lien or privilege on property.  
SEC. 276. A plaintifff wishing to obtain an order of sequestration in
any one of the cases above provided, must annex to the petition in
which he prays for such an order, an affidavit, setting forth the
cause for which he claims such order: he must, besides, execute 
his obligation in favor of defendant, for such sum as the court shall
determine, with the surety of one good and solvent person, resi­
ding within the jurisdiction of the court, to be responsible for such
damages as the defendant may sustain, in case such sequestration
should have been wrongfully obtained. In case of the absence of
the party, the affidavit may be made by his agent or attorney, and
in such case it shall be sufficient for the agent or attorney to swear
to the best of his knowledge and belief ; and the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, having made affidavit and given bond in confor­
mity to law, and having filed the same in court, it shall be the duty
of the clerk to issue forthwith the process required, without any
petition being then presented; but the usual petition shall be filed
oo the day succeeding that on which the said process shall have
issued, except in cases where a Sunday, fourth of July, or eighth
of January shall be the succeeding day ; then on the day next
succeeding such eunday, fourth of July, or eighth of January; 
and the sheriff shall proceed immediately to execute said proces!\~
according to its teoor. l 41 
SEC. 277. When security is given in order to obtain the sequestra-~~,..Z:;A~
tion of real property which brings a revenue, the judge must re-t 
quire that it be given for an amount sufficient to compensate the
defendant, not only for all damage which he may sustain, but
also for the privation of such revenue during the pendency of th/)i_,...~
action. 
SEC. 278. The plaintifff, when he prays for a sequestration of the
property of one who has failed, is not required to give such secu­
rity, though that property bring in a revenue. 
SEC. 279. A defendant, against whom a mandate of sequestration 
has been obtained, except in cases of failure, may have the same 
set aside, by executing his obligation in favor of the sheriff, with
one good and solvent surety, for whatever amount the judge may
determine, as being equal to the value of the property to be left
in his possession. And whenever the defendant shall fail or neg­
lect to comply with the foregoing provisions within ten days after
the seizure of the property by the sheriff, it shall be lawful for
the plantiff, his agent or attorney in fact to give a similar bond
and security to the sheriff as those required by Jaw from the de­
fendant, and to take the property sequestered into his posses­
sion. 
SEC. 280. The security thus given by the defendant, when the pro­
perty sequestered consists in movables or in slaves, shaJl be re­
sponsible that he shall not send away the same out of the juris- 
diction of the court ; that he shall not make an improper use of
them ; and that he will faithfully present them, after definitive 
judgment, in case he should be decreed to restore the same to the
plaintifff . 
SEC. 281. As regards landed property, this security is given to pre­
vent the defendant, while in possession, from wasting the property,
and for the faithful restitution of the fruits that he may have re­
ceived since the demand, or of their value in the event of his he­
iog cast in the snit. 
SEC. 282. When the sheriff has sequestered property pursuant to
an order of the court, he shall, after serving the petition and the 
copy of the order of sequestration on the defendant, send his re­ 
turn in writing to the clerk of the court which gave the order,
stating in the same in what manner the order was executed, and 
annex to such return a true and minute inventory of the property
sequestrated drawn by him, in the presence of two witnesses. 
SEC. 283. The sheriff, while he retains possession of sequestered
property, is hound to take proper care of the same, and to ad­
minister the same, if it be of such nature as to admit of it, as a
prudent father of a family administers his own affairs. He may
confide them to the care of guardians or overseers, of whose acts
he remains responsible, and he will be entitled to receive a just
compensation for his administration, to be determined by the
court, to be paid to him out of the proceeds of the property se­
questered, if judgment be given in favor of the plaintifff.  
SEC. 284. The plaintifff may, in certain cases, hereafter provided,
obtain the provisional seizure of the property which he holds in 
pledgc, or on which.he has a privilege, in order to secure the pay­
his claim. And said provisional seizure may be issued, 
either by the judge before whom the cause is brought, or by the
clerk of his court.Iz] 
SEC. 285. Provisional seizure may be ordered in the following cases:
1. In executory proceedings, when the plaintifff sues on a title 
importing confession of judgment.
2. When a lessor prays for the seizure of furniture or property 
used in a house, or attached to the real estate which he has leased.
3. When a seaman, or another person, employed on board of a 
ship or water craft, navigating within the state, or persons having
furnished materials for, or made repairs to such ship, or water
craft, prays that the same may be seized, and prevented from de­
parting, until he has been paid the amount of. his claim. 
4. When the proceedings are in rem, that is to say, against the
thing itself, which stands pledged for the debt, when the property 
is abandoned, or in cases where the owner of the thing is unknown
or absent. 
SEC. 286. The 'manner of conducting executory proceedings will be
provided hereafter. 
SEC. 287. When a lessor sues for rent, whether due or not due, he
may obtain the provisional seizure of such furniture or property
as may be found in the house, or attached to tho land leased by
him, if at the foot of the petition, in which he prays for such sei­
zure, tie state under oath, the amount which he claims, and that
he has good reasons to believe that the said lessee will remove the
furniture or property on which he has a lien or privilege out of the 
premises, and that he may be thereby deprived of his lien; pro­
vided, that in case the rent be paid when it fall due, the costs of
the seizure shall be paid by the lessor, unless he prove that the
lessee <lid actually remove, or attempt or intend to remove the
property out of the premises.( g) And in case of the absence of
the lessor, said oath may be made by his agent or attorney, and in
such case it shall be sufficient for the agent or attorney to swear
to the best of his knowledge and belief ; and said oath may be
taken before any judge or justice of the peace, or clerks of
courts. 
SEC. 288. The lessor may seize, even in the hands of a third per­ 
son, such furniture as were in the house leased, if the same have
been removed by the lessee, provided he declare, on oath, that
the same have been removed, without his consent, within fifteen
days previous to his suit being brought. 
SEC. 289. Sailors, or other persons, employed on board of any ship,
vessel, or other water craft, trading within the state, as well as
persons who have furnished materials for, or made repairs to such
vessels, or crafts, may, at the same time they bring their action
against the captain, master, or consignees of such vessels or crafts,
for the amount due to them, obtain the provisional seizure of such
vessels or crafts, to secure the amount of their claims, provided
they state on oath, at the foot of their petition, that the sum sued
for (specifying the amount of the same) is reaHy owing; that such
vessels, or crafts, are on the eve of leaving the jurisdiction of the
court, and that they are apprehensive of losing the amount they
claim, should such vessels or crafts depart, previous to their de­ 
mand having been satisfied. Such seizure may be made even 
of ships or vessels trading out of the state, at the suit of persons
claiming payment for materials furnished for, or repairs made to
such ships or vessels ; hut the defendant shall be permitted to
have the provisional seizure in either case set aside, on executing
a bond in favor of the plaintifff, as in case of attachment. And
the sheriff shall be bound to return the bond so taken by him into
court, in the same manner as is provided for bail bonds. The
plaintifff shall have the same right and the same time to object to 
the· sufficiency of the security on such bonds as to the security on
bail bonds, and in case the surety on said bonds should be de­
clared insufficient, the sheriff shall be liable as surety on the said
bonds, and the said acts of surety shall be assigned by the sheriff
to the plaintifff in the same manner as bail bonds.  
SEC. 290. One, to whom the nature of his claim, or the law, gives a
privilege on a thing, either lost or abandoned by its owner, or
whose owner is either unknown or absent, may proceed against
the thing itself, on which he has a privilege, and have the same
seized and sold, to satisfy his claim, pursuant to the forms here­
after-prescribed. 
SEC. 291. The -ereditor who proceeds, in rem, in the manner pre­
scribed in the preceding article, must present a petition to a com­ 
petent judge, stating on oath, at the foot of the same, the amount
and the nature of his demand, that the thing on which he has his
privilege has been either lost or abandoned by the owner, of whose
name he is ignorant, or that it belongs to some one unknown to
him, or absent. He must pray besides that the thing be seized
and sold, to satisfy his claim, and to pay the costs of the 
suit. 
SEC. 292. The court, to whom such petition shall he presented, 
may, if the case appear to them one in which the plaintifff is al­
lowed to proceed, in rem, order that the sheriff shall seize and take
possession of the thing, directing, at the same time, that public
notice be given, to all persons interested, to appear within fifteen
days, to answer to the petition so presented. 
SEC. 293. The sheriff must give this notice, by advertisements, pub­
lished in French and in English, three different times, in at least
one paper, if any be published in the place,· or by affixing the
same at the usual places, if there be no newspaper published in
the place. 
SEC. 294. At. the expiration of such delay, if no one appear to an­
swer the petition, the plaintifff may require that an advocate be
appointed to defend the absent owner, and after having obtained
judgment, as in ordinary suits, the property may be sold in exe­
cution, in order that the amount of his demand be paid out of the 
proceed~ ·
SEC. 295. The plaintifff shall not be required to give security, in or­ 
der to obtain the provisional seizure of the thing which he holds
in pledge, or on which he has a privilege, in any of the cases
mentioned above, but he shall be personally responsible for all 
damage suffered by the defendant, should the seizure have been
wrongfully obtained. 
 
SEC. 296. Injunction, or prohibition, is a mandate obtained from a 
court, by a plaintifff, prohibiting one from doing an act which, he
contends, may be injurious to him, or impair a right which he~ 
claims. 
SEC. 297. The injunction may he directed either against the defen- 
dant in the suit, ~r against third persons not parties to it.
SEC. 298. The injunction must be granted, and he directed against~A. 
the defendant himself in the following cases :
l. When the defendant is' in the act of building, or construct- 
ing some work, tending to obstruct a place of which the pubHc
has the use; 
2. When the defendant is constructing, either within the bed~~
of a navigable river, or on its banks, works which may prevent
the navigation of such river, or render it more difficult, or prevent~~ 
ships or other craft from easily landing and unloading on the bank 
f h
. • 
o sue river; - 
3. When the defendant has commenced some building, or~some other works, on a real estate, the ownership or possession of7 
which is contested by the plaintifff, or pretends that such building
or works would be injurious to his interest ; 
4. When the defendant opposes the execution of works, neces­
sary for the repairs of public levees, dikes, roads, bridges, canals,
drains, and the like; 
5. When the defendant disturbs the plaintifff, in the actual 
and real possession, which such plaintifff has had for more than
one year, either of a real estate or of a real right, of which
he claims, either the ownership, the possession, or the enjoy­
ment; 
6. When a woman has sued her husband for a separation of
property, or for a separation from bed and property, and fears 
that he will, during the pendency of the suit, dispose to herJ£"
prejudice of the property, either held in community, or on~
which she has a privilege for her dotal rights; 
7. When the sheriff, in execution of a judgment, has seized
property not belonging to the defendant, and insists on selling the
same, disregarding the opposition of him who alleges that he is
the real owner, or is guilty of any other illegal act in the exe­ 
tion of his office ;
S. When the ownership of an estate, real or personal, is in 
dispute, and the plaintifff fears that the defendant, who is in pos­
session of such pt'operty, may take advantage of his possession 
to sell, or to dispose of such property in any other manner,
during the pendency of the suit;{a) 
9. In all cases to stay execution where the payment is alleged
to have been made after judgment rendered, where compensation
is pleaded against said judgment, or where the sheriff is proceeding on said execution contrary to some provision of law, upon the 
petitioner's making affidavit of the facts alleged in order to obtain
the injunction ; but no judgment or execution shall be enjoined 
on an allegation of compensation, set off, or subsequent payment,
except for the amount of such sum plead in compensation, set off 
or payment as aforesaid, as shall be established by the defendant
according to law. And that such judgment, for any surplus that 
rjlhL-may exist, shall and may be executed in all respects, as if no such
injunction had been granted ;{c) 
10. The parish judges of the different parishes of the state of 
&''Louisiana shall have the power, and it is hereby made their duty, 
to issue injunction in all cases within the jurisdiction of the district
court, whenever the judge thereof shall be resident out or absent 
/J>ufrom the parish in which such mandate may be prayed for; pro­ 
vided, that all the formalities now required by law be complied
with by the petitioner, and provided also, that said orders be made
returnable to the district courts, unless the parish court shall have 
jurisdiction of the case, there to be acted upon as is already pro­
vided for by law. 
11. The judge may grant an injunction, on the application of
any purchaser whose property is seized for the payment of the
price of a thing sold to him, whenever a suit has been instituted
against him for the said property.( f) ( l) 
12. The parish court of the parish of Orleans, shall issue in­ 
junctions when duly applied for, in all cases where the title to im­
movable property seized by the city marshal shall be in dispute. 
SEC. 299. The injunction may be directed against third persons not
parties to a suit, in the cases enumerated in the following articles: 
SEC. 300. The sheriff may be enjoined from paying to the plaintifff
the proceeds of the preperty seized, if a third person oppose such 
payment, alleging that he is en tit led to be paid out of such pro­
ceeds in preference to the plaintifff, having a previous hypotheca­
tion or privilege, or any other right by which he claims to be paid 
in preference to the plaintifff.
SEC. 301. The sheriff may be cnjoine<l from payi11g the claim of the 
plaintifff out of the proceeds of the sale of the property seized, if a
tl:ird person oppose such paympnt, alleging that tlie <lefondant had 
M other property to pay his debts, except that which had been
seized, and pray that the proceeds of the sale may be brought into 
court, to be distributed among all the creditors of the defendant,
according to the order of their respective privilege or hypothe­ 
cation.
SEC. 302. If one be in possession of property, of whatever nature it 
may be, whether the ,sJtme was placed in his hands as a deposit or
otherwise, and a third person claims the ownership of such pro­
perty by a suit, such1hird person may obtain an injunction directed
against the possessor of such property, prohibiting him from dis­
posing of the same, Etil the further order of the court. 
SEC. 303. Besides the cases above mentioned, courts of justice may 
grant injunctions in .all other cases, when it is necessary to pre­
serve the property indispute, during the pendency of the action,
and to prevent one of the parties during the continuance of the 
• suit, from dilapidating the same, or from doing some other act
injurious to the other party . 
SEC. 304. lo order to obtain an injunction, the party, or in case of
his absence, his agent or attorney, applying for the same, mus~
present a petition to that etfectto a competent judge, stating unde.., 
oath the facts which, according to his belief, render an injunction
necessary, annexing to his petition his obligation in favor of the
defendant, for such sum as the court may determine, after having
examined what injury the defendant may sustain from such injunc­
tion, and if the injunction be claimed on the ground of payment 
of the judgment, the judge shall require from the party claim_(~
iog it, a bond in· double the amount of the sum Alleged to 
.have been paid,(,,) with the surety of one good and solvent per-~~114~_:;­
son, residing within the jurisdiction of tbe court, to secure the~ff-,
payment of such damages as may have been sustained by the de-~~~
fendant, in case it should be decided that the injunction had been~
wrongfully obtained. Io case the oath is taken by the agent or
attorney, it shall be sufficient if the agent or attorney swear to the 
·best of his knowledge and belief. ( l)r~ 
SEC. 305. The clerk of the court which granted the injunction shall
deliver as many copies of the petition and of the injunction, as
there are parties against whom the same is directed, and the mode
of service shall be the same as in ordinary suits. 
SEC. 306. When an injunction has been obtained to prevent one
from disposing of a thing in dispute, or a husband from selling the
property belonging to the community, or his own property suhject
to the privilege of his wife, such injunction must be served, not
only on the defendant, but also on public notaries, or other public
officers performing notarial functions, if the plaintifff require it. 
SEC. 307. Whenever the act prohibited by the injunction is not such
as may work an irreparable injury to the plaintifff', the. court may,
in their discretion, dissolve the same ; provided the defendant exe­
cute his obligation in favor of the plaintifff, with the surety of one
good and solvent person residing within the jurisdiction of the
court, for such sum as the court may determine, according to the
nature of the case, as security that he "tYill deliver the property in
dispute in the same state in which it was at the moment of issuing
the injunction, and that he will pay besides to the plaintifff all
damages he may have sustained by.his act, if a definitive judgment 
be rendered against him in the suit pending.
SEC. 308. If one against whom the inju~tion is directed, violate the 
same or refuse to obey, the court may either cause to be destroyed
whatever may have been done in contravention to the injunction, 
if it be practicable, or they may punish him by an imprisonment
not exceeding ten days, but which may be repeatedly inflicted
until the party obeys the mandate of the court. The party
aggrieved hy the disobedience of such person, m=ty also recover 
from him such damages as he may show that he has sustained
from such disobedience. 
SEC. 309. The sheriff, whenever he receives an act of suretyship in 
any of the cases mentioned above, must immediately send the
same to the clerk of the court which gave the mandate, in order that
the plaintifff may have an opportunity of objecting to the sufficiency
of the security, in the manner provided as relate to the surety
given for the appearance of debtors.H] 
 
SEC. 310. If the defendant do not appear, either in person or by his
advocate, after the delay provided by law, the plaintifff may take 
a judgment by default against him.
SEC. 311. Such judgment may be obtained by moving for it in court, 
but it consists merely in a statement on the records of the court,
showing that the defendant has failed to appear. 
SEC. 312. If three days after this first judgment has been rendered
the defendant neither appear nor file his answer, a definitive judg­
ment will then be given for the plaintifff, provided he prove his de­
mand. This proof is required in all cases. 
SEC. 313. When from the nature of the demand damages are to be
assessed, the court will direct a jury to be summoned to find the
same, in the same manner as if the defendant had answered; and 
c,the court willjive Jheir Judgment in conformity with the verdict
of the jury. 
SEC. 314. If the defendant, on the verv day when a definitive Judg- 
 
ment by default was to have been rendered agmnst him, appear
and file his answer, the first judgment taken shall be set aside. 
SEC. 316. A judgment by default must express the ground on which
it was rendered, but it is sufficient to state in the final judgment
that the demand was proved, 

SEC. 316. When the defendant appears he may pray for further time
to answer, and the court may grant a delay, if necessary for the 
purposes of j ustice. 
SEC. 317. It shall be sufficient m all cases, except in the first judi- 
cial district, for a defendant to file his answer on the first day of 
the term • 
SEC. 318. In tl_ie delay given to the _defendant for answering,_ Su~day 
is included like other days; but m all cases where delay rs given, 
either to do something or to answer, neither the day of serving 
the notice, nor that on which the act is to be <lone, or the answer
med, are included. The exceptions to this rule are speciall)
provided, ~y law. 
SEC. 319. I he answer must be drawn m English and m French,
when the plaintifff speaks that language. as a mother tongue: il 
must express the name, surname, and residence of the defendant
as well as the name of the plaintifff"; and it must be free from all
abusive, defamatory, or impertinent expressions. 
It must conclude by praying that the demand of the plaintifff be
rejected, and that he be sentenced to pay the costs of the suit;
unless the defendant himself should incidental1y plead compensa­
tion or some other exception. 
SEC. 320. The defendant may refuse to answer to the merits, if he
has good ground for such refusal, as if the suit is brought by one
pretending to act as the attorney in fact of the plaintifff, and he fail
to annex to the petition a copy of his power of attorney, or by a
minor, without being assisted by his curator, or by a married 
woman, without the authorization of her husband or of the court. 
SEC. 321. In all the cases mentioned in the preceding articles, and
in all other cases of the like nature, if the defendant take any such
exceptions, and the same be sustained by the court, he shall not 
'9fe required to Answer to the merits, until the documents which
he calls for be produced, or until the plaintifff he assisted in such
a manner as to enable them to proceed regularly • 
SEC. 322. The defendant need not plead to the merits, if he decline
the jurisdiction of the court before which the suit is brought. 
SEC. 323. When the defendant answers to the merits, he is not
bound to answer specially to all the allegations contained in the 
petition; it is sufficient to deny, generally, all the facts stated, ex­
cept he be called upon either to acknowledge or to deny his signa- 
ture.
SEC. 324. When the demand is founded on an obligation, or an act 
under private signature, which is alleged to have been signed by
the defendant, such defendant shall be bound in his answer to 
acknowledge expressly or to deny his signature.
SEC. 325. If the defendant deny his signature in his answer, or con­ 
tend that the same has been counterfeited, the plaintifff must prove
"'"'-the genuineness of such signature, either by witnesses who have 
seen the defendant sign the act, or who declare that they know it 
:)0 be his signature, because they have frequently seen him write
and sign his name. But the proof by witnesses shall not exclude 
th~ proof by exp~~s, or by a comparison of the writing, as estabhshed by the CIVIi Code. /s:« 4t,2.a~Ar,Jt ~ ,~~"' L 'i.....J.Ar).. 
SEC. 326. The defendant, whose signature shall have beer( proved71!1':fter his having denied the same, shall be barred from every other 
defense, and judgment shall be given against him without further
proceedings. 
SEC. 327. The defendant though not bound to answer specially to all
the allegations of the plaintifff, except when called upon to avow or 
deny his signature, must, nevertheless, if he intend to resist the
action by means of some exception, plead the same expressly and 
positively in his answer, in all the cases hereafter prescribed, other­
wise he shall not be permitted to avail himself of such exceptions 
afterwards.
SEC. 328. The defendant in his answer may allege facts different 
from those alleged by the plaintifff, and bring an incidental demand,
when the same grows out of the action, or is specially permitted 
by law. .
SEC. 329. When the defendant in his answer alleges on his part 
new facts, these shall be considered as denied by the plaintifff,
thereforee, neither replication nor rejoinder shall be admitted. 
SEC. 330. Exceptions are means of defense, used by the defendant
to retard, prevent, or defeat the demand brought against him. But
the word defense, in its more testricted acceptation, is only ap­
plied to such exceptions as go to the merits, showing that the 
action is neither just nor well founded.
SEC. 331. There are two principal species of exceptions, some are 
dilatory, others peremptory. Dilatory exceptions are divided
into declinatory and dilatory exceptions.H] 
SEC. 332. Dilatory exceptions, are such as do not tend to defeat
the action, butonly to retard its progress; declinatory exceptions 
have this effect, as well as the exception of discussion opposed 
by a third possessor, or by a surety, in an hypothecary action; or~~~
the exception taken, in order to call in the warrantor. 
SEC. 333. It is a rule, which governs in all cases of exceptions, ex-/4'-'4U~
cept in such as relate to the absolute incompetency of the judge be-,Z, 
fore whom the suit is brought, that tliey must be pleaded specially
in limine litis, before issue joined; otherwise they shall not be ad- 
mined, Hereafter no dilatory exceptions shall be alJowed in any
case after a judgment by default has been taken, and in every case 
must be pleaded in limine lit!,S, nor shall such exceptions hereafter be admjtted in a. n_answer in any cause.

SEC. 334. Declinatory exceptions, do not tend to defeat the de-~
mand, but only to decline the jurisdiction of the judge before; 
/Pohom it is brought. In such cases, the defendant contends that
~~rhe is not bound to plead before the court in which the action has 
been brought. 
SEC. 335. There are two kmds of declmatory exceptions: 
1. When the exception is taken to the competency of the
ti-d.JU ge, pursuant tot e rues a ove prov1 e ;
2. When it arises from .the fact of another suit being pending, 
between the same parties, for the same object, and growing out of
the same cause of action, before another court of concurrent ju- 
risdiction. In both cases the suit must be dismissed, and the
plaintifff decreed to pay costs, 
SEC. 336. Declinatory exceptions may be pleaded in the defen­
dant's answer, previous to his answering to the merits; but ex­
cept as relate to declinatory exceptions, the. defendant must plead
in his answer all the dilatory or peremptory exceptions on which 
he intends to rely, or which he is bound to plead expressly
~ecially, pursuant to the provision~ of this Codc. 
 
SEC. 337. Recusation is the refusal on the part of the defendant to 
have his cause tried by the judge before whom he has been sued, 
on account of the ties of relationship existing between such judge
and the plaintifff, or for other just causes hereafter expressed. 
SEC. 338. The causes for whicli a judge may be recused are: 
1. His being interested in the cause ; 
2. His being in any way related. to one of the parties; c~ 
3. His having been employed, or consulted as advocate in the 
.. 
cause. 2) ,
SEC. 339. Affinity is not a good cause of recusation, except when 
the judge is the father-in-Jaw, son-in-law, or brother-in-law of
one of the parties. _ 
SEC. 340. The judge may recuse himself, but only in such c~es
"".here the parties themselves would have the right of recusmg 
ham. 
SEC. 341. The ecision o cases w ere t e JU ge is recuse , is pro- 
Jided for by special laws. 
SEC. 342. When there are in the same parish two courts of concur­
jurisdiction, and the judge of one of these is recused, such 
judge shall order the cause to be removed to the other court, to
be there tried and decided. 
anJ 
SEC. 343. Peremptory exceptions are those which tend to the dis­
missal of the action. Some relate to forms, others arise from the
law. 
SEC. 344. Peremptory exceptions relating to forms are those which
tend to have the cause dismissed, owing to some nullities in the
proceedings. Such exceptions must be pleaded in limine luis,
that is to say, at the beginning of the suit and before answering to
the merits. After the defendant has pleaded to the merits, such
exceptions shall not be heard; all nullities are cured. 
SEC. 345. Peremptory exceptions, founded on law, are those which
without going into the merits of the cause, show that the plaintifff#/' 
can not maintain his action, either because it is prescribed, or be-~
cause the cause of action has been destroyed or extinguished. 
SEC. 346. Peremptory exceptions, founded on law, may he pleade,I~,.-<"
m every stage o t e acuon, previous to l e e runve JUC gment;
but they must be pleaded specially, and sufficient time allowed toL,.
the adverse party to bring his evidence. 
SEC. 347. Both plaintifff and defendant are permitted to annex, f'itherJ4to their petition or their answer, interrogatories on facts and articles. 
SEC. 348. Interrogatories on facts and articles are questions put in
writing in the form of articles, and annexed to a petition or to an
answer, to which one of the parties to the suit prays that the other 
be ordered to respond under oath, in order to make use of his
answers as testimony in support of his demand, or to aid him in
his defense. 
SEC. 349. The party interrogated on facts and articles is bound to
answer on oath, and categorically, each of the questions put to
him, unless he cannot do so without confessing himself guilty of
some crime. Except in the above case, if the party interrogated 
refuse or neglect to answer on oath to all the questions put to him,
the facts concerning which he shall have so refused or neglected
to answer shall be taken for confessed.(n.) 
SEC. 350. To enable the defendant to obtain the answer of the
plaintifff to interrogatories, he shall subjoin to the interrogatories
proposed to be answered his affidavit of their materiality, and that
in his opinion the answer of the plaintifff would assist him in
making his defense, but the party interrogated may object in
writing to any of the questions, as not pertinent, and the judge
shall decide summarily whether he ought to answer or not; if 
ordered to answer, he must do it, otherwise the facts unanswered 
will be deemed confessed .
SEC. 351. The party propounding the interrogatories may require 
the party interrogated to answer in open court, and in his presence,.
on the <lay appointed to that effect by the judge, if the party inter­
rogated reside in the parish where the court holds its sittings. 
SEC. 352. ln all cases where a party interrogated resides out of the
parish where the suit is pending, and whether within or without the 
/~_,,_.state, it shall be his duty to file his answer to the interrogatories
propounded to him within such period as shall Le fixed by the
court, on the motion of the party interrogating, and notice of which 
~order, fixing the delay, together with a copy of the.iateT?Qg~tories
propounded, shall be served on the attorney representing the party
interrogated ; provided that when the party interrogated resides
out of the state, his answers shall be taken by commission. ( 1) 
SEC. 353. In answering a question the party must simply confess or
the fact. Nevertheless the party interrogated may state some 
facts tending to his defense; provided they he closely linked 
/•to the fact on which he has been questioned, and an appeal made
Y"'i:his conscience. His declaration in such a case shall have as 
much effect as his answer to the question itself.
SEC. 354.. The answers of the party interrogated are evidence, but 
do not exclude adverse testimony, and may be destroyed by the
oath of two witnesses, or of one single witness, corroborated by
strong circumstantial evidence or by written proof. 
SEC. 356. The party who sues for the recovery of a debt, or the ex­
ecution of an obligation arising from a written act, may be interrogated on the reality, or simulation of the act. 
SEC. 356. The party wishing to avail himself of the confessions 
made by the adverse party in his answer to an interrogatory on 
fucts and articles, must not divide them: they must be taken
entire. ( 1) s 
SEC. 357. The cause is at issue, when the defendant has answered', 
either by confessing or hy denying the facts set forth in the peti­
tion, or by pleading such dilatory or peremptory exceptions, as 
he is bound to plead in limine luis, pursuant to the provisions of 
this Code. 
SEC. 358. When the defendant pleads some declinatory exception,
without answering to the merits, there is no issue joined. 
SEC. 359. The joining of issue is in. fact the foundation of the suit, 
as citation is that of the action; it is only after this is done, that
the suit begins ; the parties are then in a situation to discover 
what evidence is necessary in support of their respective claims. 
SEC. 360. When the defendant suffers judgment hy default to be
taken against him, the issue is joined tacitly ; because such de- 
is presumed, by his silence, to have confessed the justice
of his adversary's demand ; thereforee the plaintifff is allowed to 
proceed with his proofs, in order to have the judgment con­
firmed. 
SEC. 361. If, after issue joined, either the plaintifff or defendant die; 
it is not necessary to recommence the action; it continues be­
tween the surviving party and the heirs of the one deceased, pur­
suant to the provisions enacted in the first part of this Code. ( l ). 
 
SEC. 362. The defendant, besides the exceptions which he can op­
pose to the action brought against him, may, on his part, insti­ 
tute demands incidental to the suit, either against the defendant,
or against third persona, not parties to the cause. 
SEC. 363. The incidental demands which the defendant may bring
are demands, 
In compensation ; 
In reconvention ; 
ln warranty.
SEC. 364. Third persons, not originally party to the suit, may in­ 
tervene in the same, and, like the defendant, institute demands 
incidental to the main action, either before judgment, or on exe­
cution ; and these demands are called the intervention and oppo­
sition of third persons. 
SEC. 365. The incidental demands must be made in writing, in the
same manner that the principal demand is made. 

SEC. 366. Compensation, or set off, is a moc.le of extinguishing
debts, which takes place when it happens that both plaintifff and
defendant are indebted to each other ; each retaining, in payment 
of the sum due to him, the amount which he owes to the other.
SEC. 367. The defendant may plead compensation, or set off, ata~~ 
every stage of the proceedings, provided it be pleaded spe-/,(/";;_l.
cialiy. • 
SEC. 368. Compensation may be pleaded, either in the answer toa-the principal demand, Or it may be claimed by a distinct and Se-~ 
parate demand. ·
SEC. 369. When the debt, which the defendant offers in compensa- 
tion of that which the plaintifff claims, is of a Iese amount than the
one demanded, compensation only takes place for that amount,4'./#L 
and judgment must be given in favor of the plaintifff for the surplus ; ·the defendant must pay the costs, unless he shows that he// 
has made a real tender of such overplus, at the time and in the
manner provided by law. 
SEC. 370. If, on the contrary, the two debts, as to capital and inter­
est, be equal, the judgmem. shall free both from their respective 
obligations, and direct the costs incurred prior to the pleading of
compensation, to he paid by the defendant, and those incurred
subsequently, to be borne by the plaintifff. 
SEC. 371. But, if the debt which the dcfendapt sets off in compen­
sation, exceed in amount that which the plaintifff claims, he may 
pray, in his answer, that the judgment be given in his favor for 
the balance; and if the compensation be just and equitable, the
judgment shall be so rerrdered.ie] 
SEC. 372. When the defendant opposes compensation, not in his
answer, but by instituting a separate demand before the same
court in which the suit is pending, the plaintifff shall be hound
answer in the cause, although he may have his domicil out of the
jurisdiction of such court; provided the compensation so opposed, 
be not of such nature, or amount, as to render such court incompetent. 
SEC. 373. If the defendant suffer judgment in the original suit, with­
out pleading such compensation as he may have to oppose, as pro­
vided above, he shall not, on that account, lose his right of action 
against the plaintifff to recover whatever amount such plaintifff owe&
to him; but he must bring his action before the court within whose
jurisdiction the plaintifff has his domicil. 
SEC. 375. The demand, which the defendant institutes, in conse­
quence c,f that which the plaintifff has brought against him, is
t-ermed a demand in recom·ention.(a.) 
SEC. 376. In order to entitle the defendant to institute a demand in
reconvention, it is requisite that such demand, though different
from the main action, be, nevertheless, necessarily connected
with, and incidental to the same ; as, for instance, the demand in­
stituted by the possessor in good faith against him who sues in 
order to evict him, or for the purpose of obtaining· the payment
of the improvements made on the premises. But when the
plaintifff resides out of the state, or in the state, but in a different
parish from the defendant, said defendant may institute a demand
in reconvention against him for any cause, although such demand
be not necessarily connected with, or incidental to the main cause 
Jt,of action. 
SEC. 376. If the demand instituted by the defendant be one, in its
nature, independent from the action brought by the plaintifff, it 
shall be considered as a principal, not a reconventional demand,
and must be brought at the domicil of the plaintifff. 
SEC. 377. In all cases of reconvention, _the defendant may plead it,
either as an exception, in his answer to the principal demand, or 
~stitute a distinct and separate demand before the court in which
~he main action is pending ; and the original plaintifff shall ~ 
J;t~1-"'"bound to answer, without pleading to the jurisdiction of the court,
even if he has his domicil elsewhere; provided the court be com-, 
peteat.
SEC. 378. The obligation which one contracts to defend another in
some action which may he instituted against him, is termed war­
ranty. The one who has contracted this obligation is called the
warrantor. 
SEC. 379. Warranty may be of two kinds, real or personal.
Real warranty is that which arises in real or hypethecated ac­ 
tions, as when a purchaser is sued in eviction of an immovable
property which has been sold to him. 
Personal warranty is that which takes place in personal actions ;
it arises from the obligation which one has contracted to pay the
whole or a part of a debt due by another to a third person. 
SEC. 380. When one is sued in eviction of an immovable property
sold to him, or for the payment of a debt which another person
had promised to pay on his account to the plaintifff, ho shall be
entitled to a delay, in order to have bis warrantor made a party to 
the suit, as provided in the following article. ·
SEC. 381. The delay granted to call the warrantor, must be the 
same as that given to such warrantor to answer to the demand in­ 
stiiuted against him, according to the distance of his domicil from
the place where the court is held, in which the main action i&
pemling. . , 
SEC. 382. The defendant wishing to call one in warranty, may, i11
his answer, pray the court to decree against his war,antor the same 
judgment which may be rendered against him on the principal
action, such prayer will be considered as a demasd in warranty. 
SEC. 383. The clerk of the court in which the defendant has in his
answer called one in warranty, must make out a copy of such an­
S\"Ur, and issue a citation, both of which shall be served on the
warrantor, who shall be allowed for answering the same delay as
in ordinary suits; and he shall address the same tQ _ihe sheriff of
the parish in which the warrantor resides, in order that it be noti­
fied to him in t1- same manner as is directed iA ordinary suits. 
SEC. 384. The warrantor thus cited, is bound to appear before the
court in which the principal demand has been instituted, even
when he resides out of its jurisdiction, in order to defend the suit
for the defendant; be may plead every exception· in defending the
cause which the defendant himself might have pleaded, even such
as are personal to such defendant. 
SEC. 385. If the defendant is cast in the action, the judge, when he
gives judgment against such defendant, must render, at the same
time a judgment in favor of the defendant against his warrantor, 
for whatever indemnity may be due to such defendant, as well as
for all the loss and damage he may have sustained by reason of the 
action. 
SEC. 386. The judgment so rendered shall be executory on the part
of the plaintifff against the defendant, and on the part of the defen­ 
dant. against his warrantor.
SEC. 387. If one called in warranty has himself a warrantor who is 
bound to defend him, he may also in his answer P.ray that his war­
rantor be cited to appear to the suit ; he shall be entitled, in order 
lo do so, to the same <lelay granted to the defendant for calling his
warrantor; the same rule shall govern, if there be a greater num­
ber of warrantors. In such cases the proceedings shall be carried 
on, and the judgment rendered and executed in the manner pro­
vided in the preceding articles. 
SEC. 388. The defendant, though he has not called his warrantor to
defend the suit brought against him, does not lose on that account 
his action in warranty, unless the warrantor prove that he had
means for· defeating the action, which were not used, owing to the
defendant having failed to call him in warranty, or having neg·
lected to apprise him of the suit having been brought. 
SEC. 389. An interv~ntion or interp_leader, is a demand by _which .a
third person requires to be permitted to become a party m a suit 
between other persons; either by joining the plaintifff in claiming;:
the same thing, or something connected with it, or by uniting with~/~
the defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff; or it may bt!'~ 
lawful for him where his interest requires it, to oppose both.
SEC. 390. In order to be entitled to intervene, it is enough to have'r--7 
an interest in the success of either of the parties to the suit.
SEC. 391. One may intervene, either before or after issue has been-"' 
. joined in the cause ; provided the intervention do not retard the
principal suit: the person intervening must be always ready to,/~~
plead, or to exhibit his testimony; because he has always his~~ 
remedy by a separate action to vindicate his rights.
SEC. 392. The plaintifff in intervention must institute his demand 
before the court in which the principal action has been brought; 
being considered as plaintifff, he must follow the jurisdiction of the
defendant. 
SEC. 393. The intervention must be formed by a petition addressed
to the court before which the principal demand has heen brought ; 
it must set forth the grounds on which the cause is supported.
This petition must be served on the party against which it is di­
rected, in order that he may answer to the same in the delay given
in ordinarv suits. 
SEC. 394. The judge cannot refuse to admit an intervention; but he
must pronounce on its merits at the same time that he decides the
principal action; if the demand be not sustained, the per~on inter­
vening shall be decreed to p:iy the incidental costs.Ll ) 
SEC. 396. TIJis opposition is a demand brought by a third person
not originally a party in the suit, fur the purpose of arresting the
execution of an order of seizure, or judgment rendered in such
suit, or U> regulate the effect of such seizure, in what relates to 
him. J l'//o ''f'· 1/J. ~ R /» J 'l s 1.11
SEC. 396. Such opposition may talfo place in two cases : · 
. l . When the third person making the opposition, pretends to
he the owner of the thing which has been seized ; ~ ,l' J/1. /Jtf. 
2. ,vhen he contends that he has a privilege on the proceeds
of the thing seized and sold. 
SEC. 397. This opposition must bP- made hefore the court which has
granted the order of"'seizure, or the judgment in virtue of which 
.1.:..the provisional seizure has been effecte<l.(,:)l'!t l ':7 
SEC. 398. If the opp.osition has for it" object t? set aside the. order
of seizure, as having been effected on property not belongmg_ to 
the party against whom the order was directed, but owned on the
~contrary by the third person making the opposition, it must bef~
l«~.::_.done by means of a petition, which, together with a citation, must~~'-,,.. 
he served on the party making the seizure, as in ordinary suits
hut such opposition shall be considered as a separate demand, dis
tinct from the suit in which the order was ~ranted.
SEC. 399. The court may, nevertheless, at the request of the thir<l~ 
opponent, enjoin the sheriff not to proceed to the sale of the pro,.
perty thus claimed; provided such third person ~ive security to~ 
the plaintifff for such an amount as the court shall determine, to/~e:.e..-.u,
be responsible for all damages which said plaintifff may sustain,
should the opposition be wrongfully made. f /2 6Y 
SEC. 400. If the third person, who has intervened in the suit, has
not enjoined the sale of the property of which he claims the own­
ership, or has failed to furnish the security required, his opposition
shall not prevent the sheriff from selling the property under sei­
zure ; but, in such case, the sheriff shall be personally respon­
sible for all damages which said sale may occasion to the interven­
ing party ; and the sheriff shall have his recourse against the party
who has obtained the order of seizure. If the opposition be sus­
tained, the sale made by the sheriff shall be nulJ. 
SEC. 401. If, on the contrary, the opposition be made on the ground
~at the third opponent has n privilege which entitles him to be 
paid, in preference to the party making the seizure, out of the pro·
of the sale of the property seized; as when there are seve­ 
#-Jral seizures or conflicting claims, on the same property; such op~sition may be made by motion, of which due notice must be 
~given, both to the pa_rty who bas made the seizure, and to the
-...:,~eriff; and the court, without requiring any security from the 
~'ird opponent, shall direct the sheriff to retain in his hands, sub­
~7.,d4ject to their further order, the proceeds of the sale.(!,) ,•/ 
SEC. 402. If the third person has, either a privilege of a higher class
that of the party who has made the seizure, or a special hy­ 
pothecation duly registered, anterior to that of suchparty ; in such
case, the third opponent shall be paid. for the amount of his claim, 
~ogether with the interest and costs; and the plaintifff in the cause
shall be entitled only to receive the surplus, if there be any. 
SEC. 403. If, on the contrary, the third person intervening has only
a general or legal hypothecation on the property seized, the plain- 
ti1F in the original suit shall be paid in preference, if he prove that 
the_ defendant ~as other prope~ty of sufficient val~e, to satisfy the
claim of the third opponent; m such case, the third person mter- 
vening shall be condemned to pay the costs.  
. 
SEC. 404. When the defendant confesses that he owes the whole or 
a part, either of the debt, or of the property demanded of him,
and the plaintifff refuses to receive what such defendant acknow­
ledges that he owes him, such defendant may make a real tender 
of the same to such plaintifff, either after the issue has been joined,
or even previous to any judicial proceeding having· been instituted
against him. • 
SEC. 405. It is necessary to distinguish such real tenders, which are
made for a debt for money due, from those which have for their
object, the obligation of delivering a thing certain and specific, or 
a quantity of any particular thing, or immovable property. 
SEC. 406. A real tender must be made in the place agreed upon for
the payment; or if there be no special agreement as to the place
of payment, it must be made either to the creditor himself, or at
his dwelling, or at the domicil chosen for the execution of the
agreement. 
SEC. 407. When the tender is for money due, it must be made to
the creditor himself, or at his actual or chosen domicil, by· the
debtor, or by his agent, in the prfsence of two witnesses residing 
in the place, by tendering to such creditor the sum which is due 
to him, with the iaterest, and such costs as he ~ay have incurred,
and exhibiting such sum to him in the presence of such witnesses, 
in the current coin of the United States. The same formalities
must be observed in making a tender of any thing due, and con­
sisting of things certain, which the debtor can easily carry about 
with him. ' 
SEC. 408. If the debt be for a specific thing, or for a quantity of any
kind of movable property, which cannot be easily transported, or
which are to be delivered at a place designated in the contract,
or necessarily indicated by the nature of the obligation, the debtor
must give previous notice in writing to the creditor, that on such
a day and hour, he shall be at the place where the things to be
tendered are deposited, in order there to make a delivery of the 
same to him.
SEC. 409. After such notice, the debtor or his agent must, on the
day and at the hour appointed, be present at the place whero
the property to be delivered is deposited; and there, in the pre­
sence of two witnesses residing in the place, make a real tender 
of the same to the creditor by showing them, if he be present, and
designating them to him, and by offering to deliver the same to 
him immediately.
SEC. 410. If the object of the obligation, on the part of the debtor, 
be real property, a debt, or some other personal right which the
debtor has promised to sell, transfer, or convey, to the creditor,
such debtor must previously give written notice to the creditor, tB 
be and appear, 'on a certain day, and at a fixed hour, at the office 
of some public notary, or of serne officer exercising similar func­
tions, or at such other place as he may designate, in order there to
receive the sale, cession, transfer or conveyance, which he is 
ready to make to him, either of the real estate, debt, or personal
right which he had contracted to transfer to such creditor. When
the debt to be transferred consists in bank stock, the tender of the
same must be made at the bank whose stock is to be transferred. 
SEC. 411. After due notice having been given, the debtor must ap­
pear eith~r in person, or by his agent, at the place designated, 
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding article, and there, in
the presence of two witnesses, residing iu the place, offer. to. the
creditor, if he appear, to execute in his favor, in due form, either
the sale, conveyance, or transfer, which he had contracted to ex­ 
ecute.
SEC. 412. If the creditor ref use to accept the real- tender thus made 
to him, or do notatten<l, on the day.. hour, and at the place de·
signated to him by the debtor, to receive the delivery of the pro­
perty contracted to be sold, conveyed, or transferred, :1s pre­
scribed in the preceding articles, the debtor will have the option,
either to retain such property in his possession · until the creditor
demands the same judicially, or' to deposit them at the charge and, 
risk of such creditor.
SEC. 413. If the debtor determine to deposit the properly, it must 
be deposited, if it consists in specie, in some of the banks of the 
state, or in some of their branches; if in goods, merchandise, or
some other personal property, the same must be deposited in 
some store, warehouse, or other safe place, for the account of the
creditor. If the property consist in slaves, and the debtor appre­ 
hend their running away, he may have them committed to jail,
and employ them on public works for the account o( the cre­
ditor. The debtor must apprise the creditor, by a written notice,
of his having placed the property in deposit, and of the manner of
his having effected the same ; he shall be bound to gi\'e to Jhe
pre;;ervation of the property deposited, the same attention as he 
would give to that of his own property. The creditor· shall be
hound to reimburse all the expenses which he shall incur on ac­ 
r-ount of the said deposit, if the tender is decreed to have been
properly made. 
SEC. 414. After depositing the property as above prescribed, the 
debtor shall be entirely released, and should it perish, be spoiled,
or its value diminished," without any fault on the part of. the
debtor, the loss shall be on the account of the creditor, if the
tender be adjudged valid. 
SEC. 415. If, on the trial of a cause, it appear, that previous to the
suit having been instituted, the defendant had made a real tender,
in the form above prescribed, of the sum due, or of the property
demanded, the plaintifff shall be decreed to pay all the costs of
the suit and all the expenses incurred for the preservation of the
property, if the same has been deposited, and shall recover only
the sum or thing tendered to him, and such interest only as had 
accrued previous to bringing the action. 
SEC. 416. When the real tender has been made since the institution
of the suit by the plaintifff, though the property has been placed
in deposit as above.prescribed, the defendant shall, nevertheless,
although the tender be declared valid, be condemned to pay the
costs, and all the expenses which have been incurred up to the
date of such real tender; and t;Je plaintifff shall be bound to pay
only such costs as have arisen since his refusal to accept such real 
tender. ·
SEC. 417. Real tenders may be made at every stage of the suit, 
P.revious to the definitive judgment.
SEC. 418. All the other rules relative to real tender, provided by the 
Civil Code, not re-enacted in this section, and which are not con­
trary to the provisions above expressed, must be observed ; but
all the provisions of the other statutes relating to the same subject,
are hereby repealed. 
SEC. 419. After issue joined, the plaintifff may, with the leave of the
court, amend his original petition ; provided the amendment does 
not alter the substance of his demand, by making it different from
the one originally brought. 
SEC. 420. The defendant may also amend his answer, subject to the 
same rules, and add to it new exceptions; provided they he not of 
dilatory kind. After answering on the merits, dilatory ~xcep­
tions shall not be raised by way of amendment, unless with the 
drconsent of the plaintifff.
SEC. 421. When one of the parties has amended, either his petition 
or his answer, the other party has the right of answering the 
arnepdment ; but it m11St be done immediately, unless the amend­
,,Lment be of such nature as to induce the court to grant further 
time for answering the same.  
SEC. 422. When the parties have instituted against each other seve­ 
ral suits, either as principal, or incidental demands, hefore the same
tribunal, the court may, at the request of one of the parties, order
that the same be consolidated, if from their nature they may be 
compensated, in order that they may be all decided by one single
judgment.
SEC. 423. Consolidation of suits may he ordered whenever a demand
in warranty has been instituted before the same court, separately
from the main action, provided the two suits are ready for trial at
the same time. 
 
SEC. 424. When either the plaintifff or the defendant has witnesses!'-'£/~
whom he wishes to Le heard in support of his claims, be mus~
cause the testimony of such witnesses to be taken in writing, to be#~
read in evidence on the trial of the cause, pursuant to the rules o~I). 
the respective courts. fi 
SEC. 425. If the witness, whom either the plaintifff or defendant wish
to be heard, reside out of the parish in which the suit is pending, 
such plaintifff or defendant shall he entitled to obtain from the
judge before whom the cause is brought, or from the clerk of his 
court, a commission directed to any judge, or justice of the
peace, or to any other person authorized by law to administer 
oaths, of toe place where such witness resides, to take his deposition. . 
SEC. 426. The party wishing to take the deposition of a witness,
pursuant to the provision of the preceding article, must annex to
the commission which he has obtained to that effect, written inter­
rogatories, containing the questions to be put to the witness ; such
interrogatories, previous to being sent, must be submitted to the
adverse party, who may add to the .same whatever questions he
wishes, on his part, to have put to the witness. In all cases where
a party to a suit is required to submit the interrogatories to he put
to witnesses whose testimony is to be taken under commission, it
shall be the duty of the party submitting the same to have them
served on the adverse party, or his or their counsel, three days
previous to having them forwarded. • 
SEC. 427. If the ad verse party is not represented by an advocate on
..lk4record, defend himself his cause, or suffer a judgment by default 
to go against him, the party, on whose motion the commission has
been granted, must cause the interrogatories intended to be put to
the witness, to be notified to such party, in order that he may add. 
within tlft-ee days, if such party reside at the place where the court
is held, whatever other interrogatories he wishes to be put to the 
witness on his part.
SEC. 428. Whenever interrogatories in writing have been annexed to 
the said commissions and communicated either to the opposite party 
or .his counsel, it shall not be necessary to give a notice in writing
to the said party of the place and day where the depositions of the
said witnesses shall be taken, save to both parties, or either of them
the right of being present, if they think it proper, at the taking of
the said depositions, but without being permitted to add any fur­
ther questions to those contained in the aforesaid interrogatories,
except with the consent of the other party.  
SEC. 429. But when the adverse party, having no advocate on
record, resides neither at the place where the court is held, nor
in the parish where the deposition is to he taken, the mode of
giving notice to such party shall be by delivering to the clerk of
the court a copy of the interrogatories, to be by him stuck up in
his office. This rule shall govern in all cases where written
notice is required to be given to a party in a suit, who has no ad- 
vocate on record, and who does not reside at the place where the
court before which the cause is pending is held. 
SEC. 430. When the witness, whom either the plaintifff or defen­
dant wish to examine, reside in the parish where the cause is pend­
ing, but is old, infirm, or about to depart from the state, so that
the party having need of his testimony, fears that he may be de­
prived of the advantage he expects to derive from the same, such
party may, an motion, obtain, even before issue joined in the
suit, by swearing to the facts on which he relies in support of his
application, a commission from the court directing the deposition
of such witness to be taken by any judge or justice of the peace
of the place, after having given notice either to the adverse party
or to his advocate,. as above provided. A reasonable time must
be given to enable such party or his advocate to attend at the ex ..
amination. In this case, it is not required that the party who has
obtained a commission to examine witnesses should communicate
the written .i(!terrogatories to the adverse party or to his advocate. 
SEC. 431. The judge or justice of the peace, to whom commissions
for taking testimony are directed, shall cause such witnesses to be
summoned to appear before him, for the purpose of giving their 
testimony: such judge or justice of the peace may compel the
attendance of such witnesses, if they refuse to appear, in the same
manner as in causes pending before him. 
SEC. 432: When witnesses thus. summoned appear, the judge or jus­
tice to whom the commission has been directed, shall swear each 
of them to declare the truth on the questions put to them in the
cause : they shall reduce to writing the answer of such witnesses 
to the interrogatories annexed to the commission, or to the ques­ 
tions put to them by the parties or their advocates, if the same he
present, in the cases where it is not necessary that such questions
be put in writing. 
SEC. 433. After the depositions have been taken, as above directed,
the judge or justice of the peace, before whom they have been
taken. must cause the same to be signed by the witnesses, or in
case such witness cannot sign, have his mark affixed to the same,
in his presence. He shall then draw a verbal proces8 of the taking 
of such deposition, annex the same to the commission and inter­
rogatories, if there be any ; the whole most be· enclosed, sealed
and directed to the clerk of the court. 
SEC. 434. The party, on whose application such depositions have
been taken, must, before he can use the same as .evidence in the
cause, show that the adverse party has been served with a written
notice of the time and place designated for taking such depositions, 
as well as with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be put to 
the witnesses, in all cases where such notice is required, pursuant
to the. provisions above enacted. 
Commissions to take testimony may issue at any time after the
service .-of petition an<l citation, and whenever a commission to
take testimony shall have been returned, the party intending to use
the depositions taken under the same, may, on filing the same in
the clerk's office, file a notice or take a rule which must be served
on the opposite party or his counsel, to·show cause why the same
should not be used as evidence in the cause; whereupon the party
on whom the rule is taken shall be bound to urge a!'}y objectjons,
if any he have, to the admission in evidence of said depositions
founded on any irregularity in the execution of said commission,
and if he fail so to do before the cause is called up to trial in its
merits, all such objections shall he considered as waived ; provi­
ded, that no objections to the deposition, except such as are founded
on irregularity in executing the commission, shall he decided on
in such ru)e. (A-.f 
SEC. 435. But such proof shall not he required, if the judge or justice
by whom the depositions have been zaken, certify that he himself
notified the adverse party of the time and place fixed for taking
such depositions before him. · 
SEC. 436. When the witness intended to be examined lives out of
the state, it shall b~ sufficient for the party who wishes to obtain a 
commission, to apply for the same to any judge having jurisdic­
tion of the cause, and swear to the materiality of the testimony 
he wishes to obtain. A copy of the affidavit must be
served on the adverse party or his a<lvocate. 
SEC. 437. Commissions to examine witnesses out of the state may
be directed to any judge, justice of the peace, magistrate or other 
:_,.person residing at the place where such witnesses Jive. It shall
l>e the dutv of the several courts of this state to receive the auesta- 
tion or ce~tificate of any American consul, general consul, vice
consul, or commercial a~ent residing in any foreign country, as 
legal evidence of the attributes and official station or authority of
any magistrate or other civil officer in such foreign country under
the laws thereof, and the attestation and seal of said consul, gen­
eral consul, or vice consul, or commercial agent, shall be full and
complete proof that it emanated from said consul, general consul,
or vice consul, or commercial agent, as the case may be. 
The governor of the state is hereby authorized to appoint one 
or more persons, of known integrity and learning, as commissien­
ers for each one of the states and territories of the union, who
shall reside therein, and whose duty it shall he to take depositions 
in virtue of any commission that may be directed to them by the
courts of this state. 
Said commissioners, in executing the aforesaid commissions,
shall conform in all respects to the legislation of this state, in re­ 
(erence thereto, and shall. sign every verbal process of depositions
taken by them, and affix thereto their seal of office, bearing the
impress of their name, official capacity, and the name of the state
or territory within the jurisdiction of which they shall be authorized
to act. 
All American ministers plenipotentiary, charges d'affaires, consuls general, consuls, viceconsuls, and commercial agents, in any
foreign country, are authorized to act as commissioners under this
act, and empowered to use their respective seals of office, instead
of the commissioner's seal herein before described.t o) 
Duplicate originals of the signature and seal of office of each
commissioner appointed in the different states or territories of the
union shall be deposited in the office of the secretary of state of 
Louisiana. ' 
SEC. 438. Such commissions must be accompanied with the inter:
rogatories, after the same have been duly communicated or notified
to the ad verge party or his advocate. If the adverse party reside
at the place where the depositions are to be taken, such party must
be notified of the same, in the manner provided relative to taking
the depoeitions of witnesses residing in the state. 
SEC. 439. In all cases where the courts grant commissions for taking
testimony, either out of the state or in another parish, they must 
fix a term for returning the same. In doing this, they must take
into consideration the distance and the existing mode of commu­
nication. 
SEC. 440. If one state under oath, in a petition to a competent court,
that he has reason to apprehend that a person named in the said 
petition, intends to institute a suit against him, for a cause of action
therein set forth ; and that he fears that, previous to the institution,
of such sqit, a witness, wlrose evidence is necessary to his defense, 
may die or depart; in such case, the court may direct the testimo­
ny of such witness to be taken, either before them, or before ~ny 
judge or justice of the peace whom they may appoint for that pur­
pose, after written notice having been duly served on the adverse
party, or if absent, by posting it up in the clerk's office, and the tes­
timony so taken shall be evidence on the trial, should the witness
examined be dead or ahsent. 
SEC. 441. Persons versed in the knowledge, either of a science, an
~1-£.art, or a profession, selected in order to give their opinion, on some 
point or question, on which the decision of a cause depends, are 
termed ezperu.
SEC. 442. Experts may be appointed, whenever the court deem them 
necessary, in order to obtain information, or at the request of both
parties to the suit. 
SEC. 443. In causes which require the investigation of long and intricate accounts, the court may appoint auditors to examine such
accounts, and who shall state the same in their report to the
court.(1e) 
SEC. 444. When both parties to a suit pray that their dispute may
be submitted to the decision of judicial arbitrators, to be mutually
appointed by such parties, the judge shall direct the cause to be
referred to such arbitrators as the parties have selected to decide
between them, either as arbitnuors or' as amicable compounders,
according as the parties may have determined in their submission;
which submission must be fully spread 011 the records of the court,
as the rule which must govern the arbitrators in rendering their
award  
SEC. 446. The court cannot, ex ojftcio, or at the request of only one
of the parties, refer a cause to the decision of arbitrators, without
the consent of the other party. 
SEC. 446. When either experts, auditors of accounts, or judicial ar­
bitrators are to be appointed, each party shall name one, and a
third shall be appointed by the court, to act as umpire, in case the 
two should not agree. 
If the parties, or either of them, neglect or refuge to appoint,
the judge shall name all three. If there be several plaintifffs or 
defendants, or other parties in the cause, all the parties having the
same interest shall name together one expert, auditor, or arbitra­ 
tor, as the case may be. 
SEC. 447. The parties may agree that only one expert, auditor, or
arbitrator, shall be appointed in the cause ; and if they agree in 
their choice, the court shall appoint the person, mutually desig­
nated by them, or in case they cannot agree in the ·ehoice, .norni­ 
nate one ex officio. 
SEC. 448. Experts, auditors, or judicial arbitrators, so nominated,
must be notified of their appointment by either of the parties, who 
shall deliver to them a copy of the order of the court. They 
must, at the request of such party, take an oath before any judge 
or justice of the peace, to perform faithfully their functions; this 
oath must be taken in writing, at the foot of the copy of the order
of the court. It must be annexed to the report which such ex­
perts, or auditors, shall make in the cause, or to the award which
such arbitrators may render. 
SEC. 449. Persons appointed as experts, auditors, or arbitrators, if
they refuse to act a!f such, must immediately nolify their refusal to 
the court, in order that their place may be filled by another ap- 
pointment, at the request of either of the parties. · 
SEC. 450. After experts, auditors, or judicial arbitrators have ac­
cepted their nomination, and taken the oath as above provided, 
they shall not be allowed to resign_ their appointment, without ad­
ducing for so doing, such cause as will be satisfactory to the court.
After the documents in the cause have been placed in their hands,
they shall, at the request of either of the parties, give to the adverse
party at least three days previous notice of the time and place at
which they intend to commence their proceedings, in order that 
such party may attead.
SEC. 461. The party wishing to produce witnesses before \be ex­ 
perts, auditors, or arbitrators, appointed as above prescribed, shall
obtain summons to that effect from the clerk of the court where 
the suit is pending; and if any witness, thus summoned, refuse to
obey the summons, he may be punished by the court, on motion
of the party complaining of his disobedience, in the same manner
as i.f he had refused to appear when summoned to attend at the
trial of a suit. 
SEC. 452. If experts, auditors, or judicial arbitrators, after having 
accepted the functions delegated to them by the court, fail to exe­
cute their mandate, within the delay fixed by the order of the court
nominating them, or -withiri the further delay which the court may 
grant, in case it has been found impossible to conclude the busi­
ness within the first delay, the court may sentence them to pay all
the costs which their neglect may have occasioned, and such dam­
age as the parties may have sustained from the same. 
SEC. 463. As soon as the experts, auditors of accounts, or judicial
arbitrators, have accomplished their mandate, they must draw
their report, or award, as the case may be, and direct the same to
the clerk of the court who nominated them, in order that either
of the parties may have the same homologated. 
SEC. 454. Such reports or awards, must be signeJ by the experts,
auditors, or arbitrators named ; and if any one of them refuse to
sign, that circumstance must be stated at the foot of the report or
award. 
SEC. 455. Auditors of accounts must make their report, by establish­
ing the respective accounts of the parties, with sufficient precision
and minuteness to enable the court to judge whether they acted
properly in rejecting or in allowing, the articles in the accounts. 
SEC. 456. After the experts, auditors, or arbitrators,. have sent their
report or award to the clerk of the court by which they were ap­
pointed, the party wishing to avail himself of the same, may, on
motion, call upon the adverse party to show cause within ten days 
after the notice of such motion shall have been served on him,
why such report or award should not be homologated.  
SEC. 457. The adverse party, after being thus notified, may, within
ten days, oppose the homologation, by delivering to the clerk a
written statement of the grounds on which his opposition rests. 
The court shall decide summarily on their merits.
SEC. 468. The court is not bound to follow the opinion of the ex­ 
perts in their decision. They may correct any error in the re­
ports of auditors of accounts, or they may, if they deem it neces­
sary, order another report to be made by the experts, or another
examination of accounts by the auditors.H]" 
SEC. 459. As regards the awards of arbitrators, the court may rec­
tify the errors they contain, even though the parties had ngreed
that such award should be made the judgment of the court, unless
the same have been rendered by amicable compounders. 
SEC. 460. But if, from the submission entered into by the parties, it
appears that they intended to give to the arbitrators power to act
as amicable compounders, the court cannot revise the award. It 
must be homologated as it stands, in order that it mty have the
effect of a definitive judgment. / J ~ f.,f. ~ ,"J.c-, fu~. 
SEC. 461. When the homologation of the report of experts or audi­
tors, or of the award of arbitrators, is opposed as above provided,
the parties may produce testimony, and even examine the experts,
auditors, or arbitrators, as to what passed before them. 
SEC. 462. Experts, auditors of accounts and arbitrators, named in
pursuance of the provisions enacted in this section, shall be enti­ 
tled to receive such compensation for their services as the court
may determine, according to the nature of the cause, aod such
compensation shall be included into the taxed costs, and shall be
paid by the party cast.  
SEC. 463. As soon as the answer has been filed in a suit, the clerk
shall set down the cause on the docket of the court, in order that 
it be called in its turn and a day fixed for its trial. Any suit pend·
ing in any court of this state in which tlu~ state is a party, shall 
have preference in the order of trial, over any other suit or suits
pending in said court.(a.) All cases which shall originate under
the provisions of the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, shall he
tried within the shortest delay, and in preference to all other cases
on the docket ; not, however, denying to either party sufficient
time to procure witnesses and evidence upon a proper showing ;
and either party may require the same to be tried by jury .(IJ) 
The mode of fixing- of causes for trial in.the district, parish and
commercial courts, sitting in New Orleans, shall be uniform, and
the judges of said courts shall no longer have the power to change
the manner of setting cases for trial. As soon as the issue is
joined, the clerk shall place the case on the issue docket: and in
every week the suits standing in this docket shall be called by the
clerk to he fixed for trial, when either ~-iarty m:iy direct the cause
to be fixed for trial ; a sufficient number of crises shall be
fixed at each calling to he tried clnring one week ; and il any case
fixed for a particular day is not tried for w.mt of time or for any
other reason not imputable to the plaintifff, it shall be called again
by preference at the next fixing of causes ; the exceptions, mo·
tions and snmm:1ry cases may be fixed in such manner as the judges
by their rules of court may establish; provided, that all witnesses
shall be examined in presence of the judge in open court, unless
their testimony is taken under commission or consent of parties:
nothing in this section shall be so construed as to interfere with the
right of heing fixed by preference now granted by law to certain
causes. 
It shall he the duty of the district judges to cause the suits in 
which juries may_ be prayed for, to be fixed for trial on the first 
days of each term of said courts, except criminal cases, and such
suits shall be tried, continued or disposed of, previous to the trial
of any case or cases in which no jury shall have been <le­ 
inanded.  
SEC. 464. When a cause is called, the party who has not been able to
pror,ure the necessary evidence, shall bP. entitled to a continuance,
on proving either that he has not had sufficient ti me to get his proof, 
or hus been prevented from doing so by some unforeseen cause
SEC. 465. Even on the dny fixed for the trial of the suit, a party may 
obtain a continuance, if one of the witnesses summoned in the
cause h:13 gone away, an.l the party, or in his absence, his agent
or attorney ,(1t) applym,i; for continuanoe, swear that he did not 
know that such witness intended to depart, or could not prevent 
his departure, and tlat his testimony is material for establishing
his claim, or for supporting his defense ; and if the affidavit he
made by the agent or attorney, it shall he sufficient for the agent
or attorney to swear to the best of hid knowledge and l>eliei:) 
SEC. 466. \Vhen one of the parties to a suit prays for continuance,
on account of the absence of one, or several of his witnesses, the
adverse party may require him to disclose, on oath, what facts he
intends to prO\'e by such wimesses ; and if such party admit that 
such witnesses would, if present, swear to such facts, the court
shall proceed to the trial, as if such witnesses had been examined. 
SEC. 467. The sickness of one of the witnesses summoned in the
cause, is not a sufficient cause of continuance, if such witness live
at the place, and is in a situation to answer interrogatories ; in
such case, the party insisting for trial may require that his depo­
sitions be taken by a justice of the peace, in. the presence of the
adverse party, or of his advocate; or d'fter having notified. him,()(" 
his advocate, to attend at the examination.
SEC. 468. The court have besides a. discretionary power to grant 
continuance, whenever the cause alleged hy the party applying for 
it appears sufficient to justify the same. 
SEC. 469. When the cause has been fixed for trial, each party shall
obtain from the clerk of the court where the cause is pending,
summons for the witnesses intended to be r,roduced, in order to
compel their atu-ndance on the day fixed for the trial ; and out of
the city of l\ew ( Jrleans, each party may obtain from file clerk of 
the court, summons for witnesses before the case has been fixed
for trial. 
SEC. 470. If on the day fixed for the trial, one of the parties has
neglected to have his witnesses summoned in the manner pre­ 
scribed in the preceding article, he cannot on that account obtain 
a continuance.tr)
SEC. 471. But if a witness, dnly summoned, do not appear, the 
party who has had him summoned, may, on showing, either that the 
summons was served on such witness, or that he could not he
found, have the suit continued, or the trial put off, until such wit­ 
ness has been attached and brought before the court.
SEC. 472. Every witness attending in obedience to a summons of 
the court, sh~1ll be entitled to receive one dollar for every twenty
miles which he has to travel in going to, and returning'from, the
place where the court is held, besides one dollar a day for every
day he shall be detained previous to giving his testimony in the
cause. Such costs shall be taxed with the taxed fees, to be paid 
by the· parry cast, provided the number of witnesses summoned in
a suit, by each of the parties, does not exceed six on each side.
Each of the parties must pay the witnesses summoned by them
respectively, beyond that number. 
 
SEC. 473. If one of the parties wish to obtain books, papers, or
other documents, in the possession of the adverse party, the court
shall order, on motion of the party applying for the same, that
such books, papers or documents be brought into court, and pro- 
duced on the day fixed for the trial of the cause. The order
must describe such books, papers, or ~ocuments. . 
SEC. 474. The same mies shall govern m cases where a third per--~
son, not a party to the snit, has in his possession any act, paper, 
documents, or books, material to the cause, which one of the par- 
ties wishes to have brought into court. But in such cases, the
order of court requiring the production of such paper:;, books, or
documents, must he served on the party who is called upon to 
produce the same, and a reasonable time allowed to enable such
party to search for, and bring the same into court. 
SEC. 475. If, in the course of the suit, either party discovers that
his interest require the introduction of titles and papers in the pos­
session of the adverse party, or of a third person, the court shall,
on application, order the production of -such hooks or papers.
Provided, however, that in no case shall a person be compelled
to produce papers that would subject him to a criminal prosecu­
tion under the penal laws of the state.
 
SEC. 476. On the day fixed for trial, the plaintifff shall open the
cause, and produce his witnesses, and the evidence in support of
his demand. 
SEC. 477. When the plaintifff has closed his evidence, the defendant
shall bring his witnesses, and produce the proof in support of his
defense; the plaintifff may then bring additional witnesses, or his 
former witnesses, to rebt~t the tesumony.· adduced by the defen_-,7,(.,
dant, or to lessen the weight of such testamony. 
SEC. 478. Previous to their being exam in~ the witnesses in a cause 
must be sworn, on the bible, in open court, andia the presence~ 
of the parties, to speak the truth, all the truth, and nothing but
the truth, in the testimony which they shall give in the cause.• 
SEC. 479. If the religious opinions of a witness are opposed to hi11 
taking an oath, his affirmation of the truth of his testimony shall 
suffice. 
SEC. 480. On the witness coming to be sworn, or to affirm, the party
who objects to such witness being examined, must state his ob­ 
jections previous to his having been sworn. 
SEC. 481. If the objections be sustained by the court, the witness
shall retire unheard ; if rejected, he shall be sworn and examined; 
but in either case, the party who complains of the decision of the 
court, may except to the same, and file his exception.,~ 
SEC. 482. If the witness be objected to on the ground of his having 
a direct or indirect interest in the event of the suit, the party
making the objections may examine such witness on oath, aa 
to the existence of such interest, and the witness must be sworn 
to answer the truth on the questions which shall be put to him on 
that head.
SEC. 483. The parties may likewise object to the introduction of 
documents, or other written proofs offered in evidence, when they 
contend· that the same ought not to be admitted as legal proof;
the court shall decide on such objections as with regard to the
admission of witnesses; but the parties may except to their de­
cision. 
SEC. 494. After all incidental questions shall have been decided, and
both parties have produced their respective evidence, the argu- 
ment commences; no witnesses then can be heard, nor proof introduced, except with the consent of all th~ parties. 
SEC. 486. The plaintifff shall speak first, the defendant shall follow;
and then the plaintifff shall reply; the defendant may speak again, 
if any new point of law has been raised by the plaintifff in reply, or~
he may comment on any new authority not cited at the opening of 
the cause ; the plaintifff may again reply and close. ,
SEC. 486. Advocates must plead their causes with propriety and 
decency; they must not indulge in personal · remarks against the
parties, nor lose sight of the respect due to the court, to the wit·
nesses, and to the jury; they should neither interrupt the one who 
speaks, nor indulge in idle digressions, having no bearing to the. 
cause. No client or other person shall be held to be liable or re­
sponsible for any slanderous or libelous words uttered by his attorney at law, but attorneys at law shall be liable and responsible
themselves for any slanderous or libelous words by them ut­
tered.
SEC. 487. ft one of the parties calls on the court to express an opinion on a point of law arising in the cause, such opinion may be 
excepted to.
SEC. 488. The party excepting to the opinion of the court, must draw 
bill of exception, in which the question of fact or of law, on
which such opinion has been demanded, shall be concisely set 
forth, as well as the grounds of the exception so taken.(~
SEC. 489. This bill of exception must be exhibited to the adverse 
party, who may object to any error in the statement therein con­
tained; it shall then be presented to the court, who, after correct­ 
it, if. erroneous, shall sign the same, and direct the clerk to file it
.i,imong the records of the suit. 
SEC. 490. After hearing the advocates on· both sides, the court may
immediately pronounce judgment, or take time to deliberate, pur­
suant to the provisions of special law. 
 
SEC. 491. The plaintifff may, in every stage of the suit, previous to
judgment being rendered, discontinue the suit, on paying the 
costs.
SEC. 492. After discontinuing the suit the plaintifff may bring the ac- 
tion anew ; provided he has paid the costs of the· first suit.
SEC. 493. The mode of selecting and summoning the ,jury is esta­
blished by special laws. 
SEC. 494. The plaintifff who wishes a jury must pray for the same,
either in his original petition, or by a supplemental petition which
must be presented before the suit be set for trial. 
SEC. 496. The defendant in order to avail himself of the same privi­
lege, must pray for a jury in his answer, or previous to the suit
being set down for trial. NevertheJess, if in his answer the defen­
dant have only declined the jurisdiction of the court, without an­
swering to the merits, he may, if the plea be overruled, pray for a
jury in bis answer to the merits. · 
SEC. 496. When a cause is to be tried by a jury, the name of each of
the jurymen summoned to try it shall be written separately on
tickets, which shall be put in a box destined for this purpose, from
which they shall be drawn by the clerk in the manner prescribed
in the following article. 
SEC. 497. As soon as not less than twenty jurymen shall be present
the court shall order the cause to be called, and the clerk shall
draw out of the box, one by one, the tickets on which · the
names of the jurymen have been written, and then he shall
form a list of them, in the order in which they shall have been 
drawn.
SEC. 498. The formality of drawing· the names of jurymen, as pre­ 
scribed in the preceding article, shall be repeated for each cause
to be tried, unless the parties shall consent to call the names of the
jurymen in any other manner they choose. 
SEC. 499. When the list of jurymen present shall have been formed
io the manner above specified, or when the parties shall have
agreed to call them in any other manner, the jurymen shall be
caJled three at a time to be sworn ; the parties must then make
their challenges to the court, if they have any cause therefore, either
to the array or to the polJ. 
SEC. 600. Challenges may be made to the array or to the polls.
SEC. 501. A challenge to the array may be made for any irregnlar- 
ity in the manner of summoning the jurymen, or of drawing their
names. 
SEC. 602. Challenges to the polls are divided into two kinds, one
founded on legal and sufficient reasons, another which depends on
the will of the parties without their being obliged to make known
their motives for so doing. 
SEC. 603. Challenges to the polls, the causes of which the parties
are bound to declare and prove, are those which are founded : 
1. Upon the juryman's filling some public employment which
exempts him from serving in this capacity ; 
2. Upon his not having the qualifications required by law ;
3. U pou bis being suspected of some partiality or favor for one 
of the parties ;
4. Upon his having been convicted of some crime or misde­ 
meanor, which legally renders him incapable of acting as a jury­
man. 
SEC. 604. The causes of challenge which have been mentioned ia
the preceding article, are to be understood in the sense, and under 
the modifications hereafter mentioned.
SEC. 606. A juryman may be challenged, or excuse himself, if he 
fills any public functions, which, by their nature, or the provisions
of law, exempt him from serving as a juryman. 
SEC. 606. A juryman may be challenged, because he does not pos­
sess the qualifications required by law. These qualifications are,
that the juryman must be a free white man, above the age of
twenty-one years; that he be a housekeeper, and that he have re­
sided at least one year in this state, and six months in the parish. 
SEC. 607. A juryman may be challenged, as suspected of partiality
in the cause : 
1. H he be a relation of, or allied to, one of the parties, or his
or her master, domestic, counsellor, attorney, agent, or partner; 
2. If he have an interest, direct, or indirect, in the cause;
3. If he have already served as juryman in the same suit;
4. If he have formed an opinion upon the cause before coming 
into court;
6. If he have received any bribe for giving his verdict. 
SEC. 608. A juryman may be challenged for crime by him commit­
ted, if he has been convicted of any crime deemed infamous by
the penal laws of this state. 
SEC. 609. The juryman, challenged for any one of the above men­
tioned causes, may be interrogated under oath, concerning the
truth of the facts alleged against him, and he must answer such
questions, touching the matter, provided that he do not expose
himself to injure his reputation, or accuse himself of some crime
or misdemeanor. 
SEC. 610. The judge shall pronounce upon the challenges to jury­ 
men, in the same manner u upon those made to witne11N ; and 
the puty who may think himself aggrieved by hi• decision, may.·
in like manner, take an exception to his opinion. 
SEC. 611. Besides the challenges, the causes of which the parties
must declare and prove as above, the plaintifff" and defendant have
each the right of challenging peremptorily four jurymen. 
SEC. 612. When there are many plaintifffs or defendants in a cause,
the parties who are equally interested, will be obliged to join, in
order to enjoy the right of challenging, which has been mentioned 
in the preceding article, so that there may be no more than four
jurymen peremptorily challenged, on ·each side. 
SEC. 613. If, on account o( the challenges, absence or licknesa of
some of the jurymen, or of any other legal excuse, the jury should
not be complete, the court shall order the sheriff to summon a
certain number of persons present, having the legal qualifications,
in order to complete it. 
SEC. 614. As soon as a juryman shall have been accepted by the
parties, or that the challenge made to him shall have been over­
ruled by the court, he shall take an oath that be will pronounce, in
a just and impartial manner, and to the best of his judgment, in
the case of such a one against such a one, (naming the title of the
cause) which is about to be submitted to him; and as soon as there
shall be twelve jurymen sworn, the court shall name from amo11gst
them, a foreman, who shall preside over them, and sign the verdiet which they may render. . 
SEC. 616. The case shall be pleaded before the jury, in the same man­
ner as before the court; and when the pleadings are finished, the 
judge shall charge the jury on the form of giving their verdict.
SEC. 616. In this charge the judge must limit himself to giving the 
jury a knowledge of the laws applicable to the cause submitted to
them and he shall abstain from saying any thing about the facts, or 
even recapitulating them so as to exercise any influence on their
decision, in this respect. 
SEC. 617. If, when the judge shall have finished his charge to the
~jury, one of the parties believes that the judge bas mistaken the 
law, which he has stated to the jury, or in the application which
he has made of it, he may require the judge to give his opinion in
writin~ tou.ching this matter, and on his refusal, he may take an 
exception, in the manner and form heretofore set forth.
SEC. 618. When the jury shall have retired into the room designated 
for this purpose, they shall deliberate under the direction of their
foreman, upon their verdict, and as soon as they shall have agreed
upon the manner of giving it, the foreman shall reduce the verdict
to writing and sign it, as it is hereafter mentioned, and give notice
to the court, if it be still in session, that the jury are ready to give
their verdict. 
SEC. 619. The verdict may be either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which the jury pronounce at the same time on
the fact and the law, either in favor of plaintifff or defendant.
A special verdict, is that by which the jury pronounces on the facts 
only, leaving to the court the right of giving judgment on these
facts and the law applicable to them. 
SEC. 620. The jury is always at liberty to give a general verdict, by
pronouncing on the law and on the fact in the case submitted to
them. Therefore, the law permitting either party to submit, spe­
cially, the facts in the case, to the jury, and so depriving them of
the right of giving a general verdict in the suit, is abrogated. 
SEC. 621. But should the jury think proper to render a special ver­
dict on the facts of the cause, those facts which the jury shall have
found, shall be considered as .true, and the judge shall render judg­
ment accordingly, saving the right of granting a new trial, if he
believe that the jury have given their verdict contrary to the evi­
dence. 
SEC. 622. The form of .a general verdict consists in the foreman endorsing on the back of the petition, those words, " verdict for the// 
plaintifff for so much, with interest," if it has been prayed for; or,
"verdict for the defendant," acordiog as the verdict is for plaintifff"
or defendant. 
SEC. 623. The jury bas nothing to do with the costs in a general ver­
dict, inasmuch as it is entirely reserved for the court to pronounce
on this subject, which is a consequence of its judgment. 
SEC. 624. When the verdict is special, the foreman must write on
the petition, or on a separate sheet of paper, and successively, the
different facts which they find in the cause. 
SEC. 525. Whether the verdict be general or special, the foreman
must sign it, mentioning his quality. 
SEC. 526. When the jury have returned into court, in order to give
in their verdict, the judge shall order the clerk to call the jurymen,
to ascertain that they are all present ; and if the jury be all present
the foreman shall hand the verdict to the judge, who shall order the
clerk to read it, in a loud and intelligible voice. 
SEC. 627. After the reading the verdict, he shall ask the jury if the
verdict has been agreed to, and if the foreman answer affirmatively,
he shall enter the verdict on the records of the court, unless one 
of the parties require that the jurors be called, and each of them
asked if he has agreed to the verdict, and if it appear that all the 
jurors have agreed to the verdict, the same shall be recorded.
SEC. 628. If on reading the verdict, it appear that there is some 
want of form as to the manner in which it has been drawn, it may
he corrected at the request of either of the parties, under the di rec ..  
tion of the court, either in their presence, or after the jury shall
have retired for that purpose, in which case it shall again be brought
into court after having been corrected, in order to be read and recorded, as above directed. 
SEC. 629. If the court· intend adjourning to the next day, previous
to the jury having brought in their verdict, they may authorize
them, after they have agreed on their verdict, to deliver the same
sealed to the clerk of the court, in order that it be read the follow- 
ing day at the opening of the court. In such case, the jury must
attend in court to be present at the reading of their verdict. 
SEC. 530. If pending the adjournment, some member of the jury
shall have fallen sick, so as to be unable to be present in court
when the verdict is read, the court may commission 'a justice of
the peace to take the declaration, on oath, of such juror as to the
maimer in which he voted, at the time the verdict was agreed to; 
unless the parties agree to dispense with his declaration.
SEC. 631. If a juror die during the adjournment, the court shaU ex­ 
amine, on oath, either the foreman or any other member of the
jury, in order to ascertain the manner in which the deceased voted
at the time the verdict was agreed to, and · the testimony of such
juror shall have the same effect as the declaration of the deceased
would have had were he alive. 
SEC. 532. The plaintifff, until the moment when the- jmry shell be
about to withdraw, is at liberty, on paying the costs, to discontinue
his suit; but if the plaintifff allow the jury to withdraw, before dis­
continuing his suit, the verdict shall be binding on him.(1} 
SEC. 533. Judgments in civil cases, are rendered by default or after
hearing the parties. a 
SEC. 634. Judgment by default is that which is given at the demand
of one only of the parties to the suit, whether he be plaintifff or de­ 
fendant.
SEC. 635. Judgment contradictorily rendered is that which has been 
given after the parties have been heard, either in support of their
claims or in their defense. 
SEC. 636. If after the cause has been set down on the docket for
trial, the plaintifff does not appear, either i~ person or by attorney
to plead his cause on the day fixed for trial, the defendant may
require that judgment of nonsuit be rendered against such plain­ 
p"~A-tiff with costs. But such judgment cannot be pleaded as res judi- 
cata, or in bar of another suit for the same cause of action, provided the plaintifff show that he has paid the costs of the first suit. 
SEC. 637. Another distinction of judgments is into interlocutory and
final. 
SEC. 538. Interlocutory judgments do not decide on the merits, they
are pronounced on preliminary matters, in the course of the pro­
ceedings. 
SEC. 639. Definitive or final judgments are such as decide all the
points in controversy between the parties. Definitive judgments
are such as have the force of res judicata.
SEC. 640. Courts give mandates or orders, which, though they are
not termed judgments, have nevertheless the same effect as judg­
ments; such are mandates of arrest and of seizure. 
SEC. 641. When a cause has been tried by a jury, and such jury
have given a general verdict, the court must give judgment pursu­
ant to the same within three days from the time when such verdict has .
been entered on the records, unless a new trial has been granted. 
SEC. 642. If it be a special verdict, the court shall have the same
time for deliberation before giving judgment as the law gives in
cues which are tried by the court. 
SEC. 643. All judgments must be read hy the judge in open court.
SEC. 644. AU judgments, whether interlocutory, final, or definitive, 
must be correctly entered on the records, with the date of the day
at which the same were rendered. The same rule must be ob­
served in relation to all orders or mandates given by the court, as
well as to all motions made by the parties pending the suit. 
SEC. 646. Definitive judgments, though entered on the docket of the
judgments of the court, shall not hereafter affect the property of
the person against whom such judgments have been rendered, all 
laws to the contrary notwithstanding. Such judgments -mnst be
recorded at the office of mortgages, in order to give the party a 
judicial mortgage, pursuant to the provisions of the law.
SEC. 646. The judge must sign all definitive or final judgmentsren- 
dered by him, but he shall not do so until three judicial days have~.'~
elapsed, to be computed from the day when such judgments were 
given.
SEC. 647. Judgments may be amended by the court until after having 
been signed, in order, .
1. To alter the phraseology of the judgment, but not its sub­ 
stance.
2. To correct errors of calculation, as for instance, if more have 
been given than was demanded, or if the party in favor of whom
the judgment was given, had been ordered to pay the costs. 
Except in the cases above provided, courts cannot alter their
judgments; but they may, ex-officio, direct a new trial in order to 
revise their judgments.
SEC. 648. A judgment, when once rendered, becomes the property
of him in wht>se favor it has been given ; and the judge cannot
alter the same, except in the mode provided by law. 
SEC. 649. In every case the costs sha11 be paid by the party cast,
except where compensation has been allowed, or real tenders
made, as heretofore provided by this Code.
SEC. 660. The same rule shall be observed, with regard to the party
cast, on incidental demands, whether they be dilatory or decli­
natory. 
SEC. 651. If the court have not decreed in their judgment that the
party cast should pay the costs, the same are nevertheless due to
the party in whose favor the judgment had been given ; and such
party shall be entitled to have the same taxed, on execution oC 
the judgment.
SEC. 652. The costs to be paid by the party cast include, not only 
the tdxed costs, but also all the expenses incurred in taking testi­
mony by commission, and the compensation allowed for their ser­
vices, to such experts, auditors, or judicial arbitrators, as may
have been appointed in the suit; also costs of copies. of nota­
rial acts, of judgments, and other copies of the records of other
public officers, necessary in the cause.  
SEC. 563. Interest shall not be allowed by the judgment, unless tfle
same has been expressly claimed, and then, on1y in cases in 
which the law permits such interest to be stipulated.
SEC. 664. In contracts which do not stipulate for the payment of ut­ 
terest, it is due from the time the debtor is put in defult for the
payment of the principal, and is to be calculated on whatsoever sum
shall be found hy the judgment to have been due at the time el 
the default.(a.)  
SEC. 666. All judgments rendered, except in the first judicial dis­
trict, shall be considered as having effect only from the last day of
the term, whatever may be the day on which they shall have been assigned. 
SEC. 666. Definitive judgments may he revised, set aside, or reversed: 
1. By a new trial;
2. By appeal ;
3. By action of nullity ; 
4. By rescission.
This last mode can only he exercised by minors, or persons 
who were absent when judgment was rendered against them. 
 
SEC. 667. The court may revise their judgment by granting a new
trial, in the cases hereafter provided. 
SEC. 668. The party who believes himself aggrieved by the judgment
given against him, may, within three judicial days after such judg- 
ment has. been rendered, pray for a new trial, which must be
granted, if there be good ground for the same.  
SEC. 659. The party demanding a new trial, must set forth the
,grounds on which he rests his demand, and the same must be filed, 
entered on the records of the court, and notified to the adverse
party, i_n order that he may answer within the delay prescribed for 
answenng.
SEC. 660. A new trial shall be granted, 
1. If the judgment appear clearly contrary to law and evidence.
2. If the party has discovered, since the trial, evidence import­ 
ant to the cause, which he could not with due diligence have ob­
tained before; 
3. If the cause has been tried by a jury, and it be shown that
the jury has been bribed, or has behaved improperly, so that im- 
partial justice has not been done in the cause. (~ 
SEC. 561. If a new tria] be prayed foron the ground of new evidence
having been discovered, or on account of bribery or misconduct 
of the jury, or of the adverse party, the party praying for the new
trial, must, on filing his motion, annex to the same, his affidavit 
the facts alleged in proof of the bribery, or misconduct of the jury,
or of his having discovered the evidence material to his suit, since~ 
the judgment was rendered, although he had used every effort an_d
diligence in his power to procure the necessary testimony. Thi8' 
affidavit mu1t be filed in the records, in order that the adverse/.~o~
party may have communication of the same. 
SEC. 562. It is not necessary that a party should make an affidavit,1~4-~
when the motion for a new trial is made on the ground that theni- 
judgment is contrary to ]aw and evidence.
SEC. 663. The court shall decide summarily on such applications. 
If a new trial be granted, the cause shall again be set on the
docket ; and on the new trial the parties shall not be precluded
from producing new proofs, on the ground of the same not having 
been offered on the first trial. 
SEC. 664. An appeal is the act by which one of the parties to a suit
has recourse to a superior tribunal, in order to have the judgment
of an inferior court corrected. 
SEC. 666. One may appeal from all final judgments rendered in
causes in which an appeal is given by law, whether such judg· 
ments have been rendered after bearing the parties or by default,
SEC. 666. One may likewise appeal from all interlocutory judgments, 
when such judgment may cause him an irreparable injury.
SEC. 667. The party, against whom judgment bas bee~ndered, 
cannot appeal: 4 .,,e 8,f ~ 4 ~ ~ / 9 ~ z:-,-.,(' ,.:,, 
1. If such judgment have been ~on~essed by ~im, or tf he haver'!
acquiesced to the same, by executing lt voluotanly; 
2. H he has sufFere.2. the rime prescribed by law for appealing;); 
to elapse. 
SEC. 668. An appeal lies from all judgments rendered by paris~~
courts, except those of New Orleans, J efFerson and Plaquemines~
on all suits where the amount demanded exceeds fifty dollars.(l~ 
SEC. 669. Such appeals must be carried before the district court~~/
within whose jurisdiction the parish, where the judgment was rendered, is included, or before the supreme court, if the district judg~~,£.
cannot sit on the trial of the appeal, for causes provided for by special laws. 

SEC. 670. An appeal lies from all judgments rendered by the dis-~~
trict courts of the state, and by the parish courts of New Orleans,
Jefferson and Plaquemines, on all suits where the amount, or ra- 
lue in dispute, exceeds three hundred dollars. Such appeals must
be carried before the supreme court of the state. l. ~., 
SEC. 671. The right of appeal is given, not only to those who were
parties to the cause in which a judgment has been rendered against
them, but also to third persons not parties to such suit, when
such third persons allege that they have been aggrieved by the
judgment. 
SEC. 572. Tutors, curators, and other persons charged with the
administration of another's estate, may appeal for the benefit of
the persons whose property they administer, if they deem an
appeal necessary. 
SEC. 573. Whoever intends to appeal must present a petition to that
effect to the court which has rendered the judgment hy which he 
believes to have been aggrieved, praying to be allowed to appeal
from such judgment, and offering to give such surety as the court
may direct, as hereafter provided. 
SEC. 574. The judge, in granting the appeal so demanded, shall state
at the foot of the petition of appeal, the amount of surety to be
given by the appellant, and the day on which the appeal shall be 
returned. 
SEC. 575. If the appeal have been taken within ten days, not including Sundays, after the judgment has been notified to the party'..1~~4t$
cast in the suit, it shall stay execution and all further proceedingsPL"~
until a definitive judgment be rendered on the appeal ; provided...?~~~
the appellant give his obligation with a good and solvent serurity,~-"'
residing within the jurisdiction of the court, in favor of the appellee,/8'~. 
for a sum exceeding by one half the amount fur which the
judgment was given, if the same lie for a specific sum, as surety 
r. f f I 
tor the payment o the amount o sue I judgment, in case the same
be affirmed by the court to which the appeal is taken.  _ 
SEC. 676. If the judgment decree the delivery of a slave or of some 
movable of a perishable nature, the court shall require surety to
an amount exceeding by one half the estimative value of such
slave or movable. 
SEC. 577. But if the judgment decree the delivery of real estatevnot
of a perishable nature, security shall only be required to an amount
exceeding by one half the estimative value of the revenue to be
derived from such real estate, pending the suit; and for such fur­
ther amount as the judge may determine as surety for any injury
or deterioration which may be. caused to the estate by the appellant
while in possession of the same. 
SEC. 678. If the appeal be taken after the ten days have expired, or
if the appellant fail to furnish the surety required in the preceding articles, such appeal shall not stay the execution of the judgment.
But in that case, no surety shall be required, except to such an
amount as the court m:iy determine as sufficient to secure the pay­
ment of the costs. 
SEC. 579. In the appeal bond it must be set forth in substance, that
it is gi,·en as surety that the appellant shall prosecute his appeal,
and that he shall satisfy whatever judgment may be rendered
against him, or that the same shall be satisfied by the proceeds of
the sale of his estate, real or personal, if he be cast in his appeal,
otherwise that the surety shall be liable in his place. ( l ) 
SEC. 580. Some judgments, however, are executed provisionally,
although an appeal has been taken from the same within the delay
prescribed, and the necessary surety given. Such judgments re­
late: 
1. To the nomination of tutors and curators of minors, of per­
sons absent or interdicted, and of vacant successions; 
2. To the appointment of syndics of creditors, when the court
orders that they shall administer provisionally.  
SEC. 581. When an appeal has been taken, and security given, as
directed by the court, the clerk shall deliver a copy of the petition
of appeal to the sheriff, to be served on the appellee, together with
a citation to appear before the court of appeal to answer within the
delay hereafter prescribed. 
SEC. 582. The aheriff shall serve the petition and citation on the/,,-4/
appellee, if he reside within the state, or his advocate, if be do not, 
by delivering a copy of the same to such appellee, or to his advocate, or by leaving it at the place of their usual domicil. 
SEC. 683. The appellee must be cited to appear before the court of
appeal at its next term, if there be sufficient time for doing so, 
after allowing the same delay which is granted to defendants in
ordinary sui~; and. if there be ~ot sufficien_t time to admi_t of th~~~ 
appel1ee havmg this delay, owmg to the distance from his domicil to the place where the court of appeal is held, he shall be cited~~
to appear before the same at the subsequent term. 
SEC. 684. The sheriff must make his return on the back of the peti-·
tion, stating how the same was notified to the appellee, in the same
manner as when a defendant is cited to appear before a court of
original jurisdiction, and deliver or transmit the same to the clerk
of the court or appeal, before the expiration of the term at which
the appellee has been cited to appear.Ie) 
SEC. 586. After the appeal has been allowed, and the surety given,
the clerk of the court from whose judgment the appeal is taken, 
make a transcript of all the proceedings, as well as of all
A'.'~·~documents filed in the suit, and annex to the same the petition of 
/"lWQppea], in order that the same may be delivered to the appellee
when demanded. 
SEC. 586. If the testimony produced in the cause have been taken
,(i1fin writing, and if the records contain alJ the evidence produced iR 
the suit, the judge shall certify, at the foot of the records, that they
~contain all the evidence adduced by the parties, otherwise he must 
make astatementoffacts, in the manner hereafter provide<l.
SEC. 687. The appellant must return the said petition of appeal and
the transcript of the proceedings into the court of appeal, on the 
return day thereof.
SEC. 688. If the ellant neglect to file in the appellate court the
copy of the rec rd and the accompanying papers, within the time
thus fixed, the appellee may employ one of the modes mentioned 
jp the. two following articles, either to have execution on the judg­
ment, or final judgment on the appeal.
SEC. 589. If the appellee prefers having execution on the judgment,
he may, within three days after the time allowed for the appellant
to file the record, obtain a certificate from the clerk of the appel­
late court, declaring that the record has not been brought up, and
on the production of this certificate in the lower court, it shall
award execution on the judgment, which then becomes irrevo­
cable. 
SEC. 690. If the appellee prefers to have judgment on the appeal,
he may obtain a copy of the record from the lower court, and
bring it up to the appellate court, and may pray for judgment, or
4>r the· dismissal of the appeal, in the same. manner as if the re­ 
cord had been brought up by the appellant.( 1) 
l 
SEC. 591. If t.he appeal have been duly returned on the return day,
e appcllee 'must appear within the delay above prescribed, and
e his answer praying that the judgment of the inferior court be 
affirmed, and the appellant decreed to pay the costs. 
SEC. 692. Nevenheless, if the appellee complain of some parts of
the judgment of the inferior court, he may, without appealing from
the same, pray it to be set aside in those points in which he be­
lieves that he is aggrieved.j l ) 
SEC. 593. No appeal will lie except as regards. mi non, after a year
has expired, to be computed from the day on which the final judg- 
):..ment was rendered, if the party claiming the same reside in the
~Y~"'7~state, and after two years, if he be absent therefrom. The delay, 
SEC. 594. From the moment when the citation of appeal is served
on the appellee, the appellant cannot withdraw his appeal, and
whether the appellee obtain the rejection of the appeal by produ­
cing the record from the court below, or prosecute execution on
the judgment appealed from, on the certificate of the clerk that the 
as relates to minors, must be computed from the day of their becoming of age.
record has not been brought up Ly the appellant, the appeal shall
be considered as abandoned, and the appellant shall not be after­ 
wards allowed to renew it. 
SEC. 595. But if the appellant wishes to withdraw his appeal before
he has cited the appellee, he may be allowed to do so, on motion
to the lower court ; and in such case, he may renew his appeal 
within the time herein above allowed.  
SEC. 596. In all cases of appeal to the supreme court or other tribu'nals in this state, if the judgment appealed from be affirmed, the 
plaintifff may on the return of the execution that no property has
been found, obtain a decree against the surety on the appeal bond 
for the amount of the judgment, on n.1otion, after ten days notice,
which motion shall be tried summarily 'and without the interven- 
tion of a jury, unless the said surety shall allege under oath that~
the signature to the bond, purporting to be his, is not genuin~, o,I".that the judgment has been satisfied. - 
SEC. 597. The rules provided in the preceding articles shall govern,0"+e~...z~
all appeals, whether the same be taken from judgments rendered~
by district courts, parish courts, or by the parish court of New~/~tt' 
Orleans. SEC. 598. Appeals taken from the. judgments of pari_sh courts, ex~ 
cept that of Orleans, shall be tried de nono, that is to say, thatt~.
each of the parties shall be allowed to produce new evidence, and~
to have their witnesses examined again. 
SEC. 599. Nevertheless, if the testimony given. before the parish
court be taken in writing, and has been sent with the records to 
the district court, the party in whose favor such testimony was
given; may use the same before the district court, without being
obliged to produce the witnesses in person. . 
SEC. 600. The rules of practice to be observed by the supreme
court are hereafter prescribed in a particular title, and the two
following articles. 
SEC. 601. Either party may require the clerk to take down the tes- 
timony in wnung, which shall serve as a statement of facts, if the
parties should not agree to one. 
SEC. 602. When the deposition of witnesses have not heeo taken in
writing in the inferior court, the party intending to appeal, or bis
advocate, must require the adverse party or his advocate, to draw,
jointly with him, a statement of the facts proved in the cause, and
this statement, thus drawn and signed, either by the parties or
their advocates, shall be annexed to the records, and a transcript
of the same transmitted to the supreme court. 
SEC. 603. If the adverse party, when required to do so, refuse to 
join in making out the statemen~ of facts, or if the parties cannot
agree as to the manner of drawmg the same, the court, at the re- 
GA1Jqnest of either, shall make such statement, according to their
reco1lection of the facts or from the notes they have taken of the 
evidence.Ie)  
SEC. 604. One may demand the nullity of a judgment, for any of
the causes provided in this section, even if no appeal have been
taken from the same, or if the delay for taking the same have ex­ 
pired.( b) 
SEC. 606. The causes for which the nullity of a definitive judgment
may be demanded, are twofold: those that are relative to the form
of proceeding, and those that appertain to the merits of the ques­
tion tried. 
SEC. 606. The vices of form for which a judgment can be annulled,
are the following: 
1. If a judgment has been rendered, even contradictorily,
against a person. dtsqualified by law from appearing in a suit, as a 
minor without the assistance of a curator, or tutor, or a married
~~man without the authorization of ~er husband or ~f the court; 
If the defendant, although qualified to appear m a cause,
have been condemned by default, without having been cited; 
3. When the judgment, though clothed with all the necessary
~~~"formalities, has, nevertheless, been given by a judge incompetent 
try the suit, either owing to the amount in dispute, or to the na­
1:,,--~ure of the cause; 
4. If the defendant has not been legally cited, and has not en­
tered appearance, joined issue, or had not a regular judgment by 
default taken against him ; .
SEC. 607. A definitive judgment may be annulled in all cases where 
~t appears that it has been obtained through fraud, or other ill practices on the part of the party in whose favor it was rendered ; a, 
if he had obtained the same by bribing the judge or the witnesses,
or by producing forged documents, or by denying having received
the payment of a sum, the receipt of which the defendant had lost
or could not find at the time, but has found since the rendering of
the judgment. 
SEC. 608. The nullity of a judgment may be demanded from the
same court, which has rendered the same, or from the court of
appeal before which the appeal from such judgment was taken,
pursuant to the provisions hereafter expressed. LL-1 
SEC. 609. The nullity can he demanded on the appeal, only while
the appeal is still pending, and )Vhen jhe nullity is apparent on 
the face of the records. ~ ____,,,,...~~r, · 
SEC. 610. The party praying for the nullity of a judgment, before
the court which has rendered the same, must bring his action by 
means of a petition ; and the adverse party mli15t be cited to ap­
pear, as in ordinary suits. 
SEC. 611. Though there has been no appeal within the delay pre­
scribed by law, the nullity of the judgment may yet be demanded
by means of an action, brought before the court which has ren­
dered the same, within the delay hereafter provided. 
SEC. 612. The nullity of a judgment rendered against a party with­
out his having been cited, or by an incompetent judge, even if all
the formalities of the law have been observed, may be demanded
at &Df time, unless the defendant were present in the parish, and
yet suffered the judgment to be executed without opposing the
same. The same rule shall govern, as regards a defebdant not 
qualified to appear in a suit where judgment has been given against
him, if he suffer the judgment to be executed against his pro­ 
perty, without opposing the same. 
SEC. 613. When a judgment has been obtained, through fraud on
the part of the plaintifff, or because the defendant had Jost or mis­
laid the receipt given to him by the plaiotifT; the action for annull­
ing such judgment must be brought within the year after the fraud
has been discovered, or the receipt found. ( i' ~2, , 
SEC. 614. A judgment may be reversed, if it has been rendered on
an attachment, obtained against a person absent, and who had no
knowledge of the action having been brought against him, if such 
person show that he was not indebted, either for the· whole or for 
part of the sum for which the judgment was obtained and bis pro­
perty sold. But this action shall be prescribed after two years
have elapsed from the date of the judgment. · 
SEC. 616. A judgment rendered against a minor may be rescinded, 
if such minor show either that his cause has not been well de­
fended, or that he has been aggrieved by such judgment. It shall
not, however, be taken or construed to imply the nullity of a judg­
ment rendered against the. minor where he has been regularly re­
presented in the suit according to law. .But that action shall
be prescribed, if four years have elapsed after the minor has ar­
rived to the age of majority; nor can it be brought by the curator,
or the tutor, during the minority of their ward. 
SEC. 616. The action for rescinding judgment, of whieh this section
treats, must be pursued by presenting !l pet.ition to the court, by 
which such judgment\vas rendered; and the adverse party must
he cited, as in ordinary suits.  
SEC. 617. The execution of judgments belongs. to the courts by.==--~ 
which the causes have been tried in the first instance, whet.her such
judgments have been affirmed or rev~ed on appeal.Ie] 11 e, 
SEC. 618. Therefore,. the court of ,-ppeal, whether it affirm or reverse the judgment, or whether it has rendered another definitive 
judgment in the cause, must send the same to the inferior court,~7'ri..1.
in order tha~ i~ may be executed. . . 
SEC. 619. This Judgment cannot even be executed, until it has been
recorded in the records oj. the inferior court which first had cog- 
nizance of the cause. ,·rt;· 
SEC. 620. This recording shall be directed to· be made, on motion
in open court, by the party wishing to make use of the judgment, 
but without any obligation on his part, to give previous notice to
the opposite party. . 
SEC. 621. It is also the duty of the party wishing to avail himself ofZ~;
the judgment, to follow up the execution of it, according to the/.._~/~ 
delays and forms hereafter provided. • •
SEC. 622. If the judgment has been rendered where no appeal lies, 
or on confession of one of the parties, the party wishing to makeU
use of it, may prosecute the execution immediately after the close~,.._...; 
of the term, excepting in the first district.
SEC. 623. If the judgment has been confirmed, or a new one ren- 
dered on t~e appeal, which pronounces <lefiniti~ely on the cause,
the execution may be prayed for, as soon as the Judgment has been 
recorded in the inferior court, to which the execution is remanded.
SEC. 624. Respecting · judgments subject to appeal, the party in 
whose favor one is rendered, can only proceed to the execution
after ten days, counting from the notification which he is obliged to 
make to the opposite party, if the latter has not appealed from the
judgment., within this interval, or if, having appealed, he has failed 
to furnish the security necessary to stop execution. 
SEC. 625. A party wishing for the execution of a judgment, which~
bas been rendered in his favor, may apply for this purpose to the
clerk of the court having cognizance of the case in the first in- 
stance, who shall deliver to hirv· an order of execution, according.&i.,;:I~
to the particulars of the judgment which has been pronounced, as 
is declared hereafter.
SEC. 626. This order must be in English and French, when the 
French language is the maternal tongue of the party cast, must
be sealed with the seal of the court, and signed by the clerk, who
shall direct it to the sheriff, with orders to execute it, according
its contents, or according to the directions of the judgment
which the writ may refer,· and to make his return to the court
the manner in which he shall have executed the writ. 
SEC. 627. In this case, and in all others where the sheriff is charged 
with the execution of an. order of the court, he must, on 'receiving
it, endorse on it the day of the week, month and year, on which it
is delivered to him. 
SEC. 628. Orders of execution are different, according to the nature
of the judgments to be executed; for these judgments may direct
that a thing shall be given, or a thing be done or omitted, or a sum
of money be paid, and this variety subjects the execution to dif­
ferent rules, which are explained in the two following sections. 
SEC. 629. It is for the court, whether appellate or inferior, which
has rendered the judgment, to take cognizance of the manner of
its execution, when the proper manner of executing it is to be
determined.  

SEC. 630. When the judgment directs one of the parties to deliver
an estate to the other, the clerk must issue a writ of possession, 
hy which the sheriff shall be enjoined to put him, in whose favor
the judgment was rendered, in possession of the estate and the
appurtenances belonging to it, according to the judgment. 
SEC. 631. This writ of possession shall be directed to the sheriff,
with a copy of the judgment, and even of the petition to which it
refers, if the party require it, to the end that the sheriff may not
be mistaken, concerning the nature of the estate and appurtenan­
ces of which he is to give the possession.<.,) 
SEC. 632. If three days after the sheriff shall have served a, copy of
this writ on the party who has been condemned to quit the es­
tate, he shall refuse to obey the order and to go off, the sheriff shall
proceed to put in full possession of the estate the party who has
obtained the judgment, and shall compel the other to depart, even
by breaking open the doors, if it be necessary, and by summoning
the poHe comitatus, if resistance be made. 
SEC. 633. The party against whom the judgment has been rendered,
shall be considered to have complied with it, by quitting the es­
tate, and leaving the other party free to take possession. 
SEC. 634. If the judgment should order the delivery of a slave or 
any specific object, the writ shall direct the sheriff, on the failure
of the debtor to deliver to him the slave or other specific object,
after three days service of a copy of the writ, to seize the slave or
other object wherever it may be found, and deliver it to the party
in whose favor the judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 636. If the party who has been condemned to deliver a slave
or other object, conceals it, or carries it out of the jurisdiction of
the court, so that the sheriff cannot seize it, the party in whose fa­
vor the judgment was rendered, shall have the choice either of in­
stituting an action for damages, or of compelling a specific execu­
tion of the judgment, by obtaining a sequestration of his other pro­
perty, until he has satisfied it, in the same manner as is practised
on judgments directing a specific performance, as is stated be­ 
low .  
 
SEC. 636. When the judgment orders, not the delivering, but the
doing or refraining from something specified in it, if the party con­
demned, on demand made by the sheriff shall comply with it, re­
fuses or neglects to do so, and this refusal or neglect appears by a
certificate of the sheriff, the party in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, may obtain, on motion, an order to distrain all the pro­
perty movable and immovable of the party who is in default, until
he shall have fully satisfied the judgment.  
SEC. 637. It is the duty of the sheriff, charged with the execution of
this order of distringas, to seize without delay the movable and im­
movable property of the party in default, and to receive the rents,
income and other profits, and to keep the whole subject to the
order of the court, until the order shall be revoked. 
SEC. 638. Nevertheless, the court may, from time to time, when the
nature of the case requires it, order that the sums arising from the in­
come thus collected, shall be paid to the party in whose favor the
judgment was rendered, if he demands it, and gives good and suf­ 
ficient security to refund the sums thus paid to him, when the judg­
ment of the court shall have been complied with, and he shall have
been paid the expenses and damages which may be allowed to
him, as provided in the following article. 
SEC. 639. The judge may quash the order of distringas, if it be pro­
ved to him that the party condemned has fully satisfied the judg­ 
ment, and has paid all the damages which he has the power of
granting to the other party. 
SEC. 640. As soon as the sheriff shall have executed the writs of
possession and order of distringas, which were directed to him, he
must return into the court which issued them, the originals of these
writs, with his return endorsed, stating the manner in which they
have been executed, and the particulars of the property distrained,
in case the order of distringas was issued.( 1) 
SEC. 641. When the judgment orders the payment of a sum of mo­
ney, the party in whose favor it is rendered, may apply to the clerk
and obtain from him a writ of fieri faclns against the property of
his debtor, which shall be made returnable in not less than thirty,
nor more than seventy days.  
SEC. 642. This writ is directed to the sheriff of the parish where the
property of the debtor· is situated, and orders him to seize the 
property, real and personal, rights and credits of the debtor, and
to sell them, to s'itisfy the judgment obtained against him. 
SEC. 643. As soon as the sheriff has received this writ, he must exe- 
cute rt wit rout any e ay, y seizing t ie property o t e e tor,
which he shall find in his parish, except such things .as are men­ 
tioned in the following article. 
SEC. 644 .• The sheriff cannot seize the linen and clothes belonging 
to the debtor or his wife, nor his bed, nor those of his family, norJ.r,;
his arms and military accoutrements, nor the tools and instruments~.~~
necessary. for the exercise of the trade or professon, by which he
gains a living, nor the rights of..1>ersonal servitudes, of use arfd~~ 
habitation, of usufruct to the estate of a minor child, nor the income of dotal property. /rd/ n~ ~· r<"°~ - 
SEC. 645. Nor can he seize the agricultural implements and working
cattle, nor the corn, fodder, hay, provisions and other supplies
necessary for carrying on the supply of the plantation to which
they are attached for the current year, separately from the land 
to which they are attached.
SEC. 646. With the exceptions mentioned in the two preceding arti- 
cles, and if the party prosecuting the execution of the judgment,
has no privilege or mortgage on the property of the debtor, the
sheriff must commence by seizing the movable property ; if there
be not movables, he may seize slaves, and if there be· no slaves, 
be may seize the immovables, unless the debtor point out himself to the sheriff what J>TOperty he wishes to have seized and sold
first: provided the property thus pointed out be situated in the
parish.(g} A, 
SEC. 647: But if the debtor has neither movable, nor slaves, nor~/?
immovable property, the sheriff may seize the rights and credits 
belong to him, and all sums of money which may be due
to him, in whatsoever right, unless it be for alimony or salaries of
office. 
SEC. 648. The debtor shall not have the right of pointing out to the·;;
sheriff the property which he wishes him to seize, when the ere: 
ditor who prosecutes the execution of the judgment has a privilege or mortgage on part of his property, for in this case the ere("../ 
ditor shall have a right to direct the seizure of such property as is
mortgaged to him, if he prefers it; but with respect to other pro- 
perty, not subject to his claims, he must conform to the directions";:,:
above given. 
SEC. 649. The debtor shall also lose the right of pointing out to the
.f'(sberitf the property to be seized, if he allows the sheriff to execute4-L,;-"-> 
t~e writ, a~d advertise for sale the goods seized, without exer-~/~~
cising the right. . 
SEC. 650. Nevertheless, the debtor whose land shall have been seized,~~
shall always be entitled to demand that a portion only, which he
shall designate, shall be sold, if that portion is sufficient to satisfy 
the judgment; but if it be insufficient, a sale of the other portions
shall he made. 
SEC. 651. The sheriff shall seize the property of the debtor to a suf­
ficient amount to discharge the judgment, as well as interests and
costs ; he may even seize something beyond this amount, to pay 
the interest which mav become due, and the estimated cost of
seizure and sale. ., · 
SEC. 652. Nevertheless, if the debtor is of opinion that the sheriff has
seized more property than could reasonably be thought necessary
to discharge the judgment and costs, he may, on application to
the judge who issued the writ, demand that an appraisernent be 
made of the property taken by the sheriff.
SEC. 653. The judge, on application, shall order that an appraise­ 
ment of the property seized be made by two competent persons,
whom he shall name and swear for that purpose, and if he shall
find, by the appraisement, that more property was taken than is
necessary to satisfy the judgment, as has been directed above, he
shall reduce the seizure to such an amount only as shall be suffi­ 
cient for this purpose ; but unless the application for the appraise·
ment of the property be made before the day of sale, it shall in no
case have effect to prevent the sale on the day fixed by the adver­ 
ment. 
SEC. 654. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, as soon as he shall have
executed the writ of .ficri facias, to give notice thereof in wri- . 
ting to the debtor, and to annex thereto a list of property seized,
which he shall deliver to him in person,. pr leave at his place of
ordinary residence. 
SEC. 655. Three days after this notice, the sheriff shall advertise the
sale of the property seized, in the manner and form directed in the
following paragraph. 
SEC. 656. When the sheriff seizes houses or lands, he must take at the
same time all the rents, issues and revenues, which this property 
may yield. When he seizes any real estate situated in the
parish of which he is sheriff, it shall be lawful for him to execute 
the process issued to him upon the whole tract of such real estate,
even if it extend into one or more adjoining parishes; provided the 
said sheriff shall give the legal notices of the sale of the property in
of the parishes into which it may extend, and provided that 
the deed of sale from the sheriff shall be recorded by him in each
of the said parishes. c. P ~ ~r7,· 
SEC. 657. Hit be land or a plantation which he has taken, unless the
same has be.en leased or rented, it shall remain sequestered in his 
-~ustody until the sale; consequently, he may appomt a keeper, or
an overseer to manage it, for whom he shall be responsible. 
SEC. 658. If it be a house which he has seized, it" also remains sequestered in his custody; he may receive the rent from those who 
occupy it; he may even lease it, provided it be not for a time beyond that appointed for the sale. 
SEC. 659. When the objects seized consist of money, movables, 
beasts or slaves, he should put them in a place of safety, under the 
penalty of being responsible for the loss or injury which they may
sustain through his fault or neglect. 
SEC. 660. Nevertheless, the sheriff cannot remove from lands or plan­
tations, the implements of agriculture, the cattle or slaves employed.
in cultivating or clearing them, but he may appoint a guardian or
overseer for their preservation. . 
SEC. 661. U ntil the sale, the sheriff is authorized to make such dis­
bu rsements as are necessary for their preservation, or even for
their cultivation and clearing, if the things seized consist of lands
or plantations. 
SEC. 662. The sheriff cannot lease or hire out the animals or slaves
he may have seized, unless he be authorized expressly by the court, 
with the consent of both the parties. 
SEC. 663. The debtor may, down to the moment of adjudication,
prevent the sale of the property taken, and obtain its release, by 
paying into the hands of the sheriff the amount of the judgment,
with interest and costs. 
SEC. 664. The sale of the property must be made by the sheriff at
the seat of justice for the parish where the seizure is made, and he
shall choose for the place of sale, the spot where it may have the 
greatest degree of publicity, except in the cases enumerated in the
following articles. 
SEC. 665. In the country, the sale may be made on the plantations
which are to be sold, if the debtor require it ; but in this case,
notice must be g-iven of the fact in the advertisements of sale. ' 
SEC. 666. Animals and utensils attached to plantations and manu­
factures, and such articles as cannot be easily removed, must be
sold on the spot where they are taken, on the day and hour appointed for this purpose by the sheriff. · 
All sheriff's and coroner's sales, except those mad• in the par­
ishes of Orleans and Jefferson, shall be advertised to take place,
and shall take place at the court-house, or at some other public
place in the vicinity of said court-house, on the first Saturday in
each month, commencing at eleven o'clock, after the expiration
of the time required by law for advertisement of such sales ; and
the said sheriff or coroner shall have the right to adjourn said sale
to the Monday following, and then from day to day, only in case
there shall not be time to conclude the same in one day; pro­
vided, however, nothing contained in this section shall deprive the
defendant of the privilege now enjoyed by him of having his plan­
tation and slaves, or either, when they are under seizure, offered
for sale at his domicil, upon his giving notice to the proper offi­
cers, within three days after notice of seizure. 
The defendant in execution, whose property has been seized;
shall have the right to retain such property in his own possession
from the time of such seizure, until the day of sale, on condition '
that said defendant shall execute his bond in favor of the plaintifff
in execution in eolulo, with one or more good and sufficient sure­
ties, domiciliated in the parish where said defendant may reside,
for an amount one half over and above the estimated value of the
property seized, conditioned for the faithful delivery of the property
seized at the time of sale, which bond shall be filed in the office
from which the writ issued within ten days after the date thereof:
and upon a forfeiture of said bond, which fact shall be made to
appear by the certificate of the officer charged with the execution
of the writ, the same shall have effect as a twelve month's
bond, and execution shall issue thereon on application of the plain­
tiff or his attorney, against all the parties t9 said bond. 
SEC. 667. Three days after the sheriff shall have ~i~en notice to
the debtor, of the property seized unless an Injunction issue
to prevent him, he must advertise the sale of such property 
at the day, place and hour, which he shall designate for that purpose in the manner hereinafter directed. 
SEC. 668. Every such sale must be announced by public advertisemerits, composed in En~lish and French, and affixed to the door 
of the church, if there be one, and to that of the court-house of
the parish where the seizure is made; in which advertisement shall
be inserted the title of the suit in which the writ is:;ued. 
SEC. 669. These advertisements must be inserted, moreover, three~
times in En,glish and French, to wit: in two ncw:-1papers for seiy"" 
zures which are made in the parish of Orleans, and in one news-~
paper only, for seizures which are made in the other parishes;_ 
where public paper:; are printed.
It shall no longer be the duty of the sheriffs, coroners or 
constables of the different parishes of the state, except the parish of
Orleans, to cause to be inserted in any newspaper the notices or
advertisements of sales to be made by them, unless the same shall
be required by the plaintifffs or the defendants, or their attorneys,
in which case it shall be done at the charge of the party re­ 
quiring the same ; and that a publication of such sale affixed at
the court-house door and at two other public places in the parish
shall be sufficient, any law or parts of law contrary to the intent
and meaning of this section being liereby repealed. 
Whenever a notice or advertisement of any sale not above pro­
vided for, or any monition, is required to be inserted in a news­
paper, the publisher thereof shall not be entitled to demand more
than at the rate of one hundred cents the hundred words for the
first insertion, and one-half of that sum for each subsequent inser­
tion of the same notice, advertisement or monition for the time
prescribed by law; and in the event of the refusal of the pub­ 
' lisher of a newspaper to publish at that rate, then the publication
may be made by the nearest publisher out of the parish. 
Whenever a notice or adver tisement of any sale required to
be inserted in a newspaper cannot be so inserted, on account of
the inability of the officer making the advertisement to procure its
insertion upon the terms and at the price mentioned in the prece­
ding section, then such notice or advertisement shall, in lieu of
such insertion, be affixed to the court-house door and at two other
public places in the parish in which said notice or advertisement
is now required to be affixed when inserted in a newspaper : Pro­
vided, however, thatthe officer making the sale shall, in his return
or proces verbal thereof, state his inability to procure an insertion
in the newspaper upon the terms aforesaid, and in lieu thereof has 
affixed the notice or advertisement as above directed, and in case 
of failure so to state he shall be personally liable for all damages
sustained by any person interested therein. 
\V hencver a monition cannot be inserted at the price and the
rate' in the preceding sections mentioned, then in lieu thereof such
insertion may be made in any newspaper published within sixty
miles of the place where the sale was made, and said publication
shall be sufficient so far as relates to the newspaper in which the
insertion is to be made: Provided, lunoeuer, that the judge shall
be satisfied by the oath of the party, or a competent witness, of the
reason why the publication is so made, and shall make mention
thereof in the decree or order homologating the sale.(dd) 
In public sales hereafter to be made by sheriffs, or other public
officers, and which are or may be required by law to be prece­
ded by advertisement, it shall be the duty of such sheriffs, or
other public officers in their process verbal, deed or act of sale,
to state the manner, time and place of making such advertise­
ments, which statement so required to be made, shall be held to
make proof of manner, time, and place of making said advertise­
ments, or any question that may grow out of the sale wherein
the same was made. 
When a question shall arise out of any public sale heretofore
made by the sheriff, or other public officer, end which sale was
required by law to he preceded by advertisements, the fact of
the sale being proven, it shall make prima facie evidence that the
required advertisements were regularly made. 
If any sheriff, or other public officer whose duty it may be to
advertise and make any public sale, shall fail to make the adver­
tisements required by law to be made, such sheriff, or other pub­
lic officer so failing 'to make the advertisements required by law,
shall be personally liable for all damages sustained by any person
interested therein, and which could flow from such a failure to ad­ 
vertise.
In all cases where it is required by law, that orders, notices, or 
advertisements of any kind, shall he inserted in public newspa­
pers, such publications and insertions shall be as valid when made
in supplements to newspapers, as if the same had been made in
the newspaper sheets.  
SEC. 670. The sale of movable effects can only be made ten <lays
after the first notice which has been given, and that of slaves, ships,
steamboats, and immovables, only thirty days after t~e same n?tice. 
SEC. 671. Two <lays before proceeding to the sale of the property
seized, if it consist of immovables, the sheriff shall summon the 
party whose effects are seized, by a written notice, delivered to
him in person, or left at his usual place of residence, to appear on
the day, place and hour which he shall mention to him, for the
purpose of naming an appraiser of the property to be thus sold. 
SEC. 672. If the party appear and name his appraiser, the creditor
shall have the right of naming the other, and if either the plaintifff
or defendant refuse to appoint an appraiser, he shall be appointed
by the sheriff, in the name of the plaintifff or defendant, who shall
have refused or neglected to make the appointment. 
SEC. 673. The appraisers thus named, shall, before proceeding to
make an appraisernent, take an oath before a judge or justice of~%..­ 
the peace, to make a just and true appraisemcnt of the property
seized, whether for cash, or for the time of credit designated by
the parties, as provided above. 
SEC. 674. If they cannot agree in their appraisement, they shall
name an umpire who shall also be sworn ; and if they cannot
agree on the choise of an umpire, the sheriff shall name one. 
SEC. 676. When the appraisers shall have been thus named and
sworn, they shall proceed together to appraise the property taken,
and after having reduced this appraisement to writing, and affixed
their signature or ordinary mark, they shall deliver it to the sheriff
to serve as a basis for the sale. 
SEC. 676. Slaves seized must' be appraised either by the head, or
by families, and' the other effects must be appraised with such 
minuteness that they may be sold together, or separately, to the
best advantage of the debtor, as he may: direct. 
SEC. 677. On the day and hour appointed for the sale, the sheriff or
his deputy shall repair to the place where it is to be made, and
shall proceed to cry the property taken, after having read, in an
audible voice the notice declaring the nature and description of it. 
SEC. 678. If they are slaves, lands, or other objects susceptible of
heing mortgaged, which are to be sold, the sheriff, after having
declared of what they consist, as directed in the preceding article,
shall also read in an audible voice, the certificate which he shall
have obtained for this purpose from the office of the register of
mortgages in the parish where the sale is made, to show whether
there exist any privileges or mortgages on the property offered 
for sale .
SEC. 679. When there exists a mortgage or privilege on the pro- 
perty put up fo~ sale, the sheriff shall .give notice,. before he ~~n:mences the crymg, that the property ts sold subject to all pm·1- 
lege and hypothecations, of whatsoever kind they may be, with
which the same is burthened, and with the condition that the pur­
chaser shall pay in his hands whatever portion of the price for
which the property shall be adjudicated, may exceed the amount 
of the privileges and special mortgages, to which such property
is subject. 
SEC. 680. These previous steps being taken, the sheriff shall pro­
ceed to the sale and adjudication of the property taken, and if the
price offered by the highest and last bidder, does nQt reach two­
thirds of the appraisement made on it, as directed above, then the
thing shall not be adjudged and the sale shall be postponed for
fifteen days, if it be immovable property, and ten days if movable,
counting from the fresh notice which shall be given by the sheriff,
in the manner hereafter direoted.I l] 
SEC. 681. The sheriff, on giving notice of the place, day and hour
of this new .. crying, must announce that it will be made at twelve
months credit, the purchaser being required to furnish good and
sufficient joint security, and special mortgage on the thing sold,
bearing interest from the day of the adjudication, at the same rate 
as that allowed by the jndg_~~~· ~ _ 
SEC. 682. At this second adjudication, the thing seized shall be ad­
judged to the highest and last bidder, for whatever it will bring, on 
twelve months credit, according to the terms mentioned in the
next preceding article. 
SEC. 683. But if there exist on the property any privileges or spe­ 
cial mortgage, in favor of other per·sons than the judgment creditor, and which are preferred to him, the sheriff shall announce 
that the purchaser shall be entitled to retain in his hands, out ol
'the price for which the property was adjudicated, the amount re- 
quired to satisfy the privileged debts and special hypothecations 
to which the prope11y sold was subject, but that he shall be hound 
to give his obligation ror the surplus of the purchase money' if 
there be any, and subscribe his obligation at twelve months credit,
with security, as is stated above. 
SEC. 684. Co~sequently if the price offered in this case by the
highest and last bidder, is not sufficient to discharge the privileges
and mortgages existing on th~ property, and which have a preference over. the judgment creditor, there shall be no adjudication,
and the sheriff shall proceed to seize other property of the debtor, 
if there be any.
SEC. 685. If the seizing creditor be a vendor, or has· any privilege 
. or special mortgage on the property seized and offered for sale,
which is anterior or entitled to a preference over other privileges 
or special mortgages existing on said property, he may, notwith­
standing what is contained in the preceding article, require that the
property be sold at any price to pay him, although the purchase
money be not sufficient to satisfy all the privileges or mortgages
with which such property is burthened. 
SEC. 686. When a seizing creditor has a privilege or special mort­
gage on the property seized, for a debt of which all the instalments
are not yet due, he may demand that the property be sold for the
whole of the debt, provided it be on such terms of credit as are
granted to the debtor by the original contract for the payment of
such instalments as are not due. 
SEC. 687. When a property 'seized and sold is subject to any real
charge, as usufruct use, habitation, servitude or others, it is sold
with all these burthens, and the purchaser is bound to fulfil them
himself, or permit the enjoyment of them, over and above the 
price to be paid. ~
SEC. 688. The debtor may himself bid for his property seized and 
offered for sale, on the same terms as every other person. The
case is the same with regard to the judgment creditor. 
SEC. 689. If the person to whom the property has been adjudged,ii£9~
shall refuse to pay to the sheriff' the price of the adjudication, 01· 
to offer the proper sureties, when the sale has been made on eredit, the sheriff shall expose to sale anew the thing seized, and ad- 
judge it to another person. 
SEC. 690. The adjudication thus made, has of itself alone, the effect 
of trunsfering to the purchaser all the ri~hts and claims which the 
party in whose hands it was seized, might have had to the thing 
adj ud6ed.(.r) ( l j 
• 
SEC. 691. Within three days after the adjudication, the sheriff sha.ll 
pass an act of sale to the purchaser of the property or effects ad­
judged by him, in the manner and form hereafter directed. 
SEC. 692. This act of sale must be made by and in the name of the 
sheriff of the parish where the seizure was made, he signed by 
him in his official capacity, with a mention of the place, the day, 
the month, and the year in which it was passed. 
SEC. 693. This act must make mention,
1. Of the writ by virtue of which the object has been seized 
and sold ;
2. Of the title of the cause in which the writ has been issued ; 
3. Of the riames and surnames of the defendant, plaintifff and 
purchaser ; ·
4. Of the nature of the object sold, with a description of it, as 
well as of the price and conditions on which it has been adjudged; 
6. Of the manner in which the purchaser has paid the price, or 
bound himself to discharge it;
6. Of the amount of the privileges or mortgages with which the 
property adjudicated is encumbered, and which were made known
at the time of the adjudication ; 
7. And fimflly, of the special mortgage which he has given to
secure the payment of the price, where the sale has been made on 
a credit.
SEC. 641. The sheriff shall conclude this act, by selling and trans­ 
ferring to the purchaser, all the right which the former owner had
in the thing sold, pursuing the same forms as in ordinary sales. 
SEC. 695. This act of sale adds nothing to the force and effect of the 
adjqdication, hut is only intended to afford the proof of it. Con­ 
sequently, if the sheriff has omitted any of the formalities above 
prescribed, the adjudication shall not be void on that account, if it
otherwise appear that it was . made by virtue of a legal authority, 
and with all the forms requisite for its validity.
All sales of lands or slaves made hy any sheriff or other officer, 
by virtue of any execution shall be recorded as follows: where
lands, or other immovable property is to he affected, the record­
ing shall be in the parish where the lands or other immovable
estates shall be situated ; and when slaves are to be affected, then
in the parish where the party whose estate is to be affected shall
have his domicil ; and the office of the recorder of mortgages in
the parish of Orleans, and the office of the parish judge in the
other parishes in this state, shall. be, and are hereby declared to 
be proper recording offices within the meaning or this act; and
all sales aforesaid, which shall not be recorded agreeably to the
provisions of this act, shall be utterly null and void to all intents 
end purposes, except between the parties thereto.Iy) And all in­ 
formalities connected with, or growing out of any public sale made
by a sheriff, or other public officer, shall, after the lapse of five
years, from the time of making the same, be prescribed against by
those claiming under such sales, whether they be minors, married 
women, or persons interdicted. { 1)
SEC. 696. If this act of sale, includes a special mortgage to secure 
the payment of the price stipulated, the sheriff shall have it re­
corded, before sending it to the clerk, as is directed in the fol­ 
lowing article.
SEC. 697. 'fhe sheriff shall, within ten days at farthest from the ad­ 
jndication, deliver or direct to the clerk of the court which issued
writ offierifacias, the original of the act of sale which he has 
to the purchaser, for the object sold to him, whether on
credit, or for cash, and it shall be the duty of the clerk to record 
.'{,this act literally in a record to be kept by him for that purpose,
and to endorse on the original his certificate of the registry. 
SEC. 698. This act, thus recorded, and delivered tb the purchaser
..,shall be held to be full proof of what it contains, in all the courts 
of this state, in the same manner as an act before a notary would
be. From and after the passage· of this act, a copy of any sale 
deed of conveyance, heretofore made and executed, or which 
may hereafter be made and executed by any sheriff or any other 
person exercising and performing the duties of sheriff" in this state,
or by the city marshal of New Orleans, certified to be a correct
copy by the clerk or deputy clerk of the court in whose office such
sale or deed of conveyance is or may be recorded, shall be re­
ceived as evidence in the same manner and have the same effect in
every respect asa duly certified copy ofan authentic act; and if the
original of any such sale or deed of conveyance has been lost or
mislaid, without the same having been recorded in the office of the
parish judge of the parish ;n which such sale or deed of convey­
ance has been made and executed, then, a copy of the same, cer­
tified as aforesaid, being recorded in such office, shall have the
same effect in every respect, from the time the same shall be re·
corded, as if the original had been recorded: provided, however,
that the affidavit of any person interested, in having such sale or
deed of conveyance recorded, shall be deemed sufficient to esta·
blish that the same has been lost or· mislaid, and authorize the
recording of a copy of the same as aforesaid, and that the city
marshall of the city of New Orleans shall pass his deeds of convey­
ance in the same manner as the sheriffs of this state. 
SEC. 699. The sheriff shall set down in a book kept by him for the
purpose, an exact account of all sales made by him on seizures,
and in the account he shall make mention of the sale, the articles
sold, the name of the purchaser and of the price due or paid by
him. This book shall be open to the inspection of all persons
interested, who shall wish to examine it. 
SEC. 700. The sheriff who has made a seizure and sale, within thirty
days at the farthest, from that on which he received the writ, if be
has sold only movable effects, and within sevdnty days from the
same time, if they be slaves, ships, steamboats, or immovables that
he has sold, .if so long a time has been necessary to effect a sale,
shall deliver or direct to the clerk of the court the original of the 
. writ, on which he shall endorse a return, signed by himself, of the
manner in which he has executed it, as is directed hereafter.
However, the delay for making this return does not run, but is
suspended, if the judge enjoins the sheriff not to proceed in the
sale, so long as the injunction coatinues.  
SEC. 701. But if the sheriff has been able to sPII the property seized,
before the expiration of the time allowed him in the precerling article, he shall immediately after the sale, return to the clerk of
the court the original writ and his report as above directed. 
SEC. 702. In his return the sheriff shall specify the object seized and
sold and shall declare whether the sale was made for ready money
or on credit, who was the purchaser, at what price, and on what
conditions. 
SEC. 703. When the sale has been made on a credit of twelve 
months on account of the object sold not having been carried to 
two-thirds of its appraised value, at the first crying, the sheriff
must dispose of the bond with security, which he has caused to be
executed by the purchaser, in the manner directed in the following
paragraph.Ie] ( L) ~ 
SEC. 704. When the sheriff has sold for ready money, he shall on 
simple demand, pay to the judgment creditor, or his attorney, the 
sum coming- to him from the price of adjudication, unless the
court enjoins him not to make the payment; and if there remain a
!urplns, ~ner the suing creditor is paid, as well as the costs, the 
sheriff shall deliver such surplus to the debtor. .
SEC. 705. If the sale hns been made on a credit, either for the whole 
or a part, and payable in notes, hy vii'Pue of a permission to that
effect, granted 1,y. the parties, the sheriff shall take from the pur­
chaser separate notes for the portions respectively coming to them, 
and shall deliver the notes in the same manner as when the sale is
made for ready money  
SEC. 706. But when the property sold is subject to privileges or 
special rnortgnges in favor of other persons besides the suing ere- 
ditor, the sheriff shall require from the purchaser, and he shall be 
compelled to deliver to the creditor, whether the sale be made 
for ready money or on credit, only the surplus of price, beyond 
the amount of the privileges or special mortgages, if there Le any
P';!surplus. ( 1) 
SEC. 707. On the other ham), if the suing creditor himself has a p ri­
vilege or special mortgage which is preferable or anterior to other 
~~ortgages existing on the property sold, the sheriff shall require of 
kJJA-uehe purchaser the payment of the price, to the amount of the pri­
~ege or special mortgage of the seizing creditor, and the pure ha­ 
shall apply the surplus of the price, if there be any, to paying
the special mortgages P.Xi3~~g on the property, subsequent to that 
of the suing creditor. 7 /le t!S 
SEC. 708. 1.'he purchaser is bound for nothing beyond the price of 
his adjudication, and if, after paying the suing creditor, as directed
in the preceding article, there remains nothing more due, to dis­
charge the mortgages subsequent to that of the suing creditor, the
sheriff shall give him a release from these mortgages. 
SEC. 709. The hypothecary action lies against the purchaser of a
property seized, which is subject to privileges or mortgages in fa­
vor .of such creditors as have said privileges and mortgages, in
the same manner and under the same rules and restrictions as are
applicable to a third possessor of a mortgaged property. 
SEC. 710. If there exist a general mortgage on the property, result­
ing either from a legal or judicial mortgage, the purchaser cannot
avail himself of this mortgage, although it be duly recorded, to
retain part of the price for the purpose of paying it, or to refuse
paying the price, if that has not been already done, unless there
has been a suit commenced against him, in virtue of this general
mortgage, to make him quit the property, or unless he has just
reason to fear that such a step will be taken, in which case he may
retain the price, unless the suing creditor shall relieve him from
this disturbance, or give him proper security against it.~ 
SEC. 711. However, if the purchaser has been evicted from the thing
adjudged to him, on the ground that it belongs to another person
than the party in whose hands it was taken, he shall in that case
have his recourse for reimbursement against the seized debtor and
the seizing creditor ; but upon the judgment obtained jointly for
that purpo_se, the purchaser shall first take executioa against the
debtor, and upon the return of such execution, no property found,
then he shall be at liberty to take out execution against the ere- 
ditor. •
SEC. 712. The suing creditor shall be allowed his action ~o-ainst the 
party in execution, for the reimbursement of whatever he shall
have been thus obliged to pay to the purchaser, upon 'the return
of the execution, no property found belonging to the debtor. 
SEC. 713. On the other hand, if the purchaser i1:1 ob]ige<l to quit the
property sold to him, on the hypothecary action of the creditor
who had a legal or judicial mortgage, on a11 the property of the 
party in execution, or if he has paid the amount of such mortgage 
to avoid being dispossessed, he shall only have recourse to the 
party in execution, and not to the suing creditor.
SEC. 714. The purchaser shall even lose the redress granted by the 
two preceding articles, if an action is instituted against him, for
the purpose of evicting him, and he neglects to give notice of it
to the party from whom the property was seized, provided this
party possessed the means of repelling the demand, if informed
of its having been made. · 
SEC. 715. The purchaser, against whom a suit is commenced by a
creditor having a legal and judicial mortgage OB the property of
the debtor sued, may require the creditor to discuss the other pro­
perty which the debtor has in his possession, arid exen that which
he has alienated since the purchase, because the creditor who has
a general mortgage can only act against the property of which his
debtor has disposed, in the order in which the alienations have
been made, beginning at the most recent and ascending to the 
most ancient.
SEC. 716. When the sale has been made on twelve month's credit, 
by reason of the property not having been bid for at two-thirds of
the appraisement, if the whole price be coming to the judgment
creditor, including interest and costs, as provided for in the pre­
ceding paragraph, the sheriff shall require from the purchaser his
bond with security, for the benefit of the judgment creditor, and
shall, if required, deliver the bond to the latter, on his paying all
the eosts which are due. 
SEC. 717. But if there be several judgment creditors, or if a portion
of the purchase money is to be paid over to the debtor, the sheriff
shall take from the purchaser as many bonds as may be necessary
to deliver to each party his just portion, after deducting costs. 
SEC. 718. If the purchaser has bought a property suhject to privi­
leges or special mortgages, the sheriff can only require his bond
with security, for the surplus of price, after deducting the amount
of these privileges or special tnortgages. 
SEC. 719. If the purchaser who has given his bond with security, refuse or neglect to pay _it when due, together with the interest, the
clerk who first issued the order of seizure, shall, on the demand of
the judgment creditor, or any other person interested, and on the
bond being delivered to him, issue an execution for the amount,
both againsnhe purchaser and his surety, in the same manner as
on a final judgment; and this execution shall be directed to the
sheriff to he carried into effect. .... 
SEC. 720. If the amount of the bond, with interest amJ costs, be not
paid to him on demand, it is the duty of the sheriff, under this ex- 
ecution, to seize immediately the property of the purchaser, o~
of the surety, or of both, to the amount of the debt and costs,
and to sell them for ready money. 
SEC. 721. It shall be the duty of the clerk who issues the execution
according to the provisions of the above article, to endorse thereon
that the same issued on a twelve month's bond, and that tl1'3 pro­
perty to be seized under the same shall be sold for whatever it
will bring in cash, and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to execute
the same by seizing the property of the principal or security, or
both, and to sell the same for whatever it will bring in cash, after
making the advertisements required by law. 
SEC. 722. The creditor, by the mere act of seizure, is invested with 
a privilege on the movable and immovable property thus seized,
which entitles him to a preference over other creditors, unless the
debtor has become bankrupt previous to the seizure. 
SEC. 723. When several successive seizures are made of the same
property, the creditors making them are entitled to a preference
over other ordinary creditors, according to the order of their sei­
zures. 
SEC. 724. Provisional seizures and sequestration give no privilege 
to those who have made them, until they have obtained a judgment
and order of execution on the property- sequestered or provision­
ally seized.  
SEC. 725. But the provisional seizure in executory proceedings and
in actions in rem, gives the same privilege as the seizure in exe­
cution.  
SEC. 726. When the sheriff to whom an execution is directed, can
find no property to seize, he may call upon the party against
whom the execution is awarded, to point out to him the property
which he may possess in the 1fari:;h. 
SEC. 727. If, on this application, the debtor shows him no property,
and the judgment creditor is unable to point out t1ny, the sheriff
shall return the execution into court, after endorsing on it a re­
port signed by him, in which he shall declare that he has found· no
property to seize, notwithstanding the demand made of the par­
ties.
SEC. 728. If, after this report, the judgment creditor discover any
property belonging to his debtor, he may obtain a new execution, 
to be carried into effect in the "same manner as the one first issued.
SEC. 729. If, on the contrary, the judgment creditor can find no 
property belonging to his debtor, he may demand of the clerk,
and it shaII be the duty of that officer to deliver to him an order
to imprison the body ~f the debtor (a capias ad sati.faci1:1ulum) 
until he shall have made a cession of property to his creditors,
and have obtained a discharge in conformity to the provisions of
an act entitled " an act for the relief of insolvent debtors who
are in confinement," &c. 
SEC. 730. This order shall be directed to the sheriff of the parish in
which the debtor resides, who shall execute it, by confining the
body of the debtor, .pnless he pays the amount of the judgment,
with interest and costs, and unless he takes the prison limits. 
SEC. 731. If a debtor against whom a warrant of imprisonment has
been rendered shall fly into· another parish, to avoid being im­ 
prisoned, he may be arrested by the sheriff or any constable bear­
ing the order, in the parish where he shall be found, provided that
the officer shall cause to be endorsed on the warrant, an authori­
zation to that effect, by the judge or any justice of the peace of
the parish or district in which it is to be executed.H] 
SEC. 732. Executory proces:;; can only be resorted to in the follow-/;;..(?
ing cases: 
I. When the creditor's right arises from an act importing n
confe~sio~ of judgment, anJ which contains a privilege or mort-&,
gage m his favor; 
j. When the creditor demands the .execution of a judgment~~~
which has been rendered by a tribunal different from that within,A.u,
whose jurisdiction the execution is sought. 
The proceeding by provisional seizure, (attachment) or in rem, 
resembles in some sort the executory process, but should not Le 
confounded with it, as they are subject to different rules.(a.)
SEC. 733. An act is said to import a confession of judgment, in mat­ 
ters of privilege and mort.gage, when it is passed before a notary
public, or other officer fulfilling the same functions, in the pre­
sence of two witnesses, and the debtor has declared or acknow­
ledged tlu- debt for which he gives the privilege or mortgage. 
SEC. 734. When the creditor i:; in the possession of such an act, he
may proceed against the debtor or his heirs, by causing the pro­
perty subject to the privilegP or mortgage to be seized and sold,
on a simple petition, and without a previous citation of the debtor,
in the manner laid down in the third paragraph, second section,
third chapter of the first part of this Co<le. 
SEC. 735. In obtaining this order of seizure, it shall suffice to give
three days notice to the debtor, counting from that on which the
notice is gi\'en, if he resides on the spot, adding a day for every
twenty miles between the place of his residence, and the residence
of the judge to whom the· petition has been presented. 
SEC. 736. The judge within whose jurisdiction is situated the pro­
perry subject to the privilege or mortgi1ge, has the power to issue
this order of seizure and sale, although the debtor resides out of 
his jurisdiction ; and in this case, the clerk of the court issuing 
the order shall direct to the sheriff of the parish where the debtor
resides, a written notice to be given to him, and it shall be the 
duty of the said sheriff to serve the notice, and return the original
with his report in the same manner as in ordinary citations. 
SEC. 737. If the debtor who has granted the privilege or mortgage is
absent, and not represented in the state, the judge, al the requ~st
of the plaintifff, shall appoint hi111 an attorney, to whom notice of
the doman.l shall be given, in the manner above directed, and
contrarily with whom the seizure and sale shall be prosecu­
ted. 
SEC. 738. The debtor against whom this order of seizure shall barn 
been rendered, may obtain an injunction to suspend the sale, if 
before the time of sale, he files in the court issuing the order, hii-;
opposition in writing, alleging some of the reasons contained in
the following article, of which he shall swear to the truth . 
SEC. 739. The debtor can only arrest the sale of the thing thus
seized, by alleging some of the following reasons, to wit: 
That he has paid the debt for which he is sued ;
2. That it has been remitted by the creditor; 
3. That it has Leen extinguished by transaction, novation, or
some other legal manner; 
4. That time has been granted to him for paying the debt, al­ 
"~though the circumstance~ ~e not me~t~oned in the corifr~ct;
5. That the .act oontamrng the privilege or mortgage 1stforged; 
G. That it was obtained by fraud, violence, fear, or some other
unlawful means ; · • 
7. That he has a liquidated account to plead in compensation 
10 the debt claimed;
-8. And-finally, that the action for the recovery of the debt is 
~.lt1>frred by prescription. 
SEC. 740. \Vhen the judge. grants an injunction, on the allegation 
under oath, of any ol the reasons mentioned in the preceding article, he shall require no surety from the defendant, but he shall 
pronounce summarily on the merits of his opposition, if the plaintiff requires it, as is explained below. l a../ 
SEC. 741. The plaintifff against whom the injunction has been ob­
rained, may compel the defendant to prove, jn a summary man­ 
ner, before the judge, the truth of the facts alleged in his opposi/k-c€'"'~Aion. . 
SEC. 742. If, on being thus required, the defendant pro\'es that the
action on which the seizure has been obtained is extinct or pre­
scribed, or that the cause of it is void, or that the debt on which it
is founded is paid, remitted, or compensated, the judge shall re­
voke the order of seizure, and condemn the plaintifff to pay costs. 
SEC. 743. But if the defendant does not prove the truth of the facts
alleged in his opposition, or if it appears that he has paid or can
plead in compensation, for. only a part of the debt, the judge shall
dissolve the injunction he had granted, and the sale of the property
shall proceed, either for the whole debt or for a part, as the case 
may be. 
SEC. 744. The executory process in matters of -privilcgc and mort­
~!!agc nrny be pursued not only again!-t the debtor, or his heirs, hut 
also again:-;t the third possessor of the things subjected to it, ac­ 
cording to the forms prescribed in the 3d paragraph, :!tl section, 
;Jd chapter of the lst part of this Code.
SEC. 745. When the sheriff sells property which he has seized con- 
forrnably to. the provisions contained in this chapter, he must 
cause the same appraiseruents to be made, and ,1'l~erve the sarnr- 
delays and formalities as are prescribed for the sale of property
seized in execution.I w) · 
SEC. 746. When a creditor has obtained against his debtor a ju<lg ·
ment having the force of res judirata, in a tribunal different from
that in which he seeks the execution, whether the judgment was
tendered in this state or another state of the union, or in a foreign
country, he may, on this ground, proceed by executory process, 
and cause to he seized and sold the property of his debtor, without
previous citation, in the same manner as on privileged or mort­
gaged debts, contained in nets importing confession of judgment,
except in the case mentioned in the following article. 
SEC. 747. Ifthe judgment of which the creditor is in possession,
shall appear to have been rendered by default, or on attachment, 
other tribunals than those of this state, he cannot proceed by 
the executory process under the pretext that the juclgment has
acquired the force of res jutlicata, but must adopt the ordinary 
~h~ode. ·
SEC. 748. The defendant, against whom an order of seizure has been 
~~Jtained, by virtue of a judgment, as stat~bove, may ohtain an
injunction to stop the sale of the prop7.~ed, if he alleges 
under oath in his opposition that thfe Juogment ha<l not acquired
the force of res judicata, because h has appealed from it, or be­ 
cause it is void by the law of the pla :p where it was rendered.I»]
SEC. 749. The defendant may also obtain an injunction, on alleging 
under oath any of the causes which prevent the sale of property 
mortgaged or otherwise bound, by virtue of an act importing a
confession of judgment.( o) 
SEC. 750. But in the cases mentioned in the two preceding articles,
the judge shall not grant an injunction without requiring that the 
defendant shall give bond to the plaintifff, with good securitj, to
the amount by one half more than the appraised value· of the 
. · 1 . f . . f I bl . l
property se1zec , 1 it consist o s aves or mova es, or m sue 1 sum 
as the judge shall fix, if the property be immovable, conditioned to 
pay ~uch damages as the plaintifff rn;ly suffer, should the injunction~~~~
be dissolved.
SEC. 751. The opposition, on which the injunction was granted, shall
be pronounced on summarily, as in the case of a public act bearing a privilege or mortgage. 
SEC. 752. J uduments rendered in the different courts oftho c; nited
States, shall ~import full proof in the courts of this state, if the copy
of them which is offered be certiffed hy the clerk of the court in
which they are rendered, be sealed with its seal, if there he one,
and clothed with the certificate of the judge, chief justice or mag- 
istrate who presides in the court, as the case may be, declaring
that the attestation is made in due form. 
SEC. 753. When the judgments shall have heen rendered in foreign
countries, the copies presented shall he considered authentic, and
admitted in evidence in the tribunals of this state, if they are clothed
with all the forms required to prove their authenticity in the coun- 
tries where they are pronounced. • · 
SUMMARY PROCESS. 
SEC. 754. The summary process is to be used in every case where
it is expressly prescribed by law.( a) 
SEC. 755. Besides the cases specially directed by. law, judgment
shall be pronounced summarily:. 
1. On all incidental questions arising in the course of a civil
trial ; 
2. On all motions· for a new trial, and on <leclinatory excep­
tions; (pleas to the jurisdiction.) 
3. On motions to homologate the reports of experts, accounts
of auditors, awards of arbitrators, nominations of syndics by cre­ 
ditors, and tableaux of distribution, as well as on the oppositions
made to them ; 
4. On disputes relative to the privileges of the creditors of
bankrupt, andthe order in which they are to be paid. 
SEC. 756. The cases which are to be decided in a summary man­
ner, shall not be set down on the ordinary docket of suits, but are
decided on days fixed for the purpose, and in a speedy manner,
conformably to such special rules as each court may establish on
this subject. · 
SEC. 757. 'rliese cases are decided without the intervention of a
jury.
SEC. 758. The officers of courts of original jurisdiction are sheriffs,
clerks, translator s, criers, and constables, 
SEC. 759. The rules concerning the appointment of these officers,
the duration of their term of service, and their emoluments, are
determined by special laws. In this section we shall treat only
of their duties in relation to civil suits prosecuted before tribunals, 
 
SEC. 760. It is the duty of the sheriff of each parish to execute the
judgments and orders of the supreme, district, parish and probate
courts, directed to him agreeably to law. 
SEC. 771. Reglarly, sheriffs can. only exercise their duties in the
~partsh for which they are appointed ; but they may arrest a debtor 
taking refuge in another parish, by obtaining an authorization to
that effect, on the hack of the order of arrest, from any juJge or 
1 justice of the pea~e of the parish to w~1ich he may ~1ave fl:d.
SEC. 762. In executing the orders and Judgments with which they 
are charged, sheriffs may enter on the lands and in the house of a
debtou, break tlle doors, remove the furniture if the execution can- 
,?not he effected by other mea~s, may remove qb$tructions which
~any person may have placed m the htgh road; m short, they may 
do all such acts as are necessary in tl:e execution of the orders or
judgments with which they arc charged_; and if resistanc~ _ ~e-~- 
fered, they may require assistance from the neighbors or persons
passing by. · 
SEC. 763. But the sheriff cannot execute the orders or judgments
with which he may be charged, in civil matters, on the days and
hours excepted by the preceding provisions of this Code, nor ar­ 
rest a debtor going to or returning from a muster of the mili­
tia. 
SEC. 764. Every sheriff may, with the approbation of the parish
court in which he exercises his duties, name as many deputies as
he thinks fit,. but he remains responsible for them, and they must,
before entering on their duties, take an oath before the parish 
judge, to perform faithfully the duties required by law from the
sherlffs by whom they are named. This appointment and oath
shall be entered on the records of the parish court. 
SEC. 765. Sheriffs may notify and execute, by means of constables,
the different orders, citations, summonses and judgments. which
which they are directed to give notice of, and to carry into exe­
cution, they being responsible however, for the manner in which
the constables may perform this duty. 
SEC. 766. It is the duty of the sheriff to pay alJ sums of mopey received or collected by him, by virtue of an order or a judgment~~ 
of a court, to the per:;on to whom they belong, or to his gene~l~..4
or special attorney, within three days after a demand. - 
SEC. 767. It shall be the duty of each of the sheriffs of the differer~~
parishes in this state to return all writs, directed to them, into th~
clerks' office from which they issued, on or before tae return day/w;z..~
mentioned therein; and, also, to pay over any monies received
thereon, to the party entitlecT to the same or their attorneys; and
in default of any of the duties imposed on him in this section, he
shall become liable to the party or parties entitled to the benefit of
said writ, for the full amount specified therein, which shall be recovered on motion before the district court in the parish in which
the said sheriff acts and resides, after ten days notice having been
given to said sheriff of such intended motion. ( 1) 
SEC. 768. The sheriff is bound to recover and account for all fines
which are imposed by the· different courts of his parish, and shall 
pay the amount every six months ; those which are for the benefit
of the state, into the hands of the state treasurer, and those which 
accrue to the parish, iif the hands of the treasurer of such parish. 
SEC. 769. The sheriff who shall neglect to make payment of the
fines recovered by him, at the times fixed by the preceding arti­
cle, shall be condemned to pay the amount, on motion in the
name of the slate by the treasurer into whose hands the payment
should have been made, before the court of the district or parish 
where the sheriff resides, ·
SEC. 770. When the sheriff causes property to be appraised which 
has been seized or distrained by him, if there he no judge or jus­
tice of the peace on the spot to administerthe oath to the apprais- 
ers, he may administer it ·himself, hut he shall receive no reward
on this account, nor shall he administer an oath in any other case 
than the one now mentioned, or in such others as the law shall
make such provision for. · 
SEC. 771. The deputy sheriff may represent the sheriff in all the
duties confided by- law to the latter; but this power ceases in all 
cases where the duties of the sheriff are fulfilled by the coroner,
as directed in the next article.( l) 
SEC. 772. The coroner is appointed lo perform the duties of the
sheriff, where that office is vacant, either by the death, resignation
or removal of the incumbent, until a successor has been ap­
pointed. The coroner also discharges the duties of the sheriff,
whenever the latter is interested in a cause. 
SEC. 773. The provisions relative to the appointment of coroners
and the duties exclusively confided to them, are prescribed by 
special laws. 
SEC. 774. Clerks shall issue all orders or writs irr the name of the
state of Louisiana, and of the court from which they issue, and
shall seal them with the seal of such court, and sign them with 
their own names, designating their quality as clerks. 
SEC. 775. Clerks shall keep at least two record books. 
SEC. 776. In one they shall set down in order the titles of an causes
depending before the court, mentioning the date of the filing of
the petitions or answers, and the names of the counsel employed 
by the parties. 
SEC. 777. In the other they shall set down all the orders and judg­
ments rendered, as well as the motions made by the parties or 
their counsel. 
 
SEC. 778. Doth these records shall be open to the inspection of all
parties interested, or their counsel, and shall be accompanied by 
an alphabet containing the titles of the causes with the number of 
the pages on which are to be found the motions, orders, or judg­
ments relating to them. 
SEC. 779. Clerks shall preserve with the greatest care the pleadings, 
documents and papers confided to. them, as well as the minutes of 
the court, and they sh~H he provided with closets or desks in
which these papers may he kept safely and under key. 
SEC. 780. Clerks shall have power, <luring the absence of the judge, 
to issue orders of arrest, sequestration, attachment and provisional
seizure, in the cases provided by law. They may also issue com­
missions to examine witnesses.Ie) 
SEC. 781. But when such orders of arrest, sequestration, attach­
ment and provisional seizure, issued by the clerk, have been ob­
tained in an irregular manner, or on a false or erroneous allega­
tion of facts, the judges alone shall have the power of rescinding
them. 
SEC. 782. Clerks may appoint deputies, for whom they ·~Irnll be responsible, and who shall take an oath before the court, to fulfil
well and faithfully all the duties entrusted to the clerk whom they~ 
represent, an t ierr apporntment s ra e menuone m t e re~
cords.
SEC. 783. All the duties imposed hy law on sheriffs and clerks.L,
shall continue in every thing not contrary to, or incompatible with,~
the provisions contained in the present chapter. 
. 
SEC. 784. It is the duty of the translators and criers appointed by
the different courts to attend punctually for the fulfilment of the
duties imposed upon them, who shall hold their offices for one 
year.
SEC. 786. If there be no translator appointed, or should he be ab­ 
sent, the court may appoint one if necessary, at the request of one
of Jhe parties, who shall take an oath to execute well and faithfully·
to the best of his knowledge, such translations as he is charged
with, unless the attorneys for the parties agree that they themselves
or one of them shall do it. 
 
SEC. 786. Besides the powers which are granted to courts of justice,
according to the provisions above mentioned, there are others con­
ferred on them in certain cases, which 'are exercised in a summary
manner, without going through the ordinary forms of action. It
is of these powers and the manner of their exercise that we shall
treat in the present chapter. 
SEC. 787. The first of these powers is that of issuing the habeas cor­
pus, that privilege granted to all free persons, of being released
from illegal arrest or detention. 
SEC. 788. The other extraordinary powers belonging to courts of
justice, may be divided into two species, which are enumerated in
the two following articles. 
SEC. 789. courts of justice may, in certain cases hereafter provided,
direct orders to individuals or corporations to compel tbem to per·
form certain duties prescribed for them by the Jaw, or to prevent
them from usurping powers which do not belong to them. 
SEC. 790. Courts of appeal have the right to issue orders to inferior
judges : 
1. To compel them to ·render justice to parties, or to perform
certain duties belonging to. their office, or to prevent them from
usurping an authority which does not belong to them: 
2. To oblige them to send up a copy of their proceedings, that
the validity of them may be examined, when they are accused of
having violated any of the forms of law. 
SEC. 791. The habeas corpus is an order in writing issued in the~
name of the state, by a judge of competent jurisdiction, al}d di- 
rected to a person who has another in his custody, or detains hint~£
in confinement, commanding him to bring before the judge the~/)'~& 
person thus detained, at the time and place appointed and to stat~
the reasons for which he thus keeps him imprisoned and deprived 
of liberty . 
SEC. 792. The district judges and the judge of the criminal court of
New Orleans, and the courts established or to be established, whose 
jurisdiction exceeds three hundred dollars, · shall alone have the
right of granting writs of habeas corpus ,vithin the limits of their
respective jurisdictions, except in the case provided by the following article. · 
SEC. 793. When the judge of any district is absent, interested, or
prevented by any cause whatever, from acting in that quality, and
there is no criminal court, or court of concurrent, jurisdiction in
the district, the habeas corpus may be issued by any judge of
competent jurisdiction, in one of the adjoining districts. But in 
this case, the absence, interest or disability of the judge of the
district where the imprisonment exists, shall be made te appear
by the oath of the petitioner, or other sufficient proof. 
SEC. 794. The habeas corpus may be obtained on a petition being
addressed to a judge who has the power of granting it. It must
be signed by the party, or some other person in his name, men­
tioning, in the latter case, tho name of the party confined. 
SEC. 795. This petition shall state in substance, that the party ap­
plying is imprisoned or deprived of liberty, and by whom, if the 
person's name be known, or if it be not known, by designating or
describing his person, as far as possible. 
SEC. 796. If the imprisonment or detention exists, by virtue or under
pretext of a judicial order, the copy of such order shall be annexed
to the petition, or the petitioner shall allege that a copy of it has
bce.n demanded and refused. 
SEC. 797. If the imprisonment or detention took place by virtue of
a judicial order, .regular in its form, but illegally obtained or ex­
ecuted, the petition shall mention in what the illegality consists. 
SEC. 798. If the imprisonment or detention has not been made by
virtue of a judicial order, the petitioner need only allege that he
is illegally imprisioned or confined. 
SEC. 799. The petition shall conclude by praying for a habeas cor­
pus ; the petioner shall swear that it contains the truth to the best 
of his belief.
SEC. 800. The judge to whoin this petition is presented, if he has 
the power of issuing a habeas corpus, shall immediately: grant one 
to the petitioner, unless it appear by the petition itself, or by the 
documents annexed to it, that the party cannot be set at liberty, 
nor admitted to bail.
SEC. 801. The habeas corpus may be granted in court, with the 
signature of the clerk and the seal of the court, or out of court
under the signature alone of the judge, to whom the petition is 
presented. .
SEC. 802. The habeas corpus may be served by any free white male 
person, capable of giving evidence. ·
SEC. 803. The. person to whom the writ is delivered, may servt: it 
hy delivering it to the pet'son to whom it is addressed, or who
keeps the party ~n confinement; and if that person refuses to re·
ceive the writ, he who is charged to serve it shall inform him of
its contents. But if the person to whom the habeas corpus is ad­ 
dressed, conceals himself or refuses admittance to the · person
charged to serve it on him, the latter shall affix the order on the
exterior of the place where the person resides, or in which the
petitioner is confined. 
SEC. 804. The service of the habeas corpus shall be proved by the
affidavit of the person directed to serve it. 
SEC. 805. It is the duty of the person on whom a habeas corpus is 
served, whether it he directed to him or not, to obey and return
the order without delay, to the court which issued it. 
SEC. 806. Obedience to the habeas corpus is manifested on the part 
of the person to whom it is directed, by his producing the person
to be set at liberty, if that person be in his custody; and by mak­
ing on the back of the order or separately his answer in writing,
in the form and manner hereafter directed. 
SEC. 807. The person on whom a habeas corpus is served, shall de­
clare positively in his answer: 
1. Whether he has or has not in his powc!r or custody, the per­
son to be set at liberty, or whether that person is confined by him: 
2. By what authority and for what cause he arrested or detained
him. · 
SEC. 808. If the person on whom a habeas corpus is served had held
the petitioner in confinement or had detained him within three
days preceding the service, or had transferred the custody to an­ 
other, he shall state particularly in his answer to whom, at whar
time, for what cause, and by what authority, he ma<le the transfer. 
SEC. 809. If the petitioner be kept in custody by virtue of a judicial
order, the original of that order must be annexed to the answer. 
SEC. 810. This answer must be signed and sworn to by the person
making it. 
SEC. 811. Whenever a habeas corpus shall have been obtained for a
person who is confined by virtue of a final judgment, or order of
any competent tribunal or civil or criminal jurisdiction, the officer 
having the legal custody of such person need not produce him,
unless specially ordered to do so, notwithstanding such final judg­
ment, in the cases laid down in the following article, and it shall 
be sufficient for him to return the habeas corpus, with his answer
in writing, annexing the judgment or order by virtue of which the
person is confined. 
SEC. 812. The judge may direct that the person confined shall be
produced before him, notwithstandinganyfinal judgment, sentence,
or order under which he may have been deprived of liberty,
if it appears to him that from some cause expressed in the affidavit
on which the habeas corpus was granted, or in the answer accom­
panying the return of the writ, this production is necessary to
enable him to grant to the party the relief prayed for. 
SEC. 813. The return of a habeas corpus sha1l be made in twelve
hours after its service, or sooner, if it be so ordered by the writ, in
every case where the place of confinement is not more than twelve
miles from that to which the return is to be made. If the person
confined is at a greater distance, the time for the return shall be
increased one <lay for every twenty miles distance, and so on in
proportion for shorter distances. . 
SEC. 814. When the habeas corpu:-; has been duly served, if the
party in whose favor it has been granted is not produced within
the time above fixed, the judge who issued the writ shall issue a 
warrant to some officer of justice, commanding him to arrest and
take in -charge the person who disobeyed the writ, and to bring
such person before him, to be proceeded against according to law. 
SEC. 815. If the person thus brought before the judge, refuses to
deliver the habeas corpus which has been served upon him, or to
produce the party whom he was ordered to produce in the cases
where, acording to the above provisions, he might be compelled
to do it, he shal1 be sent to prison, and shall remain there until he
obeys the habeas corpus, and shall be condemned to pay all the
costs of the proceeding, besides the action for false imprisonment,
which the party may institute against him. 
SEC. 816. Whenever, by reason of the sickness or infirmity of the
party confined he cannot be brought before the judge, without
endangering his life, he who has him in confinement shall. men­ 
tion it in his answer on returning the habeas corpus ; and if this act
be proved by the certificate of a physician or surgeon, regularly 
authorized to practice, and by the declaration of two other wit­
nesses, and the signature of the party confined, if he can write, if 
the answer appears to him sufficient in other respects, the judge 
shall repair to the place where the party is confined, if he can 
do it without quitting the place of holding his usual sittings,
otherwise he may determine on the hlbeas corpus in the same
manner as if the party was produced before him. 
SEC. 817. If the person confining the petitioner, cannot produce him,
because he is dead, or through some other unavoidable accident,
or overpowering force, he shall mention it in his answer to the
writ, but this fact, to form an excuse, must be proved in a perfectly
satisfactory manner to the judge. It is to be understood, that in 
this case, and in every other, where the person confining another is 
bound to make proof of the causes which prevent producing him,
proof to the contrary may be offered by the person who obtained 
the habeas corpus. ·
SEC. 818. If the person kept in confinement is represented before· 
the judge, he may deny all the facts stated in the answer to the 
habeas corpus, or he may allege others on his side, to show that·
his detention or imprisonment is illegal, or that he has a right to
be set at liberty; which denials and allegations shall be made
under oath. 
SEC. 819. The judge shall then proceed in a summary manner to
hear the testimony and the reasons adduced, as well by the party
confined as the party confining, and shall pronounce on the whole
subject as the nature of the case may require, and according to the
rules hereafter established. 
SEC. 820. If the judge cannot pronounce immediately on the habeas
corpus, he may, until his judgment is rendered, commit the party
to the sheriff of the parish where the writ is issued, or to such
other person as the age of the party and other circumstances may
render proper. 
SEC. 821. If it appear to the judge by the return of the habeas cor­
pus, or by the document which accompany that return, that
the person whose liberation is solicited, is detained by virtue of an 
order rendered in a civil suit, or at the request of an individual
having an interest in his confinement, the said judge shall not pro­
nounce oo the habeas corpus, unless it be proved to his satisfaction
that previous reasonable notice in writing has been given to
the plaintifff in such civil action, or to any other party interested,
or his agent or attorney, if they are not more than twenty miles
distant from the place where the habeas corpus has been ob­ 
tained.
SEC. 822. If it appear to the judge from the retum to the writ or 
from the accompanying documents that the party is confined by
the order of some tribunal, he can only restore such party to lib­
erty in the following cases : 
1. Where such tribunal has exceeded its jurisdiction as defined
by law: 
2. Where the original imprisonment was lawful, but by some
act, omission or event which has since occurred, the party be­ 
comes entitled to his liberty :
8. Where the order of imprisonment is deficient in some legal 
requisite :
4. Where the order-although in due legal form, has been rendered 
in a case where the Jaw does not allow the issuing of orders of
arrest or imprisonment : 
6. Where the order is in due form, but has been rendered or
executed by a person not authorized for that purpose, or where 
the person detaining the prisoner is not the person to whom the
law has prescribed that duty : 
6. Where the order appears to have been obtained under false
pretenses or by corruption : 
7. Where there exists no general law, judgment, order or de­
cree of a court of justice, if it be in a civil suit, or sentence of
conviction, if in a criminal suit, to justify the imprisonment. 
SEC. 823. The judge who shall pronounce on the habeas corpus can no
otherwise examine the validity or propriety of the judgment or
decree of a regularly constituted tribunal, under which the im­
prisonment has taken place ; and wlienever it shall appear to him
that there exists sufficient legal ground for the detention of the
prisoner, on account of any offense with which he may be charged,
although the order of imprisonment may have been rendered in
an irregular and unauthorized manner, or have been executed by
a person not duly authorized for the purpose, the judge shall ren­
der a new order of arrest, in regular form, directed to the proper
officer, or admit the party to bail, if the nature of the offense al­
lows it. 
SEC. 824. But if it shall appear to the judge from return and an­
nexed documents, or otherwise, that there is no cause for arrest or
confinement, or if he thinks that such arrest and confinement can­
not legally continue, be shall immediately set the prisoner at li­
berty. 
SEC. 826. But if the judge decide that the party cannot be released
from confinement, nor admitted to bail, he shall remand him to
prison, or place him under the same custody in which he was, if
the detention was legal ; otherwise he shall place him in the cus­
tody of the person to whom the law confides such duties. 
SEC. 826. A party discharged from imprisonment under a habeas
corpus, in a criminal proceeding, through deficiency of proof, or
some important defect in the warrant of imprisonment, may be
arrested and confined anew, on satisfactory proof, and under a
legal warrant, although it be for the same offense. 
SEC. 827. So also in a civil suit, a party who has been released on
account of illegality of the warrant under which he is confined, or
want of authority in the person confining him, may be arrested
anew and imprisoned, for the same cause of action, provided it be
done in a legal manner. 
 
SEC. 828. Besides the habeas corpus, there are four other species
of orders which courts of justice may issue, to wit : 
1. The order directing the performance of some specific act;
(writ of mandamus.) 
2. The order forbidding further proceedings in a suit ; (writ of
prohibition.) 
· ;J, The order of which the object is to pronounce on the validity
of a judicial proceeding; ( writ of certiorari.] 
4. The order of which the object is to prevent an usurpation ;
(writ of quo warranto.) 

SEC. 829. This is an order issued m the name of the state, by a tri­ 
bunal of competent jurisdiction, and addressed to an individual,
or corporation, or court of inferior jurisdiction, directing it to per­
form some certain act belonging to the place, duty, or quality with
which it is clothed. 
SEC. 830. The object of this order is to prevent a denial of justice,
or the conse<1uence of defective police, and it should thereforee 
be issued in all cases where the law has assigned no relief by the
ordinary means, and where justice and reason require that some
mode should exist of redressing a wrong or an abuse of any nature
whatever. 
SEC. 831. This order may be issued at the discretion of the judge, 
even when a party has other means of relief, if the slowness of
ordinary legal forms, is likely to produce such a delay that the
public good and the administration of justice will suffer from it. 
SEC. 832. This order may be directed to individuals, whether hold­
ing offices or not, to corporations, and to judges of inferior tri­ 
bunals.
SEC. 833. It may be directed to a simple individual, as to the heirs 
or other legal representatives of a deceased public officer, or to
such officer himself, if he be alive, or has resigned, or been re­
moved, to compel them to deliver to the successor of such officer,
the papers and other effects belonging to his office. 
SEC. 834. It may be directed to public officers to compel them to
fulfil any of the duties attached to their office, or which may be
legally required of them. 
SEC. 835. It may be directed to all corporations established by law :
1. To compel them to make elections, and to perform the other 
duties required by their charter :
2. To compel them to receive or restore to their functions, 
such of their members as they shall have refused to receive, al­
though legally chosen, or whom they shall have removed without
sufficient cause. 
SEC. 836. This order, in all the above mentioned cases, can only
be issued by courts whose jurisdiction in civil matters, exceeds the
sum of three hundred dollars. 
SEC. 837. It may be directed more particularly to judges of inferior
courts, commanding them to render justice, and to perform the
other duties of their office conformably to law. 
SEC. 838. In this last case, the order, (or writ of mandamus,)_issues, 
not only when the. judges of inferior courts are guilty of a denial
of justice, or unreasonable delay, in pronouncing judgment on
causes before them, but also if they refuse or neglect to perform
any of the duties required of them by law, or which may enable
the superior courts to exercise their appellate jurisdiction. 
SEC. 839. It is only the court which exercises appellate jurisdiction
over an inferior court, that can direct to the latter an order to per·
form any of the duties belonging to it. 
SEC. 840. The party wishing to obtain an order in any of the cases
mentioned in this paragraph, must apply to any competent tribu­
nal by petition, stating the nature of his right, or of the injury he
sustains, or of the denial of justice which he experiences, and
shall make oath of the truth of the facts thus alleged. 
SEC. 841. The court to whom the complaint is addressed, if it thinks
there is ground for interposing its authority, shall issue an order
addressed to the party or to the inferior judge against whom the
complaint is made, by which he shall be directed to do what has
been demanded of him, or show cause to the contrary, within a
certain time after the service of the order, to be fixed by the court. 
SEC. 842. If, on the day assigned for answering the order, the party
or judge to whom it is directed, answers and states sufficient rea­
sons to justify his conduct, the complaint shall be dismissed, and
the petitioner sentenced to pay costs. 
SEC. 843. But· if the answer is considered insufficient, then a per­
emptory mandate shall issue, ordering the party or inferior judge 
to do what has been demanded of him, and if he does not obey, an
order of arrest shall issue, and he shall be imprisoned until he has
rendered obedience to the mandate. 
SEC. 844. When the mandate directing the performance of a speci­
fied act, shall have issued against a corporation, the notice shall
be served on the mayor or presiding officer of such corporation ;
and if the corporation, or the body of directors disobey the order, it
shall be punished for the contempt by the sequestration of its
revenue, (writ of distringas,) until it yield obedience to the man­ 
date. 
SEC. 845. This mandate only issues to courts or inferior judges
which exceed the bounds of their jurisdiction. 
SEC. 846. It is an order rendered in the name of the state, by an
appellate court of competent jurisdiction, and directed to the judge
and to the party suing, in a suit before an inferior court, forbid­
ding them to proceed further in the cause, on the ground that the
cognizance of the said cause does not belong to such court, but
to another, or that it is not competent to decide it. 
SEC. 847. To obtain this mandate, the defendant who complain!
that the inferior court wishes to transcend its jurisdiction, shall 
apply by petition to the court having cognizance of appeals from
such inferior court, slating the cause and nature of the action
brought against him, and showing that the said court is not com­
petent to try it. 
SEC. 848. The court to which this petition is offered, shall require
the oath of the petitioner to the truth of the facts stated in it, un­
less these facts be proved by the mere examination of the prayer,
or of the proceedings which took place before the inferior court. 
SEC. 849. If the court shall think that the matters stated in the peti­
tion are sufficient, it shall issue an order forbidding the judge to 
take cognizance of the cause, and forbidding the plaintifff to prose­
cute it further. 
SEC. 860. When, on the receipt of this order, the inferior judge
acknowledges that he has no jurisdiction, he shall abstain from all
further acts in the case. 
SEC. 851. But if he believes himself competent, he may give a writ­
ten answer to the order, after which the court issuing it shall pro­
nounce finally and summarily on the right of jurisdiction ; and if
it thinks that the inferior judge is not competent to judge the cause,
it shall render its prohibition perpetual, otherwise it shall allow 
the judge to proceed to the trial and judgment of the case.
SEC. 852. If, in contempt of the order, the judge or the party shall 
proceed any further in the suit, the superior tribunal shall cause
them to be arrested, and shall punish them for such contempt,
and the opposite party shall have an action for his damages against
them. 
SEC. 863. If an inferior judge has rendered judgment in a case where 
he had not jurisdiction and the execution has issued, the court may 
direct its order as well to the party prosecuting, as to the officer
charged with the execution, forbidding them to proceed in the ex­
ecution, in the same manner as if the prohibition had been ad­
dressed to the judge before issuing the order of execution, and
under the same penalties above enacted. 
SEC. 854. But in this case, the party prosecuting may reply to the
order, in the same manner as above directed, for obtaining judg­
ment with regard to the jurisdiction of the inferior judge. 
 
SEC. 855. This also is an order rendered in the name of the state, 
by a competent tribunal, and directed to an inferior judge, com­
manding him to send to such tribunal, a certified copy of the pro­
ceedings in a suit pending before him, to the end that their vali­ 
dity may be ascertained.
SEC. 856. This mandate concludes by enjoining upon the inferior 
judge to proceed no further in the case, until judgment shall be 
pronounced on the regularity of his proceedings. 
SEC. 857. This mandate is only granted in cases where the suit is 
to be decided in the last resort, and where there lies no appeal,
by means of which proceedings absolutely void might be set aside,
as when the inferior judge has refused to hear the party Qi his
witnesses, 01· has pronounced sentence without having. cited him 
to appear.(lt) 
SEC. 868. The party wishing to obtain this mandate shall address
his petition to a competent tribuual, in which he shall state the
causes of nullity of the acts <lone by the lower court to his preju­
dice, in a cause where there lies no appeal. 
SEC. 859. The truth of the facts contained in this petition, shall be 
sworn to by the party praying for the mandate, but with respect to
the nullities alleged, he need only affirm their existence to the best 
of his knowledge. 
SEC. 860. This mandate can only be directed to an inferior judge
by the court having immediate appellate jurisdiction over him, and
hy no 'other. 
SEC. 861. The inferior judge to whom this mandate is directed shall
immediately send to the superior court a certified copy of the
record called for, which copy shall be sealed with the seal of the
court, if it have one. . 
SEC. 862. If after the service of the mandate and the injunction con­
tained in it, the inferior judge does not send the copy of the re­
cord-called for, or if he proceeds further in the cause, the supe­
rior court shall order him to be arrested and imprisoned until he 
shall have obeyed the mandate directed to him. 
SEC. 863. The mere service of the order to send up the record, ren­
ders void every net which may have been subsequently performed
by the judge to whom it was directed, or by his order. 
SEC. 864. If upon examining the certified record thus sent, it shall ap­ 
pear to the court issuing the mandate, that the proceedings are
null and have not been sanctioned by the party complaining of
them, it shall avoid the proceedings and direct the inferior judge
to try the cause anew, in conformity with the provisions of the 
law.
SEC. 865. If the court which issued the mandate, -finds that the pro­ 
ceedings have been regular, or that the party have waived his ob­
jection to them, it shall dissolve the order which it had issued, and
shall condemn the party who applied for the mandate to pay the 
whole costs.
SEC. 866. When a court of competent jurisdiction issues a mandate 
for the purpose of inquiring into the validity of a proceeding in
the last resort, if judgment has been rendered and execution sued
out in the court below, it may arrest the execution, by enjoining 
the party suing it and the officer charged with it, to proceed no
further until the validity of the proceedings has been pronounced 
upon, and this under the same penalties which are inflicted for
contempt of court. 
 
SEC. 867. This is an order rendered in the name of the state, by a
competent court, and directed to a person who claims or usurps
an office in a corporation, inquiring by what authority he claims
or holds such office. 
SEC. 868. This mandate is only issued for the decision of disputes
between parties, in relation to the offices in corporations, as when 
a person usurps the character of mayor of a city, and such like.
With regard to offices of a public nature, that is, which are con­
ferred in the name of the state, by the governor, with or-without
the consent of the senate, the usurpations of them are prevented
and punished in the maaner directed by the penal code. 
SEC. 869. A mandate to prevent the usurpation of an office in a
city or other corporation, may be obtained by any person apply­ 
ing for it, and the party to whom it is directed must make his an­
swer in writing, within the time allowed by the court, and state the
authority under which he exercises his office. 
SEC. 870. If the person to whom the order is directed does not an­
swer within the time allowed, the court shall declare him not qua­
lified to fill the place of which he performs the duties, shall forbid 
him to perform them any longer, shall condemn him to pay the
costs, and shall •direct the corporation to proceed to a new ap­ 
pointment.
SEC. 871. But if the person to whom the order is directed, answer 
within the time allowed, the court shall pronounce upon the an- 
swer, in a summary manner, and after hearing the parties, if it
thinks that the person to whom the mandate was directed, has
usurped the office which he holds, or that he continues in it un­
lawfully, it shall render judgment against him, in the manner pro­
vided in the preceding article. 
SEC. 872. All mandates treated of in the second section of this chap­
ter, shaJI be issued by the clerk, in the name of the state and of
the court which renders them, shall be sealed with the seal of such
court, and signed by the clerk in his official character. These
mandates shall be delivered to the sheriff, who shall serve them
on the persons to whom they are clirected. 
SEC. 873. When the legi,lature has granted to a corporation the
right to determine the validity of the elections of its members or
officers, courts of justice shall not issue mandates for the purpose
of inquiring into that fact. 
 
SEC. 874. 1'he supreme court has only appellate jurisdiction, which
it exercises in all civil cases, where the object in dispute exceeds 
the sum of three hundred dollars. 
SEC. 876. The supreme court has jurisdiction, though the judgment 
appealed from be for less than three hundred dollars, if the de~and was for more than that sum. . 
SEC. 876. It has also jurisdiction by appeal of the appointment or
tutors or curators of minors, interdicted or absent persons, or of 
estates and of syndics of the creditors of an insolvent, if
the property which is to be placed under the charge of such tutors 
curators, or syndics amount to more than three hundred dolJars. 
SEC. 877. The supreme, as well as other courts, possess the powers
which are necessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction given to 
it by law, in all the cases not expressly provided for by the pre­
sent Code. 
SEC. 878. It may direct to courts immediately under its jurisdiction,
not only such mandates as are mentioned in the second section of
the tenth chapter of the preceding title, for the purpose of insur­
ing the better administration of justice, but nlso such as it shall 
judge necessary, to enable it to exercise the appellate jurisdiction
which it has over those courts. 
SEC. 879. The snpreme court may also make such rules as it may
think proper, to determine the form of proceeding before it, in
cases not provided for in the present Code, and not inconsistent
with its provisions, or which may hereafter be provided fi,r by law. 
SEC. 880. The supreme court may be adjourned by one of its judges
from day to day, until a sufficient number to try causes be col­
lected ; and if neither of the judges be present, on the Jay fixed
by law, for the commencement of the term; the clerk may adjourn
it in like manner. 
SEC. 881. The judges of the supreme court may be challenged in
the same manner, and for the same causes, as file judges of origi­
gin:il jurisdiction; but having been employed as counsel and attor­
ney in the case, or ha.ving been employed or consulted as an at­
torney or counsellor in any cause, shall not be deemed a sufficient
cause of recusation against any judge of the supreme court. 
The judges of the supreme court must conform to all the rules of
procedure established above, and which are applicable to them, in
every thing not otherwise provided for under the present title, or
which may hereafter be provided for by law. 
SEC. 882. The mode for obtaining an appeal to the supreme court,
and the effect of such appeal, are established by the general rules
in matters of appeal, contained in tlte second section of the sixth chapter of t~e preceding title. ( l) 
SEC· 883. If the appellant has not filed in the supreme court, on the
day appointed by the inferior judge, the record from the court be-~~ 
low, and was pre~ente~ from doing so by any event not under his~~-~ 
control, he may either in person or by attorney, -apply to the court
before the expiration of the three days after which the appelle~ 
may ohtaib a certificate from the clerk, declar~ng that t~e r~cor~
has not been filed, and may demand a further lime to bring u up,-;,_ 
which may be granted by the court, if the event causing the delay~
be proved to its satisfaction ; the court may even grant an injuncf 
tion to the_ appellant,. during the further time a!Jowed, t? suspenr"'
the execution on the Judgment a ppea)ed from, 1f at the time of petitioning for such further delay, the :ippellee has already required,;4, 
of the clerk the certificate necessary for the pursuit of such exe­
cution.  
SEC. 884. But if the appellant has not obtained a further delay, and
has not filed in the supreme court a copy of the record, on the day
directed by the court below, the appellee may either proceed with
execution on the judgment appealed from, or he may bring up a 
copy of the record himself, and have judgment on the appeal, in
the manner provided in the second section, sixth chapter of the
present title. 
SEC. 885. The appellee shall have the same right in case the appel­
lant has obtained further time to. bring up the record, and bas
failed to do so within the time. 
SEC. 886. If a copy of the . record in the Jower court, and the pa­
pers belonging to it, have been filed in the supreme court, the ap­
pellee shall, within three days after the time allowed him for ap­
pearance by the citation of appeal, file with the clerk his answer
in writing to such appeal. 
SEC. 887. The appellee, in his answer, may either pray for a sim­
ple confirmation of the judgment with costs, or he may pray also
for the damages spoken of hereafter. 
SEC. 888. If the appellee has cause to complain of the judgment
appealed from, he may, without appeal on his part, state, in his
answer, the points on which he thinks he has sustained wrong,
and may pray that the judgment be reversed with respect to them 
and confirmed with costs on the rest. •
SEC. 889. But if the appellee, on the appeal of the other party, neg­ 
lect to pray that the judgment be reversed on those points which
are prejudicial to him, he shall not afterwards be allowed to ap­
peal, but the judgment shall remain irrevocable for or against
him. 
SEC. 890. If the appellee neglect to answer to the appeal'within the
time allowed him, the appellant may have the cause set down for 
argument, but the appellee shall Le allowed to fil~his answer until
the day of argm11ent, if he only urays for confirmation of the 
judgment with costs, but if he demand the reversal of any part,
or damages against the appellant, he shall file his answer at least
three days before that fixed for the argument, otherwise it shall
not be received.  
SEC. 891. But if the cause be argued without the appellee having
filed his answer, and without any objection being made on that
head, the judgment pronounced shall not be the less valid for
such omission. 
SEC. 892. When a cause has been fixed for argument, if the appel­
lee or his attorney does not appear, the court shall proceed to the
hearing, if the appellant require it. So if the appellant does not
appear, the appellee may argue the cause, but in either case the
court shall examine the record, and render judgment for one of
the parties, as the nature of the proofs and the justice of the case
shall seem to require. 
SEC. 893. If, however, before the judgment becomes definitive
within the time hereafter prescribed, the party who did not ap­
pear on the day fixed for the argument, shall prove that he was
prevented by an unavoidable accident, the court may grant him
a new hearing of the cause, and after argument, may reverse the
judgment if there be grounds for it. 
SEC. 894. The supreme court shall receive no new evidence, even
though it may have been discovered since the judgment below, 
but shall pronounce on the case, on the same evidence as was ad-~
duced below, except in the cases hereafter expressed. 4..- 
SEC. 895. The supreme court can only exercise its jurisdiction inft-1/L.,d"/.t'l
so far as it shall have knowledge of the matters argued or con-~ 
tested below.
SEC. 896. If thereforee the copy of the record brought up be not duly 
·certified by the clerk of the lower court, as containing all the tes-A._c.,/,.:,,,/~
timony adduced, the supreme court can only judge of such cause 
on a statement of facts, prepared and signed in the manner directed in the second sectio~ of t~~~~th chapter of the preceding title, ~r on • ~vritten e.xception to the opinion of th~ judge, or 
o~ a special verdict, and in the absence of all these, tt shall rethe appeal with costs: bju this is to be understood with such 
:~.,..tA-nodifications as are contained in the following articles.f l]
SEC. 897. The appellant who does not rely, wholly or in part on 
a statement of facts, an exception to the judge's opinion, or special verdict, to sustain his appeal, but on an error oflaw appearing 
the face of the record, shall be allowed to allege such error, if, 
within ten days after the record is brought up, he files in the supreme court a written paper, stating specially such errors as he 
alleges; otherwise his appeal shall be rejected. ( 1) 4 /E /-/)'-A.,~~ 
SEC. 898. If, at the time of argument, or Lefore, the appellant per·
ccives that the copy of .the record is incomplete, either through 
mistakes or omissions, or from the clerk having failed to certify
the copy, as containing all the testimony produced in the cause,
or from any similar irregularities not arising from any act of the
appellant, the court may grant him a reasonable time to correct
such errors or omissions, during which time judgment on the ap­
peal shall be suspended.I.r]  
SEC. 899. If the record be incomplete, because the judge belt .,v 
refused to perform any of his duties, as to sign the exceptions to
his opinion, or if such imperfection proceed from a similar refusal
by the clerk, the supreme court shall direct a mandate to such 
judge or clerk ordering him to perform the duty imposed on him 
by law or by the nature of his office, and in the mean time it shall
suspend its judgment on the appeal. 
SEC. 900. When a party desiring to appeal from the judgment of 
the lower court, cannot obtain a statement of facts from the judge,
or his signature to exceptions from his opinion, upon motion the 
supreme court shall direct a mandate ordering him to perform his
duty, provided said motion be made on the first Jay of the tE'I m
succeeding the refusal of the judge. 
SEC. 901. When the supreme court once has jurisdiction of an ap­
peal, whether by the transmission of the record, or by that of the cit a­ 
t ion served on the appellee, it cannot, in any case, permit the ap­
pellant to withdraw his appeal, without the consent of the appellee,
and the cause shall take its course, whether the appellant make tie­
fault or not.( e) 
SEC. 902. Although in general parties before the supreme court
are not allowed ro plead other matters than those which were lie­
fore the inferior court, nevertheless it may depart from this rule,
when the exception taken is one of those which may be pleaded 
at any period of a cause, and the proof of it appears by the mere 
examination of the record. Thus prescription may be pleaded
before the supreme court, when the proof of it appears on the face 
of the proceedings in the lower court. But the party to whom it 
is opposed, shall have the privilege of demanding that the cause 
be remanded for trial upon that plea. ( l) - 
SEC. 903. When the defendant, in a case brought by appeal before
the supreme court, dies during the continuance of the suit, bis
heir may be made a party in his place.I i) 
SEC. 904. A creditor of a party to a suit, who has not proved his
debt in the lower court, cannot exercise his debtor's right of ap- 
peal. · · • 
SEC. 906. When the supreme court reverses the judgment of an mferior court, it shall pronounce on the case the judgment which
the lower court should have rendered, if it be in possession of all
the facts and testimony to enable it to pronounce definitively. 
SEC. 906. But if the court shall think it not possible to pronounce
definitively on the cause, in the state in which it is, either because 
""'the parties have failed to adduce the necessary testimony, or be­
~cause t~e infer!or court refused to receive it, or otherwise, it may, 
~ccordmg to circumstances, remand the cause to the lower court,
with instructions as to the testimony which it shall receive, to the
eml that it may decide according to law. 
SEC. 907. The court in confirming a judgment appealed from shaH
condemn the appellant to pay all the costs. It may even condemn
him to pay to the appellee, if the latter claims it by his answer, 
such damages as it may' think equivalent to the Iasis which he has
sustained by the delay consequent on the appeal, provided the
amount of such damages shall not exceed ten per cent. on the
value of the amount in dispute. 
SEC. 908. If the judgment be reversed, in whatever degree it may
be, the appellee shall pay the costs. 
SEC. 909. The supreme court shall state the reasons of its judgments, 
by citing, as exactly as possible, the laws on which it!founds its
opinion. When the judges are all of the same opinion, it shall
be sufficient that one of the number pronounce the judgment, but
if there he a division between them they shall delare their opinions 
separately.] r)  
SEC. 910. All the judgments or orders rendered by the supreme
court shall be recorded at length by the clerk, in records kept for
that purpose. • 
SEC. 911. The judgments rendered by the supreme court shall be 
final, and the clerk shall deliver a copy to every person requiring­
it, after three judicial days shall have elapsed from the rendering
of the judgment. 
SEC. 912. In the interval between the day on which the judgment is
rendered, and that on which it becomes final, a party dissatisfied
with the judgment, may apply to the court for a new hearing in 
the cause, and for this purpose shall present a petition, in which
he shall state substantially the reasons for which he thinks the judg­
ment erroneous, and shall cite the authorities in support of his
opinion. 
SEC. 913. The court shall consider of the reasons adduced in such
petition, without argument, and if it grants a new hearing of the
cause, shall state the points on which it wishes to hear the parties
anew. While the court is deliberating on this application, die 
three days allowed for rendering a judgment final, do not run.
SEC. 914. If the court refuses a new hearing, it shall declare its 
opinion, without being obliged to state the reasons for it. 
SEC. 916. No execution shall issue on the judgments of the supreme
court, but such judgments, whether confirming or reversing those
appealed from, shall be sent back for their execution to the
inferior court, and no mandate need be directed to the latter for
that purpose.( a) 
SEC. 916. Precedence shall be determined among the judges of the
supreme court, by the date of their commission, and if their com­
missions are of the same date, the oldest individual shall take pre­ 
cedence.
SEC. 917. The supreme court may, when required by one of the 
parties, direct orders to public officers or individuals, to produce
before it any title deeds, papers or documents relating to suits
which are in their possession, or of which they are depositaries,
when the said documents may be necessary to the decision of a 
cause pending before it.
SEC. 918. But the supreme court can only exercise this power, with 
regard to the documents belonging to a public office, when such
offioe is kept in the place where it holds its sittings, otherwise the
parties must produce properly certified copies of the papers be­
longing to such suits, which have been adduced in the lower court.
This rule shall be common to all the tribunals of the state. 
SEC. 919. Whenever any title deed or document relating to a snit
shall be produced by a public officer, or other individual, by order
of the supreme court, it shall he delivered to the clerk of the
court, who shall give a receipt for it, and when the cause is deter·
mined, it shall be the duty of the clerk to return such document to
the public officer, or other individual, from whom he received it,
and not to retain it under any pretext.Iy) 
SEC. 920. It is the duty of the sheriffs of the different parishes where
the supreme court is in session, to attend its sittings, or to send
one of their deputies ; and a compensation is granted to such
sheriffs, of two dollars for each day that they or their deputies
shall be thus employed, which sum sha11 be paid to them out of the
treasury of the state, on the warrant of one of the judges of the.
supreme cou rt. ( 1) 
SEC. 921. Courts or probate are specially established to appoint legal
representatives for minors, orphans, insane and absent persons, and
to superintend the administration of vacant successions. 
SEC. 922. They are called courts t>f probate, because the proving
and recording of last wills and testaments are made before them. 
SEC. 923. The parish judges are ex-officio judges of the courts of
probate, in their respective parishes. 
SEC. 924. Courts of probate have the exclusive power: 
1. To open and receive the proof of last wills and testaments.
and to order the execution and recording them. 
2. To appoint tutors and curators for minors, interdicted and
absent persons who have uo representatives in the state, aod 
for such persons as are incapable of administering their own
property. 
3. 'l'o confirm or reject such tutors of minors as may have been
appointed by the last will of their father or mother. 
4. To appoint curators to vacant estates and absent heirs. 
'2.~ 6. To make the inventories and sales of the property of succes­
sions, which are administered by curators, or testamentary execu­
tors, or in which the heir prays for the benefit of inventory. 
6. To homologate wills in which one or more testamentary ex­
ecutors are appointed, and to issue letters of administration to such 
~v.r-~'-"executors.
7. To appoint administrators under the will, when the executor 
appointed by the testator, will not, or cannot perform the duties,
or is dead or absent, and in either case, the judge shall appoint 
one or more dative testamentary executors, in the same manner u 
if the testator had omitted to name his executor.Ic)
8. To remove or supply the places of such tutors, curators and 
testamentary executors, in the cases provided by law.
9. To compel such administrators to render an account, when 
required, or at the period fixed.,,,. law.
10. To interdict persons who fall into a state of madness, and 
to restore them to the enjoyment of their rights when they regain
their reason. 
11. To compel such heirs as have taken time to deliberate, to
declare, when required by the creditors of the deceased, whether
they accept or renounce a succession. 
12. To decide on the putting in provisional possession of the
heirs of absentees. 
13. To decide on claims for money which are brought against
successions administered by curators, testamentary executors, or
administrators of successions, and to establish the order of privileges and mode of payment.( c) {~ 
14. To ordain and regulate all partitions of successions in which
minors, interdicted or absent persons are interested, or even those~/""~"'~~
which are made by authority of law, between, persons of lawfuIMa- 
age and residing in the state, when such persons cannot agre~
upon the partition anti the mode of making it.\.• 
15. Whenever the parish judge of any parish is interested in/IL~
any cases brought, or which may be brought in the court of pro-it
bates, or is related to either ~f ~he parties, so. as ~o be i_ncap~ble of~ft-'
trying such cases, by the exisung laws, or rs disqualified 10 any 
other way by law from trying such cases, the district court or parish judge of the adjoining parish, whose domicil is the nearest, 
shall have jurisdiction thereof, and in all such cases it shall be thr;r-r
duty of the district or parish judge, to repair to the parish in which_?.,~~
the suit is pending, in order to try the same.{ /A.-,,_~ 
16. If for any reasons mentioned in the preceding section, the)~~.,,~ 
parish judge ·is unable or disqualified to make inventories, sales,/...._
or perform any other ministerial duty relative to any successions,
it shall be the duty of the district judge of the district, on the fact
being made known to him, to appoint any notary or justice of the~
peace in said parish, and in case there be no notary or justice of
the peace therein, any other proper person, to discharge said du- 
ties, who shall be entitled to the same compensation for his servi- 
ces, as is or may be accorded by law to parish judges.( g)
17. In all cases where oaths are required by law to be taken in 
courts of probate, the same may be administered by the judge,
the clerk of the court of probates or his deputy clerks, and in the
parish of Orleans, by the judge of the court of probates, or by the 
cc;~~ 
register of wills, or any of his deputies ; and all oaths of tutors,
curators, appraisers, and other oaths of office, required by law,
shall be recorded in a bound book kept for that purpose.(/t) 
18. The succession of persons domiciliated out of the state of
Louisiana, and leaving in this state at their demise, movable or
immovable property, or both, shall be opened and administered
upon as are those of the citizens and inhabitants of the state ; and 
the judge before whom such successions shall be opened, shall
proceed to the appraisement or confirmation of the officer to ad- 
• • • d h d . h . d b th 
mmister it, un er t e name an m t e manner pomte out y e
existing laws, under the separate sections of the code which treat 
successions generally.(iJ
19. The courts of probate shall have exclusive cognizance of all 
suits or actions against sureties on the bonds of appeal, and all
others which they are bound by law to receive or exact from ap­
pellants and administrators, tutors, curators, and testamentary ex­
ecutors generally ; and no such suit shall be instituted against
the security until the necessary steps have been taken to en­ 
force payment against the principal.
20. All suits brought against curators and other administrators, 
during the time of their administration or curatorship, shall, after
the expiration of said time, and even after the said curators and
administrators have rendered their accounts to the heirs, be, and
remain in the court of probates, there to Le continued and tried
without any additional formality except that of making the heirs
parties to said suits, which shall be ordered by the court oo mo­
tion of any one of the parties, or on application of such heirs
themselves. ( l) 
21. Whenever in a suit for partition before any court of probates,
the title to real estate may be brought into question, either directly
or collaterally, such court of probates shall be competent to de­
cide on such questions of title. 4 If_ 1/.r 2}~ 
SEC. 925. The courts of probate shall have no jurisdiction except
in the cases enumerated in the preceding article, or in those which
shall be mentioned in the remaining part of this title. 
SEC. 926. Courts of probate have two modes of proceeding, the one 
by summary and the other by the ordinary proces.c;. 
SEC. 927. The mies relative to proceedings in courts of probate,
differ according to the various matters of which they have cogni­
zance, and of which we shall treat in the following sections. 
OPENING AND PROVING OF WILLS. 
SEC. 928. When a testator is dead, his testamentary executor or any 
other person who may feel an interst in having his will executed, 
shall present a petition for that purpose to the judge of probates
of the place where the succession is opened.( a) · 
SEC. 929. The place in which a· succession is opened, is, and in
future shall be held to be as follows, notwithstanding any former law
to the contrary: in the parish where the deceased resided, ifhe had
a domicil or fixed place of residence in the state ; in the parish
where he left landed property, if he had neither domicil nor place
of residence in the state ; or in the parish in which it appears from
the inventory that his principal property was situated, if he had
property in several parishes; in the parish where he died, if he
had no certain, nor any fixed propetty. 
SEC. 930, lf the will be made by a public act, it shall be sufficient for
the petitioner to annex a copy of it in due form to his petition, and
to pray for the execution and recording of it. 
SEC. 931. If it be the executor appointed by the will who presents
the petition, he shall demand not only the execution and registry 
· of the will, but that letters testamentary be delivered to him, if he
agrees to accept the appointment. Whenever the testamentary
executor named in the will shall be present in the state but be
domiciled out of it, the judge shall only grant him the letters on
the execution of his hund, with a good and solvent security, for
such a sum and under such conditions as are required by law from
dative testamentary executors. 
SEC. 932. The judge shall only order the execution and registry of
the will, when satisfied that the testator is actually dead. 
SEC. 933. When the will has been made in the presence of wit~
nesses, the judge, after being satisfied of the testator's death, shall
order that the will be proved before him on a day, place and hour
to be fixed by him, by the number of witnesses required for that
purpose by law.( e) Whenever the testamentary executor named in
the will shall present the petition praying for the execution and
registry of the will, and should fail to pray besides for the letters
testamentary, in conformity with this article, then and in that case
he shall be presumed to have declined the trust. 
SEC. 934. If the will be contained in a sealed packet, the judge
shall order the opening of it at the time appointed by him, and 
shall then proceed to the proof of the will.
SEC. 935. The party praying for the opening and proof of the will, 
shall cause to be summoned the number of witnesses possessing
the qualities required for such proof, and if the presumptive heirs
of the deceased or any of them, reside in the place, he shall give
them notice in writing that they may attend, if they think proper,
at the opening and proof of the will. 
SEC. 936. If the petitioner alleges under oath in his petition that he
is informed that the will of the deceased, the opening of which
and its proof and execution are prayed for, is deposited in the 
hands of a notary orany other person, the judge shall issue an 
order to such notary or other person, directing hirn to produce
the will or the packet containing it, at a certain time to be men­
tioned, that it may be opened and proved, or that the execution 
of it mav be ordered.
SEC. 937. If the notary, or other individual to whom the said order 
is directed refuses to obey it, the judge shall issue an order to
arrest him, and if he does not adduce ~ood reasons for not produ­ 
cing the will, shall commit him to prison until he produces it,
and he shall be answerable in damages to such persons as may 
suffer from his ref usal. •
SEC. 938. At the time appointed for opening and proving the will, 
the judge shall proceed in his duty in the manner prescribed by 
law.
SEC. 939. For the purpose of such proof, the judge shall receive the 
deposition in writing of each of the witnesses produced, which
depositions shall be signed hy them with their names or ordinary 
marks, and the whole shall remain annexed to the record. 
SEC. 940. After this proof the judge shall read the will in an audi­
ble and distinct voice, to the end that its provisions may be heard 
by the witnesses and all other persons present, and if it appear to 
be in regular form, the execution of it shall be ordered, and it
shall be recorded: 
SEC. 941. The judge shall also ordain that the original of the will 
thus proved shall be deposited in his office, after being signed ne
»arietur, by him at the beginning and end of each page. 
SEC. 942. The judge before whom a will shall be thus opened and
proved, shall prepare a process verbal, in which he shall recite: 
1. The manner in which the opening nnd proof were rnadej 
2. The names and surnames of the witnesses and the manner 
in which they made their declarations ;
3. The reading the will in an audible and distinct voice to the 
witnesses and other persons present; .
4. The order for executing and recording the will, and for de­ 
positing it, after having signed it ne »arietur, at the beginning and
end of each page. This process verbal shall be dated and signed
by the judge or clerk, and shall remain annexed to the record as
a part of it. 
SEC. 943. When a will has been thus proved, the depositions of
witnesses taken in writing shall be considered .good evidence, in
case the will be subsequently attacked, although such witness be
dead or removed permanently from the state. 
SEC. 944. The appointment of a tutor or curator to a minor belongs
to the judge of probates of the place of domicil or usual residence 
or the father and mother of such minor, if they or either of them
be Jiving.  
SEC. 945. If the father and mother of the minor ~ dead, Wle ap­
pointment shall be made by the judge of probates of their last place
of domicil, or if they had no domicil, of that of the minor's near­
est relations. 
SEC. 946. If the father and mother of the. minor reside out of the
state, and are not represented in it, and the minor be also absent,
be may be provided with a tutor or curator by the judge of pro­
bates of the place where his principal property is, or where he has
interests to assert or defend. 
SEC. 947. A II persons, even strangers, ought to gi;,e information to
the judge, within whose province it lies, of the fact which gives
rise to the appointment of a tutor. 
SEC. 948. It is the duty of the competent judge, to whom this in·
formation is given, or to whom a petition is presented for appoint·
ing a tutor or curator to a minor, to make the appointment in the
manner hereafter provided. 
SEC. 949. If it be the father of the minor who presents the petition 
claiming his tutorship, the judge shall confer it on him, only re­
quiring of him an oath to perform the duties well and faithfully.( d) 
SEC. 950. If the father of the minor be <lead, and his mother claim
the tutorship, the judge shall confer it on her, if she has not en·
tered into a·second marriage, only reqairing from her the same
oath as in the foregoing nrticle.f l ] 
SEC. 861. But if the mioor be the child of a first marri~ge, and the
mother has contracted a second, the judge ·shall not confer the 
tutorship on her during the life of her second husband, except by 
the.advice of a family meeting duly convoked for that purpose.Ie]
SEC. 952. If it he one of the ascending relations of the minor who 
claims the tutorship, and the minor has several ascending relations
in the same degree, the judge shall, on a petition presented to him
for the purpose, direct that the' other ascending relations in the
same degree be summoned to show cause, if they have any, why
the appointment prayed for shall not be made. 
SEC. 953. If it be a relation not in the ascending line who claims the
tutorship, the judge shall order the petitioner to declare under
oath what are the minor's relations residing in the state, who are
in an equal or nearer degree than he is, and on such declaration
he shall order tnat such relatives be cited to show whether they
have any cause for opposing the appointment prayed for. 
SEC. 964. Ii there be conflicting claims between the ascending and
other relatives, and one of them shall pretend a better right than
the person claiming the tutorship, he shall file his written opposi­
tion to the appointment, in the office of the judge, before the day
on which such an appointment is to be made, stating substantially 
his reasons for the opposition.
SEC. 955. The judge shall determine in a summary way on such 
opposition, and shall confer the tutorship on the person whom he
thinks to have the best right; but the other party may appeal from
his decision as hereafter provided. 
SEC. 956. If the father or mother of the minor have appointed a tutor
for him by will, the tutor thus appointed shall present a petition 
to the judge of probates, to which a copy of the will must be an­
nexed, praying to he confirmed in his tutorship; 
SEC. 957. If no relation of the minor claim the tutorship, or will 
accept the same, the judge may appoint, with the advice of a
meeting of the minor's relations, or friends if he hne no J·elations, 
any stnnger willing to act in that capacity and baving the n~
Al'Y qualifications. 
Whenever it shall occur that no one will tnke upon himself the
tutorship of a minor or minors, and comply with the existing 1,.wa
by giving the required security for the tutorship of minors, it shall 
be the duty of the parish judge to summon a family meeting ae­
cording to the provisions of this act, and with its advice to nomi­
eate one discreet and responsible· person in the parish to be tutor,
and another to be under tutor, who shall in all respects comply
with the existing laws in relation to tutors, except that of giving 
secur ity for bis administration. ·
SEC. 958. A minor who has arrived at the age of puberty, may, in 
his own name, present a petition to the judge, in order that cura­
tors ad bona and ad lites, may be appointed for him; he shall
himself designate the persons whom he wishes to be nominated.
But the minor must appear in person to confirm the statement in
his petition. 
SEC. 969. If a minor above{e) the Rge of puberty be absent, the judge,
with the advice of a meeting of relations; or of friends, if he have 
09 relations, shall appoint for such minor a curator to take care
of his estate, and another to take care of his person. 
SEC. 960. If the person appointed as curator or tutor, have reasons
to assi~or not serving as such, he must, within ten Jays after
having""tiad notice of his nomination, if he reside in the place, de·
liver to the clerk of the court; which has nominated him, a wriuen
opposition, setting forth the grounds of his refusal to act. If he
reside not in the place, the delay of ten days granted for filing his
opposition shall he increased at the rate of one day for every four 
leagues, counting the distance from his residence to the place
where the court which made the appointment is held. 
SEC. 961. The judge shall decide summarily on the merits of sueh
opposition; if the reasons assigned be sufficient he shall proceed
to appoint another tutor or curator ; in the contrary case he shall
order him to act and to pay the costs of the opposition, leaving him
the right to appeal from his decision as hereafter prescribed. 
SEC. 962. The rules above prescribed with respect to the tutorship
of minors, shall govern as regards the curatorship of interdicted 
persons. •
SEC. 963. Curators must be appointed to represent persons absent 
from the state, who have property in the state and are unrepresented
therein. Such appointment shall be made by the judge of probate
of the place where the property lies. 'fhe person cJaiming such
curatorship, shall be appointed, if he have the required qualifica•
tion, and give the securety which the law directs.{m) 
SEC. 964. The above provisions shall not be so construed as to prP.­
vent persons having claims against a minor, or person absent, 
from pursuing the same, previous to a curator or tutor having been
appointed as above prescribed : but in such cases the person claim­
ing must in his petition pray the court to which it is addressed, to
appoint a tutor or curator ad hoc to defend the minor or absent
person in the action.
SEC. 965. The mo.le of ptoceeding to be be pursued by courts of
probates, Ml making inventories and sales of estates belonging to
vacant succession, is provided by 'special Jaws. The following
provisions relate only to the appointment of curators charged with
the administration of such estates. 
SEC. 966. One wishing to he appointed curator to ~ vacant estate or
to the estate of a person absent, must make his demand by a peti­
tion addressed to the probate judge of the place where the suc­
cession has been opened.  
SEC. 967. On the filing of such petition, the judge shall give public
notice of the same, and direct, if any opposition he intended, that
the same be made within ten days from the date of the notice.  
SEC. 968. This notice shall be given hy written advertisement in
French and English, which must be posted at the door of the pa­
rochial church of the place, if there be ohe, or at the door of the
court house. 
SEC. 969. Besides this notice, the advertisement must be inserted in
French and English, as hereafter prescribed, to wit: in New- 
Orleans and. the places not more than one hundred miles distant
from the same, in two of the newspapers printed in that city; and 
in the places beyond that distance, in one of the newspapers, if 
there be any published within fifty miles of the place where the
judge giving the order usually resi<lPs. 
SEC. 970. Opposition to applications for a curatorship, must be made
within ten days of the date of the notice that such application has
been made. 
SEC. 971. Such opposition must be in writing, and signed by the
opponent or his advocate: it must be delivered lo the clerk of the
court before which the demand has been brought. 
SEC. 972. This opposition can only be founded on the allegation of
a better right on the part of the person opposing, than of the per­ 
son claiming the tutorship; otherwise it shall be rejected with
costs, and shall not prevent the confirming the tutorship to the
person demanding· it, if hi possess such requisites and give such 
security as the law calls for. 
SEC. 973. If the opposition rests on a right of preference alleged by 
the person-opposing, the court shall decide on the opposition in a 
summary manner, and shall confer the tutorship according to law, 
with a right of appeal lo the .l)ther party, however, as hereafter
declared.  
 
SEC. 974. The heir who wishes to enjoy the benefit of inventory,
and to have time for deliberating, shall. as soon as he is made ac­ 
quainted with the death of the person to whose succession he is
called, present a petition to the judge of probates where the suc­
cession is opened, to declare his intention of taking the time
allowed to deliberate, and shall pray that an exact inventory be
made of the succession property, after removing the seals, if any 
have been affixed.
SEC. 975. The judge to whom such petition. is presented, shall pro· 
ceed to make an inventory of the property of the succession, either
in person or by appointing some notary for the purpose. 
SEC. 976. During the time allowed for making the inventory and for
deliberating, the judge shall appoint an administrator to retain the
property, if any of tho creditors of the succession sha11 require it, 
and in making such appointment, he shall prefer the beneficiary
heir: such administrator shall give good and sufficient security,
in the same manner as 'curators of vacant estates and absent heirs,
unless the said administrator shall prefer giving such security by 
a special mortgage.
SEC. 977. After the expiration of the time for making the inventory 
and for deliberation, the creditors and legatees of.the succession,
or any of them, may present a petition to the judge of probates of
the place where the succession is opened, and demand that the
beneficiary heir be cited and made to declare whether he accepts
or refuses the succession. 
SEC. 978. If on such demand the beneficiary heir shall otl'er hla re­
nunciation in due form, he shall be dismissed with costs, aod the
administrator of the succession shall proceed to sell the property
and pay the debts, under the authority of the judge of probates
who appointed him in the same manner as curators of vacant estates 
are required to do. 
SEC. 979. Where the prej~mptive heir of a person deceased bas
not prayed for time to ~iberate, every creditor or legatee of the
deceased may, ten days after the opening o( the succession, cite
such heir to appear before the judge of probates, and call on him
to declare whether be accepts the succession or refuses it. 
SEC. 980. Ir the heir thus cited declares that he accepts, or if he be
silent, or make default, he shalJ be considered as having accepted
the succession purely and unconditionally, and may be sued as 
he had done so. 
SEC. 981. But if he· declares that he wishes for the benefit of inven­ 
tory and for time to deliberate, the judge shall delay pronouncing
on the matter .. until the expiration of the time allowed. 
SEC. 982. But if, ~hen the creditor or legatee makes such demand,
the time allowed by law has already expired, the heir shall be
obliged to declare his intention within a time to be allowed by the 
judge, not more than ten days from that on which he ought to have
given his answer. · 

SEC. 983. A 11 debts in money which are due from successions administered by curators appointed by courts and by testamentary 
executors, shall be liquidated and their payment enforced by the
court of probates of the place where the succession was opened.~
The case is different with respect to the action of revendication
and other real actions which shall be instituted against such estates; they may be brought before the ordina .. y tribunal.(~ 
SEC. 984. No bearer o( a claim for money against a succession administered by a ~U!°3tOr appointed by. a judge or hr a tes~mentary: 
executor or administrator, shall commence an action agamst such
succession, before presenting his claim to the curator. . 
SEC. 986. If such claim be liquidated and be acknowledged by the
curator or testamentary executor or administrator, he shall write 
on the evidence of the claim, or on a paper which he shall annex
to it, a declaration signed by him, and stating that he has no objec­
tion to the payment of such claim, after which the bearer pf such
claim shall submit it to the judge, that it may be ranked among the
acknowledged debts of the succession. 
SEC. 986. If the claim be not liquidated, or if the curator or testa­
mentary executor or adminiatrator have any objection to it, and
consequently refuse to approve it, the bearer of the evidence of such
claim, whatever may be its amount, may bring his action against
the curator or administrator, in the ordinary manner, before the
court of probateswhere the succession was opened, and may ob­
tain judgment in the same manner as in other courts. c~ . 
SEC. 987. But the creditor who has obtained such judgment, or the
uacknowledgment of his debt, can only obtain the payment of it 
concurrently with the other creditors of the succession, unless it
be such a privileged claim asought to be paid without delay. 
SEC. 988. When the time. for paying creditors shall have arrived,
the curators or testamentary executors shall call together all the 
creditors of the succession, in the manner provided by law, to re­
ceive what is due to them, as also interest and costs, if the estate 
be sufficient for that purpose, or to determine the order in which
they shall be Raid, if it be insufficient. 
SEC. 989. As the creditors of estates administered by curators or
testamentary executors or administrators, can only obtain payment
after certain delays, interest shall be allowed on their debts, if the
estate b• sufficient from the death of the debtor, if they were due
at that time, or from the date when they became due, if it were
after that event, although no judicial demand may have been made. 
SEC. 990. It shall be the duty of the several judges of probates, on
the application of the creditors or any creditor of a vacant estate, 
to cause,_ on the requisite advertisements being made, so much of
the property of the said estate as is necessary to pay the debts of
the same, which may be due, to be offered for sale and sold at
public auction to the highest bidder for cash, if the creditors re­
quire it ; and if, on thus offering said property for sale, the ap­
praised value should not be bid and obtained then, the same shall, 
in not less than fifteen nor more than twenty-five Jays, from the
time it is thus offered, be sold at public auction, and after public
advertisement, to the highest bidder, for what it will bring, on a
credit of twelve months; provided, however, that in all sales of
effects belonging to a vacant estate, on a credit, the purchaser
shall give bond and security to the satisfaction of the probate judge
and curator, and a mortgage on the real estate so purchased. It
shall be lawful for t~entary executors, administrators and cu­
rators, to cause the property, real and personal, of such succession
or successions, as may be under their administration, to be sold by
any commissioned auctioneer, and such sale or sales so made shall
be good and valid in law, provided said testamentary executors,
administrators, or curators, as the case may be, comply with the
requisites of the law relative to the sale of succsssions, or vacant
estates, and provided the said testamentary executor, curator <?r
administrator, or any other person, cause the process-verbal of
such sale or sales, when made in the parish of Orleans, to be re­
corded in the office of the register of wills, and when made in any
of the other parishes of this state. in the office that of of the parish 
judge.   ·
SEC. 991. It shall be the duty of the judge of probates in al] cases 
of vacant estates, on the application of the creditors or any cred­
itor thereof. whose debt shall not then be due, to sell, after the
usual advertisements, upon the conditions contained in the pre­ 
ceding article, so much of the estate as will be sufficient to pay
the claim or claims of the creditors who shall make the applica­
tion, and on such terms of credit as will correspond with the fall­ 
ing due of the several claims ef the creditors. 
SEC. 992. The principles contained in the two preceding articles,
shall apply to all successions accepted with benefit of inventory, 
whether the heirs are minors or of age, and ·to all successions ad­
ministered· by administrators. 
SEC. 993. Ten days after the classification and order of the pay­
ments shall be fixed by the court of probates, and as often there­ 
after as a majority of the creditors in· amount may require it, it
shall be the duty of the curator to account for before the judge of
probates and pay over to each of the creditors or their repr.esen­
tatives, a due proportion of the sums which he may have in his
hands ; and on his failing to render his account, ten days after
being notified of the demand of the creditors to that effect, or to
make payment within ten days after the account rendered, exe­
cution shall issue of course in the name of all the creditors of the
estate, or "of those to whom he has failed to make payment.,
against all the property of said curator which shall be sold, after
the usut!-1 advertisements, forwhat it will bring in cash.  · 
SEC. 994. When tutors and curators of minor heirs administer a
succession with the benefit of inventory, and the said tutors or
curators fail to pay over the money as specified in the preceding articles for the government of curators of vacant estates, oxecu­
tion shall issue against said tutors or ourators in the same manner
as is provided in said article against the beneficiary heir and cu­
rator of vacant estate, and on said execution, the property of said
tutor or curator shall be sold in the same manner as that of a ben­
eficiary heir and curator of vacant estate.  
SEC. 996. What is said in this section in relation to the liquidation
of estates only applies where such estates are administered by cu­ 
rators or other persons appointed by a court, or· by testamentary
executors. 
SEC. 996. The case is different when such estates are in the posses­
of heirs either present or represented in the state, although. 
all or some of those heirs be minors 1 for in such case the actions
for debts due from successions shall be brought before the ordi­ 
nary tribunals, either against the heirs themselves, if they be of
age, or against their curators if they be under age or interdicted. 
· 
SEC. 997. The judges of the court of probates who have appointed
or confirmed the tutors or curators of minors, interdicted, absent,
or other persons unable to administer their own property, testamen­
tary executors, curators of vacant estates, of absent heirs, or other
persons administering successions, alone have the power of com­
pelling them to account and pay over what they may be found to 
owe.f l]: 
SEC. 998. Therefore, if a minor, a p~rsou under interdiction when
restored to his rights, an absentee whose property has been aJ­
ministered by a tutor or curator, wishes to make his tutor or cura­
tor account for his management, he shall present his petition for
that purpose to the court of probates by whom such tutor or cura­
tor was appointed, praying that he may he cited to appear in the
ordinary manner, and that he maY. be decreed to give an account
of his administration, or pay such sum as he inay suppose to be
due. 
SEC. 999. The minor 'who has a right to demand this account, can
only institute the action in his own private name, after the attain­
ment of full age. If he has' only reached the age of puberty, he
shall be· assisted by a curator ad lites, even if he be emancipated,
unless he be a married man.  
SEC. 1000. When the· heirs or other persons entitled to successions,
which are administered by curators appointed by a judge, or by 
testamentary executors, shall present themselves or send their
Powers to reclaim such succession, they shall present a petition to 
the judge who appointed or confirmed these curators or exer.utors,~~;(
praying that they may be cited and compelled to account for their 
administration. · · . · ~
SEC. 1001. The said heirs or other persons claiming, shall file along,~
with theirpetition, all such proofs as may go in support of it, to
the end that the curator or testamentary executor may be made ac- 
quainted with them. ·
SEC. 1002. The judge shall pronounce on this claim in a summary 
manner, as soon as the time allowed for the curators or executors
to answer shall have expired. 
SEC. 1003. If from the examination of the testimony produced in
support of the prayer,· the judge discovers that the petitioners are
entitled to the succession, he shall put them in possession of it, and
shall direct the curator or executor to render an account within a
reasonable time, to be fixed by him.( g) ( 1) 
SEC. 1004. If the curator or executor obevs the order and renders
his account, the heirs or other claimants- shall, within three days 
afterwards, file their written objections, if they have any, signed
by themselves or their counsel, to each item of the account to
which they object, or of which they pray for the rejection. 
SEC. 1006. The judge may himself decide on these objections, or
refer them to auditors, to make. a report on them to him.( i) 
SEC. 1006. If from his own examination, or the report of the auditors,
the judge thinks the objections unfounded, h~ shall condemn the 
party making them to pay the costs ; if, on the· other hand, he
considers them well· founded. he shall sentence the curator or ex­ 
ecutor to pay the costs of the proceeding. 
SEC. 1007. If from a scrutiny of the account, the curator or executor 
shall app~ar to owe a balance, he shall be sentenced to pay it to the
heirs or other claimants. with interest from the day of judgment :
if the balance is in his favor, the petitioners shall be adjudged to
pay him in the same manner, and he may, until such payment be
made, retain the property of the succession which may be in his
hands. 
SEC. 1008. The rules above established shall be observed in all cases
of petition for an account brought before the courts of probate. 
SEC. 1009. If the heirs or others entitled to succession which are ad­
ministered by curatorsappointed by a judge, do not appear or send
their powers, before the expiration of the time at which such ad­
ministrators are to render their accounts, according to Jaw, it shall
be the duty of the judge of probates who appointed or confirmed
them, to name a counsel for the absent heirs, if there be not one
already, to demand an account from such administrators, and to
make them pay the balance due, if there be any, into the treasury 
of the sta~e. 
SEC. 1010. The counsel thus appointed shall present his petition
to the judge of probates, and shall cause the curator or executor to
be cited and directed to render his account within the time de­
termined by the judge. 
SEC. 1011. If at the expiration of .such time, he refuses or neglects 
to render his account, the judge shal1 issue a mandate directing
him to comply with the provisions of the law, and if within the
time allowed to obey this mandate, the administrator persists in
refusing to render an account, without tendering a good reason
for the delay, the judge shall order him to be arrested and impri­
soned until he renders the account: 
SEC. 1012. When the tutor or curator of a minor, interdicted or
absent person, or of a vacant estate, refuses to render an account
to those who have a right to demand it, such persons may compel
him either by praying that he be imprisoned until he do render it, 
or by having his property and income distrained, or by using any
other means which the law may afford. 
SEC. 1013. Tutors and curators of minors, interdicted and absent
persons, and curators of vacant estates and absent heirs or other
administrators of successions may be remove<l by the court of pro­
bates which appointed them, for any of the causes specified by 
. 
SEC. 1014. Testamentary executors may be deprived in the same
manner and for the same causes. 
SEC. 1016. It shall be the duty of every person to acquaint the
judge of probates with the fact rendering it proper to remove the 
tutor or curator of a minor or person interdicted.
SEC. 1016. The judge when made acquainted with such fact, if he 
thinks there is a probable cause for removal, shall direct the
subrogated tutor or the curator ad lites of such minor to prosecute
the removal of the tutor or curator acl bona, or if the said minor
has no subrogated tutor or curator ad lites, he shal~ appoint a cu- 
rator ad hoc to commence the action. /~ ~ ,-,
SEC. 1017. The action for the removal of the tutor or curator of a 
minor shall be· commenced by petition and citation, and the matter shall be conducted in the usual form. 
SEC. 1018. The removal of curators of vacant estates and absent
heirs, and that of testamentary executors, or other administrators 
ruf successions, may be prayed by an heir, creditor or other per­
son concerned, and the suit be conducted in the same manner as 
above. 
SEC. 1019. The judge who shall be made acquainted with any fact
sufficient to justify the removal of a curator of n vacant succession 
tror of absent heirs whom he has appointed, may direct the counsel
of the absent heirs whom he shall appoint for the purpose, to in- 
stitute a suit in their name, to obtain a removal of such curator. 
SEC. 1020. Whenever a minor, interdicted or absent person, as m­
tereste<l in the partition of a succession, it shall be made by judi­
cial authority. 
SEC. 1021. Even when all the heirs are of full age, and present or re­
presented in the state, the partition shall he made by the same
authority, if one of them refuses the partition, or they cannot agree
upon the mode of making it. 
SEC. 1022. All partitions of succession property shall be made by
the court of probates of the place where the succession is opened ;
and whenever in a suit for partition before any court of probate,
the title to real estate may be brought into question, either directly
or collaterally, such court of probates shall be competent to de­
.eide on such questions of title. 
SEC. 1023. Every heir, whether of full age or minor, may force his
ep-heirs to a partition. 
SEC. 1024. The 'heir desirous of obtaining a partition, shall present
his petition to the judge of probates, praying that his co-heirs may
be cited to hear the sentence of partition and the mode in which it 
is directed to he made.
SEC. 1025. The judge of probates, to whom this petition is made, 
shall cite to appear before him the other co-heirs, although all or
'Any of them have their residence out of his jurisdiction. 
SEC. 1026. The sheriffs of the different parishes to whom such cita­
tions are directed, shall serve them on the parties concerned resi­
ding in their parishes, and return . them with their report to the
court which issued them, in the same manner as with ordinary
citations in other cases. • · 
SEC. 1027. At the expiration of the time allowed for answering the
petition, the judge shall decree the partition, direct the manner in
which it shall be made, and refer the parties to a notary whom he
shall appoint to makethe partition. 
SEC. 1028. If in the course of the proceedings before the notary,
any controversy should arise between the parties, the judge shall
decide on it in a summary manner, on motion by the first party
applying to him, and on givin_g notice to the other parties and a 
reasonable time for them to answe,:. 
SEC. 1029. When the partition is completed by the notary, any per­
son interested may deposit a copy of the proceedings on it in the
office of the court which directed it, and may move that his co­
heirs shall be called to state within ten days after service of the
order on them for that purpose, any reasons that they may nave
why the partition shall not be homologated. 
SEC. 1030. If the co-heirs have any objections to the manner in which
the partition was made, they shall make opposition in writing to
the homologation prayed for, within the time above allowed, sta­
ting the errors or irregularities of which they have to complain in
said partition. 
SEC. 1031. If the judge consider the opposition welt founded, in
part or in whole, he shall order that the partition be rectified, and
shall refer the parties to the same or another notary whom he sh11II
appoint, who shall prepare a supplementary act of partition, in
conformity with the judge's decision, a copy of which shall be on
the files of the court, as well as the act of partition. 
SEC. 1032. If the judge considers the opposition of the co-heirs un­
founded, he shall confirm the act of partition, and it shall become
final between the parties, provided the legal formalities have been
observed. 
• 
SEC. 1033. Whenever a proceeding is commenced in the court of
probates by citation, and no shorter time has been fixed liy law,
the defendant shall have the same delay to nppear in and answer,
as in the ordinary tribunals of original jurisdiction. 
SEC. 1034. Whenever it is said in this title, that a cause shall be,!-/£~~~/
decided in a summary manner, the judge shall pronounce upon it 
with the greatest practicable celerity, giving it a preference over all
other petitions to which the-law has not afforded the privilege of a
summary process. · 
SEC. 1036. Judges of probates shall sit for the trial of contested
cases at least once a month, on a day to be fixed by them, except 
in the city of NPw Orleans, where the said court shall sit at least
once a week to decide cases pending before it. With regard to 
summary cases they shall hear them c,·ery <lay, at certain hours to
be appointed Ly them, or as often as mny be necessary. 
SEC. 1036. All causes tried before a court of probates shall be deci­
ded without the intervention of a jury, even if the parties should
wish for one. 
SEC. 1037. Courts of probates have power to issue orders of arrest,
attachments, sequestration, writs of distringas, provisional seizure, 
execution and injunction, in all cases where they may be necessary
proper; to compel the attendance of witnesses ; to issue com­ 
"""'"1issions for taking their depositions ; to appoint experts, auditors
or arbitrators ; to compel parties or other individuals to produce title deeds, papers. or other objects which may be in their posses­ 
~ to punish cont~mpts of their a uthority, as other judges ma~;
and in short to exercise all such other powers not enumerated m 
this title as may be necessary to enforce their jurisdiction.  
SEC. 1038. Courts of probate may call meetings of the creditors of
such successions as are administered under their authority, when 
the curators or executors or other administrators of successions
think such meetings necessary to ascertain the wish of the cred­ 
itors with regard to the manner of selling the property.  
SEC. 1041. Courts of probate may homologate the deliberations of
such creditors in the same manner as is done in cases of bank­ 
ruptcy, and may pronounce summarily on such opposition as
shall be made. 
SEC. 1040. Courts of probate may adopt such rules of proceeding
as they may think proper, in cases not provided for by the pres­
ent title, provided they be not incompatible with what is here 
contained. 
SEC. 1041. But judges of probates cannot, as such, grant writs of 
habeas corpus, or issue any of the mandates mentioned in the
tenth chapter of the first title of this second part. ( d) 
SEC. 1042. The testimony of witnesses in causes before the courts
of probates, shall be taken in writing, and annexed to the record,
and a list shall be made of such documents as are produced by 
the parties and are not annexed to the record, that they may be
read on the appeal. (2t · 
SEC. 1043. The rules relative to exceptions to the judge's opinions
on such points of law as are submitted to him, to the mode of de­ 
manding and granting a new trial, of signing the final judgment,
of appealing from it, giving security on such appeal, taking a copy
of the record and filing it in the appellate court, and of citing the
appellee, are the same as are provided for the courts of original 
jurisdiction, in the first title of this part. ·
SEC. 1044. All the rules concerning pleadings and orders which are 
required to be in English and French, before the other tribunals,
as provided in the first tide of this part, shall prevail also in the
courts of probates, unless the parties consent that they shall he 
in English only.
SEC. 1046. The judges of the courts of probates in parishes where 
there are no registers and the register of wills for the parish of
Orleans, shall keep two records in the same form as is directed
for clerks of the district court of the state. 
SEC. 1046. The register of wills of New Orleans shall, under the
direction of the judge, malre the inventories and sales of succ~s­
sion property, which are directed by law to be made 1>y the
courts of probates, independently of such duties as they have to
perform in common with other clerks. 
SEC. 1047. The sheriffs of the different parishes shall execute all
the orders, judgments and decrees rendered by the court of pro­
bates in their respective parishes, and shall receive the same
emoluments as are allowed them in the district courts.( i) 
SEC. 1048. The sheriffs shall also attend_ or send one of their dep­
uties or constables to the courts of probates which shall be held
in their parishes, and for such attendance they shall be allowed
one dollar on every cause decided, which fee shall be taxed and
paid by the party or succession which shall be sentenced to pay
the costs.· . 
SEC. 1049. Appeals shall be carried from the courts of probates di­
rectly to the supreme court in all cases where the matter in dis­
pute shall exceed the sum of three hundred dollars. lk) 
SEC. 1060. The appeal shall be taken in the same manner frem
judgments confirming or removing a tutor or curator of a minor, 
interdicted or absent person of a vacant estate. or absent heirs, 
when the value of the succession property shall exceed the sum
of three hundred dollars. 
SEC. 1051. When the object in dispute or the property of the suc­
cession does not amount to three hundred dollars, but exceeds
one hundred, the appear from the courts of probates except those
from the parish of Orleans, shall be carried to the district court
within the jurisdiction of which the court of probates is held.  
The district court shall proceed in the same manner as is pre­
scribed by this Code in relation to appeals from the parish to the
district court. 
SEC. 1062.
There shall be no appeal from the decision of the court 
of probates for the parish of Orleans when the object in dispute
is of less value than three hundred do liars. 
SEC. 1063. When a judgment shall be rendered for a sum of money,
against a. curator to a vacant succession, 1 or absent heirs, or
against a testamentary executor or other administrator, such ad­
ministrator shall, within three days after the judgment has been
notified to him, if he bas a sufficient amount in his hands, dis­
charge 'the amount of the judgment, if it be for a privileged debt,
such as funeral or law charges or others of that kind, which are
to be paid in preference to all others, before the expiration of the
three months within which curators· of estates and testamentary
executors are bound to make payment of the debts due by the
estate which they administer.  
SEC. 1054. But if it be for an ordinary debt, the curator, testamen­
tary executor or other administrator cannot be compelled to pay
the amount of such judgment, until after the expiration of the three
months allowed him to discharge the debts of the succession, and
if the time be expired, he shall pay the amount of such judg­
ment concurrently with the other debts of the succession, by ap­
plying to the judge of probates who appointed him, for a convo­
cation of the creditors, in the manner prescribed by law, that be
may distribute among them the sums which may be in his pos­ 
session.  
SEC. 1055. But if the curator, executor or other administrator has no 
funds in his hands, he shall inform the sheriff, when the judg­
ment is notified to him, that he has not sufficient funds to satisfy it. 
SEC. 1056. The party obtaining the judgment, may, thereupon make
a motion to the court that the curator or executor shall be com­
pelled to prove the truth of his declaration, by filing in court,
within a time to be specified, a brief statement of his condition,
as administrator or executor with regard to the said succession. 
SEC. 1057. If the curator, testamentary executor or administrator,
refuses or neglects to pay the amount for which judgment has
heen rendered, in one of the modes pointed out in the preceding articles, or if he {ails to prove that be has no funds in his hands,
helonging to the succession, the party in whose favor the judg­
ment was rendered, may take out an execution against him, under
which his property, to a sufficient amount to pay the debt, shall
be seized and sold.( o} 
SEC. 1058. If the judgment direct that something shall be given or
delivered, or that something shall be done or refrained from, the
party in whose favor it is rendered, may, on the curator, executor
or administrator failing to satisfy it within three days after it is no­
tified to him, and when the judgment shall have acquired the force
of res Jwlicata, obtain an order to distrain the property of such
administrator, until he complies with the judgment.  
SEC. 1059. When an appealis made from a judgment appointing or
removing a tutor or curator of a minor, interdicted or absent per­
son, or of a vacant succession or absent heirs, or other adminis­ 
trators of successions, such appeal shall not suspend the exec~7
tion of the judgment, but it shall have effect provisionally, until 
the appeal is decided. 
SEC. 1060. Justices or the peace have jurisdiction both in civil and
criminal matters. lt is their civil jurisdiction which is treated of
iu the present title. 
SEC. 1061. Justices or the peace have an exclusive original juris­
diction in all the civil cases hereafter expressed. 
SEC. 1062. With regard to the civil jurisdiction of justices of the
J>eace, three things are to be considered: 
1. The value of the object in dispute;
2. The nature of the case submitted to them;
3. The domicil of the defendant.
SEC. 1063. J ustices of the peace may pronounce judgment:
1. On all claims for sums of money, by whatever right they 
are claimed, whether as debts, damages, fines or taxes;
2. On all claims for the restitution of movable property;
But in neither case have they any jurisdiction, when the value 
in dispute exceeds the '5Um fixed in the two following articles.
SEC. 1064. Justices of the peace, except those of the city and pre­ 
cincts of New Orleans, have cognizance of all cases of the na­ 
ture of those described above, where the matter in dispute does
not exceed the sum of fifty dollars. 
SEC. 1065. Justices of the peace in the city and precincts of New
Orleans exercise the same jurisdiction, to the amount of one hun- 
t Ired dollars, and no more. · 
SEC. 1066. The district and parish courts have no original jurisdic­
tion in causes of which the cognizance is thus given to justices of
the peace exclusively. 
SEC. 1067. To ascertain the amount in dispute before justices of the
peace, regard must be had to the demand, without considering fo­ 
terest and charges which may enlarge the sum.
SEC. 1068. Justices of the peace have no jurisdiction when the 
right of property pr the possession of an immovable or slave
is called into question, although the amount of the demand may
not exceed the sum of which they are allowed totake cognizance. 
SEC. 1069. In a civil case within their competence, justices 'of the
peace can only cite before them such persons as are domiciliated
or residing within the limits of their jurisdiction, or strangers who
may chance to be there. In this. case the term strangers applies
to such as have no domicil, or fixed place of residence in the state. 
In future, no j ustice of the peace shall hold, exercise, or en­
tertain jurisdiction in any civil matter where the defendant does
n ct reside within the limits of his sect.ion; provided, that in cases
where there is no justice of the peace resident in any section,
where he is absent, or where there exists some legal ground for
his recusation, then the nearest justice of the peace to the resi­
dence of the defendant, may exercise jurisdiction.• 
SEC. 1070. Justices of the peace can only exercise their authority
in the limits of the parish for which they are appointed, or in such
limits as are prescribed to them by special laws. 
SEC. 1071. Justices of the peace decide without appeal on all de­
mands within their competence, where the principal of the demand 
does not exceed ten dollars. On all judgments exceeding these
sums, an appeal is allowed in the manner hereafter provided. 
SEC. 1072. If a justice of the peace before whom an action is brought
is of kin or allied to one of the parties, he may be challenged by 
the other, and in that case he shall send the cause to be tried by
the justice of the peace living nearest to the domicil or usual
place of residence of the defendant. 

SEC. 1073. The claim, the answer, and the other proceedings in
causes brought before justices of the peace, are made verbally,
and there are no written acts but such as are expressly required 
by the present title.
SEC. 1074. To preserve a record of what takes place before them, 
justices of the peace shall keep a bound book, in which they
shall set down, in the order of date, the different causes which
are brought before them, and in this record they shall state: 
· 1. The title of the suit, that is, the names of the plaintifff' and
defendant. 
2. The object and the amount of the demand, if it be a sum
of money which is claimed. 
3. The date of the citation, and the service of it.
4. The answer of the defendant, if he appears, and his non 
appearance, if he makes default. 
6. The names of the witnesses produced by both parties; 
6. 'I'he date of the judgment, and its substance which shall be
written in fuJI; 
7. The date of the appeal, if one has been taken.
SEC. 1075. The formalities required above in the mode of keeping 
a record, are not indispensable, and their omission does not nulify
the proceedings. 
SEC. 1076. But when such record is regularly kept, a copy of it
certified by the justice shall be admitted in evidence on the appeal,
with respect to the facts which are declared in it. 
SEC. 1077. When a suit is instituted before a justice of the peace,
he shall make a note in his record, of the date and nature of
the demand, and shall immediately prepare a citation setting
forth the amount and nature of the demand in French and En­
glish if either party speaks French as a mother tongue, otherwise
the citation to be in English only, to call the defendant before him
to answer said demand, and he shall deliver the said citation to
any constable of the parish, that it may be served on the defendant •. 
SEC. 1078. The constable to whom the citation is delivered, shall
serve it on the defendant by delivering said citation to him, or by
leaving . it at his usual place of residence, with a free person of
the house, who shall appear to him to he fourteen years old. 
SEC. 1079. If the defendant be a mariner, or person employed on
board a ship or other vessel, and has no other known place of
residence but said ship, the constable may serve the citation by
delivering it to him in person, or by leaving it on board, with
some free person of the crew whom he shall judge to be above
the age of fourteen years. 
SEC. 1080. The constable after serving the citation on the defendant
shall return in writing to the justice the date and manner of
the service, and the justice shall make an exact statement of it in
his record. 
SEC. 1081. If any dispute arise concerning the fact of such service,
or its date, the constable shall be a competent witness. 
SEC. 1082. The defendant thus cited, shall only be obliged to a1r
pear and answer to the action, the day after the service of the cita­
tion, if he reside or happens to be in the city or precincts of 
New Orleans, or within ten days after such service, in other parts
of the state. 
SEC. 1083. When the defendant appears the justice shall record
bis answer, and if he declines the jurisdiction or pleads compen­
sation, mention shall be made of such pleas. 
SEC. 1084. If both parties are ready to try the cause, the judge
may proceed to the hearing, otherwise the justice shall fix such
a day and hour as he thinks proper, allowing sufficient time to
the parties to summon their witnesses, if it be necessary. 
SEC. 1086. If atthe time fixed for the hearing of the cause, one of
the parties fails to appear, the justice, after the lapse of an hour,
if the party reside in town, or after waiting an hour longer, if
they reside in the country, shall discharge the defendant with
costs if it be the plaintifff who makes default; and if it be the de­
fendant, the justice shall proceed to hear the plaintifff's testimony,
and if he find the claim to be well founded, he shall grant a judg­
ment by default against the defendant, which may be carried into
execution three days after being notified to, him. 
SEC. 1086. If the two parties appear at the time appointed, the jus­
tice shall immediately proceed to hear them and to render judg ..
ment, and in this case the judgment may be executed without be­ 
ing notified.
SEC. 1087. The parties may appear before the justice either in per­ 
son, or by a special attorney or by a lawyer.
SEC. 1088. At the time of trial, or before, each party may call on 
the other to testify on oath, on the matters in dispute between
them, and the justice may receive their declaration in writing
and annex it to the record, after having caused it to be signed by
the party attesting, or his mark made, if he cannot write. 
SEC. 1089. If the suit be in revendication of a movable object
and the defendant pleads to the jurisdiction of the justice of the
peace, on the ground that the thing claimed is beyond the value
of which he has cognizance, the judge shall cause it to be apprais­
ed by two persons selected by the parties and sworn by him, who
shall make their appraisement in writing, and according to such
appraisement the justice shalJ determine whether he be competent
or not. If one of the parties. refuse to name an appraiser, the
justice shall appoint one for him, and shall also appoint an um­
pire if the two first cannot agree in the appraisement. 
SEC. 1090. The party considering himself injured by the judgment
may appeal from it, on declaring such his intention to the justice,
without presenting any petition, and the justice shall note the
time of such appeal, and take from the appellant such security as 
the case requires.
SEC. 1091. If the defendent has pleaded compensation, the justice 
shall admit the plea if the amount pleaded be a liquidated sum, -or
can be proved without retarding the decision of the cause; and if
under this plea, the defendant is only indebted for a balance, the 
justice shall give judgment for such balance only, and the defend­
ant shall pay the costs, unless he had offered to pay such balance. 
SEC. 1092. But if the defendant, ori pleading compensation, has
offered to pay the balance which he considers due, by depositing 
it in the hands of the justice, the defendant shall only pay costs up
to the time of such offer, and the plaintifff shall bear the expenses 
subsequently incurred,
SEC. 1093. If the compensation pleaded exceeds the demand, the 
justice, if he considers the plea to be ri~htly made, shall render
judgment in favor of 'the defendant, if he prays it for th eexcess
of the debt pleaded in compensation over that on which the de­
mand was founded, and the plaintifff shall pay the costs. 
SEC. 1094. If it he proved to the justice that before the commence­
ment of the suit, the defendant had offered to the plaintifff, in the
presence of a credible witness, to pay the sum or thing claimed
by him, the justice in pronouncing judgment in favor of the plain­
tiff, shall sentence him to pay the costs, and shall allow him no
interest except such as had accrued before the offer. 
SEC. 1095. Except in the cases where offers have been made, as pro­
vided above, the party cast shall always pay the costs, although
the judgment be for a smaller sum than was claimed. 
 
SEC. 1096. In causes within their jurisdiction, justices may issue or­
ders of arrest, attachment, sequestration and provisional seizur,,
according to the rules hereafter provided. 
SEC. 1097. Every creditor for an amount within the jurisdiction of a
justice of the peace, may have his debtor arrested, and compel
him to give security to appear, if the debtor is about to depart from
the state, or from the parish where he has his domicil, or if he has
no domicil in the state. · 
SEC. 1098. The creditor wishing to arrest· his debtor, shall make
his demand before any competent justice of the peace, to have the
debtor cited and condemned to pay the sum due, and that he be at
the same time required to give security to appear and answer the 
said demand.
SEC. 1099. But this arrest shall only be ordered by the justice, on the 
creditor making an affidavit that the defendant is really indebted
to him in the sum demanded, stating such sum precisely; and such
affidavit shall also state that the creditor really believes that his 
debtor is about to depart from the state or parish of his domicil,
before judgment can be obtained against him, and that such debt­
or does not, to his knowledge, possess any property in the state,
to satisfy the demand. 
SEC. 1100. When the demand shall be brought against a person
· having no domicil in the state, the creditor may have him arrested 
and held to bail, by declaring in his affidavit that such creditor 
has no tlomicil in the state, without being ohliged to declare that
ho is about to depart, but in other respects, taking the same oath
as required in the preceding article. 
SEC. 1101. The justice to whom this prayer for arrest shall be made, 
accompanied by a suitable affidavit, shall deliver to a constable, a
citation, and order to arrest and bring before him the said de·
fondant, that he may answer to the action .. brought against him. 
SEC. 1102. The constable charged to execute this order, shall arrest
the defendant, on delivering to him the citation of which he is in
possession, and shall take him before a justice of the peace who
caused him to be cited, if the said justice he at his office. 
SEC. 1103. The justice shall require from the defendant his bond in
double the sum demanded, with one good and solvent surety, con­
ditioned for his appearance on the trial of the cause. 
SEC. 1104. If the defendant will not or cannot give the security re­
•1uire<.I of him, the justice shall send him to prison, there to re­ 
main until he gives the security demanded; or shall be discharged
from imprisonment in the manner provided by law. 
SEC. 1106. If the constable who has arrested the defendant does not
find the justice at his office, he may take from the defendant the
security for appearance, required above, or in default thereof, con­
duct him to prison, by virtue of the order which he has received. 
SEC. 1106. It shall be the duty of the jailor of the parish whither the
defendant shall have been carried, to receive and keep him until
•tat liberty, by order of the said justice; and for the support of
the defendant while in prison, the plaintifff shall pay to such jailer,
weekly and in advance the sum of three dollars and fifty cents. 
SEC. 1107. The justice of the peace to whom the plaintifff shall ap­
ply for the arrest of his debtor, shall require from him such sum as
ought to be advanced to the jailor, on delivering the debtor into his
custody; and in all civil actions brought before them, justices of
the peace may demand security for the costs. 
SEC. 1108. The bond to be furnished by the debtor under arrest,
shall contain a condition, that if he should depart without permis­
sion from the justice who caused him to be arrested, or should fail
to appear to satisfy such judgment as may be rendered against
him, his security shall be bound to satisfy such judgment to the
amount of his bond.( a) 
SEC. 1109. Even when the debt owing from a person about to depart
from the state is not yet due, the creditor may, if the debt be one 
of which a justice of the peace has cognizance, apply to any com·
petent justice, and procure the arrest of his debtor to compel him
to give security for his appearance when the debt becomes due. 
SEC. 1110. But to obtain such order of arrest, the creditor must
make an affidavit, in which he shall declare that the person whom
he wishes to arrest is really indebted to him in a sum which· he
shall specify and which is not yet due, and that he is informed and
verily believes that such debtor means to depart permanently from 
the state for the purpose of defrauding his creditors, and without
leaving any property, as far as he can learn, to satisfy them. 
SEC. 1111. In case of such arrest the person thus brought before a
justice of the peace shall be set at liberty, if he furnishes to the
justice his bond 1n double the amount in which he is indebted, 
with one good and sufficient security, conditioned that he will
surrender himself on such judgment as may be pronounced on the
debt when it becomes due, or that his security shall pay it for him;
otherwise the justice shall imprison such debtor until he furnish 
the security or pay the debt.
SEC. 1112. A person who shall have become security for another in 
a cause depending before a justice of the peace, may at any stage
of the cause, provided it be before judgment, release himself from
all responsibility on that account, by giving up the person of the
debtor to the justice who took the bond, and who shall then im­
prison the debtor unless he give new bail. 
SEC. 1113. The bail who wishes to give up the debtor's person,
may, if the debtor refuses to come voluntarily, or wishes to leave
the state or the jurisdiction of the justice, without his consent,
apply to the judge who took his bond, to have the debtor arrested,
as provided above. 
SEC. 1l14. If the bail does not produce the body of the debtor in
execution of the final judgment which has been obtained against
him, the plaintifff may apply to the justice who issued the execu­
tion, if the constable has made a return, stating that he has found
no property of the debtor and obtain judgment against the surety
for so much as is covered by his bond and no more. 
SEC. 1116. No order of arrest or imprisonment can be obtained in
civil suits commenced against minors, unless they make a business
of buying and selling merchandise; and against a woman in any
civil case. 
SEC. 1116. A person who is creditor for a sum within the cogni­
zance of a justice of the peace, may attach the property of his
debtor in the three following cases : 
1. If bis debtor resides out of the state;
2. If the debtor is about permanently to depart from the state ;
3. If the debtor be only transiently in the state and have no 
domicil in it, or so conceals himself that process of law cannot be
served dn him. 
SEC. 1117. A creditor who wishes to obtain an order from a justice
for attaching his debtor's property, shall make an affidavit that
such debtor is really indebted to him in a sum which he shall
specify, and is in one of the predicaments mentioned in the prece­
ding article, describing such predicament expressly. 
SEC. 1118. The creditor shall moreover deliver to the justice his
bond in favor of the defendant for double the amount of the de­ 
mand, with one good and sufficient surety, to answer such darna- 
ges as the defendant may sustain, in case the attachment should
prove to be improperly obtained. 
SEC. 1119. The justice of the peace to whom such demand and 
affidavit shall be presented, shall direct to a constable of the parish,
a citation against the defendant, and an order to attach the mova­
ble property which the defendant may have in the parish, wher­
ever it may be found, even in the hands of third persons, as well
as such debts as may be owing to him, although they are not yet
due. . 
SEC. 1120. The constable charged with the execution of this order,
shall begin by serving on the defendant the citation which is issued
in the same manner as in ordinary cases, if such defendant has 
a domicil in the place, or if he can be found; but in the contrary
case, or if the defendant be absent, the constable shall affix a copy
of such citation in English and } ... reach, at the door of the parish
church, if there he one, and on the door of the court house of such
parish • 
SEC. 1121. The constable shall then proceed without delay to seize
the movable property which the defendant has in his parish, to the
value of the sum due, together with interest and costs, and shall
make a list of such property in the presence of a credible witness,
which list he shall deliver to the justice issuing the order of sei­
zure, on making his return. 
SEC. 1122. If the defendant's property consist in debts owing to
him, the constable shall attach and stop them in the hands of the
debtor, after receiving his declaration of the amount due by him 
and the time when it is to be paid, and shall make his report of it
to the justice, as above directed. 
SEC. 1123. If such debtor refuses to declare what he owes to the de­
fendant, the plaintifff may have him cited before the justice of the
peace, to compel him to make such declaration under oath to the
justice, and if he refuses to make such declaration, or fails to ap­ 
pear, such refusal shall be considered as an acknowledgment that
he is indebted to defendant in a sufficient sum to discharge the
demand, and judgment shall be rendered against him in favor of
the plaintifff. 
SEC. 1124. If a claim be made before a justice of the peace for a
specific object, or any movable of a value within his jurisdiction,
the plaintifff may require that such object shall be sequestered,
until judgment be had, if he make his affidavit that he verily fears
that the defendant means to remove such object out of the said
justice's jurisdiction. 
SEC. 1125. If a demand be made for a sum due for rent within the
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, the plaintifff may demand that
the furniture of the house subject to the rent be seized provision­
ally, if he make an affidavit that he is afraid of the defendant rerno­
ving it from the house, to deprive him of the pledge which he has 
on it. 
SEC. 1126. Whenever a plaintifff wishes to obtain an order of seizure,
attachment, sequestration, or provisional seizure, before a justice
of the peace, the agent or attorney of such plaintifff may be allowed
to make the necessary oath : provided such oath be founded on
his own knowledge, and not on information derived from his prin­
cipal. 
SEC. 1127. But the defendant whose property shall have been seized,
attached, sequestered or provisionally seized, shall obtain a resto­ 
ration of such property, if he giv~ to the justice of the peace his
bond with one good security in double the amount demanded, to
satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered against him, with inte­
rest and costs.I 1) 

SEC. 1128. Appeals from judgments rendered by justices of the
peace, where the object in dispute exceeds ten dollars, are brought 
before the judges of the parish where such justices exercise their
functions. · 
SEC. 1129. In future all appeals from judgments rendered by justices
of the peace shall be tried in the parish' courts dtt. novo, ex­
cept the parties mutually agree before the justice of the peace to 
send up the appeal upon a statement of facts which they shall
make.( c)  
SEC. 1130. But if the parties themselves agree on such a statement
of facts, the justice shall allow them to do so under his direction,
and shall retain this statement to transmit to the appellate court,
after having caused it to be signed by the parties, or their marks
affixed, if they cannot write, and certified it under his own signa­
ture. 
SEC. 1131. No appeal from a judgment before a justice of the peace
shall stay execution, unless the said appeal be taken three days
after the judgment, if it has been pronounced in the presence of
the parties, or within three days after the notification of it, if it has
been rendered in the absence, or on default of one of the parties,
and unless the appellant shall execute his bond in the appellee's
favor, with one good and sufficient security, for double the amount
of such judgment, conditioned that he shaU pay such sum as shall
be awarded against him on the appeal. 
SEC. 1132. If the appellant will not or cannot give such security, the
justice or the peace shall allow him to appeal if he give security
in a sum to be fixed by said justice, sufficient to pay the costs, but
in this case the appeal shall not stay execution. 
SEC. 1133. If a party having cause to complain of a judgment ren­
dered by a justice of the peace, allows twelve months to elapse,
after the time allowed for an appeal, without having taken one, he
shall no longer be allowed to appeal, but the judgment shall ac­
quire the force of res judicata. 
SEC. 1184. A justice of the peace, after receiving the appeal and
security of the appellant, as above provided, shall issue a citation
to the appellee directing him to appear before the appellate coon,
within three days after service of the said citation by a constable 
if he resides in the place, or allowing one day more for every ten
miles between the place of rendering the judgment, and that of
the appellee's residence. 
SEC. 1136. The justice of the peace shall also transmit without de­
lay to the office of the appellate court an exact copy certified by 
him, of the proceedings which have taken place before him, and
also of his judgment, together with the statement of facts prepared 
by him, or agreed on by the parties, and of the citation which he
has issued to.the appellee.( d) 
SEC. 1136. The appellate court shall decide according to the state­
ment of facts and the document submitted to it, without permitting
the parties, in any case, to produce the same witnesses who were
examined below; but it may hear new testimony, if one of the
parties shall make oath that he had not discovered such testimony
until aft-er the judgment was rendered notwithstanding due dili­
gence, and that such testimony is important to him on the trial, or
if the justice of the peace failed to make a statement. 
SEC. 1137. The appellate judge, whether he reverses or confirms
the judgment, shall remand it for execution to the justice below ;
and if such justice should be dead, absent or no longer in office,
he shall direct another justice of the peace to cause the said judg­ 
ment to be executed.
SEC. 1138. When the appellate judge reverses the judgment, he 
shall render such a one as the justice of the peace should have
rendered, and sentence the party failing on the appeal to pay the 
costs. 
SEC. 1139. Three days after a judgmeut has been rendered by a
justice of the peace, if it were in the pre~ence of the parties, or 
reckoning from the notification of it, if it were rendered in the
absence or on default of one of them, the justice of the peace
shall, if required by the party in whose favor it was rendered, or
if no appeal has been taken, or such an appeal only as does not
stay the execution, issue an order to seize the property of the
debtor, to an amount sufficient to satisfy the judgment together
with interest and costs. 
SEC. 1140. The constable directed to execute this order shall pro- ·
ceed to seize the movable property of the debtor if he finds any
in his parish, to a sufficient amount to satisfy the execution; and
he shall give notice of its sale in English and French within ten
days, at the customary places, in situations where no newspa­
pers are published, or in at least one public paper, in places
where any are printed. The constable cannot seize the clothes
and bedding in the use of the debtor and family, nor his arms and
military accoutrements, nor the implements and tools of the trade
whereby he gains a living.{1) 
SEC. 1141. In the interval between the seizure and the sale, the
constable shall take into his possession and deposit in a safe place,
the movable property thus seized, unless the debtor execute a
bond with one 'sufficient surety in double the amount of the judg­
ment, conditioned that the said property shall be forthcoming on
the day of sale. 
SEC. 1142. In no case can the constable appoint a keeper, to pre­
serve the property seized, unless with a written consent of the
debtor, and in this case he cannot charge more than fifty cents a
day for the costs of such keeping. 
SEC. 1143. The constable shall make sale of the property at pub­
lic auction, on the day fixed by the advertisement, and, (except
in towns) in the place where the parish court is held: but in towns, 
the debtor may direct' that the sale shall be made at the place 
where the sheriff is in the habit of making sales of property un­
der execution. 
SEC. 1144. If the constable find no movable property, he shall re­
port that fact to the justice of the peace, who shall, if the credi­
tor require it, deliver to such creditor an order to distrain direct­
ed to a constable, to sequester the slaves, and in default of slaves,
the immovable property of the debtor, if he has any, and to hire,
or farm them out, under his direction, so that the creditor may
be paid out of the rent or hire of such property. 
SEC. 1145. The constable to whom this order is directed sha1J dis­
train the slaves, and in default of slaves, the immovable prop­
erty of the debtor, and shall farm or hire them under direction
of the justice of the peace, either to individuals, or to the public
works, for a sufficient amount to pay the creditor's judgment,
with interest and costs, within three months at the farthest, from
the date of the distringas, ifhe find not sufficient property to dis­
train, for the payment of the debt within that time. 
SEC. 1146. If the eonstable has returned that he found no mova­
ble property to seize, and if the debtor has slaves or immova­
bles, or both, the creditor who has obtained the .judgment may, 
if the amount of the judgment, together with interests and costs,
be equal to fifty dollars, apply to the justice of the peace who
rendered the judgment, and obtain from him an order directed
to the sheriff of the parish, to execute and sell the slaves of the
debtor, and if there be no slaves, his immovable property, to an
amount sufficient to satisfy the judgment and the costs of the ex­
ecution; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to execute such or­
der, and to seize and sell the slaves or immovables of the debtor,
in the same manner as on executions directed to him by the ordinary tribunals. . 
SEC. 1147. If several creditors have obtained separate judgments
against the same debtor, each for a Jess sum than fifty dollars,
but which added together would exceed that sum, they may ap­
ply to a justice who has rendered one of said judgments, and
obtain an order of execution directed to the sheriff of the parish,
to seize and sell the slaves, and if there be no slaves, the immova- 
ble property of the debtor, to discharge the amount of the vari­
ous judgments which they have obtained, although such judg­
ments may have been rendered by different justices of the peace. 
SEC. 1148. If after a judgment has been rendered against a debtor
by a justice of the peace in the parish where he resides, he re­
moves to another parish, the justice of the peace may direct an
order to one of the constables of the parish to which he has re­
moved, to seize and sell his movable property, or to distrain
and hire out his slaves or immovable property, as the case may
require; and it shall be the duty of such constable to execute the
order, and to make his return in the same manner as if it had been
directed to him by one of the justices of his own parish. 
SEC. 1149. The justice of the peace who rendered the judgment
may, in like manner, if required by the creditor, transmit to the
sheriff of the parish to which the defendant has removed his dom­
icil, an order by which he shall direct him to seize and sell the
slaves, and if there be no slaves, the immovable property which
such debtor may own in his parish, in cases where such seizure
is allowed; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to execute such
order, and make his return as provided in the preceding article. 
SEC. 1150. When the creditor who has obtained a judgment, finds
neither movables, slaves or immovables belonging to his debt­
or, he may, as soon as the constable has returned that he finds
no movables to seize, obtain an order to imprison the debtor,
on making an affidavit that to the best of his knowledge, the said
debtor possesses no property which can be seized in the parish. 
SEC. 1161. A debtor may obtain his enlargement, by declaring on
oath, that he has no movables, slaves or immovables to satisfy
such judgment, except the clothes of himself and family, his bed,
arms and military accoutrements, and the tools, necessary for the
exercise of his trade or profession. 
POWERS GRANTED TO JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
SEC. 1162. Justices of the peace possess all such powers as are
necessary to exercise the jurisdiction conferred on them, in cases
where no express provision has been made by this Code. 
SEC. 1153. Justices of the peace may summon and compel the ap­
pearance of witnesses in ca?se~ brought before them, and if the 
witnesses do not attend, the JUSt1ce may arrest and fine them, pro­
vided- the fine does not exceed ten dollars, for the benefit of the
parish, for each failure in this respect; and if the witnesses appear
and refuse to answer the questions put to them, they shall be im­
prisoned as guilty of a contempt of court, for a time not to exceed 
that specified in the next article. 
SEC. 1164. Justices of the peace may punish a contempt of their
authority by an imprisonment not exceeding twenty-four hours. 
SEC. 1155. They may grant commissions to take the testimony of
witnesses in cases depending before them, when such witnesses
reside out of the parish. 
SEC. 1156. No constable shall be appointed but upon the recom­
mendation of two respectable persons, who shall testify that he is
a man of good conduct and character, nor unless he give bond in
the sum of five hundred dollars, with one or two landholders re­
siding in the parish, as security for the faithful performance of his
duties as constable, and for the payment of such monies as be
may collect in :hat capacity. 
SEC. 1167. Constables shall be appointed by the police jury of each
parish, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the parish in which 
they are appointed, to administer an oath to them to perform
faithfully the duties of their office, and to require from each of
them· the security mentioned in the preceding article, which secu­
rity shall be filed in the clerk's office, after which the said judge
shall deliver to them a certificate of their appointment, under the
seal of his court. 
SEC. 1168. Justices of the peace may appoint constables specially,
when the police jury shall have failed to do so; provided that all
constables so appointed shall, before entering on the duties. of hi~
office, give bond as provided for in the previous section, which
appointment shall continue until a constable shall be appointed by
the police jury. 
SEC. 1169. No justice of the peace for the city and precincts of New
Orleans shall employ any constable to execute his orders in civil
matters, without having in his possession an authentic copy of the
security which such constable has given to the parish court, and if
it appear to him, on examination of said copy, that the person or
persons given as security have left the parish, or become bankrupt,
he shall acquaint the parish judge of the fact, who shall thereupon 
require new securities from the said constable.
SEC. 1160. Constables can only exercise their duties within the 
parish for which they are appointed, and they shall execute all
orders, decrees and judgments which judges and justices of the
peace may direct to them. 
SEC. 1161. Constables may be removed by the parish judge, on 
complaint made against them, if he finds that they have been
guilty of misconduct, malversation, or gross neglect, after giving
them notice of the complaint, and hearing their defense; the par­
ish judge shall also cause them to deliver up their commission,
and imprison them if they refuse, and until they comply. 
SEc. 26. Be it enacted, That all the rules of proceeding which
existed in this state before the promulgation of the Code of Prac­
tice, except those relative to juries, recusation of judges and other
officers and with respect to the competency of the latter, be and 
are hereby abrogated ; and that all the civil laws which were
in force before the promulgation of the Civil Code lately promul­
gated, he and are hereby abrogated, except so much of title tenth
of the Old Civil Code as is embraced in the third chapter, which 
treats of the dissolution of communities or corporations. 
SEc. 26. Be it f urthcr enacted, &c. That the Corle of Prac­ 
tice, such as it has been sent to the several courts in this state, in 
the year eighteen hundred and twenty-five, shall be considered
as having full force of law, though its provisions are not preceded 
by these usual words, '' Be it enacted," and it had been omitted
to mention at the end of said Code the names of the president of
the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, and of the
governor who signed the same, and of the date when said Code
was approved. Approved, March 26, 1828. 

