SECT. 7. The justices of the said court shall, by virtue of their

‘ office, be severally conservators of the peace throughout the state.

Seer. 8. The said court shall also have power to hear and determine in equity all cases of the kinds hereafter mentioned, when the
parties have not a plain, adequate and complete remedy at the common law ; that is to say,

All suits for the redemption of mortgages, or to foreclose the
same :

All suits and proceedings for enforcing and regulating the execution of trusts, whether the trusts relate to real or personal estate :

All suits for the specific performance of any written contract :

All suits to compel the re-delivery of any goods or chattels whatsoever, taken or detained from the owner thereof, and secreted or
withheld, so that the same cannot be replevied :

All suits for contribution by or between devisees, legatees or heirs,
who are liable for the debts of a deceased testator or intestate,and by
or between any other persons, who are respectively liable for the
same debt or demand, when there is more than one person liable at
the same time for such contribution :

All other cases in which there are more than two arties having
distinct rights or interests, which cannot be justly and efinitively decided and adjusted in one action at the common law :

All suits between co-partners,joint tenants and tenants in common,
and their legal representatives, and between joint trustees, co-executors and co-administrators :

All suits concerning waste and nuisance, whether relating to real
or personal estate : and

All suits or bills for discovery relating to any of the cases abovementioned, or to any other case, when a discovery may be lawfully
required, according to the course of proceedings in chancery.

SECT. 9. The said court shall have power to make and award
all such judgments, decrees, orders and injunctions, to issue all such
executions and other writs and processes, and to do all such other
acts, as may be necessary or proper to carry into full effect all the
powers, which are or may be given to them by the laws of the Commonwealth.

Saar. 10. They shall, from time to time, make rules for regulating the practice and conducting the business of said court, in all
cases not expressly provided for by law, and they shall, within two
years after this act shall take effect, and once at least in every seven
years thereafter, revise the said rules, with a View to the attainment,
as far as may be practicable, of the following improvements in the
practice :

First, simplifying and shortening the pleadings and other proceedtngs :

Secondly, presenting more distinctly the questions to be tried by
the jury, particularly in some of the actions on promises, by a more
full and precise statement in the declaration, or by a bill of ‘ particulars, and by a more definite statement of the ground of defense‘:

Thirdly, expediting the decision of causes :

Fourthly, the diminishing of costs : and,

Fifthly, the remedying of all abuses and imperfections that may be
found to exist in the practice.

Sr-:c'r. 11. Any three of the said justices shall constitute a quo- ‘
rum for the transaction of any business that might be done by the]
whole court. 1

S201‘. 12. The said court may also be held by any one of the '
said justices, at the times and places designated by law for that pur- j
pose, and when so held, shall have and exercise all the power that
18 not expressly reserved to the full court, when held by three or
more justices.

SECT. 13. All trials of indictments for any capital crime, all mo- ;
tions for new trials, all questions of law on exceptions from the court '
of common pleas, on cases stated by the parties, and on special ver- '
diets, and all issues in law, shall be heard and determined exclusively
in the full court. _

SECT. 14. The power of appointing clerks, and establishing gen- ;
eral rules of practice, shall be exercised exclusively by the said full
court, except that any one justice, when sitting alone, may appoint
a clerk pro tempore, in case of the death or absence of the standing
clerk.

SECT. 15. Any person indicted for a capital crime may be arraigned before the said court, when held by one justice, and if he
shall plead guilty, the same court may award sentence against him according to law.

SECT. 16. If the prisoner in such case shall plead not guilty, i
stand mute, or otherwise put himself on trial, the said court may assign him counsel, and take all other measures, preparatory to the trial,
which shall afterwards he had before three or more of the said justtces.

SECT. 17. The said court, when held in the county of Suffolk,
shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction of all capital crimes '
committed in said county, and shall also have original jurisdiction,
concurrently with the municipal court of the city of Boston, of all
other crimes, offenses and misdemeanors, committed in the same
county ; and grand jurors shall be selected for, and required to attend
at, the supreme judicial court, when held in the county of Suffolk,
in the manner prescribed in the ninety fifth chapter.

SECT. 18. All appeals from the municipal court of the city of
Boston shall be entered at the supreme judicial court, then next to be
held in the county of Suffolk, in the manner prescribed in the eighty
sixth chapter.

SECT. 19. All indictments for capital crimes, in any county exeept Suffolk, shall be found and presented in the courts of common
pleas for the respective counties, and transmitted to the supreme judicial court,_ in the manner prescribed in the eighty second chapter;
and no grand jurors shall attend the supreme judicial court in any
county, except the county of Suffolk.

SECT. 20. When any suit in equity shall be pending in the supreme judicial court, any one of the said justices may, as well in va- cation as in term time, and in any county, hear and determine all such
motions, and make all such interlocutory orders and decrees, as may
be necessary or proper to prepare the case for a final hearing.

Seer. 2|. VVhen any decree or order shall have been made, in
any suit in equity pending in the said court, any one of the said justices, as well in vacation as in term time, and in any county, may
make such further orders and issue such writs and processes, as may

be necessary to carry into effect such principal decree or order.

SECT. 22. No motion shall be heard, and no decree or order shall
be made in vacation, as provided in the two preceding sections, until
reasonable notice shall have been given to the adverse party, or his
counsel, to appear and object thereto.

SECT. 23. The parties, or either of them, in such a case, may
transmit to the said justice their reasons, in writing, for or against the
application, and the said justice shall examine the same and proceed
thereon, in like manner as if the parties were present.

Seer. 24. Every order or decree, so made in vacation, shall be
transmitted, as soon as may be, to the clerk for the county in which
the suit is pending, to be there filed or recorded, as if made in term
time.

Seer. 25. All such orders and decrees, made in vacation, may

, be revised by the full court, at the next succeeding law term for the

county, and may be reversed or altered, as to the court shall seem
just and reasonable.

SECT. 26. When any question of law shall arise, in any trial or
other proceeding, either of a civil or criminal nature, at law or in
equity, before the said court, when held by one justice, he may reserve the same for the consideration of the full court, to be held for
the same county, and shall report the case, or as much thereof as
may be necessary for a full understanding of the question.

SECT. 27 . Any case may be reported and reserved in like manner, upon the motion of either party, for a new trial, on account of
any opinion, direction or order of the justice, in any matter of law.

Seer. 28. If any party shall think himself aggrieved by any such
opinion, direction or order of the court, and the justice shall not think
fit to reserve the case upon his motion, the party may allege exceptionsto such opinion, direction or order, and the same, being reduced to writing in a summary mode, and presented to the court, before the adjournment thereof without day, and being found conformable to the truth, shall be allowed and signed by the justice ; and if
said justice shall refuse to allow and sign said exceptions, the truth
of the allegations therein contained may nevertheless be established
before the full court, and the exceptions allowed by them.

SECT. 29. Upon the allowance of such exceptions, the question
arising thereon shall be considered by the full court, to be held for
the same county ; if however, the exceptions shall appear to the justice, before whom the trial is bad, to be frivolous, immaterial, or intended for delay, the judgment may be entered, and execution may
be awarded or stayed, on such terms as the court shall deem reasonable, notwithstanding the allowance of the exceptions.

SECT. 30. In all cases of questions reserved in any of the modes
before provided, the same shall be heard and determined by the full
court held for the same county, and such judgment or other proceedings shall be had therein, as to law and justice shall appertain.

SECT. 31. When, upon the hearing of a case, brought before the
court, upon exceptions alleged as before provided, it shall appear that
the exceptions are frivolous, or immaterial, or were intended for de

lay, the court may award, against the party taking the exceptions,
double costs from the time when the same were alleged, and also interest from the same time, at the rate of twelve per cent. a year, on
the sum, if any, found due for debt or damages, or may award any
part of such additional costs and interest.

SECT. 32. If judgment shall have been rendered in any case, in .
which exceptions shall be allowed as aforesaid, the judgment may be 
vacated by the full court, without any writ of error, and in like man- ;
ner, as if it had been entered by mistake, at the same term at which 1
it is so vacated, and thereupon such further proceedings shall be had
in the case, as to law and justice shall appertain.

S1-:c'r. 33. No trial by jury shall be prevented or delayed, by the
filing or allowance of such exceptions, but the verdict shall be received, and such further proceedings shall be had in the case, as shall
be ordered by the court, where the trial is bad, in pursuance of the
foregoing provisions.

St-:c'r. 34. When an appeal shall be claimed from the judgment
of the court of common leas, in any civil action, and by reasm of
any mistake or accident, the appeal shall not be duly entered at the
supreme judicial court, the court may, on the petition of the appellant, allow the appeal to be entered at any other term of the court,
held for the same county, upon such terms as they may deem just
and reasonable ; and if the appeal he so entered, they shall proceed
therein as if it had been entered at the proper term. '

SECT. 35. When an appeal, claimed as aforesaid, shall not be
duly entered, and the adverse party shall, by reason of any mistake
or accident, fail to enter his complaint for obtaining an afiirmance of
the judgment, the supreme judicial court may, on his petition, allow
the complaint to be entered at any other term of the court, held for
the same county, upon such terms as they may deem just and reasonable ; and if the complaint be so entered, they shall proceed therein,
as if it had been entered at the proper term.

SECT. 36. No petition for the entry of any such appeal or complaint shall be maintained, unless it be presented to the court, or
filed in the clerk’s office, within one year after the term, at which the
same ought to have been entered.

SECT. 37. No attachment made, and no bail taken, in the original action, shall be revived or continued in force by the entry of
any appeal or complaint of the original plaintifff, which shall be allowed by force of the three preceding sections ; but such attachment
and hail shall remain discharged.

SI-ZCT. 38. Whenever, at any term appointed to be held by one j
justice, three or more of the said justices are present, they shall have 1
and exercise the like power and authority, as if they had been assembled at a stated law term ; and when, at a term appointed to be '
held by three or more 'ustices, one only shall be present, he shall
have and exercise the lilie power and authority, as if the court had
been appointed to be held by one justice alone.

Seer. 39. When no one of the said justices is present, at the 1

time and place appointed for holding a court, whether at the begin- 
ning of a term, or at any adjournment thereof, the sheriff of the;

county, or either of his deputies, shall adjourn the court from day to

day, until one of the justices shall attend, or until an order in writing
shall be received from one of them, respecting such adjournment.
SECT. 40. In the case mentioned in the preceding section, any

j one of the said justices shall have power, by an order in writing, under his hand, to require the sheriff or his deputy to adjourn the court
without day, or to such time, as shall be expressed in the order, and
the officer shall adjourn the court accordingly, by public proclamation, in the court house ; and, if required by the order, he shall also
give public notice of the adjournment, by advertisement in some
newspaper, or in such other manner as shall be directed.

Snow. 41. When an indictment for a capital offense is pending
and for trial, in any county, in which there is no law term established,
the said justices shall form a full court in such county for the trial
thereof.

Snow. 42. The chief justice of the court, upon receiving notice
of the pendency of such an indictment in any county, in which there
is no law term established, shall take measures for convening three or
more of the justices, for the trial thereof, at the stated term of the
court, in the same county, or at any adjournment thereof; such trial
to be had, as soon after the finding of the indictment, as the other
official duties of the justices will admit, and the circumstances of the
case may require.

SECT. 43. If there shall not be, within six months after the finding of the indictment, any session of the said court, to be held in the
same county, a special term may be held for that purpose, by three
or more of the said justices, at such time and place, as they shall
direct by an order in writing, under their hands, addressed to the
sheriff of the county.

Saar. 44. The sheriff shall give notice of the intended special
term of the court, by posting a copy of the order on the door of the
court house, and by publishing the same, in such other manner as
shall be therein directed; and the clerk of the county shall issue
venires for jurors, and he, and all other officers shall do all such
other things, as may be necessary or proper, in relation to such special term, in like manner as if it had been a stated term of the same
court.

SECT. 45. The court, assembled at any such special term, shall
have and exercise the same powers, as they might exercise, at any
stated term, except that no party in any civil action, pending in the
court, shall be required to attend, or shall be defaulted, or suffer any
other penalty, for not attending thereat.

SECT. 46. VVhen an indictment for any capital offense shall be
found in the county of Duke’s county, it shall be tried at a full court,
to be held in the county of Barnstable ; and the court, for that purpose, shall be convened and held, and all the proceedings in relation
thereto shall be conducted, in like manner as is or may be provided,
with respect to such courts, when held in the county in which an
indictment is found.

SECT. 47. If a special term shall be required to be held in the
county of Barnstable, for the trial of an indictment found in the county of Duke’s county, an order of the court shall be sent to the sheriff
of each of the said counties and each of them shall be required to

do, in his own county, whatever may be necessary or proper in relation to such special term of the court.

SECT. 48. All appeals in civil actions, from the court of com- ‘
mon pleas, may, at the option of the appellant, he entered at any ses- I
sion of the supreme judicial court, held within the proper county, by 
adjournment, if any such session be held before the next stated term, «
and the appeals so entered shall be there heard and determined, in ‘
like manner, as if such adjourned session had been a stated term of
the court ; provided that the appellant, at the time of claiming the
appeal, give to the adverse party written notice of his intention so to
enter the appeal.

Sscr. 49. In case of the absence or sickness of the chief jus- ‘
tice, or of a vacancy in that office, all the duties thereof shall be per- 1
formed by the senior justice, who is qualified to act in the case.

SECT. 50. The law terms of the supreme judicial court shall be 3
held by three or more justices thereof, in every year, at the times 
and places following, that is to say :

At Boston, in the county of Suffolk, and for the counties of Suf- 5
folk and Nantucket, on the first Tuesday of March: ‘

At Lenox, within and for the county of Berkshire, on the second 1
Tuesday of September:

At Northampton, in the county of Hampshire, and for the coun- ;
ties of Hampshire, Franklin and Hampden, on the Monday next pre- :
ceding the fourth Tuesday of September : '

At Vlforcester, within and for the county of Worcester, on the first '
Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September :

At Cambridge, within and for the county of Middlesex, on the.‘
third Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September :

At Taunton, in the county of Bristol, and at Plymouth, in the:
county of Plymouth, alternately, beginning at Taunton, for the coun- 1
ties of Bristol, Plymouth, Barnstable and Duke’s county, on the?
fourth Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September :

At Dedham, within and for the county of Norfolk, on the fifth
Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September : and

At Salem, within and for the county of Essex, on the sixth Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September.

St-:c'r. 51. The term of the court, as above established at Lenox,
may be commenced by any one of the said justices, and he shall proceed in the trial of causes by jury, and in all other business, that may
be performed by one justice, for the first week of the said term, and
until three or more of the justices shall be present.

SECT. 52. The court, when held for two or more counties, shall
have cognizance of all suits and other matters, which require the consideration of afull court, and which may arise or be pending in either
of the said counties, in like manner as if the court were held in the
county, in which the matter is pending, except that no issue shall be
tried by ajury, in any county other than that in which the suit is
pending, unless by consent of parties.

SECT. 53. All writs and processes, in suits cognizable by such
full court, except original writs, shall be sued out of the clerk’s office
of the county, in which the matter is pending, but shall be returnable
to the full court, then next to be held for the same county ; and all

appeals and other‘matters, cognizable by such full court, may be entered thereat, if not previously entered in the county in which they
are pending ; and all such writs, processes, appeals, and other matters, shall be heard and determined, in like manner, as if the court
were held in the county in which the same were respectively pending

Seer. 54. At all such courts, held for two or more counties, a
separate docket shall be kept for the matters pending in each county,
and all the proper entries therein shall be made by the clerk of the
county in which the court is held, unless the clerk of the county, in
which the matter is pending, shall be present ; and said last mentioned clerk shall prepare a docket of the matters, pending in his county,
and attend the court and make all the proper entries therein, or transmit such docket, with all papers relating to the matters pending in
the said court, to the clerk of the county in which the court is held ;
and all fees, due to the clerk for services at such court, shall be received and retained by the clerk, by whom the services are performed.

SECT. 55. The said dockets and papers shall, immediately after
the rising of the court, he returned to the county to which they pertain, and the clerk thereof shall enter and record all judgments and
proceedings of the court, relating to suits pending in his county, and
shall issue executions and other proper processes thereon, in like
manner, as if the court had been held in the same county.

Seer. 56. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections
shall apply to any suit, matter or thing, arising or pending in the
county of Duke’s county, and which is cognizable by the court, when
held by one justice, but all such matters shall be entered, heard,
tried and determined at the supreme judicial court, held in the county
of Barnstable, in like manner, in all respects, as if the same courts
were held in the county of Duke’s county ; and all matters cognizable
by the full court, which may arise or be pending in the county of
Duke’s county, shall be heard and determined, as above provided, at
the full court held alternately at Taunton and Plymouth, for the counties of Bristol, Plymouth, Barnstable and Duke’s county.

S1-:c'r. 57. When an action shall he continued nisi from any law
term, either for argument or advisement, and shall be determined by
the court before the next law term in the same county, the judgment
may, by order of the court, on the motion or at the request of the
party prevailing, be entered as of the then last term of the court, in
the county where the action is pending, whether it be a law term or
not.

Snow. 58. The clerk in such case shall note on his docket the
time of receiving such order, and when such order is for final judgment in favor of the plaintifff, the bail in the suit, and all goods and
estate attached in the suit, shall be held for the same time thereafter,
that they would be held, after the entry of judgment in the usual
manner.

SECT. 59. The court for the trial of jury causes, and for such
other matters, as are cognizable by one justice thereof shall be held
in every year, at the times and places following, that is to say :

At Dedham, within and for the county of Norfolk, on the third
Tuesday of February :

At Concord, within and for the county of Middlesex, on the second Tuesday of April :

At Worcester, within and for the county of Worcester, and at
Greenlield, within and for the county of Franklin, on the sixth Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March :

At Northampton, within and for the county of Hampshire, and at
Taunton, within and for the county of Bristol, on the seventh Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March :

At Ipswich, within and for the county of Essex, and at Springfield, within and for the county of Hampden, on the eighth Tuesday
next after the first Tuesday of March : a

At Barnstable, in the county of Barnstable, and for the counties of
Barnstable and Duke’s county, on the ninth Tuesday next after the
first Tuesday of March:

At Lenox, within and for the county of Berkshire, and at Plymouth, within and for the county of Plymouth, on the tenth Tuesday
next after the first Tuesday of March :

At Nantucket, within and for the county of Nantucket, on the lirst
Tuesday of July : A

At Springfield, within and for the county of Hampden, on the first
Tuesday of September:

At Greenfield, within and for the county of Franklin, on the second Tuesday of September :

At Boston, within and for the county of Suffolk, on the seventh
Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September ; and

At New Bedford, within and for the county of Bristol, on the second Tuesday of November.

SECT. 60. In all writs, processes, records and judicial proceedings, civil and criminal, the day on which any term is to commence
may be designated as the lirst, second, or other Monday or Tuesday,
as the case may be, of the month in which the same shall happen.

SECT. 61. The chief justice of the court shall receive an annual
salary of three thousand five hundred dollars, and each of the other

justices shall receive an annual salary of three thousand dollars, and

the said salaries shall be paid in quarterly payments, out of the treasury of the state, and in the same proportion for any part of a quarter.

Sncrron

 

12. Bill of exceptions may be presented,
and allowed.

13. But trial not to be prevented.

14. Case to be removed to the supreme
court.

15. Proceedings after such removal.

16. Liability of party alleging frivolous
exceptions.

17. Costs in cases removed on bill of ex-,
ceptions.

18. Proceedings therein not to discharge
attachment, or bail.

19. C. C. P. may grant new trials.

Kl. Judgments may be revised in supreme
court, on writ of error.

21. Entry of appeal from justice of the
peace, when omitted, &.c., may be allowed on petition.

22. Complaint by respondent may be entered in like manner.

23. Petition for such entry not to be received after one year.

24-. Attachments and bail in such cases to
remain discharged.

25. Jurisdiction of the C. C. P. in criminal
cases.

26 Indictments for capital crimes to be
transmitted to the supreme court.

 

Sscrron

27. Proceedings thereon in C. C. P.

28. Appeal to the supreme court in certain
criminal cases.

29. Case may be removed to the supreme
court on a bill of exceptions.

30. C. C. P. may grant new trials in criminal cases.

31. VVrit of error in criminal cases.

32. C. C. P. may be held by one justice.

33. Grand jurors to attend, except in Suffolk.

34-. Jurisdiction of criminal cases in Sufolk.

35. Writs in the C. C. P. how signed, 65c.

36. The court may frame and issue all
necessary writs.

37. May establish general rules of practice.

38. The justices to arrange and distribute
their duties.

39. Adjournment in case of the absence of
the justices.

40. Times and places of holding the courts.

41. Worcester district, terms for civil and
for criminal business.

42. Business, how conducted at those
terms.

43. Grand jurors, when to attend.

44. First day of the term, how designated

45. Salaries of the justices.

SECTION 1. The justices of the court of common pleas shall

. continue to hold their offices, according to the tenor of their commissions ; and, as vacancies occur, they shall be tilled in the manner
provided by the constitution, so that there shall always be one chief
justice" and three other justices of the said court.

SE01‘. 2. - The said court shall have original jurisdiction of all civil

" actions, except those of which the supreme judicial court, or justices

of the peace, have original and exclusive jurisdiction.

Seer. 3. They shall also have jurisdiction of all civil actions,
that shall be legally brought before them, by appeal or otherwise,
from a justice of the peace, or police court.

Seer. 4. No action shall be commenced in the court of common
pleas, wherein the debt or damages demanded do not exceed twenty
dollars, except real actions, actions of trespass on real estate, actions
on the case for disturbance of a right of way or of any other easement, and all other actions, in which the title to real estate may be
concerned.

SECT. 5. The preceding section shall not affect the provisions of
any statute, by which jurisdiction may be given in any case to the court
of common pleas.

SE01‘. 6. Any party, aggrieved by the judgment or final decision
of the court of common pleas, in any personal action, wherein the
debt or damages demanded shall exceed one hundred dollars, or in
any of the actions before mentioned, in which the title to real estate
may be concerned, or in any civil action, suit or proceeding whatever, when the judgment or decision therein is founded on matter of

law apparent on the record, may appeal therefrom to the supreme
judicial court, then next to be held for the county where the judgment is rendered, Whether it be a stated term of the court, or a session by adjournment, according to the provisions contained in the preceding chapter; and in case 0 ajudgment for the plaintifff, on a plea
in abatement or a demurrer, the appeal may be claimed as from a
fiualjudgment, without any further proceedings in the court of common pleas.

SE01‘. 7. If upon any appeal, the action is prepared, by an issue
in law or otherwise, to be decided on a question of law, without a
trial by jury, and if a law term of the supreme judicial court is to be
held for the said county, after such appeal and before any session of
the same court to be held within the county, the appeal may, at the
option of the appellant, be made directly to such law term, and shall
be there entered accordingly.

Snow. 8. The appellant shall, before the allowance of his appeal,
recognize, with suthcient surety or sureties, to the adverse party, if
required by him, in a reasonable sum, with condition to prosecute his
appeal with effect, and to pay all such costs as may arise after the
a eal.

Plgecr. 9. The appellant shall produce in the supreme judicial
court attested copies of the writ, pleadings and judgment, and of all
papers filed in the case, at the court of common pleas, except that
when depositions, or other written evidence or documents are so
filed, the originals shall be produced in the supreme judicial court,
instead of copies.

SECT. 10. No execution shall issue on the judgment appealed
from ; and if the appellant shall fail to enter his appeal, and to produce the necessary papers, the supreme judicial court may, upon the
complaint of the adverse party, affirm the former judgment, or render
such other judgment as law and justice shall require.

SE01‘. 11. When an action is submitted to the determination of
the court of common pleas, upon a case stated by the parties, either
party may appeal from the judgment, unless it is agreed that the judgment of the court of common pleas shall be final. .

Seer. 12. Any party, aggrieved by any opinion, direction, or
judgment of the court of common pleas, in matter of law, in any
civil action, suit, or proceeding whatever, whether it be according
to the course of the common law or otherwise, may allege exceptions
thereto, which, being reduced to writing in a summary mode, and
presented to the court, before the adjournment thereof without day,
and being found conformable to the truth, shall be allowed and signed
by the judge presiding at the court.

Snow. 13. No trial shall be prevented or delayed by the allowance of such exceptions, and judgment shall be entered according to
the opinion and direction of the court, but no execution shall issue
on such judgment.

SECT. 14. Every case, in which exceptions shall be so allowed,
shall be removed to, and entered at, the supreme judicial court, by
the party taking the exceptions, in like manner as in case of an appeal ;
and if he shall fail so to enter the same, and to produce-the pa ers
ret uired by law, the supreme judicial court may, upon the complaint

. that any exceptions alleged as a

of the adverse party, affirm the former judgment, in like manner as is
provided when an appeal is claimed and not entered. .

SECT. 15. All cases, so entered, shall be heard and determined
by the full court for the county in which the original judgment was
rendered, and shall be disposed of in like manner, as if they had been
brought before the supreme judicial court by appeal; and the court
may affirm the former judgment with additional damages, at the rate
of six per cent. a year, or may reverse the same in whole or in part,
and after a decision of all the questions of law raised thereon, may
remit the case to the court of common pleas for trial, or may order a
new trial to be had in the supreme judicial court, and may enter such
judgment, order, or decree, and take such other order therein, as the
court of common pleas ought to have done, and shall cause such
other proceedings to be had in the case, as to law and justice shall
appertain.

Seer. 16. When it shall appear to the supreme judicial court,

oresaid are frivolous immaterial or
intended for delay, they may award against the party, taking the ’exceptions, double costs, from the time when the exceptions are alleged, and also interest from the same time, at the rate of twelve per
cent. a year, on the sum, if any, found due for debt or damages, or
may award any part of such additional costs and interest, as shall appear to the court to be just and reasonable. _ - .

SECT. 17. In all cases, brought before the supreme judicial court
by exceptions, as before provided, the party prevailing shall be entitled to his costs, although the debt or damages recovered, or originally demanded, should be less than one hundred dollars.

SECT. 18. No attachment made on the original writ shall be dissolved and no bail taken in the original suit shall be discharged in
any case, which shall be carried to the supreme judicial court u,on
exceptions taken as aforesaid, but they shall continue responsi le,
upon the final judgment in the supreme judicial court, or in the court
0 common pleas, if the case should be remitted there for trial.

SECT. 19. The court of common pleas may, at any time before
judgment in any civil actioii, set aside the verdict, and order a new
trial, for any cause for which by law a new trial may and ought to be

granted.

Seer. 20. Final judgments in civil actions, in the court of common pleas, may be re examined upon a writ of error, and reversed or

- affirmed, in the supreme judicial court held for the same county, for

p of a justice of the peace in any civil action, and by reason 0

any error in law or in fact ; and when the judgment shall be reversed,

the supreme judicial court shall render such judgment as the court
of common pleas should have rendered.

SECT. 21. When an appeal shall be claimed from the ‘judgment

any mistake or accident, the appeal shall not be duly entered at the court of

' common pleas, the said court may, on the petition of the appellant,

allow the appeal to be entered at any other term of the court in the
same county, upon such terms as they may deem just and reasonable;
and if the appeal he so entered, they shall proceed therein, as if it
had been entered at the proper term.

Si-:c'r. 22. When an appeal, claimed as aforesaid, shall not be

duly entered, and the adverse party shall, by reason of any mistake
or accident, fail to enter his complaint for obtaining an atiirmance of
the judgment, the said court may, on his petition, allow the complaint
to be entered at any other term in the same county, upon such terms
as they may deem just and reasonable; and if the complaint be so
entered, they shall proceed therein as if it had been entered at the
proper term.

bscr. 23. No petition for the entry of any such appeal or complaint shall be maintained, unless it be presented to the court, or filed
in the clerk’s office, within one year after the term, at which the
same ought to have been entered.

Sncr. 24. No attachment made, and no bail taken, in the original
action, shall be revived or continued in force by the entry of any
appeal or complaint of the original plaintifff, which shall be allowed by
force of the three preceding sections ; but such attachment and bail
shall remain discharged.

Snow. 25. The court of common pleas shall, in all the counties,
except the county of Suffolk, have original jurisdiction of all crimes,
offenses and misdemeanors whatsoever, committed within such counties, respectively, and appellate jurisdiction of all offenses, which shall
be tried and determined before a justice of the peace ; and in criminal cases, legally brought before them, their jurisdiction shall be final,
excepting as is hereinafter otherwise provided.

Sr-:c'r. 26. When an indictment is found in the court of common
pleas, for any crime that is punishable with death, the party charged
shall not be tried nor arraigned in that court, but the indictment shall
be transmitted by the clerk to the supreme judicial court, to be there
heard, tried and determined, in the manner provided in the one hundred and thirty sixth chapter ; and the said clerk shall forthwith give
notice of such indictment to the chiefustice of the supreme judicial
court.

Snow. 27. Ifthe party, charged in such indictment for a capital
crime, is not already in custody, the court of common pleas shall
issue awarrant to arrest him, and shall take such further order in
the case as is prescribed in the one hundred and thirty sixth chapter.

Snow. 28. Any person, convicted in the court of common pleas,
upon indictment for a libel, nuisance, or conspiracy, or for any offense, which is or may be punishable by confinement to hard labor,
for a term exceeding five years, may appeal therefrom to the supreme
judicial court, then next to be held for the same county, in the manner and upon the terms prescribed in the one hundred and thirty
eighth chapter.

SECT. 29. When any person, convicted in the court of common
pleas, shall think himself aggrieved by any opinion, direction or
judgment of the court, in any matter of law, be may allege exceptions thereto, in the manner provided in the said one hundred and
thirty eighth chapter, and the case shall thereupon be removed to the
supreme judicial court, and be there disposed of, as provided in the
same chapter.

SECT. 30. The court of common pleas may, at any time, within
one year after judgment in any criminal prosecution, grant a new
trial, for any cause, for which by law a new trial may or ought to be

granted, in the manner provided in the one hundred and thirty

eighth chapter.
: Seer. 31. ' Final judgments in the courts of common pleas, in all

criminal cases, may be re examined upon awrit of error, and reversed
or allirmed, in the supreme judicial court held for the same county,
for any error in law or in fact.

Seer. 32. The court of common pleas may be held by any one
or more of the justices thereof, and when held by one alone, shall
have and exercise all the power and jurisdiction, that is or may be
committed to the said court. '

> Seer. 33. Grand jurors shall be selected, and required to attend the courts of common pleas, in all the counties, except the
county of Suffolk, in the manner prescribed in the one hundred and
thirty sixth chapter.

SECT. 34. All crimes, offenses, and misdemeanors, committed
within the county of Suffolk, shall be heard and determined by the
supreme judicial court in that county, and by the municipal court, and
the policecourt of the city of Boston, as is provided in the several
chapters concerning those courts.

Seer. 35. Allwrits and processes, except original writs, issuing

' from the court of common pleas, shall be signed by the clerk for the
county where the suit or matter is pending, or to which the writ or
process is returnable, and may run into any county, and shall be
obeyed and executed throughout the state.

, SECT. 36. The said court shall issue all writs and processes,

'that may be necessary or proper, to carry into effect the powers
granted to them, and when no form for any such writ or process is
prescribed by statute, the court shall frame one, in conformity with

the principles of law, and the usual course of proceedings in the courts

of t is state.
SECT. 37. The said court shall, from time to time, make rules

{for regulating the practice and conducting the business therein,in all
cases, not expressly provided for by law, provided, that such rules
be not repugnant to the laws of the Commonwealth, nor to the rules
established by the supreme judicial court; and, in every thing relating
to simplifying, shortening and expediting the pleadings, proceedings
and decision of causes, and presenting distinctly and fully the point
in issue, on trials by jury, the said rules shall be in con ormity with
those of the supreme judicial court, on the same subjects.

Sear. 38. The justices of the court of common pleas ora majority of them, shall, from time to time,make such arrangements for the
attendance of some one of them, at the several times and places a pointed for holding the said courts, as will be most convenient or
themselves, and ensure a punctual and prompt discharge of their duties.

SECT. 39. When no justice of the said court is present, at the
time and place appointed for holding a court, whether at the beginning
of a term, or at any adjournment thereof, the sheriff of the county or
either of his deputies may adjourn the court, from day to day, or from
time to time, as the circumstances may require, or as may be ordered
by any of the said justices, and he shall give notice of such adjournment, by making public proclamation thereof in the court house, and
by a notification thereof, posted on the door of the court house. or

published in some newspaper.

Sr-:c'r. 40. The court of common pleas shall be held in every
year, at the times and places following, that is to say :

At Boston, within and for the county of Sudblk, on the first Tuesdays of January, April, July and October.

. At I swich, within and for the county of Essex, on the third Mondays 0 March and December; at Salem within and for the same
county, on the third Monday of June; and at Newburyport within
and for the same county, on the third Monda of September :

At Concord, within and for the county of iddlesex,on the second
Mondays of March, June and September ; and at Cambridge, within
and for the same county, on the second Monday of December :

At Northampton, within and for the county of Hampshire, on the i

fourth Monday of March, and the third Mondays of August and November :

At Greenfield, within and for the county of Franklin on the third a

Monday of March, and the second Mondays of August and November : '
At Springfield, within and for the county of Ham den, on the

third Mondays of February and June, and the secon Monday of
October :

At Lenox, within and for the county of Berkshire, on the fourth I

Mondays of February, June and October :

At Dedham, within and for the county of Norfolk, on the fourth
Monday of April, and the third Mondays of September and December :

At Plymouth, within and for the county of Plymouth, on the second Mondays of April and August, and on the first Monday of December :

At Taunton, within and for the county of Bristol, on the second
Mondays of March and September ; and at New Bedford,within and
for the same county, on the second Mondays of June and December :

At Barnstable, within and for the county of Barnstable, on the
Tuesday next after the first Monday of April, and on the first Tuesday of September :

At Nantucket, within and for the county of Nantucket, on the first
Mondays of June and October : and

At Edgartown, within and for the county of Duke’s county, on the
last Mondays of May and September.

SI-ZCT. 41. The court of common pleas, for the county of Worcester, shall be held, for the transaction of all the civil business of the
said court, at VVorcester, in said county, on the first Monday of
March, the third Monday of June, the Monday next after the fourth
Monday of August, and the first Monday of December, in every
year ; and the same court shall be held, for the transaction of all the
criminal business thereof, at said Worcester, on the third Monda of
January, the last Monday of May, and the fourth Monday of eptember, in every year.

SECT. 42. The civil business of the said court shall be transacted, exclusively, at the said four annual terms, established for the
transaction of civil business, and the criminal business thereof shall be
transacted, exclusively, at the said three annual terms, established for

the transaction of criminal business; and all continuances of civil or
criminal cases shall, without any special order therefore, be had to the
next term of the said court, to be held for the transaction of business

of the same description.
Snow. 43. The grand jurors of the said county of Worcester

- shall be required to attend only at the said terms established for the

transaction of criminal business.

Snow. 44. In all writs, processes, records and judicial proceedings, civil and criminal, the day on which any of the said terms is to
commence may be designated as the first, second or other Monday,
or other day of the week in the month in which the same shall happen.
Sncr. 45. The chief justice of the court shall receive an annual

salary of two thousand one hundred dollars, and each of the other
justices shall receive an annual salary of eighteen hundred dollars;
and the said salaries shall be paid in quarterly payments out of the
treasury of the Commonwealth, and in the same proportion for any
part of a quarter.

 

CHAPTER 83.

OF THE PROBATE COURT.

Sncuos Snc-nos
1. Appointment of judges of probate. 22. Register to have custody of the
2. Courts to be held at fixed times and b°°l"r &'°'

23. Judges of probate may appoint a regplaces.
ister during a vacancy.

3. Adjournment of probate courts.
4-. Certain acts may be done in vacation. 24- Fllrlher provision in that case5, 6. General jurisdiction of the probate 95- APP°l“lm°m: 5143- °f Tegl-'49" P"° lemcoun, to be recorded.
7, What decree; shall be in writing, and 26. Judge of probate not to be counsel in
what papers  be 1-ego]-ded_ matters transacted   C0111’!-—-()8i.h Of
8. Rules of practice, how and by whom Judge °fP"°b3l°e3[a,b]i3hed_ 27. Register not to be counsel, nor ex9. The judge may frame and issue all ne- °°“l°": 55¢-2 3°’ l° 5° lm°|'°-'-led ll‘ fee‘:
cessary warrants, &.c. in cases within the jurisdiction of his
10. May punish contempts. C001’?ll. Sheriffs and other officers to execute 23- Cl°"k-°-1 550- 11°‘ l0 b9 C°mml33l°n°"-5:
process, &.c. in the like case.
12,13. Presumption in favor of jurisdiction, 29- EX°°“‘°“9 and °lh°1' °¢°°“nl3m5 “WY
in what cases conclusive. be SW07“ 0"‘ Of C011": 50 €838, 55¢I4. Exclusive jurisdiction of the judge who 30. Oaths of other persons, how admin.
first takes cognizance, &.c. istered,
15. Jurisdiction when a judge is interested. 3]. The court may revoke commissions,
16, 17, 18. Provisions for such case in Na.n- &.c. and issue new ones.
tucket. 32. All bonds in probate matters must be
19. Provision for the like cases in Duke's approved and certified by the judge.
°°“”l.Y- 33. The supreme judicial court to be the
E. Appointment of registers of probate. supreme court of probate,

21. Oath and bond of register. . 34. Appeal allowed to the supreme court.

Sncriorr Stones
35. Appeal may he entered at a session 49. Salaries of the judges of probate.

by adjournment 50. Salaries or the registers or probate.

35. Must be claimed within thirty days. ' . .
3'7. Reasons of appeal to be filed, &.c. l 51' 8'18"“ to be paid out of an nu.
* treasury.

38. Exception as to Nantucket. 5:2. No judge at . ‘er to receive my
39. Appeal omitted by mistake, &.c. may fees except ‘mg
3 I '

be allowed on petition. . .
40, 41, 42. Proceedings on such petition. 53' what copummgmer aha“ make’ 

43 Proceedings in the probate court sus- of charge’ and for what be my mom"
' I

d .1 b - al. 9”‘ . .
44. plffoceeediitgadiirjiilrii supreme court upon 54' Books and ‘mummy’ how pud for’

an appeal. 55. Times and places of holding probate
4-5. When the appellant fails to enter it, &.c. °°“”"
45_ pact, may be med by a jug. in 56. Places of holding courts in the diferent

supreme court. ‘°“"“47. Power of the courts as to costs. 57. Public notice thereof to be given by the
48. Executions may issue therefore. judges.

SECTION 1. The judges of probate shall continue to hold their

offices according to the tenor of their commissions, and as vacancies ‘

occur, they shall be filled in the manner provided by the constitution.

SECT. 2. Every judge of probate shall hold a probate court in
his county, at the times and places established by law.

Snow. 3. He may adjourn his court as occasion shall require;
and when he shall be absent at the time appointed for holdinga court,
the register shall adjourn it as he shall think necessary, or as shall be
ordered by the judge.

SECT. 4. All orders of notice and other ofiicial acts, which are
passed as matters of course, and which do not require a previous notice to an adverse party, may be made and done in vacation, as well
as at a stated court.

Sect‘. 5. The judge of probate for each county shall have power to take the probate of wills, and to grant administration of the estates of all persons deceased, who were, at the time of their decease,

inhabitants of or resident in the same county, and of all who shall die ‘

without the state, leaving any estate to be administered within such
county ; and also to appoint guardians to minors and others, in the
cases prescribed by law.

SE01‘. 6. He shall have jurisdiction of all matters relating to the
settlement of the estates of such deceased persons, and of such minors and others under guardianship.

Sscr. 7. All his decrees and orders shall be made in writing,
and the register of probate shall record, in books to be kept for that
purpose, all such decrees and orders, and also all wills proved in the
court, with the probate thereof, all letters testamentary and of administration, all warrants, returns, reports, accounts and bonds, and all
such other acts and proceedings, as he shall, by the rules of the court,
or by any special order of the judge, be required to record.

SE01‘. 8. The several judges of probate shall, from time to time,
make rules for regulating the practice and conducting the business in
their respective courts, in all cases not expressly provided for by law ;
and they shall within one year after this act shall take effect, return
a statement of their rules and course of proceedings to the supreme
judicial court, and shall make a like return of all their rules thereafter made, as soon as conveniently may be, after making the same ;
and the supreme judicial court shall have power to alter _and amend
all such rules, and to make other and further rules, from time to time,
for regulating the proceeding in all the probate courts ‘of the Commonwealth, as they shall judge necessary, in order to introduce and
maintain regularity and uniformity in the said proceedings.

SE07. 9. The judge of probate for each county shall make and
issue all warrants and processes, that may be necessary or proper
to carry into effect the powers granted to him; and when no form for
any such warrant or process is prescribed by statute, or by the rules
of the court, he shall frame one in conformity with the principles of
law, and the usual course of proceedings in this state. _

SECT. 10. He shall have power to keep order in his court, and
to punish any contempt of his authority, in like manner as such contempt might be punished in the court of common pleas.

SECT. 11. All sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, coroners and constables,
shall serve and execute all legal warrants and processes to them directed by the judge of probate. _

Snow. 12. The jurisdiction assumed in any case by a judge of
probate, so far as it depends on the place of residence of any person,

: shall not be contested in any suit or proceeding whatever, except in

an appeal from the probate court in the original case, or when the
want of jurisdiction appears on the same record.

Snow. 13. When the validity of any decree of the probate court
shall be drawn in question in any other suitor proceeding, everything
necessary to have been done or proved, in order to render the decree
valid, and which might have been proved by parol evidence at the
time of making the decree, and was not required to be recorded,
shall, ‘after twenty years from such time, be presumed to have been

done or proved, unless the contrary appears on the same record.

Snow. 14. When a case shall be originally within the jurisdiction
of the probate court in two or more counties, the court which shall
first take cognizance thereof by the commencement of proceedings,

. shall retain the same throughout.

SECT. 15. When a judge of probate shall be interested in any
case within his jurisdiction, the case shall be transferred to the robate court of the most ancient adjoining county, and shall be t ere
disposed of and settled, in the same manner as if it had originally occurred within the latter county; excepting only, that when such a
case shall occur in the county of Nantucket or Duke’s county, it shall
be transferred to the county of Barnstable, and be there disposed of
and settled in manner aforesaid.

Si-:c'r. 16. When a case is so transferred from Nantucket to
Barnstable, the register of probate for Barnstable shall transmit to the
register of probate for Nantucket, copies of the record of all proceedings had in the case, and copies of all papers filed therein, within
thirty days after the same shall be respectively had or filed, and the
same shall be recorded and filed in the registry of probate in Nantucket, in like manner as if the case had been pending in the probate
court for that county.

Snow. 17. When an appeal is claimed from the probate court in
Bamstable, in any case so transferred from Nantucket, the time lim

ited for claiming the appeal, and for all other proceedings relating
thereto, shall be computed from the expiration of the thirty days mentioned in the preceding section, in like manner as if the decree or other roceeding appealed from had taken place at that time.

55:01‘. 18. All appeals, in the cases mentioned in the precedin
section, shall be made to the supreme judicial court, for the county o
Nantucket, and there prosecuted, heard and determined, in like manner as if the original proceeding had been had in the probate court in
Nantucket. ,

Snow. 19. When a case is transferred, as provided in the fifteenth
section, from Duke’s county to Barnstable, all the proceedings upon
the appeal, if there be an appeal, as well as in the original case, s all
be conducted in the same manner as if the case had been originally
within the jurisdiction of the probate court, in Barnstable.

SECT. 20. The registers of robate shall continue to hold their
offices, according to the tenor of) their commissions, and as vacancies occur, there shall be appointed, in the manner provided by the
constitution, a suitable person in each county, to be register of probate for the same county ; and no probate court shall be held, either
by adjournment or otherwise, unless such register, or a temporary register, as provided for in the twenty third section, shall be present.

SECT. 21. Every register of probate, before entering upon his
office, shall make oath that he will faithfully discharge the duties
thereof, and that he will not, during his continuance in office, directly
or indirectly, be interested in or benefitted by the fees or emoluments
arising from any suit or matter, pending in the court of which he is
register, and such oath, being subscribed by such register, shall be
filed in the probate office ; and shall give bond to the treasurer of the
county, for which he is appointed, in a sum not less than two hundred,
and not exceeding one thousand, dollars, as shall be ordered by the
judge, with one or more sufficient sureties, with condition for the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office.

Seer. 22. He shall also have the care and custody of all books,
documents and papers, appertaining to the probate office, and filed or
deposited therein, and shall carefully preserve the same, to be delivered to his successor. ’

SECT. 23. In case of the death or absence of the register, the
judge of probate shall appoint a suitable person to ofliciate as register, until the standing register shall be able to perform his duty, or
until another shall be appointed by the governor and council.

SECT. 24. Every person, so appointed by the judge of probate,
shall be sworn before the same judge to the faithful discharge of the
duties of the said office, and so long as he shall perform the said duties, he shall be entitled to the same compensation therefore, as if he
had been the standing register ; and such compensation shall be paid
by the standing register, when his absence is the cause of ap ointing
such temporary register, provided such standing register sh again
enter upon the discharge of the duties of his office.

SECT. 25. The appointment of such temporary register, and a
certificate of the oath of office administered to him, shall, in every
case, be recorded with the other proceedings of the probate court at
which such appointment shall be made.

Seer. 26. No judge of probate shall be retained or employed, as
counsel or attorney, either in or out of court, in any suit or matter
whatever, which may depend on, or in any way relate to, any sentence or decree, made or passed by him ; nor shall he be of counsel
or attorney, for or against any executor, administrator, or guardian,
appointed within his jurisdiction, in any suit brought by or against the
executor, administrator, or guardian, as such, nor in any suit, relating
to the ofiicial conduct or duty of such party ; and every judge of probate shall, before entering upon his office, in addition to his present
oath of office, make oath that he will faithfully discharge the duties
thereof, and that he will not, during his continuance in office, directly
or indirectly, be interested in or benefitted by the fees and emoluments, arising from any suit or matter pending in the court of which
he is judge ; and such oath, being subscribed by such judge, shall be
filed in the probate office.

SECT. 27. No register of probate shall be of counsel or attorney
either in or out of court, in any suit or matter whatever, pending in
the court of which he is register, nor in any appeal therefrom, nor
shall be be executor, administrator, guardian, commissioner of insolvency, appraiser or divider, of or upon any estate, or in any case that
is within the jurisdiction of the court, of which he is register, nor be
in any manner interested in the fees or emoluments arising from any
of the said offices.

Seer. 28. No clerk or other person employed in the ofrice of
any court of probate, shall be commissioner of insolvency, appraiser,
or divider of any estate, in any case, that is within the jurisdiction of
such court.

SECT. 29. When any executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, who is required to make oath to an account, is unable, by reason
of sickness or otherwise, to attend personally in the probate court, for
that purpose, the judge may either proceed himself to administer the
oath to the accountant, out of court, or may by his commission authorize any justice of the peace to administer it ; and a certiticate of
the oath, with the account and the vouchers produced therewith, and
the commission, if any, shall be returned into the registry of probate
and be there filed and recorded.

Sister. 30. All other oaths, required to be taken by executors,
administrators, guardians, and trustees, and all oaths required of commissioners of insolvency, appraisers, and dividers of estates, or of
any other persons, in relation to any proceeding in the probate court,
may be administered, either by the judge of probate, or by any justice of the peace, and a certificate thereof, when taken out of court,
shall be returned into the registry of probate, and be there filed and
recorded.

SE01‘. 31. Any warrant or commission, for the appraisement of
any estate, for examining the claims on insolvent estates, for the partition of real estate, or for the assignment of dower, may be revoked
by the judge of probate, for sufficient cause, and the judge may thereupon issue a new commission, or proceed otherwise therein, as the
circumstances of the case shall require.

Seer. 32. No bond, required by law to be given to the judge of
probate, or to be filed in the probate office, shall be deemed sufficient.

unless it shall have been examined and approved by the judge, and
his approval thereof, under his official signature, written thereon.

SECT. 33. The supreme judicial court shall be the supreme court
of probate, and shall have appellate jurisdiction of all matters determinable by the respective judges of probate.

SECT. 34. Any person, aggrieved by any order, sentence, decree, or denial, of a judge of probate, may appeal therefrom to the
supreme judicial court, to be held within or for the same county, next
after the expiration of thirty days from the date of the proceeding
appealed from.

Snow. 35. If there shall be any session of the supreme judicial
court, held in the proper county by adjournment, after the expiration
of the said thirty days, and before the next stated term of the same
court, the appeal may, at the option of the appellant, be entered at
such adjourned session, provided he give to the adverse party written notice of his intention so to enter it, fourteen days at least before
the session of the court.

SECT. 36. Such appeal shall be claimed, and notice thereof given,
at the probate office, within thirty days after the date of the act appealed from.

S1-:c'r. 37. The appellant shall file, in the probate office, his reasons of appeal, and cause an attested copy thereof to be served on
the adverse party, fourteen days at least before the time when the
appeal is to be entered. SECT. 38. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections shall
be understood to repeal the provisions of this chapter respecting the
county of Nantucket.

SECT. 39. If any person, aggrieved by any act of the judge of
probate, shall, from any cause, without default on his part, have omitted to claim or prosecute his appeal, according to law, the supreme
court of probate, if it shall appear to them that justice requires a revision of the case, may, on the petition of the party aggrieved, and
upon such terms as they shall think reasonable, allow an appeal to be
entered and prosecuted, with the same effect as if it had been done
seasonably.

SECT. 40. No such appeal shall be allowed, without due notice
to the party adversely interested, nor unless the petition therefore be
filed within one year after passing the decree or order complained
of, except as provided in the following section.

Snow. 41. If the petitioner were without the United States, at
the time of passing the decree or order, he may file his petition at
any time within three months after his return, provided it be done
within two years after the act complained of.

S201‘. 42. The petition may, in all cases, be filed in the clerk’s
office in vacation, as well as in the court in term time, and the clerk
shall note on it the time when it is filed.

Seer. 43. After an appeal is claimed, and notice thereof given
at the probate office, all further proceedings in pursuance of the order, sentence, decree or denial appealed from, shall cease, until the
determination of the supreme court of probate shall be had thereon.

SECT. 44. The supreme court of probate may reverse or affirm,
in whole or in part, the sentence or act appealed from, and may pass

such decree thereon, as the judge of probate ought to have passed,
and may remit the case to the probate court for further proceedings, or may take any order therein, as law and justice shall reunre.

q S1:c'r. 45. If the appellant, in any case, shall fall to enter and
prosecute his appeal, the supreme court of probate may, upon the
complaint of any person interested in the case, affirm the former
sentence, or take such other order therein, as law and justice shall
require.

S1-:c'r. 46. If, upon the hearing of an appeal in the supreme
court of probate, any question of fact shall occur, that is proper for a
trial by jury, the court may cause it to be so tried, upon an issue to
be formed for the purpose, under the direction of the court.

Snow. 47. In all cases that are contested, either before the judge
of probate, or in the supreme court of probate, the said courts respectively may, in their discretion, award costs to either party, to be
paid by the other, or to either or both parties, to be paid out of the
estate which is the subject of the controversy, as justice and equity
shall require.

Snow. 48. When costs are awarded to one party, to be aid by
the other, the said courts, respectively, may issue execution t erefor,
in like manner as is practised in the courts of common law.

SECT. 49. The several judges of probate shall receive, for their
services,an annual salary, as specilied in the following table, that is to

say .
The judge of probate for the county of Suffolk, the sum of one
thousand dollars ;
for the county of Middlesex, eight hundred
dollars ;
for] the county of Essex, seven hundred dol373 3
for the county of Worcester, seven hundred
dollars ;
for the county of Plymouth, four hundred
dollars;
for the county of Bristol, four hundred and
twenty five dollars ;
for the county of Barnstable, three hundred
dollars ;
for the county of Duke’s county, sixty dollars;
for the county of Nantucket, one hundred and
twenty dollars ;
for the county of Berkshire, four hundred and
fifty dollars ;
for the county of Norfolk, five hundred dollars;
for the county of Hampden, two hundred and
eighty dollars ;
for the county of Hampshire, two hundred
and eighty dollars ;
for the county of Franklin, two hundred and
eighty dollars.
SE01‘. 50 The several registers of probate shall receive, for

their services, an annual salary, as specified in the following table,
that is to say:
The register of probate for the county of Suffolk, the sum of two
thousand dollars ;
for the county of Essex, fifteen hundred dollars ;
for the county of Middlesex, fifteen hundred
dollars ;
for the county of Worcester, fourteen hundred dollars ;
for the county of Plymouth, seven hundred
and fifty dollars ;
for the county of Bristol, seven hundred dollars ;
for the county of Barnstable, five hundred
dollars ;
for the county of Duke’s county, one hundred
dollars ;
for the county of Nantucket, one hundred and
fifty dollars ;
for the county of Berkshire, six hundred dollars ;
for the county of Norfolk, seven hundred dollars ;
for the county of Hampden, four hundred
and sixty dollars ;
for the county of Hampshire, four hundred
and sixty dollars ;
for the county of Franklin, four hundred and
sixty dollars.

St-:c'r. 51. The said salaries shall be paid in quarterly payments,
out of the treasury of the Commonwealth, on the first days of January, April, July and October, in every year, and in the same proportion, for any part of a quarter.

SECT. 52. No judge of probate, or register of probate, shall
receive any fee or compensation whatever, in addition to the salaries
above provided, for any thing done by them, respectively, in their
official capacities, except as provided in the following section.

SECT. 53. The register of probate shall make, without any
charge, one copy of all wills proved, inventories returned, and accounts settled, of all partitions of real estate, and assignments of dower, and of all orders and decrees of the court, and shall deliver the
same, when demanded, to the executor, administrator, guardian, widow, heir, or other party principally interested therein ; and for any
additional copies of the same documents, and for copies of all other
papers, he shall be paid by the person demanding the same, at the
rate of twelve cents a page. S1=:c'r. 54. Each county shall provide all books necessary for
keeping the records, in the registry of probate, and all printed blanks,
used in probate proceedings; but all other stationary, and all the
incidental expenses of the office, shall be paid by the register.

S1-:c'r. 55. There shall be a probate court held every year, in

the several counties, at the times and places, mentioned in the following table, that is to say :

For the county of Suffolk, at Boston, on every Monday except
the first Monday of each month ;

For the county of Essex, at Ipswich, on the first Tuesdays of
February, March, May, June, August, September, November and
December; at Salem, on the first Tuesdays of January, April, July
and October, and on the third Tuesdays of February, May, August
and November ; at Newburyport, on the second Tuesdays of March,
June, September and December; at Gloucester, on the second
Tuesdays of May and November; at Marfilehead, on the Wednesdays next after the first Tuesdays of April and October; at Lynn,
on the Wednesdays next after the first Tuesdays of January and
July; at Haverhill, on the third Tuesdays of April and October;
at Andover, on the third Tuesday of January and on the third Tuesday of July:

For the county of Middlesex, at Cambridge, on the second Tuesdays of January and October, on the third Tuesdays of March,
May and November, and on the first Tuesday of September; at
Concord, on the second Tuesdays of February, April, August and
November ; at Charlestown, on the third Tuesdays of February and
August; at Framingham, on the last Tuesdays of June and October; at Groton, on the first Tuesdays of May and November; at
Lowell, on the first Tuesdays of June and December; and at Woburn, on the fourth Tuesday of April :

For the county of Worcester, at Brookfield, on the second Tuesday of April and the fourth Tuesday of October ; at Lancaster, on
the third Tuesdays of May and November; at Templeton, on the
third Tuesday of October, and the Thursday next after the third
Tuesday of May ; at Barre, on the third Tuesdays of August and
January ; at Mendon, on the fourth Tuesday of May ; at Uxbridge,
on the fourth Tuesday of November ; and at Worcester, on the first
Tuesday of every month :

For the county of Hampshire, at Northampton, on the first Tuesday of every month ; at Amherst, on the second Tuesdays of January and August; at Belchertown, on the second Tuesdays of May
and November; and at Chesterfield, on the third Tuesdays of May
and October :

For the county of Hampden, at Springfield, on the first Tuesdays
of January, February, March, April, May, July, September, November and December ; at Westfield, on the first Tuesdays of June,
and October; and at Monson, on the second Tuesdays of June and
September :

or the county of Franklin, at Greenfield, on the first Tuesday of
November, on the second Tuesdays of February, March, May and
October, on the third Tuesday of December, and on the fourth
Tuesday of August ; at Conway, on the first Tuesday of February,
and the third Tuesday of July ; at Charlemont, on the third Tuesdays of May and October; at Wendell, on the last Tuesday of
April, and the third Tuesday of September; and at ‘Warwick, on
the Wednesdays next after the last Tuesday of April and the third

Tuesdav of September :

For the county of Berkshire, at Lenox, on the first Tuesdays and
the Wednesdays next after the first Tuesdays of every month; at
Great Barrington, on the second Tuesdays of February, May, August and November; at Lanesborough, on the second Tuesdays of

anuary, April, July and October; and at Adams, on the Wednesdays next after the second Tuesdays of January, April, July and
October :

For the county of Norfolk, at Dedham, on the first Tuesday of
every month; at Quincy, on the second Tuesdays of February,
May and August ; at Roxbury, on the fourth Tuesdays of February,
Ma , August and November; at Wrentham, on the third Tuesdays
of fay, August and November; and at Medway, on the Mondays
next before the third Tuesdays of February and November :

For the county of Bristol, at Taunton, on the Friday next after
the first Tuesday of January, on the first Tuesdays of March and
November, on the Friday next after the third Monday of June, and
on the Friday next after the first Tuesday of August ; at New Bedlord, on the first Tuesday of February, on the third Mondays of
June and December ; at Freetown, on the first Tuesday of January ; at Rehoboth, on the first Tuesday of April ; at Dighton, on the
Fridays next after the first Tuesdays of April and October ; at Norton, on the first Tuesday of July ; at Westport, on the first Tuesday of August ; at Seekouk, on the first Tuesday of September; at
Fall River, on the first Tuesday of October; and at Attleborough,
on the first Tuesday of May :

For the county of Plymouth, at Plymouth, on the third Mondays
of January, February and May, on the second Mondays of April
and August, and on the first Monday of December ; at Scituate, on
the first Tuesdays of March and June, and on the last Tuesdays of
August and November ; at East Bridgewater, on the first Tuesdays
of April, July and October; at Middleborough, on the last Tuesday
of May, and on the first Tuesdays of August and November; and
at Rochester, on the Wednesday next after the last Tuesday of
May, and on the Wednesday next after the first Tuesday of November :

For the county of Barnstable, at Barnstable, on the second Tuesdays of January, March, September and December, and on the third
Tuesdays of May and June ; at Sandwich, on the second Tuesday
of November; at Falmouth, on the Wednesday next after the second Tuesday of November; at Yarmouth, on the second Tuesday
of August ; at Harwich, on the third Monday of April, and the last
Monda of October; at Brewster, on the Tuesday next after the
third 1\ onday of April, and on the Tuesday next after the last Monday of October; at Orleans, on the Wednesday next after the third
Monday of April, and on the Wednesday next after the last Monday
of October ; at Wellfleet, on the Thursday next after the last Monday of October; and at Truro, on the Thursday next after the third
Monday of April :

For the county of Duke’s County, at Tisbury, on the third Mondays of January and April ; and at Edgartown, on the third Mondays
of July and October : s

For the county of Nantucket, at Nantucket, at such times as the

judge of probate shall appoint.

Snow. 56. The several probate courts shall be held at such par’ ishes or other places, in the several towns mentioned in the preceding section, as the respective judges of probate shall from time to
time appoint.

Sncr. 57. Every judge of probate shall cause sufficient public
notice to be given, of the places so appointed by him, by advertisement in some newspaper, or by posting the satne in some pnb.°c
place; and such notice shall be renewed as often as any change takes
p ace.

 

CHAPTER 84.

OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

Sncrrotr ‘ S1:c'rroz«
1. Powers and duties of commissioners. 6. Times and places for the meetings of
2. Their power to punish for contempts. the commissioners.
3. Sheriffs and other oiiicers to execute 7. Regulation of highways and licensed
their processes. houses in Chelsea.
4. Compensation of the commissioners. 8. Of licensed houses in Boston.
5. Appointment and duty of clerk. 9. Of highways in Boston.

SECTION 1. The county commissioners in each county shall continue to exercise, in their respective counties, the several powers
given to them by the provisions of the fourteenth cha ter.

SECT. 2. The commissioners, when assembled lldr the performance of their duties, may punish any disorderly conduct which shall
cause an actual interruption to the business of their meeting, or shall
amount to an open and direct contempt of their authority or persons,
by fine not exceeding five dollars, or by confinement, in the custody
of the sheriff, or any deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable, for a time
not exceeding twelve hours.

St-:c'r. 3. All sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, coroners and constables,
shall serve and execute all legal warrants and processes, to them
directed by the said commissioners.

SECT. 4. For all services, performed by the standing commissioners, or special commissioners, they shall receive, each at the
rate of one dollar for every ten miles actually travelled by them, and
three dollars a day for the time employed in discharging the duties
of their office ; provided, that they shall not receive pay by the day
for the time employed in travelling, nor shall they be paid for services on more than one petition, or one case, at the same time.

Seer. 5. The clerk of the commissioners shall be ap ointed by
the supreme judicial court, as provided in the eighty eight chapter,
and shall record, in books to be kept for that purpose, all the proceedings of the commissioners, which require to be recorded, and
shall have the care and custody of all the books and papers appertaining to their business.

Snow. 6. There shall be a meeting of the commissioners held
in each county, at the times and places mentioned in the following
table, that is to say ;

In the county of Essex, at Ipswich, on the second Tuesday of
April, at Salem, on the second Tuesday of July, and at Newburyport,
on the second Tuesday of October ; and there shall also be a meeting on the fourth Tuesday of December, at Ipswich, Salem, or
Newburyport, as the commissioners shall order at the next preceding
term.

In the county of Middlesex, at Cambridge, on the first Tuesday of
January, and at Concord, on the second Tuesday of May, and the
third Tuesday of September.

In the county of Worcester, at Worcester, on the fourth Tuesday
of March, the third Tuesday of June, the second Tuesday of September, and the fourth Tuesday of December.

In the county of Hampshire, at Northampton, on the first Tuesdays of March, June, September and December.

In the county of Franklin, at Greenfield, on the first Tuesdays of
March and September, and the second Tuesdays of June and December.

In the county of Hampden, at Springfield, on the second Tuesday
of April, the -first Tuesday of October, and the fourth Tuesdays of
June and December.

In the county of Berkshire, at Lenox, on the last Tuesdays of
April and September.

In the county of Norfolk, at Dedham, on the third Tuesday of
April, and the fourth Tuesdays of June and September. In the county of Plymouth, at Plymouth, on the first Tuesday of
Lianuary, the third Tuesday of March, and the first Tuesday of

U USI.

Iii the county of Bristol, at Taunton, on the fourth Tuesdays of

March and September.
In the county of Barnstable, at Barnstable, on the second Tuesdays of April and October.

In the county of Nantucket, at Nantucket, on the third Monday of
April, and the second Monday of October.

In Duke’s county, at Edgartown, on the Wednesday next after the
third Monday of May, and the Wednesday next after the second
Monday of November.

SE01‘. 7. The court of common pleas, when sitting in the county
of Suffolk, shall exercise and perform all the powers and duties of
county commissioners, relating to highways and licensed houses in the
town of Chelsea, and to all other matters concerning the said town,
which, in other counties, are committed to the control and direction
of county commissioners.

Sre:c'r. 8. The mayor and aldermen of the city of Boston shall
exercise and perform all the powers and duties of county commissioners, relating to licensed houses in the said city, as is prescribed
in the forty seventh chapter.

SE01‘. 9. The powers and duties of county commissioners, relating to highways and other ways in the city of Boston, shall be exercised and performed by the mayor and aldermen of the said city,

and b the court of common pleas, when sitting in the county of
Sutfo k, severally and respectively, as prescribed in the twenty fourth

chapter.

 
 

CHAPTER 85.

OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

Sncrrort T Szcrron

JURISDICTION IN CIVIL Acnons.

1. Original and exclusive jurisdiction in
certain civil actions

2. Concurrent jurisdiction with C. C. P. in
certain others.

3. Cases concerning real estate may be
removed to C. C. Pleas.

4. But if party does not recognize, the justice shall try the case.

5. Proceedings in the C. C. P. on such
appeal.

6. Appeal allowed to the supreme court.

7. Forms of writs issued by justices.

8. VVithin what time to be served.

9. Judgment for plaintifff, on default, &.c.

10. Judgment for the defendant.

ll. Pleas liefore a justice may be oral or in
writing.

12. Pleadings in such case, on appeal.

13. Appeal allowed to C. C. Pleas.

14-. Appellant to recognize.

15. “ to produce papers, &c. or
on failure, the former judgment may be
atiinned.

I6. Justices may issue scire facias against
executors, &c. and against bail.

17. The writ, within what time to be served.

18. Proceedings thereon.

19, 20. Proceedings on a judgment after the
death of the justice who rendered it.

21. Execution how issued thereon.

JURISDICTION
SECTION I.

IN CIVIL ,
Every justice of the peace shall have power to hold

22. Justices’ power to continue, alter commission expired, for certain purposes.
23. Case of a commission expired and renewed.

JURISDICTION IN CRIMINAL CASES.

2-l-. Justices to punish breaches of the peace;
l 25. Or bind over o8'enders to C. C. Pleas.

26. To arrest all otfenders, being within
their counties; to examine into treason,
felonies, &.c.

27. To be severally conservators of the
peace.

28. Appeal allowed to C. C. Pleas.
GENERAL POWERS AND DU'ru:s.

29. Justices to frame and issue all necessary
writs, &.c. l

30. Sheriffs and other officers to execute
them.

31. At what places, causes may be heard.

32. Courts may be adjourned.

33. Power to punish for contempts.

34. Justice not to be of counsel or attorney, &.c.

35. To keep a record.

36. Justices to administer oaths in all cases.

37. To account for all fines, &c. received.

38. To grant summonses for witnesses in
all civil actions, dcc.

39. Also in criminal cases.

40. This chapter not to affect police courts

ACTIONS.

a court within his county, and they shall, severally, have original and
exclusive jurisdiction of all civil actions, wherein the debt or damages demanded do not exceed twenty dollars, excepting real actions,
actions of trespass on real estate, actions for disturbance of a right of
way or of any other easement, and all other actions in which the title

to real estate may be concerned.
SECT. 2. In all the personal actions mentioned in the exception

contained in the preceding section, when the sum demanded does not

exceed twenty dollars, 'ustices of the peace shall have original jurisdiction concurrently wit the court of common pleas.

SECT. 3. When it shall appear, by the pleadings or otherwise,
in any action pending before a justice of the peace, that the title to
real estate is concerned or brought in question, the fact shall, if not
otherwise appearing, be stated on the record, and the case shall, at
the request of either party, he removed to the court of common pleas,
to be there tried and determined in like manner as if it had been originally commenced in that court.

Seer. 4. The party, requiring the case to be removed as aforesaid, shall recognize to the other party in a reasonable sum, with sufficient surety or sureties, with condition to enter the action at the
court of common pleas, next to be held in the same county, and if
he shall fail so to recognize, the justice shall hear and determine the
case, as if there had been no such request to remove it.

Seer. 5. The party so recognizing shall produce, at the said
court of common pleas, a copy of the record, and all such papers as
are required to be produced by an appellant, and if he shall fail so to
do, or to enter the action as before provided, he shall, upon the complaint of the adverse party to the court of common pleas, be there defaulted or nonsuited, as the case may be, and such judgment shall be
thereupon rendered, as law and justice shall require.

SECT. 6. In every case so removed to the court of common
pleas, either party may appeal from the judgment of the court, in like
manner as if the action had been originally commenced there. .

SE01‘. 7. The original writ, in all civil actions commenced before a justice of the peace, shall be a summons or a capias and attachment, and shall be signed by the justice, and the forms thereof
shall be regulated as is provided in the ninetieth chapter ; and no
such writ shall run into any other county than that in which it is returnable.

SE01‘. 8. No person shall be held to appear and answer to any
such action, unless the writ shall have been duly served not less than
seven nor more than sixty days before the day therein appointed for
trial.

S1-zcr. 9. If any person, duly served with such process, shall fail
to appear and answer thereto, his default shall be recorded, and the
charge against him in the declaration shall be taken to be true ; and
upon such default, and also when the plaintifff maintains his action upon a trial, the justice shall award and enter judgment for such sum,
not exceeding twenty‘dollars, as he shall upon inquiry find the plaintifff is entitled to recover, with costs.

SECT. 10. If the plaintifff shall fail to enter and prosecute his action, or if upon a trial he shall not maintain the same, the defendant
shall recover judgment for his costs, to be taxed by the justice.

SECT. 11. In civil actions before justices of the peace, the trial
may be had, at the election of the defendant, either upon pleadings
in writing, as heretofore used, or the defendant, without filing any
written plea, may orally deny the plaintifff ’s right to maintain his action ; in which case an entry shall be made on the record, that the
defendant appears and denies the plaintili"s right to maintain his action, and puts himself on trial, or in words to that elfect ; and upon

the issue so joined, a trial may be had, and any matter may be given
in evidence by either party, which would have been admissible, if
the defense had been made under any general or special plea in bar.

SE01‘. 12. If any such case shall be carried by appeal to the
court of common pleas, it may be there tried upon the issue so joined before the justice, or the court may, in their discretion, order the
defendant to lead in the usual manner, and the case shall then be
tried upon such issue as shall be joined therein.

1 SI-:c'r. 13. Any party ‘aggrieved by the judgment of a justice of

the peace in any civil action, may, at any time within twenty four
hours after the entry of the judgment, appeal therefrom to the court
of common pleas, then next to be held in the same county ; in which
case, no execution shall issue on the judgment appealed from, and
the case shall be entered, tried, and finally determined in the court of
common pleas, in like manner as if it had been originally commenced
there.

SECT. 14. The appellant shall, before the allowance of his appeal, recognize with sutiicient surety or sureties to the adverse party,
if required by him, in a reasonable sum, with condition to prosecute
his appeal with effect, and to pay all such costs, as may arise after
the appeal.

SECT. 15. The appellant shall produce at the court appealed to
a copy of the record, and of all the papers filed in the case, except
that when depositions, or other written evidence or documents, are
so filed, the originals shall be produced in the court of common pleas,
instead of copies ; and if the appellant shall fail to produce such
copies or papers, or to enter and prosecute his appeal, the court may,
on the complaint of the adverse party, affirm the former judgment, or
render such other judgment as law and justice shall require.

Seer. 16. Every justice of the peace may issue writs of scire
facias a ainst executors and administrators, upon a suggestion of
waste, a ter judgment against them, and also against the bail, taken in
any civil action before him, and proceed therein to judgment and execution, in the same manner as the court of common pleas might do
in the like cases.

I SECT. 17. Every such writ of scire facias shall be served, not

’ less than seven days, nor more than sixty days, before the time when
it is returnable, and it may run into any county, in which the defendant may be found.

SECT. 18. It shall be no bar to any such suit, that the debt and
costs, on the original judgment, do together exceed the sum of twenty dollars ; but judgment and execution may be awarded by the justice, for the whole sum due to the plaintifff, with the costs of the new
suit.

SECT. 19. When any justice of the peace shall die, whilst a

L judgment rendered by him remains unsatisfied, any other justice in

» the same county may, upon the application of the creditor, cause the
record of the judgment to be brought before him, and shall thereupon
transcribe the same upon his own book of records, and shall deliver
the original to the person who produced it, noting on the original
that he has so transcribed it.

SECT. 20. The justice applied to in such case shall, when necessary, issue a summons to the executor or administrator of the deceased justice, or to any other person, who is su posed to have the
custody of the record, requiring him to produce tie same, or to submit to an examination on oath, as to the place where it may be found ;
and the justice may commit such person, as for a contempt, until he
shall submit to such examination, if required, and produce the record,
if within his custody or control.

Sncr. 21. After the record has been so transcribed by the justice, he may issue execution on the judgment, as if it had been rendered by himself, changing the form, as the circumstances shall require ; and any copy of the record, certified by him, shall have the
same effect as an authenticated copy of the original.

Seer. 22. When the commission of any justice of the peace
shall expire, whilst a judgment rendered by him remains unsatisfied,
he shall nevertheless be authorized to issue execution thereon, with
the same effect, as if his commission had continued in force.

Seer. 23. When any justice of the peace shall be commissioned and qualified anew, at or before the expiration of his former commission, his authority shall be considered as having continued without
interruption; and all business, commenced by or before him under
the former commission, may be prosecuted and completed, in the
same manner as if that commission had continued in force.

JURISDICTION IN CRIMINAL CASES.

S1-:c'r. 24. Every justice of the peace, within his county, may
punish by fine, not exceeding ten dollars, all assaults and batteries,
and other breaches of the peace, when the offense is not of a high
and aggravated nature, and cause to he stayed and arrested all affrayers, rioters, disturbers and breakers of the peace, and all who go
armed offensively, to the terror of the people, and such as utter menaces or threatening speeches, or are otherwise dangerous and disorderly persons.

SECT. 25. All persons, arrested for any of the said offenses,
shall be examined by the justice, before whom they are brought, and
may be tried before him, and if found guilty, may be required to
find sureties of the peace, and be further punished by fine as before
provided; or, when the offense is of a high and aggravated nature,
they may be committed or bound over, for trial before the court of
common pleas, or other court having jurisdiction of the case, as is
provided in the one hundred and thirty fourth and one hundred and
thirty fifth chapters.

SEC1226. The said justices shall cause to be arrested all persons found within their counties, charged with any offenses, and all
persons who, after committing any offense within the county, shall
escape out of the same. They shall also examine into all treasons,
felonies, high crimes, and misdemeanors, and commit or bind over,
for trial, all persons who appear to be guilty thereof. They shall
also try all offenses within their jurisdiction, committed within their
respective counties, and sentence all persons convicted thereof, according to law.

SECT. 27. Every justice of the peace may, as a conservator of
the peace, upon view of any affray, riot, assault or battery, within his

county, without any warrant in writing, command the assistance of
every sheriff, deputy sheriff, and constable, and of all other persons
present, for suppressing the same, and for arresting all who are concerned therein as provided in the two last mentioned chapters.

St-:c'r. 28. Every person, convicted before a justice of the peace,
of any offense whatever, in any county except Suffolk, may appeal
from such sentence to the court of common pleas, then next to be
held in the same county, as provided in the one hundred and thirty
eighth chapter.

GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.

Seer. 29. Justices of the peace may issue all writs, warrants
and processes, that may be necessary or proper to carry into effect
the powers granted to them ; and when no form is prescribed therefore by statute, they shall frame one, in conformity with the principles
of law, and the usual course of proceedings in the courts of this state.

SEOT. 30. All sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, coroners and constables
are required duly to serve and execute all legal writs, warrants and
other processes, to them directed by any justice of the peace.

SE01‘. 31. All actions and suits before justices of the peace may
be heard and determined, either at their own dwelling houses, or at any
other convenient and suitable places, and their writs and processes
may be made returnable accordingly.

Seer. 32. Every justice may adjourn his court, in all cases,
civil or criminal, on trial before him, to any other time or place, as
occasion shall reignite.

Sncr. 33. very justice may punish such disorderly conduct, as
shall interrupt any judicial proceedings before him, or be a contempt
of his authority or person, by fine not exceeding ten dollars, or by
imprisonment in the common jail of the county, not exceeding fifteen
da s.

ySEc'r. 34. No justice shall be retained or employed as counsel
or attorney, before any court, upon appeal or otherwise, in any suit
or action, which shall have been previously determined before himself, nor shall he try any civil action, commenced by himself, or by
his order or direction; and every civil action, so commenced, shall
be dismissed, with costs for the defendant.

St-:c'r. 35. Every justice of the peace shall keep a record of all
his judicial proceedings, both in civil and criminal cases.

SECT. 36. Every justice of the peace may administer oaths, in
all cases in which an oath is or shall be required, unless a different
provision shall be expressly made by law.

SECT. 37. Every justice of the peace shall, twice in every ear,
account with the respective treasurers of the county, and ofy the
towns, for all fines, forfeitures and costs, received upon convictions,
or other proceedings before himself, and shall pay over to the said
treasurers, respectively, all monies due and payable to them on such
account.

Snow. 38. Every justice of the peace may issue summonses for
witnesses, in all cases pending before himself, and in all civil cases,
pending before any court whatever, or before any magistrates, arbitrators, or other persons authorized to examine witnesses.

S1-:c'r. 39. He may also grant summonses for witnesses, in all
criminal cases pending before any court whatever, when requested by
the attorney general, or other person acting in the case, in behalf of
the Commonwealth, and also when requested by the party, who is
prosecuted ; provided, that in the latter case it shall be expressed in
the summons, that it is granted at the request of the party prosecuted ;
and the witness shall not be required to attend, unless upon payment
or tender of his legal fees.

Saar. 40. Nothing contained in this chapter shall control the
regulations concerning the olice court of the city of Boston, or of
any other town, whereb‘y_a ifferent provision is made for the exercise
of any of the powers 0 justices of the peace.

CHAPTER 86.

OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT OF THE CITY OF BOSTON.

Sxcnozt Section
1. Appointment of the judge. 9. Fines, &c., tohe paid and accounted
2. Times and places of holding the court. for, as in C. C. Pleas.
3. ‘How adjourned in the absence of the 10_ Appeal allowed to the supreme cum,
.l“d3°- in certain cases—how conducted.

4. Jurisdiction of the court.
5. Court to issue all writs, &c., like C. C.
Pleas.
6. Grand jurors, how appointed for the
Conn 13. Clerk to keep and render an account of
'7. Traverse jurors. fee"
8. The judge to appoint his clerk. 14. Salary of clerk.

1]. Court may grant new trials, and allow
exceptions.
12. Salary of the judge.

SECTION 1. The judge of the municipal court of the city of
Boston shall continue to hold his office, according to the tenor of his
commission, and when a vacancy occurs, it shall be filled in the
manner prescribed by the constitution.

Seer. 2. The said court shall be held in the city of Boston,
on the first Monday of every month, and may be adjourned from
time to time, as occasion shall require.

Sncr. 3. If the judge shall be absent, at a time appointed for
holding a court, whether at the beginning of a term, or at any adjournment thereof, the clerk shall adjourn the court, either without
day, or to such time and place, as the public convenience may in his
judgment require, and notice of such adjournment shall be given by
proclamation, to be made in the court house by the sheriff or his
deputy, and in such other manner as the court may by any general
rule direct.

SE01‘. 4. The said court shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the supreme judicial court, of all crimes, offenses and
misdemeanors committed in the county of Suffolk, which are not
capital, and of all offenses against the by-laws of the city of Boston,

and appellate jurisdiction of all offenses, which shall be tried and determined before the police court of the city of Boston, or before
any justice of the peace for the county of Suffolk.

Snow. 5. The said judge shall issue all such writs and processes,
and exercise all such powers, as may be necessary or proper for the
discharge of his duty, in like manner as may be done by the court
of common pleas ; and all such writs and processes may run into any
county, and shall be obeyed and executed throughout the state.

Snow. 6. The grand jurors, who are from time to time appointed
to serve in the supreme judicial court for the county of Suffolk, shall
serve as grand jurors in the municipal court, until others are appointed
in their place.

SE01‘. 7. The traverse jurors of the municipal court shall be
drawn and returned from the city of Boston, and from the town of
Chelsea, in the manner provided in the ninety lifth chapter, and
writs of venire facias shall be issued for that purpose, returnable at the
terms held in January, April, July and October in each year; and
the jurors, so returned at each of those four terms, respectively, shall
also serve at the two next succeeding terms.

SE01‘. 8. The said judge shall from time to time appoint the
clerk of said court, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his
duty, and shall hold his office during the pleasure of the court ; and
in case of the absence or inability of the clerk, the court may appoint
a clerk pro tempore, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of

his duty.

SE01‘. 9. All fines, forfeitures and costs, accrued or allowed upon any judgment or other proceeding in said court, shall be paid, received and accounted for, in like manner as is provided in the case of
criminal prosecutions in the court of common pleas.

Srzcr. 10. Any person, convicted in the said court upon indictment for a libel, nuisance or conspiracy, or for any offense which is
or may be punishable by confinement to hard labor, for a term exceedin five years, may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial
court or the county of Suffolk, in the same manner that is provided,
in the one hundred and thirty eighth chapter, for appeals by a person
convicted in the court of common pleas ; and such appeal from the
municipal court shall be prosecuted, conducted and determined, in all
respects, in the manner provided in the last mentioned chapter, with
res ect to the said appeals from the court of common pleas.

£201‘. 11. The said municipal court may grant new trials in the
like cases, and upon the same terms and conditions as are provided,
in the one hundred and thirty eighth chapter, for the granting of new
trials by the court of common pleas ; and exceptions may be taken to
any decision or direction of the court in matter of law, in the same
manner, and with the same limitations, as are provided in said chapter.

SECT. 12. The judge of the said municipal court shall receive a
stated annual salary from the city of Boston, which shall be established by the city council, and shall not be diminished during his continuance in ofBce ; he shall also receive from the Commonwealth a further sum of twelve hundred and fifty dollars a year, to be paid in
puarterly payments out of the treasury, and in the same proportion
or any part of a quarter, which payments shall be in full compensation for all his services.

Sncr. 13. The clerk of the said court shall keep an account of
all fees received by him for his official acts and services, under the
laws of this Commonwealth, excepting fees for such copies as he is
not required by law to furnish, and he shall, on the first Wednesday
of January, in every year, render to the treasurer of the county of
Suffolk his account, on oath, of all fees so received within the year
then past.

Si-:c'r. 14. The said clerk shall receive an annual salary of twelve
hundred dollars, and in the same proportion for any part of a year, if
the fees, for which he is so required to account, shall amount to so
much ; and if, upon rendering his said account, there shall be in his
hands any excess above the amount due for his salary, he shall retain
for his own use one half of the excess, and shall pay the other half
thereof to the said county treasurer, who shall account therefore to the
treasurer of the Commonwealth.

 

CHAPTER 87.

OF POLICE COURTS.

Station
24. To be responsible for them.

25. The justices and clerk not to be of
counsel or attorneys, doe.

Bacrtoit
or T8! roucl: count or ‘run cm‘! or
nosroit.
1. Appointment of the justices.
2. Times and place of holding the court. 26. Salaries of the justices.
3. General jurisdiction in criminal cases. 27. Salary of the clerk.
4. Of otfences against the by-laws of 28. Compensation of assistant clerks.
Boston, except, &.c. ‘ or r-ouci: counrs ll o-risaa rowits.
5. All warrants in criminal cases to be re- 29. Police courts establisded in certain

tumable to the police court. towns.
6. Fees on warrants issued by a justice. 30. Appointment of the justices, and special
7. Justices of the peace in Boston to be justices. ‘
conservators of the peace. 31. Court when to be held by special jastices.

8. Appeal allowed to the municipal court.

9. Attendance, when case is adjourned. 32' J°'l’dl°‘l°" °“h° °°“”’ in °'imi”‘l

10. The court to be held also for civil
actions.

11. To have exclusive jurisdiction in certain cases.

12. Teste and form of writs.

13. Proceedings to be like those before justices of the peace.

14-. Times and place of holding the justices’
court.

15. Appeal allowed to C. C. Pleas.

16. Justices to establish general rules of
practice-—t‘nay discharge from prison in
(‘Cfl-':llll cases.

l7. Fiaviinr ill‘-MCI); smls oflhe Court.

18. Appointment of the clerk.

19. Clerk to be sworn, and to give bond.

20, 21. Duty of the clerk.

22. To account for and pay over monies.
23. May appoint assistant clerks.

 
 

cases.
33. All warrants issued within the district,
to be returnable to the police court.
34-. Jurisdiction of the courts in civil actions.
35. Appeal allowed to C. C. Pleas.
36. Justice to ofticiate as clerk.
38. To account for all Enes, &.c. received.

39. Costs in criminal cases, how allowed
and paid.

40. General powers and duties of the courts.

41. May commit certain otfenders to the
workhouse-—Expense of persons so coniInltt-3-tl, how to l't“, pairl.

47. f‘ceiirt..-3 where to be held.

43. Times of holding.

44. Justices not to be of counsel or attorneys, &c.
45. Compensation of the standing Justices
45. Of the special justices.

OF THE POLICE COURT OF THE CITY 01-‘ BOSTON.

-' SECTION 1. The justices of the police court of the city of Boston shall continue to hold their offices according to the tenor of their
commissions and as vacancies occur, others shall be appointed
in the manner provided by the constitution, so that there shall be always three justices of the said court.

Seer. 2. The police court shall be held in Boston, for the

7 county of Suffolk, by one or more of the said justices, at nine of the
clock in the morning, and at three of the clock in the afternoon, of
every day in the year except Lord’s days, and days of public thanksgiving and fast.

Sac-r. 3. The said court shall have the same jurisdiction in cri‘ minal suits and prosecutions, and in all matters relating to treasons,
felonies, and other crimes and misdemeanors, committed in the county of Suffolk, and relating to persons found therein, and charged with
any of the said offenses, and shall have and exercise the same powers in all criminal cases, that are or may be given by law to one or
more justices of the peace, or of the peace and quorum in other
counties.

SECT. 4. The said court shall also have cognizance of all offen, ces against the by-laws of the city of Boston, which are not within the
exclusive jurisdiction of some other court.

Snow. 5. All warrants issued by the said court, or by any jus. tice of the peace in Boston, in any criminal suit or prosecution, shall

' be made returnable before the said court, and no process returnable
before a justice of the peace in the town of Chelsea, except for canses of complaint arising in that town, shall be served in Boston.

Seer. 6. No fees shall be allowed to any justice of the peace for
any warrant issued by him, returnable before said court, unless it shall
appear to the court that there was just and reasonable cause for issuing the warrant. ‘

SE01‘. 7. Every justice of the peace in the city of Boston shall,
notwithstanding any thing contained in this chapter, have and exercise all the powers and duties of a conservator of the peace, for suppressing all affrays, riots, assaults and batteries, and for arresting all
persons concerned therein ; and all persons so arrested, whether upon a warrant in writing or otherwise, shall be brought before the said
court for examination, to be there dealt with according to law.

Sr-:c'r. 8. Every person, convicted before the said court of any
offense, may appeal therefrom to the municipal court of the city of
Boston, and the appeal shall be entered at the next term of the municipal court, and shall be conducted and disposed of, in all respects,
like appeals in criminal cases from justices of the peace to the court
of common pleas in other counties.

Saar. 9. When any trial or examination, pending before the said
court, is adjourned to a future day, as provided in the one hundred
and thirty fifth chapter, the parties and the witnesses shall not be required to attend from day to day, but they shall attend at the time to
which the cause is so adjourned, and the recognizances, if any, shall
be taken accordingly.

SECT. 10. There shall also be a court for the trial of civil actions, to be held by one or more of the 'ustices of the police court,
which shall be called the justices’ court llor the county of Suffolk.

Saar. 11. The said justices’ court shall have and exercise, ex- .
clusively, the same jurisdiction in all civil actions in the county of ‘
Suffolk, that is exercised by justices of the peace in other counties.

Sacr. 12. Allwrits and processes, issued by the said justices’
court, shall bear teste of either of the justices who is not a party '
thereto, and shall be signed by the clerk, and they shall be, in all’;
other res ects, substantially like the writs and processes issued by
justices o the peace.

Seer. 13. All the proceedings in the said justices’ court, in the 1
hearing, trial and determination of civil actions, and in all matters re- :
lating thereto, shall be substantially the same as the proceedings in .
like cases before justices of the peace ; and the said justices’ court
shall have and exercise all such powers as may be necessary or proper for the discharge of their duty, in the same manner as justices of
the peace might do in the like cases.

Sear. 14. The said justices’ court shall be held in Boston, on '
two days in each week, to be fixed and determined by the justices r
thereof, and as much oftener\as occasion shall require, and it may be .
adjourned to any other time ; and all actions therein may he continued to any future day fixed for the sitting of the court.

SECT. 15. Any party, aggrieved by the judgment of the said
justices’ court, may appeal therefrom to the court of common pleas
for the county of Suffolk, and all the proceedings on such appeal
shall be conducted in all respects, as is provided for appeals in civil
cases from justices of the peace to the court of common pleas in other counties.

Snow. 16. The said justices shall from time to time meet, to
establish all necessary rules for the orderly and uniform conducting
of the business of both of the said courts, and also to arrange and
distribute their duties, so as to equalize the same among themselves,
as nearly as may be, and to ensure a prompt and punctual discharge
thereof; and on all other occasions requiring the presence of two or
more justices ; and when so assembled, the said justices may discharge from prison, in the county of Suffolk, any person, who may
be there held for no other reason than the non-payment of fine and
costs, if it shall appear to them that he is poor and unable to pay the
same; provided, that when such person is held under the sentence of
any other court, the consent thereto of the judge, or of one of the
justices of such other court, shall be first given in writing.

SI-:c'r. 17. The senior justice of the said court, for the time being, shall be the first justice of the said police court and justices’ court,
but each of the said courts shall have a separate and distinct seal.

SI-:c'r. 18. The clerk of the said police court and justices’ court
shall continue to hold his office, according to the tenor of his commission; and upon any vacancy in said office, the governor, with
the advice of the council, shall nominate and appoint one person, to
be clerk of both of the said courts, who shall hold his office during
the pleasure of the governor and council; and in case of the death
or absence of the clerk, the court shall appoint a clerk pro tempore,
who shall otiiciate as such, until the standing clerk shall resume the

performance of his duties, or until another shall be appointed by the
governor.

%4¢j

Sscr. 19. The clerk shall be sworn to the faithful performance
of his duty, and shall give bond to the city of Boston, in such sum as
the city council shall order, with a surety or sureties, to the acceptance of the city treasurer, with condition for the faithful performance
of the duties of his ofnce.

Seer. 20. The clerk or his assistant shall attend all sessions of
both of the said courts, and keep a record of all the proceedings of
the said police court, and a distinct record of all the proceedings of
the said justices’ court.

Seer. 21. He shall also make out all warrants, writs and processes, which shall be ordered by either of the said courts, and tax
all bills of costs, and receive all fines and forfeitures, and all fees,
awarded and payable in either of said courts, and all fees for blanks,
and for copies in civil and criminal suits ; and the amount of all fees
received by him for copies shall be indorsed thereon.

Srzcr. 22. He shall render to the board of accounts of the city
of Boston a quarterly account of all monies so received by him as
clerk, and upon the approval thereof by the board, he shall forthwith pay over the amount due thereon to the city treasurer.

Saar. 23. He may from time to time appoint one or more assistant clerks, to aid him in the discharge of his duties ; but no person
shall be so appointed, unless approved by the justices of the said

courts.
Srzcr. 24. The clerk shall be responsible for the doings of his

assistants, and they shall be removable at his pleasure, and shall be
sworn to the faithful performance of their duties.

SECT. 25. Neither of the said justices, nor the said clerk, nor
either of his assistants, shall be retained or employed as counsel or
attorney in any suit, complaint, or proceeding, in the said police
court, or justices’ court, nor in any which shall have been heard, examined or tried therein.

SECT. 26. The said justices shall severally receive, from the
city of Boston, an annual salary, the amount of which shall be from
time to time determined by the city council, and shall be paid in
quarterly payments, and in the same proportion for any part of a
quarter, in full compensation for all their services, except those required of them as members of the board of accounts of the city of
Boston.

SECT. 27. The said clerk shall also receive from the city an annual salary, the amount of which shall be from time to time determined by the city council, and shall be paid in quarterly payments,
and in the same proportion for any part of a quarter. and shall be in
full compensation for all his services.

Seer. 28. The assistant clerks shall receive from the city such
compensation for their services, as shall be ordered by the city council, provided the board of accounts shall certify that their services
were necessary.

OF POLICE COURTS IN OTHER. PLACES.

Srzcr. 29. The several police courts in other places shall be continued as heretofore established, that is to say ;

The town of Salem shall constitute a judicial district, under the
jurisdiction of the police court of Salem :

The town of Lowell shall constitute a judicial district, under the
jurisdiction of the police court of Lowell :

The town of Newburyport shall constitute a judicial district, under
the °urisdiction of the olice court of Newburyport:

' he town of New gedford, shall constitute a °udicial district, under
the jurisdiction of the police court of New Bed ord.

Seer. 30. There shall be one standing justice, and two special
justices, in each of the said judicial districts. The justices now appointed shall continue to hold their offices, according to the tenor of
their commissions, and as vacancies occur, others shall be appointed
in the manner provided by the constitution, who shall hold their oilices for the same time, and by the like tenure, as is provided with
res ect to justices of the peace.

£301‘. 31. The said courts shall be held by the respective standing justices thereof, except that when the standing justice is interested in any case, pending or cognizable in his court, or is absent, or
otherwise unable to hear and determine the same, the fact shall be
stated on the record, and the case shall be heard and determined by
one of the said special justices, who shall, upon notice of the fact,
attend and hold the court for that purpose, and perform all the duties
of the standing justice relating to such case.

Seer. 32. The said courts shall have the same jurisdiction, in
criminal suits and prosecutions, and in all matters relating to treasons,
felonies, and other crimes and misdemeanors, committed within their
respective counties, or relating to persons found therein, and charged
with any of the said offenses, which justices of the peace have in the
same counties.

Snow. 33. All warrants issued by the said courts, or by any justice of the peace in any of the said judicial districts, in any criminal
suit or prosecution, shall be returnable before the police court of the
district, and no fees shall be allowed to any justice of the peace, for
any such warrant, unless it shall appear to the court that there was
just and reasonable cause for issuing it. ‘

SECT. 34. The said courts shall also have jurisdiction, concurrently with the justices of the peace, of all civil actions in their respective counties, which are within the jurisdiction of justices of the
peace, and the jurisdiction of each of the said courts shall be exclusive, in all civil actions, when the plaintifff and defendant both reside
within their respective districts.

SECT. 35. When there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants,
the jurisdiction of the said court shall not be exclusive, unless all the
said parties shall reside within the judicial district.

SECT. 36. Any party, aggrieved by the judgment of either of the
said courts, in any case, whether civil or criminal, may appeal therefrom to the court of common pleas, for the county in which the police court is held, and all such appeals shall be entered, conducted
and disposed of, in all respects, like appeals from justices of the peace
to the court of common pleas.

SE01‘. 37. The standing justice, or other justice, who holds the

court, shall perform all the duties of a clerk thereof, and shall receive
all fees, costs and fines, that are aid into court.

Sr-:c'r. 38. All lines and forgitures received by the said justice
and all costs, in criminal prosecutions, received by him, except his
own fees, shall be accounted for and paid over, in the same manner,
and under the same penalties for neglect, as are prescribed with regard
to gustices of the peace.

ECT. 39. All costs and charges, arising in criminal prosecutions,
which shall not be paid to the said justice as above provided,shall be
taxed, certified, allowed and paid, in like manner, as is by law provided in the case of prosecutions before justices of the peace.

Snow. 40. _ The powers and duties of the said police courts, in
all matters not herein expressly provided for, shall be the same as
those of justices of the peace, in the like cases.

SECT. 41. Every person, being an inhabitant of any town, within
either of the said judicial districts, who shall be brought before any
of the said courts, and shall be liable to be sent to the house of correction, as a rogue or Vagabond, or an idle or disorderly person, may
be committed to the work house, if there be any, in the town of
which he is an inhabitant, to be there kept, governed and employed,
according to the rules of the said work house, and the expense of
supporting and employing such person shall be paid, and may be recovered, in the same manner, that is provided in the one hundred and
forty third chapter, in case of a like commitment to the house of correction.

Sr~:c'r. 42. Every police court shall be held within the district
for which it is established, in the court house, if there be one, or in
any other suitable place, to be provided at the expense of the district,
and may be adjourned to any other place in the same district, as occasion shall require.

Sncr. 43. The said courts shall be held, in each of the said districts, on two fixed days in each week, and as much oftener as may
be necessary for criminal cases, and on one fixed day in each fortnight, and as much oftener as may be necessary, for civil actions;
except that in Newburyport, the court may be held one day only in
each week, for both criminal and civil cases.

S1-:c'r. 44. None of the said standing justices shall be retained or
employed, as counsel or attorney in any suit, complaint, or proceeding
pending in his court, nor in any which shall have been heard, examined or tried therein ; and none of the said special justices shall be so
retained or employed, in any such case, in which they shall omciate
for the standing °ustice.

Seer. 45. "The standing justice of each of the said courts shall
receive and retain for his own use all such fees, for the services performed by him, as would be taxable by law for the like services,
when performed by a justice of the peace ; provided, that the legislature may, from time to time, limit the said compensation to a certain
sum, or make any other change relating thereto, as they shall think
just and proper.

SECT. 46. Every special 'ustice, when officiating in the police
court, shall receive and retain for his services all such fees, as would
be taxable by law for the like services. when performed by a justice
of the peace.

CHAPTER 88.

OF CLERKS, ATTORNEYS, AND OTHER OFFICERS OF COURTS.

BIOTION Sncrton

or CLIRIS. 23. Distinction between counsellors and at]. Appointment of clerks ‘°"1e.Y9 3b°ll9b°dg_ Tenure of om“, bow ,em0ved_ 24-. Counsellors and attorneys from other
3_ C18,], ,0 give bond_ states may be admitted here.
4_ To be swarm 25. Attorney may be removed for malprac5_ His genera] dmie9_ . lice, ‘Gee. Expenses of trial, how
6. Record, how made in suits in equity. 90- Parties may manage their own mm.
7. To keep alphabetical list of names, &c. &'°' . .
8. Records to be inspected by the courts. 27' 0' may appmm 3 specml ““°m°3'°

9,10. Proceedings in case of neglect of 28' A“°m°-V,‘ lie” °“ °"°°“‘i°” i“ hi’
the clerk. handsll. Books of records to be exhibited to the 29' sham’ deputy’ coroner’ or constable’
not to act as attorney.
supreme court.

_ 30. Penalty for so doing.
12. Clerks to be liable for any other misconduct 01-‘ nusrlms IN cnutcznr.
13. Any court may appoint a clerk pro- 31. Appointment of masters in chancery.
tempore. 32. To be sworn.
14. His oath and compensation. 33. Their duties and fees.
15. Clerks to render an account of fees re- 34. “ fees, how taxed and paid.
ceived. 35. Other persons may be appointed in
16. To retain the amount of their salaries. case, &.c.

17. Salaries of the several clerks in the several counties.

l8. Salaries not to exceed the amount of 35- APP0ln1m€l1l 01' l'8P0|"-el'fees received. 37. Reporter to be sworn.

38. To make and publish reports annually.
39. How to report different cases.

19, K). Qualifications for admission to any 40. Duty of the court in certain cases.

01'’ THE REPORTER.

01-‘ COUNSELLOR8 AND ATTORNEYS.

court to practise as an attorney. 4]. Reporter, when sick, &.c. may depute
2]. Oaths, ’to be taken by an attorney. one to attend for him.
22. Oath of odice. 4-2. Compensation of the reporter.
‘ (
OF CLERKS.

SECTION 1. The clerks of the supreme judicial court, of the
court of common pleas, and of the county commissioners, in the several counties, shall continue to hold their offices, according to the
tenor of their commissions, and as vacancies occur, the justices of
the supreme judicial court shall appoint one or more persons in each
county, to be clerks of all the said courts which shall be held in their
respective counties.

SECT. 2. The said clerks shall hold their offices for five years,
if not sooner removed, and they may be removed at any time, by the

justices of the supreme judicial court, for any cause, which the said

court shall deem sufficient.

SECT. 3. Every such clerk, before entering on the duties of his S

office, shall give bond to the treasurer of the county, to be approved
by the supreme judicial Court, in a sum not less than five hundred,

I

and not exceeding two thousand dollars, with one or more sufficient
sureties, with condition for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
office.

S1-:_c'r. 4. He shall also be sworn to the faithful discharge of all
his said duties, which oath shall be administered by the supreme judicial court in any county, or by any one of the justices thereof in
vacation. SECT. 5. The said clerks shall attend all the said courts, when
held in their respective counties, and record their proceedings, and
shall have the care and custody of all the records, books and papers,
appertaining to their respective offices, and filed or deposited therein.

SI-JCT. 6. In suits in equity, the clerk shall record at large such
part only of the proceedings, as shall be directed by the court which
direction may be given by general rules, or by a special order in any
particular case.

SECT. 7. They shall keep in every book of records an alphabetical list of the names of all the parties to any suit or judgment therein
recorded, with a reference to the page where it is recorded; and when
there are several ersons, either plaintifffs or defendants, the name of
every person, witii a like reference, shall be inserted in its appropriate
place in the alphabetical list.

SE01‘. 8. The 'ustices of the several courts shall inspect the doings of the clerks, fiom time to time, and see that the respective records are made up seasonably, and kept in good order; and if the
records are left incomplete, for more than six months, at any one
time, such neglect, unless caused by sickness or other extraordinary
casualty, shall he adjudged a forfeiture of the clerk’s bond.

SECT. 9. In case of any neglect, causing a forfeiture of the bond

‘ given by the clerk, the said justices shall forthwith give notice thereof,

in writing, to the treasurer of the county, who shall thereupon cause
the bond in be put in suit. .

SE01‘. 10. The sum recovered in such suit shall be applied to
making up the deficient records, under the direction of the court, in
whose records the deficiency shall happen, and the surplus, if any,
shall remain in the hands of the treasurer, for the use of the county.

SECT. 11. At every term of the supreme judicial court, the clerk
shall exhibit the then latest book of records of each of the courts in
the county, and such others as shall be required, so that the court
may have notice of any errors or defects in the keeping of the records, and may cause the same to be corrected, or may remove the
clerk, as occasion shall require.

Sacr. 12. Nothing before expressed shall be construed to exempt the said clerks from a suit, for any other breach of the condition
of their bonds, or from their liability in any other way, or to any party, for neglect or misconduct in their offices.

SECT. 13. In case of the death of the clerk, or of his absence
from any of the courts, which he is required to attend, the court shall
appoint a clerk pro tempore, who shall continue to act as clerk ofthe
court, by which he is appointed, until the standing clerk shall resume
the discharge of his duties, or until another shall be appointed by the

supreme judicial court.
SE01‘. 14. Such temporary clerk shall be sworn, before the court

by which he is appointed, to the faithful discharge of his duty; and
he shall receive for his services such compensation, as the court shall
think proper, to be paid either by the standing clerk, or from the
county treasury, as the court shall direct.

Sscr. 15. The clerks of the several counties shall keep an account of all fees received by them, for their official acts and services,
except _fees for such copies, as they are not required by law to
furnish ; and they shall, on the first Wednesday of January, in every
year, render to the treasurer of the county, their account on oath of
all fees so received within the year then ‘past.

Seer. 16. Each clerk shall retain, or his own use, the sum herein after provided for his annual salary, if he shall have received so
much, for the fees for which he is to account; and if there be any
excess, he shall also retain for his own use one half of that excess,
and the residue thereof he shall pay to the treasurer, for the use of
the county.

Seer. 17. The sums, which the several clerks may retain for
their annual salaries, shall be as follows, to wit:

The clerk or clerks of the county of Suffolk, four thousand dollars;

The clerk of the county of Essex, two thousand dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Middlesex two thousand dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Worcester two thousand dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Hampshire twelve hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Hampden twelve hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Franklin twelve hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Berkshire fourteen hundred dollars;

The clerk of the county of Norfolk fifteen hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Bristol sixteen hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Plymouth fourteen hundred dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Barnstable one thousand dollars ;

The clerk of the county of Nantucket four hundred dollars ; and

The clerk of the county of Duke’s county two hundred and fifty
dollars ;

And they may retain, at the same rate, for their services for any
part of a year.

Seer. 18. If the fees, received in any county, shall not amount
to the salary above provided, the clerk shall retain all that shall be
received, which shall be in full for his services for the year.

OF ATTORNEYS AT LAW.

Seer. 19. Any citizen of this Commonwealth, of the age of
twenty one years, and of good moral character, who shall have devoted three years to the study of the law, in the office of some attorney, within this state, shall, on application to the supreme court, or
court of common pleas, be admitted to practise as an attorney in any
court of this Commonwealth, on complying with the other requisitions contained in this chapter.

SECT. 20. Any person, having the other qualifications, required
in the preceding section, but who shall not have studied the term
therein prescribed, may, on the recommendation of any attorney
within this Commonwealth, petition the supreme court, or court of
common pleas, to be examined for admission as an attorney in said
courts, whereupon the court shall assign some time and place for the

examination, and if they shall thereupon be satisfied with his acquire

ments and qualifications, he shall be admitted, in like manner as if
he had studied three full years.

Seer. 21. Every person admitted as an attorney shall, in open
court, take and subscribe the oaths to support the constitution of the
United States, and of this Commonwealth, and the oath of office.

Seer. 22. The oath of office shall be as follows :

You solemnly swear, that you will conduct yourself, in the office
of an attorney, according to the best of your knowledge and discretion, and with all good fidelity, as well to the courts as to your clients.
So help you God.

SI:-:c'r. 23. Every person, admitted to practise in any court, may
practise in every other court, in the state, and there shall he no distinction of counsellors and attorneys.

St-:c'r. 24. Any person, who shall have been admitted an attorney or counsellor of the highest judicial court of any other state, of
which he was an inhabitant, and shall afterwards become an inhabitant
of this state, may be admitted to practise here, upon satisfactory evidence of his good moral character and his professional qualifications.

Seer. 25. Any attorney may be removed by the supreme judicial court, or the court of common pleas, for any deceit, malpractice,
or other gross misconduct, and shall moreover be liable in damages,
to the party injured thereby, and to such other punishment as may be
provided by law; and the expenses of the inquiry and proceedings, in
either of the said courts, for the removal of any attorney, shall be
paid in the same manner, that is provided in the one hundred and
forty first chapter, for the payment of costs in criminal prosecutions,
in the same courts.

SE01‘. 26. Parties may manage, prosecute or defend their own
suits, personally, and 'by such counsel or attorneys as they may see [it
to engage, but no more than two persons for each party shall, without permission of the court, be allowed to manage any case therein.

S1-:c'r. 27. Any person, of good moral character, although not
admitted an attorney, may manage, prosecute or defend a suit, for
any other person, provided he is specially authorized for that purpose,
by the party for whom he appears, in writing, or by personal nominanon in open court.

SECT. 28. Every attorney, who shall be lawfully possessed of an
execution, in favor of his client, shall have a lien thereon, for the
amount of his fees and disbursements in the cause, provided, that
this shall not prevent the payment of the execution to the judgment
creditor, by any officer or other person, without notice of the lien.

SECT. 29. No sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner or constable, shall
appear in any court, or before any justice of the peace, as attorney
or counsel, for or in behalf of any party in a suit, nor shall he draw,
make, till up, or alter any writ, declaration, plea or process, for any
such party.

Seer. 30. Every person, offending against the provisions of the

preceding section, shal forfeit the sum of fifty dollars, for the use of
the county.

OF MASTERS IN CHANCERY.

Seer. 31. Masters in chancery shall be appointed by the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the council, and shall 1
hold their offices five years, unless sooner removed by the governor ‘.
and council ; but not more than two shall be appointed, in any one ‘
count .

SE)c'r. 32. They shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of the f
duties of their office, which oath may be administered by the su-'
preme judicial court, or the court of common pleas, or by any justice
of either court in vacation.

SECT. 33. They shall perform, under the direction of the su-'
preme judicial court, or of any justice thereof, all the duties, which, 
according to the practice in chancery, appertain to the office, and
shall be allowed therefore such fees as the‘ court shall order.

SECT. 34. Their fees shall be taxed with the other costs in the 1
case, and shall be eventually paid by such party, or in such manner, '
as the court shall order. '

Seer. 35. VVhen it shall happen that the masters, appointed in t
any county, are of counsel or interested in any suit, or otherwise disqualified or unable to act therein, the court, upon ordering a reference of any matter in such suit, shall appoint some person to act as a ‘
master therein.

1
l
‘.

OF THE REPORTER.

Sncr. 36. The reporter of the decisions of the supreme judicial «
court shall be appointed by the governor, by and with the advice and T
consent of the council, and shall be removable at their pleasure.

S1:-;c'r. 37. He shall be sworn, before the said court or any justice thereof, to the faithful discharge of the duties of his office. ‘

Sncr. 38. He shall attend personally all the law terms of the
said court, and make true reports of their decisions on all legal questions, that shall be argued by counsel, and publish the same annually.

SECT. 39. He shall, at his discretion, report the several cases
more or less at large, according to their relative importance, so as
not unnecessarily to increase the size or number of the volumes of
reports.

SECT. 40. When judgment, in any of the cases mentioned in
the two preceding sections, shall be entered at any other than a law
term, the court shall communicate to the reporter a statement in writing of their decision or opinion in the case.

SI-:c'r. 41. When the reporter shall be necessarily prevented
from attending personally at any law term, he shall depute some suitable person, to attend for him and take notes of the decisions, or the
court may appoint a person to ofliciate in his stead, until he shall resume the performance of his duties, or until another shall be appointed by the governor.

Saar. 42. The reporter shall receive an annual salary of one
thousand dollars, which, with the profits arising from the publication
of his reports, shall be in full compensation for his services, and the
said salary shall be paid out of the treasury of the Commonwealth, in

quarterly payments, and in the same proportion for any part of a
quarter.

CHAPTER 89.

GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

Sxcrron SECTION

1. Discontinuance of suits in certain cases, 5. Certain officers not to buy demands for
prevented. collection.

2. Times and places of holding courts may 6 Nor to advance money therefore.
be changed in case, due. 7. Penalty for so doing.

3. Such change how to be published. 8. Judge, &.c., not to be of counsel, &c.,

4. Courts not to be opened on Sunday, in suitpreviously determined by himself.
unless, &.c.

SECTION 1. No suit, process or proceeding, pending in any
court, shall be discontinued, by reason 0 such court not having been
held at any stated term, or at any adjournment, thereof, but they
shall be respectively returned to, entered, and have day in, the term
or session, which shall be held next after such failure.

SE01‘. 2. If, by reason of war, pesfilence, or other public calamity, it shall be deemed unsafe or inexpedient to hold any court at
the time and place appointed therefore, whether it be at a stated term,
or a session by adjournment, the justices of the court, or any one of
them, may appoint any other place, within the same county, and any
other time, for holding the same.

St-:c'r. 3. Every such adjournment shall be made, by an order in
writing, signed by the justice or justices, and shall be published by
the sheriff or his deputy, or by any other person, to whom the order
is directed, by public proclamation, to be made in the shire town, or
as near thereto as may be deemed safe, and also by advertisement in
suchnewspaper, or in such other manner, as shall be required in the
order.

SECT. 4. No court shall be opened on the Lorcl’s day, unless
for the purpose of instructing or discharging a jury or of receiving a
verdict; but this section shall not prevent the exercise of the jurisdiction of any magistrate, when it shall be necessary in criminal cases,
to preserve the peace, or to arrest offenders.

SECT. 5. No counsellor, attorney, justice of the peace, sheriff,
deputy sheriff, coroner or constable, shall directly or indirectly buy,
or be interested in buying, any bond, note, book debt or other right
of action whatever, with the intent to procure himself to be employed
in the collection thereof, or to make to himself any gain or profit
from the fees arising in collecting such demand by a suit at law.

SECT. 6. None of the officers, mentioned in the preceding section, shall directly or indirectly loan or advance, or agree to loan or
advance, any money or other goods, or shall give or promise any
valuable consideration whatever, to any person, as an inducement to
place, or in consideration of having placed, in the hands of such odicer or of any other person, any bond, note, book debt, or other right
of action, for collection.

SECT. 7. Every person, who shall commit either of the offenses
described in the two preceding sections, shall forfeit a sum not less

than twenty nor more than five hundred dollars, for every offense, to
the use of the county, where the offense is committed.

Seer. 8. No person shall be employed, nor allowed to appear.

as counsel or attorney before an court, in any suit, which shall have

been previously determined b ore himself, as a judge or justice of p

the peace.

 

TITLE II.

Of actions in general.

Cnuvrna 90. Of the commencement of actions, and the service of the
original writ.

Cnnrna 91. Of bail in civil actions.

Cnurna 92. Of proceedings when the defendant does not appear and
answer to the suit.

Cnu-ran 98. Of death, marriage, or other disability, occuring after the
commencement of the suit.

Can-ma 94. Of witnesses and evidence.

CHAPTER 95. Of juries.

Cnsrrnn 96. Of trial and its incidents.

Cnarrea 97. Of judgment and execution.

Cmp-ran 98. Of‘ the relief of poor prisoners committed on execution for
debt.
Cuarrsa 99. Of writs of review.
Cnuvrnn 100. General provisions concerning actions.

CHAPTER‘ 90.

OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS, AND THE SERVICE OF THE
ORIGINAL WRIT.

Section Section
1. Original writs in civil actions. 10. Writs, by persons out of the state, to be
2. In what counties, issued and returnable. indorsed. '
3. The different kinds thereof. 11. Liability of the indorser.
4. Separate summons, alter attachment of 12. New indorser, when to be procured or
property. ' allowed.
5. What writ of attachment and summons 13. If not so procured, the suit to be dismay be combined. missed.
6. When writ maybe sued out. 14. Transitory actions, in what counties
7. Writs in actions before justices of the they may be brought.
peace. 15. Where, when there are two or more
8. Forms of writs, and alterations therein. plaintiffs or defendants.

9. To be under the control ofthe supreme 16. Where, when certain corporations are
court. parties.

Stones

17. Penal actions, where to be brought.
18. “ “ how defeated,if brought
in wrong county.
19. Actions against counties, where to be
brought.

20 “ by counties, where to be

brought.

2]. Original writs, when to be served.

21. When, if against certain corporations.

23. Real estate may be attached.

2%. Goods and chattels may be attached,
except, he.

25. Tobe held for thirty days after judgment for plaintitT—In Nantucket for 60
days, in certain cases.

26. Attachment dissolved by judgment for
defendant.

27. What judgment is intended in the two
preceding sections.

28. Copy of writ and of officer-’s return of
attachment of real estate, to be deposited in clerk's office.

29. “ within three days, &c.

J). Clerk to file and enter the same in a
book—His fees therefore.

31. Attachment of real estate, how to be
made.

32. Case of attachment of land that is morteased33, 34, 35. Attachment of goods that are
too bulky to be removed.

36, 37, 38. Shares in banks, &.c. how to be
attached.

39,40, 41. Summons, how to be served.
42. Summons, how to be served on certain
corporations.

43. “ how on other corporations.

44. Actions against persons out of the state,
when maintainable.

45. Summons, how served is such case.

46. How, if there is a co-defendant in the
state.

47. How, in real actions against persons
out of the state.

48. Defendant in all cases, if out of the
state, to have further notice, &.c.

49. Plaintiff, out of the state, liable to a
cross action by the defendant.

50. Or by one, of several defendants.

51. Writ how served in such case.

52. Proceedings in such suits.

53. Certain defects in the service of writs,
how supplied.

54. Proceedings, when the det'endant’s
name is not known.

55. Successive attachments on the same
writ before the summons is served.

56. Plaintif may direct the mode of service.

57. Goods attached may be sold by consent.

Stories

58. If perishable, &c. may be appraised
and sold.

59. Proceedings upon application for uppraisement.

60. Appraisers, how appointed.

6]. Upon the decision of the appraisers, the
goods may be sold;

62. Or delivered to the defendant upon his
depositing money or giving bond, &.c.

63. The bond to be returned with the writ.

64. Action thereon to be brought by the
creditors.

65. The money recovered to belong to
them.

66. To be distributed by the court.

67. Prior attachments to be protected.

68. Case of a creditor not joining in suit on
the bond.

69. Limitation of action on the bond, and
of scire facias on the judgment.

70. Any creditor may be paid, leaving
enough for prior attachments.

71. Proceeds of goods sold, liable to further attachments.

72. Surplus unattached may be paid to the
defendant.

73. Goods attached may be appraised at
the request of a part owner, not a deft. ;

74. And delivered to such owner upon his
giving bond, &c.

76. If such part owner pays, the goods become pledged.
76. Goods to be restored on dissolution of

the attachment.

77. Return of the officer, and proceedings

in suit upon the bond.

78. Attachment of mortgaged 

79. Mortgagee to state the amount due
him, to be paid by the creditor.

80. Penalty for demanding too much.

81. The debt to be repaid out of the pro
ceeds of sale 3

82. Or by the mortgagor.

83. Fraudulent attachments, how defeated.

84-. Petition by persons objecting thereto.

85. To be supported by affidavit.

85. The prior attachment may be dissolved,
in case, Gac.

87. P|aiutiH' in prior suit may be examined
on oath. .

88. Proceedings not to be controlled by
defendant—Defendant may testify.

89. Grounds of defense in such case.

90. Damages and costs may be awarded.

9]. Petitioner to give security for damages
and costs.

92. Proceedings in case of appeal.

93. Decision on such petition to bar action
against prior attaching creditor for fv-smd.

Srzcrrorc

Stones

94. To what cases the eleven preceding ltli. Proceedings in such case.

sections to be restricted.

95. Attachment to continue, though attaching oliicer dies.

96. Death of officer not to abate any suit
brought for goods attached.

97. Case of judgment for executor, &c. o
the officer.

98. Of judgment against the executor, &.c.

. 99. Goods replevied from an officer, liable
to further attachments.

100. Plaintiff in replevin liable for the whole
value.

101. Goods may be further attached, after
death, &.c. of first attaching officer.

102, 103. Proceedings in such case.

104. Mode of attaching goods replevied.

105. Attachment dissolved by death of defendant, unless, &.c.

SECTION 1.

107. Otlicer, liable only for nett proceeds.

108. Creditor liable therefore, if paid over
to him.

109. No set-oil‘ allowed in such case.

110. Oliicers not to arrest defendant without
express order.

111. No arrest for less than ten dollars.Amdavit to hold to bail in actions on
contract.

112. Person arrested, how to be held.

113. How to be supported, if a pauper.

114. Jailer not to detain defendant without
security for board.

115. Duty of bail on surrendering principaL

116. Writs to be returnable to the next ensuing term.

l17. Suits in equity, how commenced.

118. Subpoena how issued and served.

119. When to be served.

All civil actions, excepting those founded on scire

facias or other special writs, shall be commenced by original writs,
which shall be signed, sealed, and «bear teste, as required by the consutution.

Saar. 2. All original writs in the supreme judicial court, and
court of common pleas, may be issued by the clerk of the said courts
in any county, and be made returnable in any other county.

SECT. 3. The original writ may be framed, either,

To attach the goods or estate of the defendant, and for want thereof to take his body ; or,

It may be an original summons, either with or without an order
to attach the goods or estate.

SE01. 4. When goods or estate are attached, on either of the
writs before mentioned, there shall be a separate summons, to be
served on the defendant, after the attachment, and the service thereof shall be deemed a sufficient service of the original summons.

SECT. 5. In actions against corporations, and in other cases, in
which goods and estate may be attached, but in which the defendant
is not liable to arrest, the writ of attachment and original summons
may be combined in one, requiring the officer to attach the goods
and estate, and to summon the defendant.

S1‘-:c'r. 6. These writs may be taken ’out of the clerk’s office, in
vacation, as well as in term time. P

SE01‘. 7. Original writs, in actions before justices of the peace,
shall be signed by the 'ustice, before whom the action is brought,
and they shall be dated and filled up, like the other writs before
mentioned.

SE01‘. 8. The forms of writs in civil actions shall be the same,
as have been heretofore established by law, and by the usage and
practice of the courts ; but alterations therein may be made or allowed
by the courts, when necessary to adapt them to changes in the law,
or for other sufiicient reasons.

SE01‘. 9. All changes in the forms of writs shall be sub'ect to
the final control of the supreme judicial court; and the sai court

may, by general rules, regulate such changes, in all the courts of the
state.

SI.-:c'r. 10. All original writs, and all bills in equity, in which the
plaintifff is not an inhabitant of the state, shall, before the entry thereof, be indorsed by some suiiicient person, who is an inhabitant of the
state; and if any plaintifff, after the commencement of his suit, shall
remove from the state, he shall, on the motion of the defendant, or of
any other party to the suit, be required to procure such an indorser ;
and no indorser shall be required in any case, when any one, of two
or more joint plaintifffs, is an inhabitant of the state, provided that
the court may, in all cases, when it shall appear to them reasonable,
require the plaintifff to procure a suliicient indorser.

Saar. 11. Every such indorser shall be liable, in case of the
avoidance or inability of the plaintifff, to pay all such costs, as shall be
awarded against the plaintifff, provided the suit therefore, against the
indorser, be brou ht within one year after the original judgment.

SECT. 12. I any indorser shall remove out of the state, or be
deemed by the court insufficient for the purpose aforesaid, they may
require the plaintifff to procure a new indorser, to the satisfaction of
the court ; and they may also, on the motion of the plaintifff, permit
the name of any indorser to be struck out, and a sufficient new indorser to be substituted ; and every new indorser shall be liable for
all the costs, from the commencement of the suit, in like manner as
if he had been the original indorser.

SI:-:c'r. 13. If the plaintifff shall, in any case, fail to procure an
indorser, according to the order of the court, the suit shall be dismissed, and the defendant shall recover his costs.

SI-ZCT. 14. All transitory actions, between parties who both live
within the state, shall, except in cases in which it is otherwise provided, be brought in the county where one of the parties lives, and
whenbrought in any other county, the writ shall be abated, and the
defendant shall be allowed double costs ; and when the plaintifff lives
out of the state, the action may be brought in any county.

Sacr. 15. When there are two or more plaintifffs, the action, so
far as it depends on the place of their residence, may be brought in
the county where either of them lives; and when there are two or
more defendants, the action, so far as it depends on the place of their
residence, may be brought in the county where either of the defendants lives.

SEC1‘. 16. When any corporation, other than the inhabitants of
a county, is a party to any action, the county, in which such action
may be brought, shall be determined by the following rules, to wit :

First, When both parties to the action are towns, school districts,
or parishes, it shall be brought in the county, in which either of the
towns, school districts, or parishes is situated :

Secondly, When the action is between a town, school district, or
parish, and any other corporation, or a natural person, it shall be

rought either in the county, in which such town, school district, or
parish is situated, or in that in which the other party lives.

Thirdly, When one of the parties to the action is acorporation, of
any other description than those before mentioned in this section,
the action may be brought in any county, in which such corporation

shall have any established or usual place of business, or shall have
held its last annual meeting, or shall usually hold its meetings ; or if
the other party to such action is a natural person, the action may be
brought in the county where such person lives.

SI-JCT. 17. When any forfeiture is recoverable in a civil action,
the action shall be brought in the county in which the offense was
committed, unless a different provision ts made in the statute imposing the forfeiture.

SECT. 18. The defendant, in such a case, shall not berequired to
plead specially that the action is not brought in the proper county,
but if, upon a trial on the general issue, it shall not appear that the
offense was committed in the county, in which the action is brought,
the verdict shall be found for the defendant.

St-:c'r. 19. All actions, whether local or transitory, against the
inhabitants of a county, shall be brought either in the county where
the plaintifff lives, or in the county, against which the action is brought,
or in a county adjoining thereto, at the plaintifff’s election.

Sscr. 20. All actions, whether local or transitory, brought by
the inhabitants of a county, shall be brought either in the county in
which the defendant lives, or in a county adjoining that by which the
action is brought; and when the defendant lives in the county by
which the action is brought, it shall be brought in an adjoining county.

S1-:c'r. 21. Original writs, issuing from the supreme judicial court
or court of common pleas, shall be served fourteen days at least before the term at which they are returnable, and original writs, issued
by a justice of the peace, shall be served seven days at least, before
the day on which they are returnable.

Sncr. 22. When an action is brought against a county, town,
precinct, parish, religious society, or school district, or against proprietors of common and undivided lands, or of general fields, or of
wharves lying in common, the writ shall be served thirty days at least
before the return day.

Sacr. 23. All real estates, that are liable to be taken in execution, may be attached upon the original writ, in any action in which
any debt or damages are recoverable, and held as security to satisfy
such judgment as the plaintifff may recover.

SI-JCT. 24. All goods and chattels, that are liable to be taken in
execution, may be attached and held as security as aforesaid, except
such as, from their nature or situation, have been considered as exempted from attachment, according to the principles of the common
.'aw, as adopted and practised in this state.

Seer. 25. If final judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the goods
and estate attached shall be held for thirty days after the judgment, in

order to their being taken in execution; and if the attachment is'

made in the county of Nantucket, and the judgment is rendered in
any other county, or if the judgment is rendered in Nantucket, and
the attachment is made in any other county. the goods and estate
shall be held for sixty days after final judgment.

SHCT. 26. If the final judgment is for the defendant, the attachment shall be forthwith dissolved.

SE01‘. 27. The final judgment, intended in the two preceding

sections, is that which is rendered in the original action, whether upon appeal or otherwise, and not such as may be rendered upon a writ
of error or writ of review.

Seer. 28. No attachment of real estate, on mesne process, shall
be valid against any subsequent attaching creditor, or against any person who shall afterwards purchase the same for a valuable consideration and in good faith, unless the original writ or a copy thereof, and
so much of the officer’s return thereon as relates to the attachment of
such estate, shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of the court
for the county in which the lands lie, which copy shall be certified
by the officer, but need not contain the declaration in the writ.

Sacr. 29. If the writ or copy is deposited as aforesaid, within
three days after the day on which the attachment is made, the attachment shall take effect from the time it was made, otherwise it shall
take effect from the time when the writ or copy is so deposited.

SI-:c'r. 30. The said clerk shall note, on every such writ or copy, the day, hour and minute when he receives it, and shall file the
same in his o$ce. He shall also enter, in a book to be kept for that
purpose, the names of the parties in such writ, designating who is
plaintiE' and who defendant, the time when the attachment was
made, and the time when the writ or copy was deposited, and his
fee in each case shall be twenty five cents, for which he shall not be
holden to render any account, and which shall be paid on the delivery
of the writ or copy, and may be taxed for the plaintifff in his bill of
costs.

Sr-:c'r. 31. In attaching real estate, or any rightor interest in land,
it shall not be deemed necessary that the officer should enter upon
the land, or be within view of it.

Seer. 32. If the estate that is attached is subject to a mortgage
or other incumhrance, and the mort age is redeemed or the encumbrance removed, before the levy of the execution, the attachment
shall ' hold the premises discharged of the mortgage or incumhrance,
and the execution may be levied in the same manner, and with the

same effect, as if the mortgage or other encumbrance had never ex-~

isted.

Seer. 33. When an attachment is made of any articles of personal estate, which h reason of their bulk, or other cause, cannot be
immediately remove}, a copy of the writ and of the return of the attachment may, at any time within three days thereafter, be deposited
in the office of the clerk of the town in which it is made, and such
attachment shall be equally valid and effectual, as if the articles had
been retained in the possession and custody of the officer.

Seer. 34. The copy of the writ so deposited shall be certified
by the officer, but it shall not be necessary to insert therein a copy of
the declaration.

SE01‘. 35. The said clerk shall receive and file all such copies,
noting thereon the time when received, and keep them safely in his
office, and also enter a note thereof, in the order in which they are
received, in the books which are kept for recording mortgages of
personal property ; such entry shall contain the names of the parties to
the suit, and the date of the entry, and the clerk’s fee for this service
shall be twenty five cents, to be paid by the oiiicer, and to be included in his charge for the service of the writ.

Sncr. 36. Any share or interest of a stockholder in any bank, :
insurance company, or any other joint stock company, that is or may 1
be incorporated under the authority of this Commonwealth, may be
attached by leaving an attested copy of the writ, (without the declaration) and of the return of the attachment, with the clerk, treasurer,
or cashier of the company, if there be any such officer ; otherwise,
with any otiticer or person who has at the time the custody of the
books and papers of the corporation.

Snow. 37. Any share or interest so attached, with all the divi- ;
dends that shall thereafter accrue thereon, shall be held as security to
satisfy the final judgment in the suit, in like manner as any other personal estate is held.

SI.-:c'r. 38. If the officer, having a writ of attachment against any i
such stockholder, shall exhibit the writ to the officer of the company
who is appointed to keep a record or account of the shares or interest of the stockholders therein, and shall request a certificate of the
number of shares or amount of the interest held by the defendant in
such suit, such officer of the company shall give such certificate to
the officer holding the writ ; and if he shall unreasonabl refuse to do
so, or if he shall willfully give a false certificate thereo , he shall be
liable for double the amount of all damages occasioned by such refusal or false certificate, to be recovered in an action on the case against
him, unless the 'udgment is satisfied by the original defendant.

Snow. 39. hen there is a separate summons to be served after
an attachment of goods or estate, it shall be served by delivering the
writ of summons to the defendant, or by leaving it for him as hereinafter directed ; and when there is an original summons without an attachment, the summons shall be served by reading the same to the
defendant, or by delivering to him a copy thereof attested by the officer who serves it, or by leaving such copy for him as hereinafter directed.

SECT. 40. The separate summons may be served at any time
after the attachment is made, provided it be served the like number
of days at least before the return day, that are required with respect
to the service of the original writ, and the certificate of the service of
the summons shall be indorsed on the original writ.

Snow. 41. If the summons is not served on the defendant rsonally, the original or the copy as the case may he, shall be le t at
his dwelling house or last and usual place of abode.

SECT. 42. In all suits against the inhabitants of a county, the
summons shall be served by leaving an attested copy thereof with one
of the county commissioners, or with one of the officers who by law
exercise the powers of county commissioners ; and in all suits against
the inhabitants or members of a town, precinct, parish, religious society or school district, or against the proprietors of common and undivided lands, or of general fields or wharves lying in common, the
summons shall be served by leaving an attested copy thereof with the
clerk of the corporation or proprietors, and also leaving another like
copy with one of the selectmen of the town, or one of the assessors
or standing committee of the parish or religious society, or one of the
proprietors of such land or other estate, as the case may be ; and if
there is no such clerk found within the county, the copy of the summons so intended for him, shall be left with one of the other officers
before mentioned, or with one of the said proprietors ; and if there
are no such officers, the copy of the summons so intended for them,
respectively, shall be left with one of the inhabitants or members of

the corporation. SECT. 43. In all suits against any corporation, other than those
mentioned in the preceding section, the summons shall be served by
leaving the original or the copy, as the case may be, with the clerk,
cashier, secretary, agent, or any other officer having charge of their
business ; and if there be no such officer found within the county, the
summons may be served on any member of the corporation.

SECT. 44. No personal action shall be maintained a ainst any
person, who is out of the state, at the time of the service 0 the summons, unless he shall have been before that time an inhabitant of the
state, or unless an effectual attachment of his goods, estate or effects
is made on the original writ, except in cases, in which it is otherwise
specially provided.

SECT. 45. If the defendant is out of the state, at the time of the
service of the summons, the service thereof shall be made by leaving
it, if it is a separate summons, at his last and usual place of abode,
if there be any within the state, and, if it is an original summons, a
copy thereof shall be left in like manner ; and if the defendant never
was an inhabitant of the state, the summons shall be served, by leaving the original, or the co y, as the case may be, with his tenant,
agent, or attorney, and i there be no such tenant, agent, or attorney within the state, known to the officer or to the plaintifff, the officer
shall certify the facts in his return, and the court may thereupon cause
notice to the defendant to be given, as provided in the ninety second
chapter.

SI-:c'r. 46. If the absent defendant, whose goods or estate are
attached, is sued with one or more others on a joint contract, and if
he has no such tenant, agent or attorney, within the state, the copy of
the summons for him shall be left with one of the co-defendants, if
there be any within the stale. ,

SI-:c'r.~47. In all real actions, if the defendant or tenant in the
action is out of the state, and if there is no place of his last and usual
abode here, known to the demandant, the summons, or an attested
copy of it, shall, in addition to any other service required, be left for
him, with the tenant or occupant of the demanded premises, if there
be any, and if not, it shall be left in some conspicuous place on the
premises.

SI-ICT. 48. In all cases, when the defendant is out of the state
at the time of the service of the summons, he shall, in addition to the
service thereof, as herein prescribed, be entitled to further notice of
the suit, as provided in the ninety second chapter.

SECT. 49. When an action is brought in this state by any person,

’ who is not an inhabitant thereof, or who cannot be found therein, to
he served with process, he shall be held to answer to any action,
brought against him here, by the defendant in the first action : provided, that the demand in the two cases be of such a nature, that the
judgment or execution in the one case can be set off against the
judgment or execution in the other.

SE01‘. 50. If there are several defendants in the original action, each of them shall be authorized to bring such cross action against!
the original plaintifff, and upon recovering judgment therein, he may i
be allowed to set off his judgment against that which may be re-‘
covered against himself and his co-defendants, in like manner as if
the latter judgment had been against himself alone.

Seer. 51. The writ, in such cross action, maybe served on the ‘
person who appears as the attorney of the plaintifff in the original suit, ‘
and such service shall be as valid and effectual as if made on the party himself within this state.

SECT. 52. The court, in which the suits, or either of them, are 2
pending, may order continuances thereof, as they shall think neces— '
sary or proper, to enable the absent party to defend the action brought
against him, and also to enable either party to set off his judgment or
execution against that which shall be recovered against him; provided, that the suits shall not be unreasonably delayed, by the neglect
or default of either party.

Seer. 53. When the service of the writ, in any civil action, is g
defective or insufficient, by reason of any mistake on the part of the 
plaintifff or of the officer, as to the place where, or the person with :
whom, the summons or copy of the summons ought to have been
left, the court may, in their discretion, order a new summons or notice to be issued and served, in such manner as they shall direct;
and the service, so made and returned, shall be as effectual as if duly
made and returned on the original writ.

SECT. 54. When the name of any defendant is not known to the
plaintifff, the writ may be issued against him by a fictitious name, and
if duly served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may be
amended on such terms as the court shall think reasonable.

St-:c'r. 55. Different attachments may be made, successively,
upon the same writ, by one or more officers, and in one or more

counties, at any time before the service of the summons ; but no further attachment shall be made, after the summons is served.

Sam‘. 56. When the writ is in the alternative, requiring the oilicer to attach the goods or estate of the defendant, and for want thereof to take his body, the plaintifff or his attorney may, by written or
verbal directions to the officer, require him to serve the writ, either
by an attachment of goods or estate, or by arresting the defendant,
and the oilicer shall serve the writ, according to such directions, if
it is in his power to do so.

SECT. 57. When any personal property is attached, whether on
one or more writs, and the debtor and all the attaching creditors shall
consent in writing to the sale thereof, the attaching officer shall sell
the same, in the manner prescribed by law for selling the like property
on execution ; and the proceeds of the sale, after deducting the necessary charges thereof, shall be held by the oliicer, subject to the
attachment or attachments, and shall be disposed of, in like manner as

the said property would have been held and disposed of, if it had remained unsold.

Snow. 58. When an attachment is made of any live animals, or
of any goods or chattels, which are liable to perish, or waste, or to
be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot be kept

without great and dispro rtionate expense, and the parties shall not
consent to a sale thereo , as before provided, the property so attached
shall, upon the request of either of the parties interested therein, be
examined and appraised, and shall be afterwards sold, or otherwise
disposed of, in the manner following.

Seer. 59. Upon such application, made by either party, to the

. attaching officer, he shall give notice thereof to all the said other parties, or their attorneys, and shall prepare a schedule of the goods, and
cause three disinterested persons, acquainted with the nature and
value of such goods, to be appointed and sworn before a magistrate,
to the faithful discharge of their duty, as appraisers in the case.
Seer. 60. The appraisers shall be appointed, one by the credit' or or creditors, in the several suits, one by the debtor or debtors,

and one by the officer ; and if the said debtors or creditors, respectively, shall neglect to appoint such appraiser, or shall not agree in the
nomination, the officer shall appoint one in their behalf.

Seer. 61. The appraisers shall examine the attached property,
and if they shall be of opinion, that the same or any part thereof is
liable to perish or waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or that it cannot be kept, without great and disproportionate expense, they shall proceed to appraise the same, according to their best
skill and judgment, at the value thereof in money, and the goods
shall thereupon be sold by the officer, and the proceeds thereof shall
be held and disposed of, in the manner before provided, in the case
of a sale by consent of parties, unless the goods shall be taken by
the debtor, as provided in the following section.

S1.-:c'r. 62. The goods so appraised shall be delivered to the
debtor, if he require it, upon his depositing with the attaching oiiicer

' the appraised value thereof in money, or giving bond to him, in a

sufhcient penalty, and with two sufficient sureties, with condition,
either to pay to him the appraised value of the goods, or to satisfy all
such judgments as shall be recovered in the suits, in which the goods
were attached, if demanded within the time, during which the goods
would have been held by the respective attachments, or within thirty
days after the time, when the creditors respectively would have been
entitled to demand payment out of the proceeds of the said goods, if
they had been sold as before provided.

Seer. 63. The officer, taking such bond, shall return the same
with the writ, on which the first attachment is made, in like manner
as bail bonds are returned, with a certificate of his doings in relation
thereto, and in case of a forfeiture of the bond, the creditors, or any
one or more of them, may bring an action of debt thereon, in the
name of the officer.

S1:c'r. 64. The writ in such action on the bond shall, in addition
to the usual indorsement, have also indorsed on it the names of all the
creditors, by whom the action is brought; and in case judgment is
rendered for the defendants, executions for the costs shall be issued
against all the creditors, whose names are so indorsed.

SECT. 6 . If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the money
recovered s all be first applied, under the order of the court, to pay
the reasonable expenses, incurred by the creditors in prosecuting the
suit, so far as the same shall not be reimbursed by the costs recovered of the defendant, and the residue shall belong to all the attaching
creditors, according to their respective rights.

Sncr. 66. The court may, upon a hearing in chancery, deter- .
mine the rights of the several attaching creditors, and may thereupon 1
award a separate execution, for the amount due or payable to each,
to be served and levied to his own use, in like manner as is provided
in the case of a judgment rendered on a bond given by an administrator to the judge of probate ; or they may award one execution, for
the whole sum due on the bond, and may cause the money received
thereon to be paid and distributed to and among the creditors, according to their respective rights.

Sr-:c'r. 67. No judgment or execution shall be awarded, for the 1
use of any creditor, without reserving as much as may be due upon I
any prior attachment, whether the creditor in such prior suit be or be 1
not one of those, by whom the action is brought on the bond.

SI-JCT. 68. Any creditor, entitled to the benefit of the bond, who 4
shall not have joined in bringing the action thereon, may, after ai
judgment in such action, bring a writ of scire facias on the judgment, j
and recover any sum, that may be due to him upon the bond, or he
may, upon his own motion, at any time before nal judgment in the
action on the bond, be allowed, upon such terms as the court shall
prescribe, to become a party to the action, in like manner and with
the same effect, as if he had been one of those by whom it was
originally brought.

S1-:c'r. 69. No creditor, whose cause of action on such bond ac- 1
crucd more than one year before the commencement of the action ,'
thereon, shall have judgment or execution in such action, and no:
creditor shall sue out any such writ of scire facias on the judgment, '
unless within one year after his cause of action shall accrue.

SECT. 70. When goods, which are sold, or appraised and deliv- ered to the debtor, in the manner before provided, shall have been }
attached b several creditors, any one of them may demand and re- 1
ceive satisaiction of his judgment, notwithstanding any prior attach- '
ment, provided he is otherwise entitled to demand the money, and
provided also, that a sufficient sum be left, of the proceeds of the
goods, or of the appraised value thereof, to satisfy all prior attachments.

SI-JCT. 71. When any goods are sold or disposed of, either by 3
consent of the parties, or after an appraisal as before provided, the 1
proceeds thereof, whilst remaining in the hands of the officer, shall be %
liable to be further attached b him, as the property of the original
defendant, in like manner as t e goods themselves would have been
liable, if they had remained in the possession of the officer, and the
proceeds so attached shall be held and disposed of, in the same manner, as if the attachment had been made on the goods themselves,
before the sale thereof.

Seer. 72. Nothing contained in the preceding section shall prevent the officer from paying over to the defendant the surplus of the
proceeds of any such sale, after retaining enough to satisfy all the attachments actually existing thereon at the time of such payment.

SECT. 73. When any personal property, belonging to two or
more persons, is attached in any suit against one or more of the part

owners tbereof, it shall, upon the request of any other of the part
owners, be examined and appraised, in the manner before provided
for an appraisement, when made at the request of any party in the
suit, except that the part owner, who makes the application, shall
appoint one of the appraisers, and the debtor shall not appoint any.

SECT. 74. The property so appraised shall be delivered to the
part owner, at whose request it was appraised, upon his giving bond
to the attaching officer, in a sufficient penalty, and with two sufiicient
sureties, with condition to restore the same, in like good order, or to

pay to the officer the appraised value of the defendant’s share or interest in such property, or to satisfy all such judgments as shall be
recovered in the suit in which the property is attached, if demanded
within the time during which the property would have been held by
the respective attachments.

SECT. 75. If such appraised value or any part thereof shall be
so paid, the said defendant’s share of the property shall thereby become pledged to the party to whom it was delivered, and he may sell
the same, if not redeemed, and shall account to the defendant for the
balance, if any, of the proceeds of such sale.

SI-:o'r. 76. If the attachment shall be in any way dissolved, the
party, to whom the defendant’s share was delivered, shall restore the
same to the defendant, or to the officer, who made the attachment, to
be by him delivered to the defendant.

SECT. 77. The doings of the officer, together with the said bond,
shall be returned by him, in the same manner, that is before provided,
in the case of a bond given by a debtor, upon the delivery to him of
any property that is attached ; and, in case of the forfeiture of any
such bond, given by a part owner, the like proceedings may be had
thereon, as are before provided upon the forfeiture of the said bond
given by a debtor.

Snow. 78. Any personal property of a debtor, that is subject to
any mortgage, pledge or lien, and of which the debtor has the right ot
redemption, may be attached and held, in like manner as if it were
unincumbered, provided the attaching creditor shall pay or tender
to the mortgagee, pawnee or holder of the property, the amount for
which it is so liable, within twenty four hours after the same is demanded.

Sr-:c'r. 79. Every such mortgagee, pawnee or holder shall, when
demanding payment of the money due to him, state, in writing, a just
and true account of the debt or demand for which the property is liable
to him, and deliver it to the attaching creditor or officer; and if the
same is not paid or tendered to him, within twenty four hours thereafter, the attachment shall be dissolved, and the property shall be restored to him, and the attaching creditor shall moreover be liable to
the mortgagee, pawnee, or holder of the property, for any damages,
that he may have sustained by the attachment thereof.

Sr-:c'r. 80. If such mortgagee, pawnee, or holder shall demand
and receive more than the amount due to him, he shall be liable for
the excess, with interest thereon, at the rate of twelve per cent. a

year, to be recovered by the attaching creditor, in an action for

money had and received.
Seer. 81. When any property, attached and redeemed, as aforesaid, shall be sold, either on mesne process or on execution, the pro- 1
ceeds thereof, after deducting the charges of the sale, shall be first }

applied to repay the attaching creditor the amount so paid by him,
with lawful interest therefore.

Sr-;c'r. 82. If the plaintifff, after having redeemed the goods soc
attached, shall not recover 'udgment in the suit, he shall nevertheless I
be entitled to hold the goods, until the defendant shall repay to him
the sum, that he shall have aid for the redemption, or as much thereof, as the defendant would ave been obliged to pay to the mortgagee, pawnee, or holder of the goods, if they had not been attached,
with interest, from the time when the satne shall he demanded of the
defendant.

SE01‘. 83. When any person shall claim any title or interest, by 1
force of a subsequent attachment, or purchase, or mortgage, or in any ;
other manner, in any estate, real or personal, that is attached in a suit
between other persons, such claimant may be allowed to dispute the
validity and effect of the prior attachment, on the ground that the
sum demanded in the first suit was not justly due, or that it was not
payable, when the action was commenced.

Sscr. 84. The person objecting to the attachment may file his i
petition in the court, in which the first suit is pending, at any time be- 
fore final judgment therein, praying that the prior attachment may be
dissolved, and setting forth the facts and circumstances, on which his
petition is founded, and also the grounds of his own claim.

SEc'r. 85. The petitioner, or some person in his behalf, shall‘
make oath that his claim is just and legal, and also that all the other ,
facts set forth in the petition are true, or are believed by the deponent
to be so.

SE01‘. 86. The court, upon the hearing of the petition, shall, at
the motion of either party, direct a trial, by jury, of any question of
fact, arising in the inquiry, and if it shall appear to the court that the
sum demanded in the rior suit, or any part of it, is not justly due,
or was not payable, w en the action was commenced, they shall order
the attachment therein made to be dissolved, in whole or in part, as
justice and equity shall require, but the order so made shall have no
other effect on the prior suit.

Saar. 87. The court, upon such inquiry, may examine on oath
the plaintifff, who made the prior attachment, and his declarations
upon such examination shall be admitted as evidence in the case, provided there is no other objection to his competency, but that of his
interest as a party in the suit.

SECT. 88. The proceedings, between the two adverse claimants
or plaintifffs, shall not be affected by any plea, or other act of the defendant in the prior suit, nor by the judgment, if any, that shall be
rendered therein ; but the defendant may be admitted and examined
as a witness, in the proceedings between the said other parties.

SECT. 89. No attachment shall be dissolved, in manner aforesaid,
by reason of any defense to the action, founded on the laws for the
limitation of actions, or for restraining excessive usury, or for requiring certain contracts to be made in writing, or of any other like defense, provided, it shall appear to the court that the demand is otherwise well founded, and is justly and equitably due.

SE01‘. 90. The court may, upon every such inquiry, award to
either party such costs, as they shall think just and reasonable; and
if the prior attachment is maintained, they may award to the attaching
creditor such damages, as they shall judge reasonable, and execution
may be issued, in the common form, for all such costs and damages.

SECT. 91. The court shall also, upon the filing of the petition,
require a bond or recognizance of the petitioner, or of some person
in his behalf, with sufficient surety or sureties, with condition to pay
to the adverse party all such damages and costs as shall be awarded
to him, in the proceedings upon such petition.

Seer. 92. If, during the pendency of the proceedings upon such

petition, the action, in which the attachment is made, should be carried to a higher court, the inquiry concerning the attachment shall
be carried to the same court, and shall be there heard and determined, in like manner as if the action had been originally commenced
there.
' SE01‘. 93. The decision or judgment of the court, upon such an
inquiry, whether the attachment be thereby vacated, or held to be
valid and effectual, shall be a bar to any action, to be brought by the
petitioner, against the party who made the attachment, for any supposed fraud or deceit therein. '

SECT. 94. Nothing contained in the eleven preceding sections
shall apply to any action commenced before a justice of the peace,
nor to any action whatever, that shall be commenced before this act
shall take effect.

SECT. 95. Goods and chattels, attached by an officer, whether
remaining in his custody, at the time of his death, or taken from him
by replevin or otherwise, and also all claims for damages to goods so
taken from him, shall remain subject to the attachment, in like manner as if the officer had lived, and shall not be considered as assets
in the hands of his executors or administrators.

SECT. 96. When any goods or chattels, attached by an oiiicer,
shall be claimed or taken away by any other person, and an action of
replevin, of trover, or of trespass therefore, shall be brought by or
against the officer, the action shall not be abated by the death of either
party, but may be prosecuted by or against the executor or administrator of the deceased party, in the manner provided in the ninety
third chapter.

Seer. 97. If judgment in any such case shall be recovered by
the executor or administrator of the officer, the goods or money recovered shall be held, appropriated, and disposed of, in the same
manner, as they would and ought to have been by the officer, if he
had lived and recovered the same himself.

SI-:c'r. 98. If the judgment shall be rendered against the executor
or administrator of the officer, the goods and the damages recovered
shall be returned, delivered, and paid in full, by the executor or administrator, if he has sufficient therefore, although the estate of the
deceased should be insolvent.

SECT. 99. All goods, taken by replevin from an officer, who has
attached them, shall be considered as still remaining in his custody
and control, so far as to be liable to further successive attachments,
in lil_te manner as if the goods themselves had remained in his posSBSSIOD.

Seer. 100. In case of a judgment for a return of the goods so
replevied, the plaintifff in the re levin and his sureties shall be liable
for the whole of the goods, or t e value thereof, although the attachment, for which they are eventually held, should have been made
after the taking of the goods by the replevin.

SE01‘. 101. If an oliicer, after making an attachment of goods,
shall die or be removed from office, whilst the attachment remains in
force, the same goods, whether replevied or remaining in possession
of the officer, or of his executors or administrators, may be further
attached .by any other officer, so as to bind the goods, or the proceeds thereof, in like manner as if the latter attachment had been
made by the first mentioned officer.

SECT. 102. The officer, making the latter attachment in such
case, shall not take the goods themselves, but the attachment shall
be made by a return, setting forth an attachment in the common form,
and stating by whom the goods were previously attached, and if the
goods have not been replevied, by leaving a certified copy of the writ,
and of the return of that attachment, with the former officer, if living,
or if he is dead, with his executor or administrator, or whoever else
shall then have possession of the goods; or if the goods shall have
been replevied, and the officer who made the original attachment is
dead, such copy shall be left with the plaintifff in replevin, or his executors or administrators, and the attachment shall be considered as made,
when such copy is delivered, in either of the modes before provided.

SECT. 103. In the copy of the writ, required to be so left, it
shall not be necessary to insert the declaration.

SE01‘. 104. Goods, that have been taken by replevin from an attaching officer, shall not be further attached, as the property of the
original defendant, in any other manner than that provided in the five
preceding sections, so long as they are held by the person, who replevied them, or by any one holding under him, unless the original
defendant shall have acquired a new title to the goods.

SECT. 105. When any real estate, goods, chattels, or effects,
are attached, and the debtor dies before they are taken or seized on
execution, the attachment shall be dissolved, provided administration
of the estate of the deceased shall be granted in this state, within one
year after his decease, or that application for such administration
shall be made within the said year, and that administration shall be
afterwards granted, upon such application ; and if no such administration be granted, the property attached shall continue bound by the
attachment, in like manner as if the debtor were still living.

SECT. 106. When the attachment is of goods, the officer shall,
upon demand, deliver them to the executor or administrator, if any
shall be appointed in this state, within the time limited in the preceding section, and upon receiving from the executor or administrator his
legal fees and charges for attaching and keeping the goods.

St-:c'r. 107. If the officer shall have sold the goods on execution,
before such demand, or if he shall have sold, in like manner, any

other chattel interest, or any right of redeeming real estate, attached ‘

as aforesaid, he shall not be considered a trespasser for so doing, but
he shall be liable only for the proceeds of the sale, after deducting his
legal fees and charges for attaching, keeping and selling the goods °

and such proceeds may be recovered by the executor or administrator, in an action for money had and received.
St-:c'r. 108. If the officer in such case shall have paid over the

I proceeds of the sale to the judgment creditor, before such demand,

he shall be exempted from all further liability therefore, and the executor or administrator, if appointed as before provided, may recover
from the judgment creditor the amount so paid to‘ him, in an action
for money had and received.

Saar. 109. The defendant, in an action founded on either of
the three preceding sections, shall not be allowed, in any manner, to
set off any demand, that he may have against the executor or administrator, or against the estate of the deceased.
S1-:c'r. 110. The officer, who serves an original writ, shall never

, be liable, for not having arrested the defendant, unless he has been
expressly required to make the arrest by the plaintifff or his attorney.

St-:c'r. 111. No person shall be arrested or held to bail, for any
debt or demand, arising on any contract, made after the fourth day of
July in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty four, unless
the plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, shall make oath before
some justice of the peace, that the plaintifff has a demand against the
defendant, upon the cause of action stated in the writ, which the deponent believes to be justly due, and upon which he expects that the
plaintifff will recover ten dollars or upwards, and that the deponent

‘ has reasonable cause to believe that the defendant is about to depart

beyond the jurisdiction of the court, to which the writ is returnable,
and not to return until after judgment may probably be recovered in
said suit, so that he cannot be arrested on the first execution, if any,
which may issue in such suit.

SECT. 112. When any person, who is arrested in a civil action,
is committed to prison, for want of bail, he shall be held in prison,
unless he is bailed, or otherwise discharged by order of law, until final
judgment in the suit, in which he was arrested ; and if the final judgment shall be against him, he shall be held for thirty days thereafter,
in order that his body may be taken in execution.

SECT. 113. If any person, so committed, shall claim support as
a pauper, the jailer shall furnish his support, at the rate of one dollar
and twenty five cents a week, to be paid by the creditor, so long as
the debtor is kept in close confinement in that suit.

SECT. 114. The jailer in such a case shall not be required to detain such person in prison, unless the creditor, at whose suit he is
committed, shall advance the money necessary for his support, or give
satisfactory security therefore, in the manner provided in the ninety
seventh chapter, respecting persons committed on execution.

SECT. 115. If the person so committed shall have been surrendered by his hail, the bail shall be liable for his support, in like manner and to the same extent, as is provided in the ninety seventh cha
ter, when a debtor is surrendered in execution by his bail, and e
jailer may proceed, in demanding payment or security therefore, in the
manner provided in the last mentioned chapter.

81:01‘. 116. Original writs, issuing from the supreme judicial court
or court of common pleas, if required to be served fourteen days before the return day, shall be made retumable at the court, next to be

held after the expiration of fourteen days from the date of the writ ;
and if they are required to be served thirty days before the return
day, they shall be made returnable at the court, next to be held after
the expiration of thirty days from the date of the writ.

SECT. 117. Suits in equity may be commenced by a writ of subpoena, according to the usual course of proceedings in chancery, or
the complaint may-be inserted, like a common declaration, in a writ
of original summons, with or without an order for the attachment of
the goods and estate of the defendant.

S1-:c'r. 118. The subpoena shall be issued from the clerk’s oftice either in term time or vacation, upon a bill there filed, and shall
bear teste of the tirst justice of the court, who is not a party to the
suit, and it shall be under the seal of the court, and signed by the
clerk, and shall be served in the same manner, as original writs of
summons are required to be served.

SECT. 119. Every such writ of original summons, and writ of
subpoena, shall be served the same number of days, at least, before the
day on which it is returnable, as would be required for the service of
an original writ at common law, between the same parties.

CHAPTER 9] .

OF BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sxcrron SECTION
I._ Bail, how to be taken. 14-, 15. Proceedings in such case.
2. Otiicer may require two sureties. 16. Notice to be given to the plaintiff.
3. Bail bond, when not to be void. 17. Bail to pay the costs on the scire facias.
4. Bail bond to be returned with the writ. 18. Treatment of principal after he is sur5. Obligation of the bail. rendered,
6, 7. Suit on the bail bond : 19. Principal may be surrendered, on the
8. To be brought within one year. original suit.
9. Pleadings and trial therein. 20. Proceedings on bail bond before a jusl0. Principal may be surrendered in court, tice of the peace.
on the scire facias. 21. Surrender of principal in such a case.
11. And committed. 22. Otiicer to attend, if requested.
12. Principal may be surrendered out of 23, 24, 25. Proceedings upon such surrencourt: der.
13. To the keeper of the county jail. 26. Fees of the odicer.

SECTION 1. When bail is taken in any civil action, it shall be
taken, as heretofore practised in this Commonwealth, by a bond to
the sheriff, if the writ is served by him or his deputy, otherwise to
the coroner, or other officer, by whom the writ is served, with condition that the defendant shall appear and answer to the plaintifff in
the suit, and that he shall abide the final judgment of the court thereon, and shall not avoid.

Snow. 2. No officer shall be required to accept a bail bond, un- t
less it be with two sureties at the least, having sufficient within the i

county in which the principal is arrested, or held in custody ; and if
he take a bail bond with only one surety, he shall be liable to the
plaintifff for any loss sustained by the insutiiciency of the bail, although the surety may have been actually sufficient when taken.

SECT. 3. A bail bond shall bind the persons who execute it,
though it be taken with one surety only, or with two or more sureties, when they or either of them may not have sufficient within the
county, as is required in the preceding section.

SE01‘. 4. The bail bond shall be retumed and filed with the writ,
and the clerk shall note on the writ, that a bond is so filed ; and in
case of an appeal, the bond shall be sent, with the other papers, to
the court appealed to.

SECT. 5. In case of the avoidance of the principal, and the return on the execution, that he is not found, his bail shall be obliged
to satisfy the judgment, with interest thereon, from the time when it
was rendered, unless he shall discharge himself, by surrendering the
principal, before final judgment against him on the writ of scire
facias, or by other sutiicient defense in that suit.

SECT. 6. The bail bond shall be considered as so far a matter of
record, and of the nature of a recognizance, that the creditor may
take out a writ of scire facias thereon, in his own name, against the
bail, in which it shall be sufficient to allege, substantially, that the
defendants became bail, without setting forth the bail bond.

Snow. 7. The scire facias shall he issued from the court in
which the judgment against the principal is rendered, and may be
taken out of the clerk’s office in vacation, as well asin term time.

SECT. 8. No such action shall be maintained against any person
as bail, unless the writ of scire facias he served on him, within one
year after the rendition of final judgment against the principal.

SECT. 9. The defendants in such action may either jointly or severally plead, that they never became bail, as alleged in the writ, and shall
thereupon be entitled to every ground of defense, of which they
could have availed themselves, upon a plea that the bond is not their
deed, if an action of debt had been brought on the bond; or they
may plead specially any sufficient matter in their discharge.

Sncr. 10. The bail may surrender the principal in the court
where the suit is pending on the scire facias, at any time before final
judgment therein against them, and on paying the costs of suit on the
scire facias up to that time, they shall be discharged.

Sncr. 11. The principal so surrendered shall he committed to
the common jail, there to remain thirty days, in order to his being
taken in execution.

SECT. 12. Any person, who is bail for another, may at any time
after he has become bail, and before final judgment against him on
a writ of scire facias, exonerate himself from all further responsibility,
by surrendering his principal, in the manner provided in the five following sections.

SECT. 13. Such surrender may be made to the keeper of the
county jail, either in the county in which the principal was arrested,
or in that to which the original writ against the principal was returnafile, and the jailer shall receive the prisoner and hold him in custody,
in like manner as if he had been committed by the officer, who arrested him on the original writ.

Sr-:c'r. 14. The 'ailer shall not be obliged to receive any erson so
surrendered, unless the bail shall deliver to him a copy o the bail
bond, attested by the officer who took it, or by the clerk in whose
custody it may be ; and the delivery of such copy shall be a sutiicient
warrant for the jailer, although the surrender and commitment should
prove to be unlawful, on the part of the bail.

SECT. 15. The bail shall, within fourteen days after such surrender, deliver to the jailer a copy of the original writ, or process,
whereby the prisoner was arrested, with a co y of the return indorsed
thereon, attested by the officer who served tlie writ, or by the clerk
into whose office it is returned.

S1-:c'r. 16. He shall also, within the same fourteen days, give
notice in writing to the plaintifff in the suit, or to his attorney, of the
time when, and the place where, the prisoner was so committed.

SECT. 17. If the surrender is made, after a writ of scire facias is
taken out against the bail, he shall, within fourteen days after the surrender, pay the costs of suit on the scire facias ; the same to be paid to
the creditor, or his attorney or to be left for his use with the jailer ;
provided however, that if the writ of scire facias has not been served
on the bail, he shall not be required to pay the costs thereof, until
twenty four hours after he has notice of the issuing of the writ, and
after a demand of the costs made on him by the creditor.

SECT. 18. Every person, who is surrendered by his bail and
committed to prison, shall be received by the jailer, and held in custody, and may be forthwith bailed, whether notice of the surrender
shall or shall not have been given to the plaintifff; and shall in all respects have the same rights and privileges as if he had been committed
upon the original arrest.

Seer. 19. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall impair the right of bail, in all cases, to surrender their principal in the
court in which the original suit 'is pending, at any time before final
judgment therein ; or, after judgment, to surrender him to the officer,
who may hold the execution thereon, at any time before the return of
the execution.

SECT. 20. When bail is taken in any action before a justice of
the peace, the justice may issue a scire facias against the bail, although
the amount of the debt and costs on the original judgment exceed
the amount, to which his jurisdiction is otherwise limited; and the
rights and obligations of the bail, and all the proceedings, as to the
surrender of the principal and the action against the bail, shall be substantially the same, as are provided with regard to bail, when taken in
suits in other courts.

SECT. 21. When the bail, in any suit before a justice, proposes
to surrender his principal in court, either during the pendency of the
original suit, or of the suit on the scire facias, the bail shall procure
the attendance of some officer, qualified to serve legal process in the
case, to whom the principal may be committed.

Seer. 22. Every such officer, who is seasonably notified, and
requested to attend at a justice’s court, for the purpose aforesaid,
shall be bound to attend, and to receive and take charge of the principal, if committed to his custody by the justice.

SECT. 23. When the principal is surrendered in a justice’s

court, an entry thereof shall be made on the record, and he shall be
forthwith committed to the officer in attendance, to be conveyed to
the common jail of the county, or otherwise disposed of according
to law.

S1-:c'r. 24. If the surrender is made in a justice’s court, after
final judgment in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the odicer
a copy of the entry of the surrender, attested by the justice, and the
officer shall deliver the same copy to the’ jailer, on committing the
prisoner to his custody ; and this shall be a sutiicient warrant to the
officer, for receiving the prisoner and conveying him to the jail, and
to the jailer for holding him in custody, according to law.

SEc'r. 25. If the principal is so surrended and committed, before
dnal judgment in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the officer
a copy of the original writ, with the return indorsed thereon, attested
by the justice, and the officer shall deliver the same copy to the jailer,
on committing the prisoner to his custody ; and this shall be a sumcient warrant to the officer and to the jailer, for receiving, commit- E

ting and holding the prisoner, according to law.
SE01‘. 26. The officer shall be allowed the same fees, as are
provided for arresting and committing a defendant on mesne process,

which fees shall be paid by the bail.

CHAPTER 92.

OF PROCEEDINGS WHEN THE DEFENDANT DOES N0'l‘ APPEAR AND
ANSWER TO THE SUIT.

Sac-non Srzcnon

1. Defendant not appearing, to be default- 8. Execution levied on real estate of an

ed. absent defendant.
2. Default may be taken oil’ at the first 9. Judgment in,a real action against him.

term. 10. Absence of one of several defendants in
3. Notice to be given to defendant out of actions on tort.

the state.—-Suit to be continued in the 11. Sa.me, in actions on contract.

mean time. 12. Action may proceed against those serv4. Absent defendant may review within ed with process.

one year after judgment. 13. The other contractors liable to a new ac5. Or upon petition, within one year after tion.

notice. 14. Absence of one of several tenants in a
6. Bond when to be given by plainti3', up-l real action.

on default of an absent defendant. 15. In a mixed action.

7. “ how taken and disposed of.  16. Exception.

Sacrron 1. When any defendant, being duly served with process, shall fail to appear, his default shall be recorded, and the charge
in the declaration shall be taken to be true, and judgment shall be
rendered accordingly.

SEc'r. 2. If, after such default at the first term, the defendant
shall appear before the jury is dismissed, the court may take off the
default, and allow the appearance to be entered, upon the defendant’s

paying the plaintifff ’s costs up to that time, or such part thereof as the
court shall think reasonable.

Seer. 3. If the defendant is not an inhabitant or resident within 1
the state, or if his residence is not known to the plaintifff, nor to the 1
officer serving the writ in the case, or if the defendant has no last and 1

usual place of abode, nor any tenant, agent or attorney within the
state, known to the said plaintifff or officer, the court, upon suggestion
thereof being made, and upon the facts appearing by the otIicer’s return on the writ, shall order the action to be continued from term to 1
term, until notice of the suit shall be given in such manner as the court ‘
may order ; and if after such notice, the defendant shall not appear '
at the term to which the action may be continued, judgment may be
rendered against him upon default.

SE01‘. 4. When judgment is so rendered upon the default of an _
absent defendant, he shall be entitled to a review of the action as of ,
right, provided the writ of review be sued out within one year after
the judgment, and be commenced and prosecuted in the manner provided in the ninety ninth chapter.

St~:c'r. 5. If such review is not so prosecuted as of right, the de- l
fendant may, at any time within one year after he shall first have notice of the judgment, apply by petition to the supreme judicial court,
for a review of the action, and if it shall appear to the court that justice requires a revision of the case, they may grant a review thereof,
on such terms as they shall think reasonable.

Seer. 6. When judgment in any personal action is rendered, as
above provided, upon the default of an absent defendant, the plaintifff
shall not take out execution thereon within one year thereafter, unless
he shall first give bond to the defendant, with one or more suiiicient
sureties, in a sum equal to double the amount recovered, with condition to repay the amount so recovered, if the judgment shall be reversed upon a review to he brought, by the original defendant, at any
time within one year after the original judgment, or as much of the
amount first recovered as shall be recovered back upon such review.

SEc'r. 7. The said bond shall be deposited with the clerk of the
court for the use of the defendant, and the clerk shall decide on the
sutiiciency of the sureties, saving a right of appeal from his decision
to any justice of the court in which the judgment is rendered.

SEc'r. 8. If the execution in any such personal action shall be
levied on real estate, no alienation thereof by the original plaintifff shall
prevent the defendant from retaking the same, or as much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, if any, that he shall recover on such review, provided the writ of review be sued out within
one year after the original judgment.

Sncr. 9. If the original judgment be for seizin of any premises
demanded in a real action, the demandant may take out his writ of
seizin without giving bond ; and if the judgment be reversed in whole
or in part upon a review, whether sued out within the year or afterwards, the original tenant may have restitution of the premises, in like
manner as upon a reversal on a writ of error.

S1:-:c'r. 10. In personal actions founded on tort, against several
defendants, if any one of them is out of the state at the time of the
service of the writ, the suit shall be conducted, with regard to the

absent defendant, in every thing relating to the service of the writ,
the judgment, the review thereof, and the execution, in like manner
as if he had been the only defendant in the case.

SECT. 11. If an action founded on contract is brought against
several defendants, of whom any one is within the state, and any other is absent, and the plaintifff recovers judgment, he shall take it without any of the conditions and regulations above provided, as to a review of the judgment, and as to giving bond, and alienating any real
estate taken in execution ; but he shall not take judgment against any
such absent defendant, unless under such circumstances as would
have entitled him to judgment against the absent party, if he had been
the only defendant in the case.

SECT. 12. If an action founded on contract is brought against

several defendants, and the writ is duly served on one or more of
them, but no legal service is made on the others, either by attachment of property or otherwise, by reason of their absence from the
state, or for other sufficient cause, the action may nevertheless proceed against those who are duly served with process, without any
further proceedings against the others.

SECT. 13. If judgment shall be rendered against one or more of
several joint contractors, in the manner provided in the preceding
section, and shall remain unsatisfied, an action on the same contract
may be afterwards maintained against any of the other joint contractors, in like manner as if the contract had been joint and several.

. St-:c'r. 14. In real actions against several tenants, if any one of
them is out of the state the suit shall be conducted with regard to
him, in like manner as if he had been the only person sued.

SECT. 15. In mixed actions, if the defendant, or if any one of
two or more joint defendants, is out of the state, the suit shall be conducted, with regard to the absent defendant, in every thing relating to
the judgment, the review thereof, and the bond upon issuing execution, in the manner before provided with respect to personal actions,
when founded on tort; and in every thing relating to the service of
the writ and the notice of the suit to be given to the defendant, it
shall be considered and conducted as a real action.

SE01‘. 16. None of the rules before prescribed, concerning actions brought against a person who is out of the state, shall apply to
a cross action brought, as provided in the ntnetieth chapter, by the
defendant in a prior suit, against the plaintifff in the same suit.

 

1_._.___._._:_ _.___..__._.__.__.__—__._.

CHAPTER 93.

or DEATH, MARRIAGE, 01?. OTHER DISABILITY, occuaame AFTER
THE COMMENCEMENT or THE sU1T.

Sncnoxv SECTION
I. General provision as to actions which 2. Executor or administrator may prosesnrvive cute or defend.

8s:c'rto:t Sxcnol
3. May be cited for that purpose. . , 15. Jointly with the survivor, if any.

4. Citation, how served and returned. 15_ 0,. we uni,“ mg’ Pmwcuw am‘

5. E t & . be ‘ted de- . .
ralzfgior’ C may mum or 17. Real, be. actions prosecuted against

I
6. Provision as to costs in such case. i mnwmg tenm_t' . . . _

'7, 8. Certain actions for torts to survive. E 18' 8”” P"°°°°d“l8" W ml“ f°’ P”m-'°“°
9. Damages recoverable in trespass a-' 19. Exceptin certain cases. '

gainst an executor, sec. | 1). Further exceptions.
10 Recovery by executor, ice. in right of 21. Upon marriage of a female plaintiff, her

another. husband may prosecute.

ll Goods returned on replevin by execu- 232. Party becoming insane, his guardian
10;, &,¢, may prosecute or defend.

12. Death of a joint pl6'. or deft. 23. Successor of a public officer, be. may

13. Death of all the plffs. or defts. prosecute.

14. In real and mixed actions, the heir may 24. Amendments and suggestions to be
prosecute: made when necessary.

SECTION 1. In all personal actions, the cause of which does by
law survive, if there is only one plaintifff, or one defendant, and the
sole plaintifff or defendant shall die, after the commencement of the
action, and before the entry thereof, or after an appeal claimed, and
before the entry of the appeal, or at any other time, before final judgment, the action may proceed and be prosecuted, by and against the
survivor, and the executor or administrator of the deceased party, in
the manner provided in this chapter.

SI‘-JCT. 2. The action or the a peal may be entered, in such cases,
if it is not already entered, and e death of the party shall be suggested on the record, and his executor or administrator may, at the
same term, or within such further time as the court shall allow, appear
and take upon himself the prosecution or defense of the suit, as the
case may be; and it shall be thenceforth conducted in the same manner, as if it had been originally commenced by or against the same
executor or administrator.

Sacr. 3. If the executor or administrator does not voluntarily.

appear, the surviving party may take out a citation from the court or
the justice of the peace, before whom the cause is pending, requiring
the executor or administrator to appear, and take upon himself the
prosecution or defense of the suit.

SECT. 4. The citation, if taken out of court in term time, may
be made returnable at the same, or the next succeeding term, as the
court shall order, and if taken out in vacation, it shall be returnable
at the next term ; and if issued by a justice of the peace, it shall be
made returnable at such time as he shall direct, and in all cases, it
shall be served fourteen days at least before the return day.

Snow. 5. If the executor or administrator shall not appear on the ‘
return of the citation, or within such further time as the court or jus- t

tice shall allow, he shall be nonsuited or defaulted, and judgment
shall be rendered against him, in like manner as if the action had
been originally commenced by or against him, in his said capacity,
except as provided in the following section.

Seer. 6. When an executor shall be nonsuited or defaulted,
without having taken upon himself the prosecution or defense of the
suit, he shall not be personally liable for any costs in the action ; but

the estate of the deceased in his hands shall be liable for the costs, as
well as for the debt or damages, if any are recovered.

SECT. 7. In addition to the actions, which survive by the common
law, the following shall also survive, that is to say ; actions of replevin
and trover, actions of trespass for assault, battery, or imprisonment,
or for goods taken and carried away, and actions of trespass and trespass on the case for damage done to real or personal estate.

SECT. 8. All the said last mentioned actions may be originally
commenced and prosecuted by and against executors and administrators, and if commenced by or against the original party, in his life
time, they may be prosecuted or defended by or against his executor
or administrator.

SE01‘. 9. When an action of trespass is commenced or prose, cuted against the executor or administrator of the trespasser, the plain‘ tiff shall be entitled to recover only for the value of the goods taken,

or for the damage actually sustained, without any vindictive or exemplary damages, or damages for any alleged outrage to the feelings of
the injured party.

Snow. 10. When the executor or administrator of a trustee,
carrier, depositary, or other person, who claimed only a special property in any goods, to hold them for the use and benefit of another,
shall recover such goods, or damages for the taking or detention
thereof, in an action of replevin, or 'trover, or trespass, the goods or
money so recovered shall not be considered as assets in his hands,
but shall, after deducting the costs and expenses of the suit, be paid
over and delivered to the person, for whose use and benefit they were
so held or claimed by the deceased person.

SECT. 11. When judgment for a return, in an action of replevin,
shall be rendered against an executor or administrator, the goods returned by him shall not be considered as assets in his hands ; and if
they shall have been included in the inventory, it shall be a sufficient
discharge for the executor or administrator, to show that they have
been returned, in pursuance of such judgment.

SECT. 12. When there are several plaintifffs or defendants in any
personal action, the cause of which survives, either by the common
law or by the provisions of this chapter, and any of them shall die
before final judgment, the action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff, or against the surviving defendant, as the case may be.

Snow. 13. If, in such a case, all the plaintifffs, or all the defendants shall die, the action may be prosecuted or defended by or
against the executor or administrator of the last surviving plaintifff or
defendant, respectively, in like manner as if the survivor had been
originally the only plaintifff or defendant.

Snow. 14. In all real and mixed actions, if the demandant shall
die before final judgment, his heir, at the same term when the death
is suggested, or within such further time as the court shall allow, may
appear and prosecute the suit, in the same manner as if it had been
originally commenced by him.

SECT. 15. If there are several demandants in such an action,
and any of them shall die before final judgment, the heir of the deceased party shall he admitted, on motion, to prosecute the suit jointly with the survivors, in the same manner as if he had originally joined with them in commencing the suit.

SECT. 16. If the interest of the deceased arty passes to the
surviving demandants, or if there is no motion fdr the admission of
another person as heir, at the term when the death of the deceased
party is suggested, or within such further time as the court shall allow. the surviving demandants may prosecute the suit, for so much
of the premises in question, as may then be claimed by them.

SE01‘. 17. When there are several tenants in any real or mixed
action, and any of them shall die before final judgment, the action
may be prosecuted against the surviving tenants, for so much of the
premises as they shall hold or claim.

Seer. 18. The same proceedings, as are prescribed in the four
preceding sections, shall be had in all petitions and actions for partition of lands, in case of the death of any of the parties, except as is
provided in the two following sections.

Si-:c'r. 19. If, upon the death of either of several plaintifffs or

petitioners, in a suit for partition, the interest of the deceased party i

shall pass to the surviving plaintifffs or petitioners, or to any person,
who shall be admitted to join them in the suit, it shall be prosecuted
accordingly, in the manner before provided respecting real actions ;
but if the interest of the deceased party shall pass to any person, who
is not so admitted as a plaintifff or petitioner, such person may, by
order of the court, be made a defendant or respondent, and the
same proceedings may be had a ainst him, as would have been necessary to make him an original defendant or respondent.

SECT. 20. If, upon the death of either of several defendants or
respondents, the interest of the deceased party shall pass to the surviving defendants or respondents, the suit may proceed against them
without any new process; but if the interest of the deceased party
shall pass to any other person, that person may be made a defendant
or respondent, by order of the court, in the manner prescribed in the
preceding section.

Seer. 21. If any action or suit is brought by an unmarried woman, either alone, or jointly with others, and she shall be married
before final judgment, her husband may, on his own motion, be admitted as a party to prosecute the suit with her, and with the other
plaintifffs, if there be any, in like manner as if he had originally joined
in the suit.

SECT. 22. If, during the pendency of any action or suit, either
party shall become insane, the action may be prosecuted or defended
by his guardian, in like manner as if it had been commenced after
the appointment of the guardian, or the court may appoint a guardian
for the suit, as the case may require.

Si-:c'r. 23. VVhen an action is brought by or in the name of any
public officer, or by any trustee appointed by virtue of any statute,
his death or removal shall not abate the writ, but it may be prosecuted
by his successor, provided there be a successor, who might have
originally commenced and prosecuted the like action.

SECT. 24. In all the cases mentioned in this chapter, when any
change shall happen in a suit after its commencement, the court may
allow such amendments of the declaration and other pleadings, and
such suggestions to be entered on the record, as circumstances may
require.

Sncrrort

CHAPTER 94.

OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.

or wrrzuzsszs.
1. Summonses for witnesses may be issued 3
by clerks of courts and by justices of the »
peace.
2. By whom served.
3. Fees to be tendered to witness.
4, 5. Liability for not attending.
6. Witness may be brought in on a warrant.
7, 8. Mode of administering oaths.

9. Quakers allowed to aliirm.

10. Others, having conscientious scruples.

11. Persons of other than the christian religions, how sworn.
12. Penalty for false oath or aliirmation.

or DI-JPOSITIONS.

13, 14. Depositions, when and for what
purposes taken.

15. Notice to be given to the adverse party:
I6 Or to his agent or attorney:
17. Or to one of several parties.
18, 19. Notice, how to be served.

’ 20,21. Deponent, how to be sworn and

examined.

29. Deposition by whom to be written.

'23. ‘Certificate to be annexed.

24. Deposition to be delivered or sent to
the court, &.c.

25. Not to be used if the deponent
tend.

26. Objections to the testimony, how and
when to be made

27. Depositions, when to be used in another
suit.

28. Courts may make rules concerning depositions.

29. Deponent may be summoned and compelled to testify.

30. Depositions how taken out of the state.

31. To be taken on written interrogatories.

C811 8!32. Courts may make rules concerning foreign depositions.

33. Discretionary power, as to depositions
and affidavits otherwise taken.

34. Depositions to perpetuate evidence,
how taken.

i Sncrrou

35. Notice to be given to all persons interested.
36. Mode of taking such deposition. Certificate to be annexed.
37. Deposition to be recorded in registry of
deeds.
38. In what cases may be used.
39. Deponent may be summoned and compelled to testify.
40. Depositions in perpetuam may be taken
out of the state.
41. Statement to be filed by the party applying.
49. Notice to be given to the adverse party.
43. Commission may be issued.
44. Deposition, how, taken and returned.
45. Statement may be filed and notice
given in vacation.
46. Supreme court may make rules concerning foreign depositions in perpetuam.
47. Such depositions, in what cases to be
used. ‘
48. Depositions may be taken to perpetuate
testimony against all persons.
49, 50. Proceedings therefore.
5!. To be recorded in the registry of deeds.
52. Such depositions, in what cases they
may be used.
53. Depositions may be taken for courts in
other governments.
OTHER PROVISIONS nzsrzcrrna IV!nnncn.
54-. Members of certain corporations to be
competent witnesses.
55. Disqualihcation by being surety, &.c.
may be removed. '
56. Conviction without the state, to afect
credibility in case, Gsc.
57. Records of courts of other states, how
authenticated.
58. Acts and resolves of the government, to
be evidence.
59. Statute laws of the other states, when
to be evidence.
60. Unwritten law of other states, how
proved.
61. Laws of foreign countries, how proved.

or wrrnsssns.
SECTION 1. Every clerk of a court of record, and every justice

of the peace, may issue summonses for witnesses in all civil cases

pending before any court, or before any magistrates, arbitrators or
other persons authorized to examine witnesses; and the summons
shall be in the form heretofore adopted and commonly used, but may
be altered from time to time, like other writs.

SE01‘. 2. Such summons may be served by any officer, qualified
to serve any civil process, or by any disinterested person, by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof,
or leaving such copy at the place of his abode.

Seer. 3. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness, unless the fees are paid or tendered to him, which are allowed by law
for one day’s attendance as a witness, and for travelling to, and returning from, the place where he is required to attend.

SE01‘. 4. If any person duly summoned and obliged to attend
as a witness, shall fail so to do, without any reasonable excuse, he
shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by
such failure, to be recovered in an action on the case.

Seer. 5. Such failure to attend as a witness in any court of
record shall also be considered a contempt of the court, and may be
punished by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars.

SE01‘. 6. The court- in such case may issue a warrant to bring
such witness before them, to answer for the contempt, and also to
testify as a witness in the cause in which he was summoned.

SE01‘. 7. The usual mode of administering oaths, now practised
in this state, with the ceremony of holding up the hand, shall be observed in all cases, in which an oath may be administered by law,
except as is hereinafter provided. '

SE01‘. 8. When the court or magistrate, before whom any person is to be sworn, shall be satisfied that such person has any eculiar mode of swearing, which is in his opinion more solemn or obligatory than holding up the hand, they may adopt that mode of administering the oath.
SECT. 9. Every quaker, when called on to take an oath, shall be

permitted, instead of swearing, solemnly and sincerely to allirm, under
the pains and penalties of perjury.

SECT. 10. Every person, who shall declare that he has conscientious scruples against taking any oath, shall, when called upon for that
purpose, be permitted to affirm in the manner prescribed for quakers, provided that the court or magistrate shall, on inquiry, be satistied of the truth of such declaration.
SECT. 11. Every person, believing in any other than the Christian religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of

his religion, if there be any such.
SECT. 12. If any person, who shall take an oath or make an

affirmation, in any of the modes prescribed or allowed by this title,
shall therein willfully and corruptly swear or amrm falsely, he shall be
liable to all the pains and penalties of perjury.

OF DEPOSITIONS.

SECT. 13. Depositions may be taken, in the manner and according to the regulations, provided in this chapter, to be used before any magistrates, or other persons authorized to examine witnesses, in any other than criminal cases.

Seer. 14. When a witness, whose testimony is wanted in any
civil cause pending in this state, shall live more than thirty miles
from the place of trial, or shall be about to go out of the state, and
not to return in time for the trial, or is so sick, iniirm or aged, as to
make it probable that he will not be able to attend at the trial, his
deposition may be taken in the manner hereinafter provided.

Snow. 15. At any time after the cause is commenced by the
service of process, or after it is submitted to arbitrators or referees,
either party may apply to any justice of the peace, who shall issue a notice to the adverse party, to appear before the said justice
or any other justice of the peace, at the time and place appointed
for taking the deposition, and to put such interrogatories as he may
think (it.

Si-:c'r. 16. The said notice may be served on the agent or attorney of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect, as if served
on the party himself. '

SECT. 17. When there are several persons, plaintifffs or defendants, or parties on either side in the cause, a notice served on either
of them shall be sufiicient.

Snow. 18. The notice shall be served, by delivering an attested
copy thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving such copy at
his place of abode, allowing, in all cases, not less than twenty four
hours after such notice, before the time appointed for taking the deposition, and also allowing time for his travel to the place appointed,
after being notitied, not less than at the rate of one day, Lord’s days
excluded, for every twenty miles travel.

S1:-:c'r. 19. Instead of the written notice before prescribed, the
notice may, in all cases, be given verbally by the justice taking the
deposition, or it may be wholly omitted, if the adverse party or his
attorney shall in writing waive the right to it.

SECT. 20. The deponent shall be sworn or amrmed to testify
the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, relating to the
cause for which the deposition is taken, and he shall then be examined by the justice and by the parties, if they think (it, and his testimony shall be taken in writing.

SE01‘. 2!. The party producing the deponent shall be allowed
first to examine him, either upon verbal or written interrogatories, on
all the points which he shall deem material, and then the adverse
party may examine the deponent in like manner; after which either
party may propose such further interrogatories, as the case may require.

Seer. 22. The deposition shall be written by the justice, or by
the deponent, or by some disinterested person in the resence and
under the direction of the justice, and it shall be carefu ly read to or
by the deponent, and shall then be subscribed by him.

Snow. 23. The justice shall annex to the deposition a certificate
of the time and manner of taking it, the person at whose request, and
the cause or suit for which it was taken, and the reason for taking it,
and stating also whether the adverse party attended, and if not, stating the notice, if any, that was, given to him.

S1~:c'r. 24. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice to
the court or arbitrators or ‘referees, before whom the cause is pend

ing, or shall be enclosed and sealed by him, and directed to them,
and shall remain sealed until opened by the said court, arbitrators, or
referees.

SECT. 25. No such deposition shall be used, if it shall appear
that the reason for taking it no longer exists; provided however, that

.if the party, producing the deposition in such case, shall show any

sutiicient cause then existing for using the deposition, it may be admitted.

Seer. 26. Every objection to the competency or credibility of
the deponent, and to the propriety of any uestions put to him, or of
any answers made by him, may be made w en the deposition is produced, in the same manner as if the witness were personally examined on the trial ; provided, that when any deposition is taken upon
written interrogatories, all objections to any interrogatory shall be
made before it is answered, and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn,
the objection shall be noted thereon, or otherwise the objection shall
not be afterwards allowed.

SE01‘. 27. When the plaintifff in any suit shall discontinue it or
become nonsuit, and another suit shall afterwards be commenced for
the same cause, between the same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions, lawfully taken for the first suit, may be used
in the second, in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if originally taken for the second suit, provided, that the deposition shall have been duly filed in the court where
the first suit is pending, and shall remain in the custody of the court,
from the termination of the first suit, until the commencement of the
second.

Snow. 28. The courts may, from time to time, make such rules,
as they shall find proper and convenient, as to the time and manner
of opening and tiling depositions, and the safe keeping thereof, and
any other regulations, concerning the taking and using of depositions,
which may not be inconsistent with the provisions of law.

Seer. 29. Any witness may be summoned and compelled to
give his deposition, at any place within twenty miles of his place of
abode, in like manner and under the same penalties, as he may be
summoned and compelled to attend as a witness in any court.

SECT. 30. The deposition of any witness, without this state, may
be taken under a commission, issued to one or more competent persons, in any other state or country, by the court in which the cause
is pending, or it may be taken before any commissioner, appointed
by the governor for that purpose, in any part of the United States ;
and in either case, the deposition may be used in the same manner,
and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if it had been
taken in this state.

Seer. 3l. Every such deposition, taken before commissioners
appointed either by the governor or by the courts, shall be taken upon
written interrogatories, to be exhibited to the adverse party, or his
attorney, and cross interrogatories, to be filed by him, if he shall
think (it.

Snow. 32. The courts may make rules, as to the issuing of commissions, either in vacation or term time, and the filing of interrogatories, and all other matters relating to depositions, taken out of the

state, provided, that such rules be not inconsistent with the provisions

of law.
Seer. 33. All depositions and affidavits, taken out of the state,

in any other manner than is prescribed in the three preceding sec. tions, if taken before any notary public, or other person authorized by

the laws of any other state or country, to take depositions, may be
admitted or rejected, at~the discretion of the court ; provided, that no
such deposition or affidavit shall be admitted, unless it shall appear
that the adverse party had suliicient notice of the taking thereof, and
opportunity to cross-examine the witness, or that from the circumstances of the case, it was impossible to give him such notice.

Sr«:c'r. 34. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the
testimony of any Witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in or to
the subject, concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence,
and the names of all other persons, interested or supposed to be interested therein, and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, and shall deliver the said statement to two justices of the
peace, one of whom shall be either a judge or register of probate,
a clerk of the supreme judicial court, a master in chancery, or a
counsellor at law, requesting them to take the deposition of the said
witness.

SI-zcr. 35. The said justices shall thereupon cause notice to be
given of the time and place, appointed for taking the deposition, to all
persons mentioned in the said statement as interested in the case;
which notice shall be given in the same manner, as is prescribed in
this chapter, respecting notice upon taking a deposition in this state,
to be used in any cause here pending.

SECT. 36. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and his
deposition shall be written, read and subscribed, in the same manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned ; and the justices shall annex thereto a certificate under their
hands, of the time and manner of taking it, and that it was taken in
perpetual remembrance of the thing, and they shall also insert, in the
certificate, the names of the person, at whose request it was taken,
and of all those who were notified to attend, and of all who did attend

the taking thereof.
SI-:c'r. 37. The deposition, with the certificate, and also the

written statement of the party, at whose request it was taken, shall,
within ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry
of deeds, in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates
to real estate, otherwise, in the county where the parties or some of
them reside.

Seer. 38. If any suit shall, either at the time of taking such deposition, or at any time afterwards, he pending between the person
at whose request it was taken, and the persons named in the said
written statement, or any of them, who were notified as aforesaid, or
any persons claiming under either of the said parties, respectively,
concerning the title claim or interest, set forth in the statement, the
deposition so taken, or a certified copy of it, from the registry of
deeds, may be used in such suit, in the same manner and subject to
the same conditions and objections as if it had been originally taken
for the said suit.

Seer. 39. Any witness may be summoned and compelled to]
give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as before l
prescribed, in like manner and under the same penalties as are:
provided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken in this 1
state.

Snow. 40. Depositions, to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses 1
living without the state, may be taken in any other state, or in any 1
foreign country, upon a commission to be issued by the supreme ju- 1
dicial court or court of common pleas, in the manner hereinafter pro- 5
vided.

S1-zcr. 41. The person, who proposes to take the deposition, ':
shall apply to either of the said courts, and file therein a statement 1
like that before prescribed to be delivered to the justice of the peace
upon taking such a deposition within this state ; and if the subject of
the proposed deposition relates to real estate within this state, the
statement shall be filed in the county where the land or any part thereof lies, otherwise in the county where the parties or some of them
reside.

SI-:c'r. 42. The court shall order notice of such application and
statement to be served on all the persons mentioned therein as adversely interested in the case, and living within the state, which notice shall be served, fourteen days at least, before the time therein appointed for hearing the parties.

Sncr. 43. If upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant alone, should no adverse party appear, and the court shall be satisfied that there is sufhcient cause for taking the deposition, they shall
issue a commission therefore, in like manner as for takinga deposition
to be used in any cause pending in the same court.

SECT. 44. The deposition shall be taken upon written interrogatories filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories filed by any
party adversely interested, if he shall think fit, and it shall be taken
and returned substantially in the same manner as if taken to be used
in a cause pending in the same court.

SECT. 45. The person who proposes to take the deposition
may, at his election, file his statement in the clerk’s office in vacation, and may cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein
named as adverselyinterested, by serving them with an attested copy
of the said statement, fourteen days at least before the next term of
the court, and the court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties
and to issue the commission, as before provided.

SECT. 46. The supreme judicial court may, from time to time,
make rules as to taking depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses without the state, whether taken under a commission from
the supreme judicial court, or the court of common pleas, and as to

the filing or recording of such depositions, provided that such rules

be not inconsistent with the provisions of law.

Seer. 47. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses, taken at any place without this state, according to the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken within
the state.

SECT. 48. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses
within or without the state, so that the same may be evidence against

all persons, may be taken upon a commission, to be issued after public notice by the supreme judicial court or court of common pleas.

SE61‘. 49. The person, who desires to have such deposition taken, may apply to either of the said courts, in the manner before prescribed in the case of takinga deposition to perpetuate the testimony
of a witness living without the state, and all the proceedings thereon
shall be the same as are prescribed in the case last mentioned.

Snow. 50. The court shall, in addition to the proceedings so before prescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant or otherwise, at
their discretion, as to all persons known or supposed to be interested in
the case, and shall in the commission direct the commissioner or commissioners to publish in such newspaper or newspapers, within or without the state, or both, or in such other manner as the court shall consider
most e&'ectual, such notice of the time and place of taking such deposition, and of the subject matter thereof, as the court shall think
proper ; which notice shall be addressed specially by name to all persons who are known or supposed to be interested in the case, and
generally to all others, that they may attend and propose cross interrogatories to the witness; and the court may also require personal
notice of the time and place of taking, and of the subject matter of
such deposition, to be given to such persons and in such manner, as
under all the circumstances shall seem proper.

SE01‘. 5]. Such deposition having been taken and returned to
the court, by whose order the commission issued, and being found by
the court to have been taken according to law and the directions contained in the commission, the court shall order it to be recorded,
within thirty days, in the registry of deeds for the county in which
the land lies, if the deposition relates to real estate, otherwise in the
county in which the parties or some of them reside.

Snow. 52. Any deposition, taken and recorded under the provisions of the four preceding sections, or a certified copy thereof from
the registry, may be used by the person at whose request it was taken, or by any person claiming under him, against any person whatever, in any suit or process, wherein shall be brought in question the
title, claim or interest set forth in the statement upon which the commission was founded, in the same manner, and subject to the same
conditions and objections, as if it had been originally taken for said
suit or process. _

SI-:c'r. 53. Any witness may be summoned and compelled, in
like manner, and under the same penalties, as are prescribed in this
chapter, to give his deposition in any cause, pending in a court in any
other state or government; which deposition may be taken before
any justice of the peace in this state, or before any commissioners,
that may be appointed under the authority of the state or government,
in which the suit is pending; and if the deposition is taken before
such commissioners, the witness may be summoned and compelled
to appear before them, by process from any justice of the peace in
this state.

OTHER PROVISIONS RESPECTING EVIDENCE.

SECT. 54. In all cases in which any county, city, town, district or
precinct, or any parish, or incorporated or legally organized religious

society, or any school district, or any incorporated mutual fire insurance company shall be, in their corporate capacity, parties to, or interested in, any suit, whether of a civiL or criminal nature, any mem- .

ber of such corporation may be admitted as a competent witness, to
testify on the trial, or to give his deposition, provided there be no
sufiicient objection to his competency, except that of his being such
member of the corporation.

Saar. 55. If any person shall be disqualified to testify in any suit,
by reason of having tndorsed the original writ or process, or of being
a surety in the recognizance of the appellant, or in a replevin bond,
he may be discharged by order of the court, so as to be sworn as a
witness, provided another sufficient indorser or surety be substituted
in his stead, to be liable in like manner and to the same extent, as he
would have been.

Saar. 56. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness,
by reason of having committed any crime, unless he has been convicted thereof in this state ; but the conviction of any person, in any
court without the state, of a crime which, if he has [had] been convicted thereof within this state, would render him an incompetent
witness here, may be given in evidence to affect his credibility.

Snow. 57. The records and judicial roceedings of any court of
another state, or of the United States, sha I be admissible in evidence
in all cases in this state, when authenticated by the attestation of the
clerk, prothonotary, or other officer having charge of the records of
such court, with tne seal of such court annexed.

Snow. 58. The rinted copies of all statutes, acts and resolves
of the Commonwealt , whether of a public or private nature, which
shall be published under the authority of the government, shall be admitted as sufficient evidence thereof in all courts of law, and on all
occasions whatsoever.

Sacr. 59. Printed copies of the statute laws of any other of the

a United States, or of the territories thereof, if purporting to be published under the authority of the respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts of law, and on all other occasions, in this state, as
prima facie evidence of such laws.

SE01‘. 60. The unwritten or common law of any other of the
United States, or of the territories thereof, may be proved as facts
by parol evidence, and the books of reports of cases, adjudged in
their courts, may also be admitted as evidence of such law.

SECT. 61. The existence, and the tenor or effect, of all foreign laws, may be proved as facts, by parol evidence ; but if it shall
appear that the law in question is contained in a written statute or
code, the court may, in their discretion, reject any evidence of such
law, that is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

CHAPTER 95.

OF JURIES

Stories

I. Qualincations of jurors.
2. Persons exempted ti-om serving.
3. Members of the Ere department.
4». Selectmen to prepare lists of persons
qualitied.
5. Lists, subject to approval and alteration
by the town.
6. Names to be put into a box.
7. Name of a person convicted, &c. to be
withdrawn.
8. Jurors to be selected by drawing their
names.
9. Names, when and how to be drawn.
10. May be drawn in town meeting.
11. Date of each draft to be indorsed on
the ballot.
12. No person liable to serve more than
once in three years.
13. Clerks to issue writs of venire facias.
14. Jurors to be equally apportioned.
15. Venires, how distributed and served.
16. Jurors, at what time to be drawn.
17. Jurors to be summoned. Venire to be
returned.
18. Additional venires may be issued in
term time.
19. Fines on jurors neglecting to attend.
20, 21. Manner of empannelling jurors for
civil causes.

SECTION 1.

- SECTION

22. Foreman to be chosen by the jury.

23. Empannellingjuries in criminal cases.

24. Talesmen ,when and how returned.

25. By whom to be returned.

26. Must be qualified as jurors.

27. Jurors may be examined as to their interest, &c. and the objection may be
otherwise proved.

28. Interest not to disqualify in certain
cases.

29. Objections to jurors, when to be made.

30. Certain irregularities not material.

31. Gratuities to jurors, forbidden.

32. Jury not to be sent out more than
twice, unless, &c.

33. The court may direct a view by the jury.

34. List of jurors in Boston.

35. Jurors, how drawn in Boston.

36. Grand jurors from Chelsea to serve in
the municipal court.

37. Traverse jurors also.

38. Special provisions for Nantucket and
Duke’s county.

39. Fines on oliicers and others for neglect.

w. (4
41. Punishment for fraud in drawing jurors.

in cases of highways, mills, dzc.

4&2. Coroners to summon and empannel
jurors, dzc.

All persons, who are qualified to vote in the choice

of representatives in the general court, shall be liable to be drawn as
jurors, except as is hereinafter provided.

SE01‘. 2. The following persons shall be exempted from serving
as jurors, to Wit :

The governor, lieutenant governor, members of the council, secrctary and treasurer of the Commonwealth, all judges and justices
of any court, except justices of the peace, all county and special
commissioners, clerks of courts, registers of probate, and registers
of deeds, sheriffs and their deputies, coroners, constables, and criers
of the courts, marshals of the United States and their deputies,
and all other officers of the United States, counsellors and attorneys
at law, settled ministers of the gospel, officers of colleges, and preceptors and teachers of incorporated academies, practising physicians
and surgeons regularly licensed, cashiers ofincorporated banks, and
constant ferrymen, and all persons who are more than sixty five years

old.
SE01‘. 3. All members of the fire department, in the city of

Boston, shall be exempted from serving as jurors ; and all engine men

and members of the fire departments, in other towns, may be exem ted by their respective towns, by vote at any legal town meeting.
£201‘. 4. The selectmen of each town shall, once at least in
every three years, prepare a list of such inhabitants of the town, not
exempted as aforesaid, as they shall think well qualified to serve as
jurors, being persons of good moral character, of sound judgment, and
free from all legal exceptions, which list shall include not less than
one for every one hundred inhabitants of the town, and not more than
one for every sixty inhabitants, computing by the then last census.

SECT. 5. The list, when so prepared, shall be laid before the
town, and the town may alter it, by adding thereto the names of any
persons liable to serve, or by striking any names therefrom.

SE01‘. 6. The selectmen shall cause all the names, borne on the
said list, to be written, each on a separate paper or ballot, and shall
roll up or fold the ballots, so as to resemble each other as much as
possible, and so that the name written thereon shall not be visible on
the outside ; and they shall place the ballots in a box, to be kept by
the town clerk for that purpose.

Snow. 7. If any person, whose name is so placed in the juryf
box, shall be convicted of any scandalous crime, or be guilty of any 1

gross immorality, his name shall be withdrawn from the box by the
selectmen, and he shall not be returned to serve as a juror.

SECT. 8. All jurors, whether required to serve on a grand jury,
or a traverse jury, or by force of the laws relating to highways or
mills, or on any other occasion, except a coroner’s inquest, shall be
selected by drawing ballots from the said box, and the persons,
whose names are borne on the -ballots so drawn, shall be returned to
serve as jurors.

S1-:c'r. 9. When any jurors are to be so drawn, the town clerk
and selectmen shall attend at the clerk’s office, or at some other public place appointed for that purpose, and if the town clerk is absent,
the selectmen may proceed without him ; and the ballots in the jury
box shall be shaken and mixed together, and one of the selectmen
shall openly draw therefrom as many ballots, without seeing the names
written thereon, as shall be equal to the number of jurors required ;
and if any person so drawn is exempted by law, or is unable, by reason of sickness, or absence from home, to attend as a juror, or if he
shall have served as a juror in any court, within three years then next
preceding, his name shall be returned into the box, and another shall be
drawn in his stead.

SECT. 10. Any town may, at a legal meeting, order that all drafts
for jurors in such town shall he made in open town meeting, in which
case, the draft shall be made by the selectmen, in the manner ‘prescribed in the preceding section, except that it shall be done in a
town meeting, to be notified and warned, in such manner as shall be
ordered by the town, or otherwise prescribed by law.

SECT. 11. When any person is drawn and returned to serve as
a 'uror in any court, the selectmen shall indorse on the ballot the date
oli the draft, and shall then return it into the box, and whenever there
is a revision and renewal of the ballots in the box, the selectmen shall
transfer to the new ballots the date of all the drafts, made within three
years then next preceding.

Sam‘. 12. No person shall be liable to serve as a juror in any
court oftener than once in three years, but he shall not be exempted
by reason of having been drawn, unless he shall actually attend and
serve as a juror, in pursuance of the draft.

S1-:c'r. 13. The clerks of the several courts shall, in due season
before every term, or at such other times as the respective courts
shall order, issue writs of venire facias for jurors, and shall therein
require the_ attendance of the jurors, on such day of the term as the
court shall order.

SECT. 14. The clerks_, in issuing the venires, shall have regard to
the number of inhabitants in the several towns, and shall require from
each town a number of jurors, as nearly as may be in proportion to
their respective numbers, so as to equalize as far as possible the duty
of serving as jurors.

SE01‘. 15. The venires shall be delivered to the sheriff of each
county, and by him be transmitted to a constable, in each of the towns
to which they are respectively issued, and they shall be served by
the constable, without delay, on the selectmen and town clerk; and
if the town shall have ordered that jurors shall be drawn in open
town meeting, the selectmen shall cause a town’ meeting to be warned
for that purpose.

SECT. 16. The meeting for drawing jurors, whether the draft
be made in town meeting, or before the selectmen and town
clerk only, shall be held not less than seven days, and not more
than twenty one days, before the day when the jurors are required
to attend.

S1-:c'r. 17. The constable shall, four days at least before the
time when the jurors are required to attend, summon each person
who is drawn, byreading to him the venire, with the indorsement
thereon of his having been drawn, or by leaving at his place of abode
a written notification of his having been drawn, and also of the time
and place of the sitting of the court, at which he is to attend, and
shall make a return of the venire, with his doings thereon, to the
clerk before the opening of the court from which it was issued.

S1-:c'r. 18. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall
prevent any court from issuing venires in term time, for additional

jurors, whenever it shall be found necessary, for the convenient dispatch of their business ; in which case, the venires shall be served
aml returned, and the jurors shall be required to attend, on such days
as the court shall direct.

SECT. 19. If any person, duly drawn and summoned to attend
as a juror in any court, shall neglect to attend, without any sufticient
excuse, he shall pay a fine not exceeding forty dollars, which-shall
be imposed by the court, to which the juror was summoned, and shall
be paid into the county treasury.

SECT. 20. On the day when the jurors are summoned to attend
at any court, the clerk shall prepare a list of their names arranged in
alphabetical order and the first twelve on the list, who are not excused, shall be sworn and empannelled as a jury for the trial of any
civil causes, and shall be called the first jury.

SE01‘. 21. The next twelve on the same list shall then be sworn
and empannelled in like manner, and shall be called the second jury ;

and if there are any supernumerary jurors, they maybe excused from
time to time, until wanted, and may be put on either of the juries as
occasion shall require, in the place of any who are absent ; provided,
that nothing herein contained shall revent the transferring of jurors
from one jury to the other, when the convenience of the court or of
the jurors may require it.

Snow. 22. Each jury, after being thus empannelled, shall retire
and choose their foreman by ballot, or shall make such choice upon
retiring with the first cause, with which they shall be charged, and
whenever the foreman shall be absent, or be excused from further
service, a new foreman shall be chosen in like manner.

S1-:01-.23. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall apply to the empannelling of juries in criminal cases, but the jurors
shall be called, sworn and empannelled anew, for the trial of each
criminal case, according to the established practice ; and their foreman shall be appointed, either by the court, or by the jury when
they retire to consider of their verdict.

S1‘-:c'r. 24. When by reason of challenge or otherwise, a sumcient number of jurors, duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained
for the trial of any cause, civil or criminal, the court shall cause jurors
to be returned from the by-standers, or from the county at large,
to complete the panel, provided, there be on the jury not less than
seven of the jurors, who were originally drawn and summoned, as before provided. .

Saar. 25. The jurors, so returned‘from the by-standers, shall
be returned by the sheriff or his deputy, or by a coroner, or by any
disinterested person, appointed therefore by the court.

S1-:c'r. 26. The persons so returned shall be such as are qualitied and liable to be drawn as jurors, according to the provisions of
law.

SECT. 27. The court shall, on the motion of either party in any
suit, examine on oath any person who is called as a juror therein,
to know whether he is related to either party, or has any interest in
the cause, or has expressed or formed any opinion, or is sensible of
any bias or prejudice therein, and the party objecting to the juror
may introduce any other competent evidence, in support of the objection ; and if it shall appear to the court, that the juror does not
stand indifferent in the cause, another shall be called and placed in
his stead, for the trial of that cause.

Snow. 28. In indictments and enal actions for the recovery of
any sum of money or other thing forfeited, it shall not be a cause
of challenge to any juror, that he is liable to pay taxes in any county
or town, which may be benelitted by such recovery.

Snow. 29. If a party knows of any objection to a juror, in season to propose it before the trial, and omits to do so, he shall not afterwards be allowed to make the same objection, unless by leave of
the court.

S1-:c'r. 30. No irregularity in any writ of venire facias, or in the
drawing, summoning, returning or empannelling of jurors, shall be
sufhcient to set aside a verdict, unless the party making the objection ‘i
was injured by the irregularity, or unless the objection was made be- ‘
fore the returning of the verdict.

1
I

1
1
1

i

l
1

Sncr. 31. If either party, in a case in which a verdict is returned, shall, during the same term of the court, either before or after the

' trial, give to any of the jurors, who shall try the cause, any thing

by way of treat or gratuity, _the court may, on the motion of the adverse party, set aside the verdict and award a new trial of the cause.

Si-:c'r. 32. When a jury, after due and thorough deliberation upon any cause, shall return into court, without having agreed on a verdict, the court may state anew the evidence, or any part of it, and

' explain to them anew the law applicable to the case, and may send

them out again for further deliberation; but if they shall return a
second time, without having agreed on a verdict, they shall not be
sent out again, without their own consent, unless they shall ask from

the court some further explanation of the law.

SECT. 33. The jury may, in any case, at the request of either

' party, be taken to view the premises or place in question, or any property, matter, or thing, relating to the controversy between the parties, when it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to
a just decision, provided, the party making the motion shall advance
a sum,sufficient to defray the expenses of the jury and the officers
who attend them, in taking the view; which expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other legal costs, if the party who advanced them
shall prevail in the suit.

Seer. 34. The list of jurors in the city of Boston shall be prepared by the mayor and aldermen of the city, in the same manner as
is required, in this chapter, to be done by the selectmen within and
for their respective towns, and the lists, when so made out by
the mayor and aldermen, shall be deemed complete, without being
submitted to the inhabitants of the city for revision and alteration by
them.

SECT. 35. The said mayor and aldermen, and the clerk of the
city, shall severally have and exercise all the powers and duties, with
regard to the drawing of jurors in Boston, and all other matters relating to jurors therein, which are in this chapter required to be performed by the selectriien and town clerks in their respective towns,
and all venires, for jurors to be returned from Boston, shall be served
on the said mayor and aldermen.

Sncr. 36. The jurors returned from the town of Chelsea, to
serve on the grand jury in the supreme judicial court in the county
of Suffolk, shall also serve, with the other members of the same jury,
in the municipal court of the city of Boston.

Seer. 37. The said municipal court shall have power to issue
venires, from time to time, for one or more traverse jurors from the
town of Chelsea, and the jurors so returned shall attend and serve in
the said court, in the same manner as is required of jurors returned
from the city of Boston.

Si-:c'r. 38. The inhabitants of the counties of Nantucket and
Duke’s county shall be liable to be drawn and to serve as jurors,
once in every two years ; and the lists of persons, liable to serve as
jurors in the several towns in Duke’s county, may include one for
every thirty of the inhabitants thereof respectively.

SE01‘. 39. When by a neglect of any of the duties required in
this chapter, to be performed by any of the officers or persons heretn mentioned, the jurors, to be returned from any place, shall not be
duly drawn and summoned to attend the court, every person guilty of
such neglect shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to be imposed by the same court, to the use of the county in which the offense is committed.

S1-:c'r. 40. If such neglect shall occur with regard to any jurors
who may be required to serve on any other occasion than as jurors in
the supreme judicial court, the court of common pleas, or the municipal court, the sheriff or other officer, before whom the jurors were
required to appear, shall. make known the fact to the court of common
pleas, then next to be held in the same county, and the court, after
due examination and a hearing of the parties who are charged, shall
impose the fine.

Seer. 4]. If any town clerk, selectman, mayor, alderman, or
clerk of the city of Boston, shall be guilty of any fraud, either by
practising on the jury box previously to a draft, or in drawing a juror,
or in returning into the box the name of any juror which had been
lawfully drawn out, and drawing or substituting another in his stead,
or in any other way in the drawing of jurors, he shall, on conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, to
be aid to the use of the county in which the ofence is committed.

gear. 42. Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect the power and duty of coroners to summon and empannel jurors on any inquest held by them.

 
 

CHAPTER 96.
or TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

Szcuon SECTION
1. Certain mutual demands may be set off. 16. At what time demand must be filed in

2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Description of the demands to the clerk's o$ce.

be set oh‘. l7. Demand, how to be stated.
7. In what actions allowed. 18,19, %0. Proceedings in the trial thereof.
8, 9. Case of several plaintiE's or defend- 21- Judgment, when the demand "1 '¢l'°5'i3
ants, proved.
m_ Case of assignmem of pjaimm-is de_ 22. Judgment for balance due to defendant.
mand_ 23. Of set-of in suits before a Justice of the
11. Of action by one in trust for another. P°a‘f°'_ _ _
12. Of actions by executors or administra- 24' Plmnmr “°l a“°w°d t° d"'°°m'n“°' &'°'

25. Auditors may be appointed to state accounts.
26, 27. Proceedings by auditors.
28. Auditors may summon witnesses.

tors.

13. Of judgment in such case for balance
due defendant.

14. Of actions against executors, &c. 29_ u may be dischmged’ &c_
15. The demand must be due in the same 30. Their report may be used in evidence.
right. 31. Their compensation.

SECTION 1. When there are mutual debts or demands between
the plaintifff and defendant in any action, one demand may be set off
against the other, as provided in this chapter.

SE01‘. 2. No demand shall be set off, unless itis founded upon a
' judgment or upon a contract, but the contract may be either express
or implied, and with or without a seal.

Snow. 3. No demand shall be set 011', unless it is for the price of
real or personal estate sold, or for money paid, money had and received, or for services done, or unless it is for a sum that is liquidated, or one that may be ascertained by calculation.

Snow. 4. No demand shall be set 011', unless it existed at the
time of the commencement of the suit, and then belonged to the defendant, nor unless it is due to him in his own right, except as is

hereinafter provided.

Snow. 5. Any demand which had been assigned to the defendant
with notice to the plaintifff of the assignment, before the commencement of the action, may be set off in like manner as if it had been

originally payable to the defendant.
SE01‘. 6. If the demand set off is founded on a bond, or other

contract having a penalty, no more shall be set off than the sum equitably due.

Snow. 7. The set-off shall be allowed in all actions founded upon
demands, which could themselves be the subject of set-off, according to law, and in no others.
Snow. 8. If there are several plaintifffs, the demand set off shall

be due from all of them jointly ; and if there are several defendants,
the demand set off shall be due to all of them jointly, except as is

provided in the following section.
Seer. 9. When the person, with whom any contract is made,

has a dormant partner, and a suit is brought on such contract, by or
against the partners jointly, any demand due to or from the person
with whom the contract was made, may be set off in like manner as
if such dormant partner had not been 'oined in the suit.

Si-:c'r. 10. If the demand, on w ich the action is brought, has
been assigned, and the defendant had notice of the assignment, he
shall not set off any demand that he may acquire against the original
creditor, after such notice.

SECT. 11. When an action is brought by one person in trust or
for the use or benefit of another, the defendant may set off any demand against the person for whose use or benefit the action is
brought, in like manner as if that person were the plaintifff in the
SUII.

Seer. 12. In actions by executors and administrators, demands
against their testators or intestates, which belonged to the defendant
at the time of their death, ma be set off in the same manner as if the
action had been brought by t e deceased.

SECT. 13. When upon such a set-off against an executor or administrator, a balance shall be found due to the defendant, the judgment therefore against the plaintifff shall be in the same form, and have
the same effect, as if the suit had been originally commenced by the

defendant.
Seer. 14. In actions against executors and administrators, and

against trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the
defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intesrates, or those whom they represent, in the same manner as the per

sons represented would have been entitled to set off the same, in an
action against themselves.

Seer. 15. In suits brought by or against executors, administrators or trustees in their representative character, no demand shall be
set off that is due to or from such executors, administrators or trustees, in their own right.

SECT. 16. To entitle a defendant to a set-off, he shall filea statement of his demands in court or in the clerk’s office, at the term at
which the action is entered, or within such further time as the court
shall for special reasons allow, and shall give written notice to the
plaintifff or his attorney that he has filed a demand in set-off.

SECT. 17. The defendant’s demand shall be set forth with as
much certainty as to matters of substance, as would be required in a
declaration, and the court may allow amendments thereof, in like
manner as of a declaration, or any other part of the pleadings.

Snow. 18. A set-off may be tried in all cases, when any issue to
the country is joined without any further plea ; and in all actions, except assumpsit, in which an issue to the country is not otherwise formed, the defendant may plead that he does not owe the sum demanded by the plaintifff, which shall be deemeda good plea for the purpose
of forming an issue, upon which to try the defendant’s demand in setoff.

Seer. 19. The defendant’s demand shall be tried, in like manner as if it had been set forth in an action brought by him ; and the
plaintifff shall be entitled to every ground of defense against it, of
which he might have availed himself, by any special plea or otherwise, in an action brought against him upon the same demand.

SECT. 20. If any law for the limitation of actions should be alleged by way of defense to the defendant’s demand, the limitation
shall be applied in the same manner as it would have been to an action brought on the same demand, if it had been commenced at the
time when the plaintifff ’s action was commenced.

SECT. 21. If an amount is proved to be due on the set-off, equal
to the amount due to the plaintiff, the court may award costs to either
party, or dismiss the action without costs, and if the amount so proved is less than the sum due to the plaintifff, he shall have judgment
for the balance.

SECT. 22. If it shall appear that there is a balance due from the
plaintifff to the defendant judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for the amount thereof with his costs; but no such judgment shall
be rendered against the plaintifff, when the demand, for which the action is brought, had been assigned before the commencement of the
suit, nor for any balance due from any other person than the plaintifff.

SECT. 23. In actions before a justice of the peace, the defendant may file his demand in set-off before the justice, at the time when
the action is entered, or within such further time as the justice, for
special reasons, shall allow ; and all the other proceedings in relation
thereto shall be the same, as are before prescribed, with respect to
actions in other courts, provided, that the justice shall in no case
enter judgment for the defendant, for more than twenty dollars, exclusive of costs.

SECT. 24. After a demand is filed in set-off, the plaintifff shall

not be allowed to discontinue his action, unless by consent of the
defendant.

Snow. 25. Whenever a cause is at issue, and it shall appear that
the trial will require an investigation of accounts, or an examination of
vouchers by the jury, the court may appoint one or more auditors to
hear the parties, and examine their vouchers and evidence, and to
state the accounts and make report thereof to the court.

b‘£:c'r. 26. The auditors shall give notice to the parties of the
time and place appointed for their meeting, and they may adjourn
the same from time to time, as may be necessary.

SI-3c'r. 27. When there is more than one auditor, they shall all
meet and hear the cause, but a report by a majority of them shall
be valid.

SECT. E28. Witnesses may be summoned, and compelled to attend and testify before the auditors, in the same manner as before
arbitrators or referees.

Snow. 29. The court may, for any sufficient reason, discharge
the auditors, and appoint others, and they may also recommit the
report, for revision or further examination, to the same or to other
auditors.

SECT. 30. The report of the auditors, if there is no legal objection to it, may be used by either party as evidence on the trial before
the jury, but it may be impeached and disproved by other evidence,
produced on the trial by either party.

Snow. 31. The court shall award reasonable compensation to the
auditors, which shall be paid by the plaintifff, and shall be taxed in his

bill of costs, if he prevail in the suit.

CHAPTER 97.

OF JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

Sscrton SECTION
1. Judgment, of what day to be entered. 14. Case of removal, Gsc. of the oliieer.
2. Judgment on default. 15. “ of the death of either party.
3. Damages may be assessed by a jury, 16. Execution levied on real estate.
alter default: 17. On personal estate.

4. Or ascertained by the clerk. 18. Oflicer may demand security of the

5. Execution not to issue within twenty- creditor.
four hours: 19. What goods are liable to execution.
6. Nor after one year: 20. Current coin.
7. Unless after a surrender by bail. '21. Bank notes.
8. Scire facias, or debt on judgment. 22. What goods are exempted.
9. Executions, when returnable. 23. Goods, how sold on execution.
10. Forms of executions and alterations 24-. Notice of sale how given.
therein. 25. How, when the value exceeds 33(1).
11. To be under the control of the supreme 26. Sale may be adjourned.
¢0l|l'1- 27 Re-sale to be made in case.

12. Creditor may direct the mode of service.
13. Case of the death, &.c. of officer, after
beginning to serve an execution.

28: Return of the execution—Liability for

fraud.
29. Proceeds of sale, how disposed of

SECTION

30. Proceeds of sale, when liable to two or I
more creditors. ’

31. “ “ “ there have been!
successive at-I
tachmcuts.

32. “ “ “ equity of re-:

demption is sold.
33. Terms for years. when to be levied onl

as real estate
34, 35. Execution suspended by a prior at»Ss:c-non

54, 55. Demand,when debtor is surrendered by his bail.

56. VVhen and how long bail to continue
liable for support of prisoner.

57. When liability of creditor commences

58. Creditor may discharge such debtor.

.59. The goods and estate of the debtorto
continue liable.

60. Debtor liable for all sums paid for his

support.

61. Debtors having prison limits, not to be

considered paupers.
to be confined if they need

support.
63. Debtor how to obtain the liberty of the
prison limit.s—Sheri8', &c. not liable for

an escape in certain cases.

tachment.

36. Shares in incorporated companies, may
be taken in execution.

37, 38. Proceedings in such case.

39. Cashier, &.c. to make known the shares
held by the debtor :

40. And to give new certificates to the pur62. “

chaser. 64. Debtor not to have prison limits after
41. Purchaser entitled to dividends after 90 days.
the attachment. 65. Sutiiciency of the sureties, how deter42. Executions against corporations, how minedlevied. 66. Bond, how disposed of.
43. Alias execution when a levy is not ef- 57- N0 805011 “P00 51 8391’ 0110 3'88!’fectual. 68. Execution, for what sum to issue.
44, 45. Imprisonment, for what amount of 69. Surrender of the debtor to discharge
debt allowed. bond, except, etc.
46. No female to be imprisoned for debt, 70. He may give bond anew.
except, &c. 71. Action of debt, for any escape since,&.c.

abolished.

72. Action on the case allowed.

73. Penalty for detaining money collected.
74. Executions may be set off.

75. Proceedings for that purpose.

76. Such set-08', when to be allowed.

47. Forms of executions to be varied, &c.

48. Case of pauper imprisoned on execution.

49, 50, 51. How to be supported.

52, 53. Demand, on whom and when it may

be made.

SECTION 1. Every judgment shall be entered, as of the last day
of the term in which it is rendered, unless there is an express order
of the court for the entry thereof on some other day ; in which case
the day shall be noted by the clerk on his docket.

Sncr. 2. When the defendant is defaulted, in any stage of the
proceedings, the court shall award such judgment for the plaintifff, as
they shall, upon inquiry, fmd to be just and proper, unless the plaintifff or defendant shall move to have the damages assessed by a jury ;
in which case they shall be so assessed.

SE01‘. 3. The court may, in all cases in which damages are demanded, refer the assessment thereof to a jury, although it be not
moved for by either party.

Snow. 4. In actions upon promissory notes and other contracts, ~
where the amount due appears to be undisputed, the debt or damages 3
may be assessed and ascertained by the clerk, either under a general
order of the court, or by a special reference of the case to him ; and
the judgment, in either case, shall be entered in the same form, as if
it had been awarded by the court, on an assessment or computation
made by themselves.

SECT. 5. No execution shall be issued within twenty four hours 
after the entry of the judgment. .

-_... _- - SE01‘. 6. No original execution shall be issued, unless within
one year after the party shall be entitled to sue out the same, and no
alias, or other successive execution, shall be issued afterwards, unless
each one be sued out within one year after the return day of that
which preceded it, except as provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 7. When a judgment debtor is surrendered by his bail,
the creditor may sue out a new execution, within thirty days after the
surrender, although more than one year should have elapsed after
the return day of the next preceding execution.

Seer. 8. If a judgment remains unsatisfied, after the expiration
of the time for taking out execution thereon, the creditor may have
a scire facias to obtain a new execution, or he may, at any time after
the judgment, have an action of debt thereon.

SE01‘. 9. All executions, issued by a justice of the peace, or by
any police court or justices’ court, shall be made returnable within
sixty days from the date thereof; and all executions from the supreme judicial court shall he made returnable in six months from their
date, and all executions from the court of common pleas, in three
months from their date, unless in either case there shall be a regular
term of the court, to commence within that time, in which case the
execution shall be made returnable at such term.

St-:c'r. 10. The forms of executions shall be the same as have
been heretofore established by law, and by the usage and practice of
the courts ; but alterationstherein may, from time to time, be made,
or allowed by the courts, when necessary to adapt them to changes
in the law, or for other sufiicient reasons.

SECT. 11. All changes in the forms of executions shall be subject to the final control of the supreme judicial court, and the said
court may, by general rules, regulate such changes in all the other
courts of the state.

SECT. 12. When an execution is in the alternative, so that it
may be lawfully served in either of two or more ways, the creditor
or his attorney may require the officer to serve it, in either of those
ways; and it shall be the duty of the officer to conform to such
directions, if it is in his power to do so. '

SEc'r. 13. When an officer shall have begun to serve an execution, and shall die, or be incapable of completing the service and return thereof, the same may be completed by any other officer, who
might by law have served the execution, if originally delivered to him;
and if the first officer shall not have made a certificate of his doings,‘
the second officer shall certify whatever he shall find to have been
done by the first, and shall add thereto a certificate of his own doings
in completing the service.

SECT. 14. When an officer has begun to serve an execution, be
may complete the service and return thereof, although he shall have
been removed from office, or although the service cannot be completed until after the return day.

Snow. 15. If either party shall die, after any real estate or any
goods or chattels have been seized on execution, the service thereof
may be completed, in like manner and with the same effect, as if both
parties were still living, and the officer may appoint an appraiser.
when necessary, for the deceased party.

SECT. 16. When the creditor shall direct an officer to levy his ,
execution on real estate, the oliicer shall serve it accordingly, in the j
manner prescribed in the seventy third chapter.

Seer. 17. If the creditor shall direct the officer to levy his exe- .
cution on the goods of the debtor, the officer shall serve it according- ;
ly, in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 18. If, in any case, there is any reasonable doubt, as to the .
ownership of the goods, or as to their liability to be taken on the:

execution, the officer may require suliicient security, to indemnify
him for taking them.

Seer. 19. All chattels, real or personal, and all other goods, that ‘l

, are by the comtnon law liable to be taken in execution, may be taken ;

and sold thereon, except as is otherwise provided in this chapter. .
SECT. 20. Current gold or silver coin may be taken in execution, '
and may be paid to the creditor as money collected. .
Seer. 21. Bank notes and all other bills or evidences of debt, ;
issued by any monied corporation, and circulated as money, may be j
taken in execution, and may be paid to the creditor, at their par value, «
as money collected, if he will accept them, otherwise they shall be
sold like other chattels. ‘

Seer. 22. The following articles shall be exempted from execution, to wit: _

First. The necessary wearing apparel of the debtor, and of his
wife and children ; one bedstead, bed, and the necessary bedding for
every two persons of the family ; one iron stove, used for warming
the dwelling house ; and fuel, not exceeding the value of ten dollars,
procured and designed for the use of the family :

Secondly. Other household furniture, necessary for the debtor
and his family, not exceeding fifty dollars in value :

Thirdly. The bibles and school books used in the family :

Fourthly. One cow, six sheep, one swine, and two tons of hay ;
the six sheep not to exceed thirty dollars in value :

Fifthly. The tools and implements of the debtor, necessary for
carrying on his trade or business, not exceeding fifty dollars in value:

Sixthly. The uniform of an officer, non-commissioned officer or
private, in the militia, and the arms and accoutrements required by
law to be kept by him : and

Seventhly. Rights of burial, and tombs whilst in use as repositories for the dead.

Seer. 23. When goods are seized on execution, they shall be
safely kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, for the space
of four days at the least, and they shall be sold by public auction,
within fourteen days next after the seizure, except as hereinafter provided, unless the debtor shall, before such sale, redeem them by otherwise satisfying the execution.

SECT. 24. The officer shall give public notice of the time and
place of the sale, by causing notifications thereof to be posted up,
forty eight hours at least before the time of sale, in some public place
in the town, where the sale is to be made, or by causing an advertisement of the time and place of sale to be published in some newspaper printed in the county, if any such newspaper is there printed.

Seer. 25. If the value of the goods to be sold shall exceed three

hundred dollars, the officer shall, if requested by either party, give
notice of the sale by advertisement in a newspaper, as provided in the
preceding section ; and the sale, in such case, may be made at any
time after the expiration of four days, and within thirty days after the
seizure on execution.

Seer. 26. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the officer shall
deem it expedient, and for the interest of all persons concerned therein, to postpone the sale, for want of purchasers or for other sufiicient
cause, he may postpone it for any time not exceeding seven days,
and so from time to time, for like good cause, until the sale shall be
completed ; giving notice of every such adjournment, by a public declaration thereof, at the time and place previously appointed for the
sale.

Snow. 27. If the highest bidder for any article, at such a sale,
shall refuse to take and pay for it, the officer shall sell the same again
by auction, at the same time, or within ten days thereafter, giving
notice of the second sale, and he shall account for what he shall
receive on the second sale, and for any damages, that may be recovered of the first bidder, for a loss on the re-sale, as for so much received on the execution.

Seer. 28. The officer, who shall make such sale on execution,
shall, in his return of the execution, particularly describe the goods
sold, and the sum for which each article was sold ; and if he shall be
guilty of any fraud in the sale, or in the return, he shall be liable, in
an action on the case, at the suit of the party injured, for five times
the amount of the actual damage sustained by reason of such fraud.

SECT. 29. The money arising from the sale shall be applied to
paying the charges, and satisfying the execution, and the officer shall
return the residue, if any, to the debtor, on demand, or shall otherwise apply and pay over the same, as provided in the following sections.

SECT. 30. If the goods sold on execution shall have been attached by any other creditor, or seized on any other execution, either by
the same or by any other officer, or, if before the payment of such
residue to the debtor, any other writ of attachment or execution
against him shall be delivered to the officer who made the sale, the
proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the discharge of the several
judgments, in the order in which the respective writs of attachment
or execution shall have been served, and the residue, if any shall be
returned to the debtor.

Seer. 31. If an attachment or seizure on execution is made of
a share in any incorporated company, or of any other property which
may be attached without taking and keeping the exclusive possession
thereof, and if the same property shall be subsequently attached or
taken in execution, by any other officer, he shall give notice thereof
to the officer who makes the sale under the first attachment or seizure, and if the latter shall, without such notice, pay to the debtor
the balance of the proceeds of the sale, he shall not be liable therefore to the person claiming under such subsequent attachment or
seizure. ‘

SECT ‘$2. When the right of redeeming mortgaged real estate
18 sold on execution,’ the proceeds of the sale, after satisfying the

execution on which the sale is made, shall be applied and disposed
of, in the same manner as is before provided in the case of the sale
of oods.

E5101‘. 33. All terms for years, when the original lease was for
one hundred years or more, and so long as fifty years or more of the
term remain unexpired, shall be regarded as real estate, so far as
concerns the levying of an execution thereon, and all other terms for
years shall be seized and sold on execution, in the same manner as
personal chattels.

SEc'r. 34. When any estate, either real or personal, is seized
on execution, and the further service of the execution is suspended,
by reason of any prior attachment on the,same estate, the estate shall
remain bound by such seizure, until it is set off or sold, in whole or in
part, under the prior attachment, or until that attachment is dissolved.

Snow. 35. If the estate is set off or sold, in part, under the prior r

attachment, or if that attachment is dissolved, the estate, or such part
thereof as remains undisposed of, shall continue bound for thirty days
thereafter, by the seizure on the execution; and the service of the
execution may be completed, in like manner as if the estate had been
first seized thereon, at any time within the said thirty days although
the return day of the execution may have passed.

SECT. 36. Any share or interest of a stockholder in any bank, l

insurance company, or any other joint stock company, that is or may

be incorporated under the authority of this Commonwealth, may be i

taken in execution and sold in the following manner.

Snow. 37. If the property has not been attached in the same
suit, the officer shall leave an attested copy of the execution with the
clerk or treasurer, or cashier of the company, if there be any such
officer, otherwise with any officer or person, who has at the time the
custody of the books and papers of the corporation-; and the property shall be considered as seized on execution, when the copy is
so left.

Snow. 38. If the property is already attached in the same suit,
the officer shall proceed in seizing and selling it on the execution, in
the same manner as in the case of goods and chattels.

Snow. 39. The officer of the company, who is appointed to
keep a record or account of the shares or interest of the stockholders
therein, shall, upon the exhibiting to him of the execution, be bound
to give a certilirate of the number of shares or amount of the interest,
held by the judgment debtor, in like manner and upon the like penalty, as is prescribed in the ninetieth chapter, upon the exhibiting to
him ofa writ of attachment.

St-:c'r. 40. An attested copy of the execution and of the return
thereon shall, within fourteen days after the sale, be left with the officer of the company, whose duty it may be to record transfers of
shares ; and the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to a certificate
or certificates of the shares bought by him, upon paying the fees
therefore, and for recording the transfer.

,Sr:c'r. 41. If the shares or interest of the judgment debtor had
been attached in the suit, in which the execution issued, the purchaser shall be entitled to all the dividends, which shall have accrued
after the attachment.

SECT. 42. Executions against corporations, when levied upon
any corporate propertyfsball be levied in the same manner as other
executions are levied, except in the cases provided for in tlte thirty
sixth and forty fourth chapters.

S1‘-:c'r. 43. If any execution shall be returned sattsfied, in whole
or in part, by the sale of any property which shall afterwards appear not to have belonged to the judgment debtor, or not to have been
liable to such execution, and if any damages shall be recovered
against the judgment creditor or the officer who served the execution, on account of the seizure and sale of the property, the creditor
may have a writ of scire facias on his judgment, and shall thereupon
be entitled to a new execution for the sum then remaining justly and
equitably due to him.

Snow. 44. No person shall be imprisoned on mesne process or execution, for any debt less than five dollars, founded on any contract
heretofore made, nor for any debt less than ten dollars, founded on any
contract made after the tirst day of July in the year one thousand eight
hundred and thirty one.

SECT. 45. If a new judgment be rendered on a former judgment,
which was founded on any such debt, as is described in the preceding
or the following section, the debtor shall not be imprisoned on the execution issued on the new judgment.
SEc'r. 46. N 0 female shall be imprisoned on mesne process or exef cution, for any debt founded on any contract made after the first day of

July in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty one, except on a
judgment against her as a trustee, for the sum of ten dollars or more, in

a process of foreign attachtnent.
SECT. 47. The forms of the executions, in the cases specified in

the three preceding sections, shall be so varied as to adapt them to the
rules therein prescribed.

SECT. 48. When any person, who is confined in close prison on
execution, shall claim support as a pauper, the jailer shall furnish his
support at the rate of one dollar and twenty five cents a week, to be
paid by the creditor so long as the debtor is kept in close confinement on that execution, and no town shall be liable for the support of
any such prisoner.

SECT. 49. The creditor in such case, if required by the jailer,
shall either advance from time to time the money necessary for the
support of the debtor, or give to the jailer satisfactory security for the
payment thereof.

SECT. 50. If the creditor shall neglect, for twenty four hours
after he is required by the jailer to give such security, or to advance
the money for the support of the debtor, the jailer may discharge
him.

Seer. 51. If the creditor shall undertake to advance money for
the support of the debtor, instead of giving security therefore, the

jailer may discharge the debtor, whenever all the money advanced

shall have been expended, at the rate of one dollar and twenty five

cents a week.
SECT. 52. The demand of the secttrity, or of the advance of

money before mentioned, may be made by the jailer of the officer
who commits the debtor, at the time of the commitment, or tt may be

made then. or at any time afterwards, of the creditor, or his atton.
in the suit.

SECT. 53. The jailer shall not be entitled, in any case, to demand such security or advance of money, unless the debtor shall have
first claimed support as a pauper.

Seer. 54. When any debtor, who is surrendered by his bail and
committed to close prison, shall claim support as a pauper, the jailer
may require the creditor, or his attorney in the suit, to give security
or advance the money for the support of the debtor, in like manner
as if the commitment had been made by an officer, and if the creditor
shall neglect so to do, for twenty four hours after being so required,
the jailer may discharge the debtor.

SECT. 55. The jailer, in such acase; may, at the time of the surrender, demand of the hail the advance of money for the support of
the debtor, or security therefore, instead of demanding the same of the
creditor ; and if the bail shall neglect, for twenty four hours after such
demand, to give such security, or to advance the money for the support of the debtor, the jailer may discharge him, and the bail and the
debtor shall thereupon continue liable to the creditor, in all respects,
as if the surrender had not been made.

SECT. 56. The bail, if such demand shall be made of him, shall
be liable for the support of the debtor, until the expiration of seven
days after he shall have given notice of the surrender to the creditor,
or his attorney in the suit. .

SECT. 57. The creditor shall be liable for the support of the
debtor, after the ex iration of the said seven days; and if he shall
neglect to advance t e money, or give security therefore, as before provided, at or before the expiration of the said seven days. the jailer
may discharge the debtor.

SECT. 58. If any debtor, committed on execution, shall claim
support as a pauper, the creditor may at any time thereafter order him
to be discharged.

SECT. 59. When a debtor is so discharged by order of the creditor, or when he is discharged by the jailer for want of security, or ‘

of an advance of money, as before provided, the debt and costs, together with all sums paid by the creditor for his support in prison,
shall remain a legal claim against his goods and estate, and may be
enforced accordingly, in the same manner as if he had not been committed on the execution ; but his body shall never thereafter be liable
to arrest or imprisonment for the same debt, costs, or charges.

SEc'r. 60. If the debtor shall undertake to satisfy the execution,
he shall not be entitled to his discharge therefrom, until he has paid
all the charges for his support in prison, both upon the arrest on the
original writ, and upon the commitment in execution, in addition to
the sum due on the execution, and the costs and charges thereon.

SI-:c'r. 61. No person, who is committed on execution, shall be
considered a pauper, nor be entitled to support as such from any
town, nor from the creditor or jailer, so long as he is at large within
the limits of the rison, upon security given for that purpose.

SECT. 62. Iif it shall be found necessary to support, as a pauper,
any such debtor who has the liberty of the prison limits, the jailer
shall confine him in close prison, notwithstanding his bond for the liberty of the yard, and shall support him in prison, at the charge of the

creditor, as before provided.
Stacr. 63. Any person, who is committed on execution in any

' civil action, or for any. debt whatever, may have the liberty of the

prison limits, upon giving to the creditor a bond, with a surety or
sureties, having sutiicient within the county, in a penalty not less than
double the sum for which he is committed, including the charges of
_ commitment, with condition that he will not go without the exterior
limits of the prison, until he shall be lawfully discharged, and that if
he shall not be lawfully discharged, within ninety days from the day
of his commitment on the execution, he will surrender himself to the
1 jailer, to be held in close confinement; provided, that no sheriff or
' jailer shall be liable, for an escape, to the creditor to whom such
bond shall be given, in consequence of allowing to a prisoner the liberty aforesaid, although from accident, mistake, or misapprehension,
such bond may be taken in a less penalty than is above provided.

Seer. 64. No person, committed on execution, shall be entitled
to the liberty of the prison limits, at any time after the expiration of
ninety days from the day of his commitment; and if he shall not,
within that time, be lawfully discharged, he shall be thereafter kept
in close confinement, as long as he is detained by force of the same
execudon.

Sacr. 65. If the creditor shall not admit the sufiiciency of the
-surety or sureties, the jailer may require that the question be submitted to two justices of the peace and of the quorum, of the county,
and if the sureties are approved by them, they shall be deemed
sufficient.

Seer. 66. If the creditor shall not be present, or if he shall refuse to accept the bond, it shall he left for him with the jailer.

I .Sr:c'r. 67. No action shall be brought for any breach of the con’ dition of the bond, unless within one year after the time of the
breach.‘

SE01‘. 68. If, in any action on the bond, it shall appear that the
condition thereof has been broken, execution shall not issue for the
whole penalty, but only for so much thereof as may be justly and
equitably due ; provided, that it shall never be for less than the amount
due on the original judgment, with interest thereon, and with all the
lawful costs and charges that shall have arisen after the issuing of the
original execution. ,

SECT. 69. Any debtor, who shall give bond for the liberty of
the prison limits, may, at any time. surrender himself, or be surrendered by his surety, to the jailer, and the bond shall thereupon become void, as to all breaches of the condition, that may happen after
that time.

SE01‘. 70. After such a surrender, the prisoner may give bond
and have the liberty of the prison limits anew, in like manner as before, until the expiration of the ninety days from the time of his
original commitment under the execution.

St-:c'r. 71. No action of debt shall be maintained against any oth, cer, for any escape committed after the nineteenth day of March, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty three, by any prisoner, arrested or committed on execution in any civil action, whether
the escape be negligent or voluntary on the part of the officer.

Seer. 72. The creditor, in such case, may have an action onthe
case against the officer, to recover such damages as he shall have
suffered by the escape, and he may also have his remedy against the
ori inal debtor by a scire facias, or an action of debt on the judgment.

star. 73. If any officer shall unreasonably neglect to pay any
money, collected by him on execution, when demanded by the creditor therein, he shall forfeit and pay to the creditor, five times the
lawful interest of the money, from the time of the demand until it is

aid.

P SEc'r. 74. Executions between the same parties may be set off,
one against another, if required by either party, in the manner prescribed in the following sections.

Sr-:c'r. 75. When one of the executions is delivered to an officer
to be served, the person who is the debtor therein may deliver his
execution to the same officer, whether the second execution is directed to the same or to any other officer, and the officer shall apply
it, as far as it will extend, to the satisfaction of the first execution;
and the balance due on the larger execution may be collected and
paid, in the same manner as if there had been no set-off.

Snow. 76. Such set-off shall not be allowed in the following
cases :

First. When the creditor in one of the executions is not, in the
same capacity and trust, the debtor in the other :

Secondly. When the sum, due on the first execution shall have

been lawfully, and in good faith, assigned to another person, before
the creditor in the second execution became entitled to the sum due
thereon :

Thirdly. When there are several creditors in one execution, and
the sum due on the other is due from a part of them only :

Fourthly. When there are several debtors in one execution, and
the sum due on the other is due to a part of them only :

Fifthly. Nor shall it be allowed as to so much of the first execution, as may be due to the attorney in that suit, for his fees and disbursements therein.

 
 

CHAPTER 93.‘

OF THE RELIEF OF POOR PRISONERS COMMITTED ON EXECUTION

FOR DEBT.
Stories Stories
1. Proceedings for relief of poor debtors. 8. Justices, if satisfied, shall administer
2. Notice to the creditor. the oath.
3. How to be served. 9. Form of the oath.
4-. Debtor how to be examined before two 10. Form of certificate to be made by the
justices. justices.
5. Time and place of examination. 1]. Debtor to be thereupon  6. Mode of examination. 12. Justices, if not setished, shell remand

7. Creditor may propose interrogatories. the prisoner.

8301101 Stories
13. Debtor may swear, though disqualihed 26. Proceedings in such case.

as a witness. 27. Charges of fraud against debtor may
14. Not to be imprisoned for same debt, he tried by jury.
‘ unless, &.c. 28. “ shall be in writing and sworn
I5. Penalty for swearing falsely. to.

16. His estate to remain liable for the debt. 29. Notice thereof to the debtor.
17. Poor debtors may be sworn, &.c. in the 30. Proceedings on the trial thereof.
original suit, if, &c. 31. What acts of fraud may be charged.

18. Proceedings for that purpose. 32. Appeal from justice, &.c. to C. C. P.
19. The like, in suits before ajustice of the 33. Recognizance an allowance of appeal.
peace. 3}. Appeal from C. C. P. to supreme court.
20. Debtor to be examined as before di- 35. Trial to be by jury, unless, &c.
rected. 36. Penalty on conviction.
2]. The court if satisfied, shall administer 3'7. Debtor may be bailed during the prothe oath. — ceedings.
2.2. If debtoris conlined,be maybe brought 38. “ to be examined as heretofore,
into court for examination. if such charges are not made.
23. Case of a debtor secreting his goods. 39. Notice by debtor, when it may be re24. Penalty on any person aiding him peated.
therein. - 40. Provisions, as to such charges of fraud,
25. Creditor may attach, &c. although to be prospective.
debtor is imprisoned. 41. Fees for services under this chapter.

r SECTION 1. When any person, who is committed on execution
in any civil action, or for any debt, shall represent to the jailer that
he is unable to pay the debt, for which he is imprisoned, and is desirous to take the benefit of the law for the relief of poor debtors, the
jailer shall make known the same to some justice of the peace for the
count .

Sa)i:'r. 2. The justice shall thereupon appoint a time and place
for the examination of the debtor, and shall give notice thereof to the
creditor, by a citation under his hand, which citation shall be served
and returned by any officer, who is qualified to serve any civil process, between the same parties.

Seer. 3. The citation shall be served on the creditor by reading it to him, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at his usual
place of abode, thirty days at least before the time appointed for the
examination, if the creditor be alive and within the state ; otherwise,
it shall be served, in like manner, on the person who was his attorney
in the suit, and if there is no such attorney within the state, the copy
shall be left with the clerk of the court, or justice of the peace, by
whom the execution was issued, thirty days at least before the time
appointed for the examination.

Seer. 4. The examination shall be had before any two justices
of the peace for the county, each of whom shall be of the quorum,
and disinterested, and not related either to the creditor or the debtor.

SE01‘. 5. It may be had at any place, within the limits of the

a prison, that shall be appointed for that purpose, and may be adjourned by the justices, or by either of them, in the absence of the other, to
any other place within the same limits, and to any other time, that
shall be found convenient.

SE01‘. 6. The justices shall examine the debtor on his oath,
concerning his estate and effects and the disposal thereof, and his
ability to pay the debt, for which be is committed. and they shall

jail at

also hear any other legal and pertinent evidence, that may be produced by the debtor or the creditor.

Seer. 7. The creditor may, upon such examination, propose to
the debtor any interrogatories, pertinent to the inquiry, and they
shall, if required by the creditor, be proposed and answered in writ- '
ing, and the answers shall be signed and sworn to by the debtor ; and
the creditor may have a copy of the interrogatories and answers,
certified by the justices, upon paying therefore the same fees as for a
deposition of the same length.

Sscr. 8. If, upon such examination, the justices shall be satisfied ,
of the truth of the facts, set forth in the oath to be taken by the debt- j
or, and in the certificate to be made by the justices, as required in L
the two following sections, and if it shall appear to them, that the
debtor is entitled to his discharge, under the provisions of this chapter, they shall administer to him the oath hereafter mentioned.

SECT. 9. The oath shall be as follows, to wit :

I, (here repeat the name) do solemnly swear that I have not any I
estate real or personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except the ‘.
goods and chattels, which are by law exempted from being taken in
execution, and that I have not any other estate, now conveyed or
concealed, or in any way disposed of, with desi to secure the same
to my use, or to defraud my creditors. So he p me God.

Sncr. 10. After administering the oath, the justices shall make a
certificate thereof under their hands, in substance as follows, to wit :
S , ss. To C. D., kee er of thejail at

We the subscribers, two o the justices of the peace for the said
county of S , and each of us of the quorum, hereby certify, a
that A. B., a poor prisoner, confined upon execution for debt in the
aforesaid, has caused E. F., the creditor, at whose
suit he is confined, to be notified according to law, of his desire to
take the benefit of the law for the relief of poor debtors ; that
in our opinion the said A. B. has not any estate, real or personal, to
the amount of twenty dollars, except the goods and chattels, which
are by law exempted from being taken in execution, and has not any
other estate, now conveyed or concealed, or in any way disposed of,
with design to secure the same to his own use, or to defraud his creditors. And we have, after due examination of the said A. B. administered to him the oath, prescribed by law to be taken by poor
prisoners, who are committed on execution for debt. Witness our
hands this day of in the year

S1-:c'r. 11. The jailer, upon receiving the said certificate, shall
forthwith discharge the prisoner, so far as he is held in prison on the
execution therein mentioned.

S1-:c'r. 12. If the justices, after the examination of the prisoner,
shall not be satisfied that he is entitled to his discharge, he shall be
remanded to the prison ; but this shall not prevent him from obtaining his discharge upon new notice to the creditor, and new proceedings before the same or some other justices, in the manner before provided.

Seer. 13. No debtor shall be precluded from taking the oath
prescribed in this chapter, by reason of his having been convicted of
any offense, or otherwise disqualified to testify as a witness in judicial proceedings.

I

Snow. 14. The debtor, after being so discharged, shall be forever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the same debt, unless he shall be convicted of having willfully sworn falsely, upon his
examination before the two justices, or in taking the oath before prescribed.

Snow. 15. If he shall be so convicted, he shall have no benefit
from the proceedings had under this chapter, and he shall be liable
to be punished for perjury.

SI-‘JCT. 16. The judgment against any prisoner, who is discharged
as aforesaid, shall remain in full force against any estate, which may
then, or at any time afterwards, belong to him ; and the creditor may
take out a new execution, against the goods and estate of the debtor,
in like manner as if he had not been committed on the execution.

SECT. 17. In any action founded on a debt or demand, arising
on any contract made after the fourth day of July, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and thirty four, if it shall appear upon a trial,
or by the acknowledgment of the defendant, or otherwise, that he is
indebted to the plaintifff in the sum of ten dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, the court, in which the action is pending, may, in the
manner and upon the terms provided in the following sections, administer to the defendant the oath prescribed for poor debtors.

SECT. 18. The defendant shall give notice in writing, seven
days at least before the time when the writ is returnable, to the plaintifff or his attorney, of his intention to take the said oath, which notice shall be delivered to the plaintifff or his attorney, if within the
state, and if not, it shall be filed in the clerk’s office.

SECT. 19. If the action is brought before a justice of the peace,
or before any police court, the notice shall, four days at least before
the time when the writ is returnable, be delivered to the plaintifff or
his attorney, if within the state, and if not, it shall be filed with the
justice or in the police court, and the further proceedings shall be
conducted in the same manner as if the action were brought in the
court of common pleas.

Snow. 20. If it shall appear to the court that notice has been
given as before provided, the defendant may, at his request, be examined on his oath, concerning his estate and effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the debt, and other evidence pertinent to the inquiry may be produced by either party ; and the examination shall be conducted, in all respects, in the manner prescribed
for the examination of a poor debtor before two justices of the peace,
and the cause may be continued for that purpose

SECT. 21. If, upon such examination, it shall appear to the court
that the facts, set forth in the oath to be taken by the defendant, are
true, the court shall administer the said oath to the defendant, and
he shall thereupon be forever exempted from imprisonment for the
same debt, and no execution, that shall be issued on the judgment
rendered in that action, shall run against his body, unless he shall be
convicted of having willfully sworn falsely, upon his examination before the court, or in taking the said oath, in which case, he shall
have no benefit from the said proceedings, and shall be liable to be
punished for perjury.

Snow. 22. When the defendant shall be in close confinement, at

the time the writ is returnable, if it shall appear to the court that notice has been given, as before required, of his intention to take the
oath, the court, or the magistrate, may order the jailer to bring the
defendant into court. In such case the defendant shall be in the custody of the jailer, and if he shall have been in confinement for any
cause, except upon the writ aforesaid, he shall, after his examination,
he remanded, and if not in confinement for any other case, he shall
he remanded or discharged, according to the decision of the court or
magistrate, upon his application to take the oath.

Seer. 23. If any debtor, after being committed on execution,
shall have any goods, effects or credits, to the value of forty dollars,
which are not exempted from being taken in execution, but which
cannot be attached by the ordinary process of law, and shall secrete,
spend or use the same, or as much thereof, as is equal to the sum for
which he is committed, without having offered to the creditor or his
attorney the said goods, effects or credits, in whole or part payment
of the debt, for which he is committed, he shall not be discharged
under the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 24. If any person shall knowingly assist the debtor, in secreting, spending or using any such goods, effects or credits, without
offering the same to the creditor or his attorney, as provided in the
preceding section, he shall pay to the creditor double the value of all
such goods, effects and credits, to be recovered in an action on the
case.

Sr;c'r. 25. Any judgment creditor may bring an action of debt
on the judgment, and therein attach the goods, effects and credits of
the debtor, in the hands of any other person, in the manner provided
in the one hundred and ninth chapter, although the debtor should
then be imprisoned on execution upon the same judgment ; provided,
that the creditor in such case shall, within seven days after the service of the writ on the supposed trustee, discharge the body of the
debtor from imprisonment under his execution, and if he shall fail so
to do, his writ of foreign attachment shall be abated, and the debtor
shall recover double costs in that suit.

SECT. 26. Such discharge shall be given by an order, in writing,
to the jailer, stating the reason or occasion of giving it, and it shall
not discharge, or in any way effect [afoot] the original judgment.

SI-JCT. 27. When any debtor shall give notice of his intention
to take the oath, before provided for poor debtors, the creditor
may allege against. him certain specific charges of fraud, upon which
either party may have a trial by jury, in the manner hereinafter
provided.

SI-JCT. 28. The said charges shall be fully, lainly, and formally
set forth in writing, which shall be signed byt e creditor, and he
shall make oath that he believes the charges to be true.

Seer. 29. Notice of the said charges shall be given to the debtor, by any officer qualified to serve any civil process between the
same parties, by delivering to the debtor an attested copy thereof, or
by leaving such copy at his place of abode; and if the examination
is to be had before two justices of the peace, the said service shall be
made ten days at least before the time appointed for the examination ;
and if it is to be had before the court or justice of the peace, before

whom the original action is brought, the service shall be made at or
before the time when the writ is returnable

Seer. 30. The charges so made, being filed and presented. by
the creditor, at the time appointed for the examination of the debtor,
shall be considered in the nature of a suit at law, to which the debtor
may plead that he is not guilty ; and the justices or the court may
thereupon hear and determine the same, and they may adjourn the
trial from time to time, and shall have the same powers, with respect
to amendments, costs, and all other incidents o the suit, as justices
of the peace or other courts have, in civil actions; and witnesses,
when duly summoned, shall attend, as in civil cases.

SI-:c'r. 31. The only fraudulent acts, which the creditor shall be
allowed to charge, as aforesaid, shall be substantially the following, or
some of them, to wit :

First, that since the debt was contracted, or the cause of action accrued, the debtor has fraudulently conveyed, or concealed, or otherwise disposed of, his estate or some part thereof, with design to secure
the same to his own use, or to defraud his creditors : or

Secondly, that since the debt was contracted, or the cause of action accrued, he has bazarded and paid money or other property, to
the value of one hundred dollars or more, in some kind of gaming
prohibited by the statutes of the Commonwealth: or

Tbirdly, that he has willfully expended his goods and estate, or some
part thereof, for the purpose of enabling himself to swear that he has
not any estate to the amount of twenty dollars, except such as is
exempted from being taken in execution : or

Fourthly, if the action was founded on contract, that the debtor
contracted the debt, with an intention not to pay the same :

And the creditor shall not, upon such a trial, give evidence of any
charges of fraud, that shall not be contained in his statement, made
and filed as before provided, nor of any supposed fraudulent acts of
the debtor, committed more than three years before the commencement of the creditor’s original action.

SECT. 32. VVhen the said trial is bad, and judgment thereon is
rendered, before two justices of the peace, upon the application of a
debtor committed on execution, or when the trial and judgment is bad,
in the course of the original suit, before a °ustico of the peace or a
police court, either party may appeal therefiom to the court of common pleas, in like manner as from the judgment of a justice of the
peace in civil actions.

SECT. 33. If the creditor appeals, he shall, before the allowance

thereof, recognize with sufficient surety or sureties, to enter and prosecute his appeal with effect, and to produce, at the court appealed to,
a copy of all the proceedings upon his said charges, and to pay all
costs, if the judgment shall not be reversed ; and if the debtor appeals, he shall recognize in like manner, and with the like condition,
and with the further condition, that if the final judgment shall be
against him, he will surrender himself to be taken in execution, and
abide the order of the court, or pay to the creditor the whole amount
of the original judgment against him.

SECT. 34. When the said trial is bad, and judgment thereon is
rendered, in the course of the original suit, in the court of common

pleas, _either party may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial court,
as in civil actions, and the appellant shall, before the allowance of
his appeal, reco ize in the manner provided in the preceding section.

SECT. 35. pon every such trial, in the court of common pleas
or supreme judicial court, the issue joined on any charge of fraud«
shall be tried by a jury, unless the court shall, with the‘consent of
both parties, hear and determine it without a jury.

Snow. 36. If the debtor, after being personally served with a
copy of the said char es against him, shall voluntarily make default,
at the time appointed or the trial, or if upon a final trial, he shall be
found guilty of any of the said charges, he shall have no benefit from
the proceedings under this chapter, and he shall moreover be sentenced, by the justices or the court, before which the trial is bad, to
confinement at hard labor, in the county jail or house of correction,
for a term not exceeding one year, according to the circumstances
of the case.

St-:c'r. 37. If the debtor, at the time of any such trial, is imprisoned either on mesne process or execution, for the original debt, the
justices or the court, before which the trial is bad, may admit him to
hail, from time to time, during the continuance of the proceedings ;
and if he shall make default, or neglect to appear before them, at any
time when lawfully required, the said justices or court shall issue a
writ for his arrest, to abide their order and sentence in the case.

SECT. 38. Nothing contained in the eleven preceding sections
shall prevent the examination of the debtor on his own oath, in the
manner provided in the former part of this chapter, but he shall, in
addition to such examination, he subjected_to a trial, as before provided, upon the said charges of fraud, when so filed and presented
against him.

Sscr. 39. When any debtor, who is committed on execution,
shall have given to the creditor notice of his intention to take the benefit of the law for the relief of poor debtors, no new notice of the
same intention shall be given, until the expiration of thirty days from
the service of the former notice, unless said former notice shall be ineffectual from some defect therein, or in the service thereof.

Sncr. 40. The provisions contained in the thirteen preceding
sections shall take effect when this chapter shall go into operation,
and shall apply only to contracts made, or to other causes of action,
accrued after that day.

SE01‘. 4]. The fees, for the services to be performed when a
prisoner is discharged by two justices of the peace, shall be as folows :

To the justice who issues the citation to the creditor, fifty cents :

To each of the justices before whom the examination is bad, one
dollar for every day employed therein, and the same travelling fees as
to [for] taking depositions : and

To the officer who serves the citation, the same fees as for serving
a summons in civil actions :

All which fees shall be paidgby the debtor.

CHAPTER 99.

OF WRITS OF REVIEW.

Stories Stories
1. Review of civil actions. 16. One of two or more dens. may review.
2. Writ, how sued out. 17. Review allowed as of right, only to a
3. Form of the writ. defendant, who was out of the
4. Plainti6' to produce copies of the case. Commonwealth, when, &.c.
5. Writ, how to be served. 18. “ may be granted on petition, in
6. Defendant's property may be attached such case.
thereon. 19. Supreme court may grant it in other
7. Cause to be tried on the former issue, cases. .
if any. M. Petition, when to be filed.
8. Otherwise, upon pleadings on the 21. “ when it may be filed, and
review. where the trial shall be had.
9. Proceedings upon the trial 22, 23. Execution may be stayed.
10. Judgment thereon. 24. Costs on petition for review.
11. Provision as to costs. 25. Trial to behad in sup. court, in case, &c.
12. E8'ect of the review upon the execu- 26. C. C. P. may grant reviews,incase, «Sec.
tion, &.c. 27. Also of judgments before justices.
13. Judgment, when for a reduced sum. 28. Proceedings in such cases, in C. C. P.
14. When for a greater sum. 29. Writs of review and petitions, when to
15. Case of rcplevin, and of sot-otT. be indorsed.

St-:c'rtnN 1. Final judgments in civil actions maybe re-examined
and tried anew, upon writs of review, under the circumstances and in
the manner provided in this chapter, and not otherwise.

Seer. 2. The writ of review shall be sued out of the clerk’s oftice of the court in which the action is to be tried, and shall be in the
form heretofore used, except as is hereinafter provided.

Seer. 3. It shall not be necessary, in the writ of review, to recite at length the declaration and other proceedings in the original
suit, but the writ may be substantially as follows, to wit: to summon
A. to answer to B. “ in the review of an action brought by the said
A. against the said B., in a plea of the case on promises,” or “ in a
plea of debt,” or “ of trespass,” or “ of covenant,” as the case may
be ; “ in which action the said A. by the consideration of the justices
of our court of common pleas, begun and held at C. within and for
our said county of M. on the -— day of —, recovered judgment
against the said B. for the sum of one hundred dollars debt,” or “damages, and ten dollars costs, which said judgment the said B. says is
wrong and erroneous ;” or the former judgment may be briefly described in any other manner that shall be deemed sufficiently certain,
according to such rules as the courts shall prescribe.

SE01‘. 4. The plaintifff in review shall produce and file in court
certified copies of the writ and judgment, and of all proceedings in
the former suit, and the originals or copies of all depositions and other papers, used and filed therein.

Seer. 5. The writ of review shall be served in the same manner as an original writ, except, that when the defendant in review is

not an inhabitant of the state, or not found therein, the writ may be

served on the person who appeared as his attorney in the original
suit, and the court in such case may continue the cause, as they shall
think necessary or proper, to enable the absent party to appear and
answer to the writ of review.

Snow. 6. If the writ of review is sued out by the original plaintifff, he may cause the defendant’s goods and estate to be attached, in
the same manner as might have been done in the original action, and
for this purpose the writ of review may be so framed, as to require
an attachment in the common form, and also to require that the defendant be summoned.

SECT. 7. If an issue of fact was joined in the original suit, the
cause shall be tried on the review upon the same issue, except, that
the court may, upon the review, allow amendments of the original
declaration and other pleadings, in the same manner as might have
been done in the original suit, and if any other or different issue shall
be joined in consequence of such amendment, the cause shall be tried
upon such new issue.

SE01‘. 8. If the former judgment was rendered u on the default
of the defendant or otherwise, without the joining olp an issue, the
parties shall plead upon the review, in like manner as they might and
ought to have done in the original suit, and the cause shall be tried
upon any issue of fact or law that shall be 'oined upon such pleadings,
in like manner as if it had been joined in the original suit.

SE01‘. 9. Upon the trial of any issue of fact upon such review,
each party may produce any legal evidence, whether produced in the
former suit or not, and the cause shall proceed and be disposed of
upon the verdict, if any, or upon nonsuit or default, or otherwise, in
like manner as if it were an original suit.

S1—:c'r. 10. Judgment shall be given upon the review, as the me- ;
rits of the case upon law and the evidence shall appear to require, although it should be more advantageous than the original judgment was
to the defendant in review, in like manner as if both parties had
brought their several writs of review.

Snow. 11. The party prevailing in the review shall recover his
costs of that suit, but this shall not prevent the court, when granting I
a review upon petition, from imposing on the petitioner such terms
as to costs, as they shall think reasonable.

SECT. 12. The execution of the original judgment shall not be i
stayed or superseded by the writ of review, unless by the order of
the court, and upon security given by the plaintifff in review, as hereinafter provided ; and no attachment made, or bail taken, in the original suit, shall be held liable to satisfy the judgment that shall be rendered on the review.

SECT. 13. If any sum is recovered by the plaintifff in the original
suit for debt or damages, and that sum is reduced on the review, the
original defendant shall have judgment and execution for the difference with his costs, or if the former judgment has not been satisfied,
one judgment may be set off against the other, and an execution shall
issue for the balance.

SECT. 14. If the original plaintifff shall recover on the review a i
greater sum for debt or damages than was awarded to him in the ori- ‘
ginal suit, he shall have judgment and execution for the excess.

I

Sncr. 15. In actions of replevin, and in all actions in which a
set-off is filed, the original defendant shall be considered, as to every
thing contained in this chapter, like a plaintifff in other actions, so far
as it respects the damages, if any, that maybe awarded to him, either
in the original suit or upon the review.

SECT. 16. If judgment is recovered against several defendants in
the original action, any one or more of them may review the cause,
in like manner as if he or they had been the only defendants therein ;
and if the sum, recovered in the original suit for debt or damages, shall
be increased or reduced on the review, the court shall take such order respecting the further proceedings, as shall be necessary to carry
into effect the two judgments, according to the rights of all the different parties.

Seer. 17. When judgment is rendered, as provided in the nine: ty second chapter, upon the default of a defendant, who is out of the

state, he may, at any time within one year after the judgment, sue
out, as of right, and without any petition therefore, a writ of review
thereof, in the manner provided in this chapter, which writ shall be
sued out of the court in which the judgment was rendered ; and no
writ of review shall be issued in any other case, unless it shall be allowed upon petition, as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 18. If a review, in the case mentioned in the preceding
section, is not prosecuted as of right, the-supreme judicial court may,
on the petition of the defendant, grant a review thereof on such terms
as they shall think reasonable ; provided such petition be filed within
one year after the defendant shall first have notice of the judgment.

SECT. 19. When judgment is rendered, either by the supreme
judicial court or the court of common pleas, in any civil action, whether upon verdict, or report of referees, or upon a nonsuit or default,
or in any other manner, the supreme judicial court may grant a review thereof, if they shall think it reasonable, upon such terms
and conditions as they shall think fit, provided the petition for such
review be filed within the time prescribed in the following section.

Snow. 20. If the judgment complained of was rendered in the
absence of the petitioner, and without his knowledge, the petition for
review may be filed at any time within one year after he shall first
have notice of the judgment, otherwise it shall be filed within one
year after the judgment was rendered.

SECT. 21. The petition may be filed before the court, when sitting in any county, and the order of notice issued thereon may be
made returnable in such county as the court shall in the same order
direct ; but the review, if granted, shall be bad in the county in which
the former judgment was rendered, or in the county in which the
original action would have been tried, if it had been carried to the
supreme judicial court by appeal or otherwise.

S1-:c'r. 22. If the execution in the original action has not been
satisfied, the court may order a stay or supersedeas thereof, upon
security, given by the petitioner to the adverse party, to pay whatever
shall appear to be due to him, after the final judgment in the review,
or upon such other terms, as the court shall think just and reasonable.

SECT. 23. Such stay or supersedeas of the execution may be ordered, upon the petition of the plaintifff in review, as well when a

writ of review is demandable of right, as when it is grantable at the
discretion of the court.

SE01‘. 24. If, upon any such petition, the review shall not be
granted, the court may award to the respondent his reasonable costs
for appearing and answering thereto.

Sr-:c'r. 25. When a review is granted by the supreme judicial
court, the trial thereon shall be had in the same court, in like manner
as if the action had been carried there by appeal or otherwise, in the
usual course.

SECT. 26. The court of common pleas may, concurrently with
the supreme judicial court, grant reviews of judgments rendered in
the court of common pleas, in all cases in which a review can be
granted, according to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 27. The court of common pleas may also grant a review
of any judgment, rendered before a justice of the peace, in any cases

in which a review might be granted, if the judgment had been rendered A

in the court of common pleas.

Seer. 28. The proceedings in the court of common pleas, on
the petition for such review, and upon the trial thereof, if the review
be granted, shall be conducted in the same manner as is prescribed in
the like case, in the supreme judicial court.

Snow. 29. All writs of review, and all petitions for reviews, both
in the supreme judicial court and in the court of common pleas, shall
be indorsed in the same manner, as is prescribed with respect to
original writs, and all the regulations, concerning the indorsement
of original writs contained in the ninetieth chapter, shall apply in
like manner to the indorsement of writs of review and petitions for
review.

 
 

CHAPTER 100.

GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING ACTIONS.

sncnon Sncrron
1. If defendant pleads nonjoinder, new de- 12. Plaintiff may sue for damages, instead
fendants may be brought in. of penalty.
2» 3- Proceedings for that purpose 13. Actions on bonds, &.c., to be regulated
4. Proceedings when a new defendant by supreme co,m_

cannot be served, &.c.

5. Of the judgment and execution, and of
attachment and hail.

6. Plaintilf may discontinue as to part of

14. Plea of payment or tender after the

day, &.c.
15. Tender aller action brought.

the defendants, in case’ aw. 15. HOW to be made and pleaded.
7. Discontinuance as to one defendant, 17. Proceedings when the tender )8 acand trial as to another. ccpted.
8. Judgment on forfeiture of a penalty. 18. Matter in one plea no evidence on
9. For what sum execution shall issue and another.

how determined. 19. Plea ofjustitication in slander, not proof

10. Scire facias to recover further damages. of malice.

11. Proceedings thereon 20. Mode of referring to statutes in pleading

Srzcrrort Stones
21. No writ, &.c. to be abated for circum- 25. Action may be brought by successor of

stantial errors. an officer.
2'2, 23. Courts may allow amendments. $6. The general issue may he pleaded by
24-. No judgment to be reversed for defect certain officers, &.c. that is amendable. 27. And by defendants in penal actions.

28. Writs of scire facias to be indorsed.

SECTION 1. When the defendant, in any action founded on con’ tract, shall plead in abatement the nonjoinder of any other person as

defendant, the court may, at any time before issue joined on such plea,
allow the plaintifff, on such terms as they shall prescribe, to amend
his declaration, by inserting therein the name of any other person as
defendant, and declaring against him jointly with the original defendant. .

SE01‘. 2. The plaintifff may thereupon take out a new writ, in
such form as the court shall‘ prescribe, which shall be in the nature of
an original writ of capias and attachment, or of summons, and shall
require the new defendant to appear and answer as a defendant in the
original action, and upon such writ, the new defendant’s body may
be arrested, or his goods or estate may be attached, as upon an original writ, and the writ shall be returnable at such time as the court
shall order, and shall be served fourteen days at least before the return day.

SE01‘. 3. Upon the return of such new writ, every person,
named therein as a defendant, shall be bound to appear and answer
with the other defendants, in the same manner as if they had all been
originally made arties in the first writ.

Saar. 4. If) a legal service cannot be made on any such new defendant, by reason of his absence from the state, or for other sufficient cause, the action may nevertheless proceed against all the defendants, who are duly served with process, either on the original or
the new writ, in like manner as is provided in the ninety second
chapter, when one of several original defendants is not duly served
with process.

Snow. 5. Judgment shall be rendered, and execution shall issue,
in every such case, for either party, in the same manner as if the
original writ had been issued against all the defendants ; and the plaintifff shall have the same benefit of any attachment made, or bail taken,
upon each of the said writs, as if the same had been made or taken in
the usual manner upon the original writ.

Snow. 6. When any action, founded on contract, is brought
against several persons, and any of the defendants shall be defaulted,
or shall confess the action, the plaintifff may amend his declaration,
and take judgment against those defendants, in like manner as if they
had been sued alone, and the action may be discontinued against the
other defendants, who shall be entitled to costs against the plaintifff,
as in case of a nonsuit; provided, that no such discontinuance and
amendment shall be allowed, without notice to the defendants who
have been defaulted, that they may appear and object thereto, if they
shall see fit.

Sacr. 7. When any action, founded on contract, is brought
against several persons, the plaintifff may be allowed, at any time before the cause is argued to the jury, and if there is no such argument, 1
at any time before it is committed to the jury by the court, to discon- 'T
tinue, as against any of the defendants, upon payment of costs to them, A
as in case of a nonsuit, and on such other terms as the court shall direct ; and the plaintifff may thereupon amend his declaration, and proceed against the other defendants, in like manner as if the action had
been originally brought against them alone; and the defendants, against
whom the cause has been discontinued, may be thereupon examined
as witnesses for either party, if in other respects competent.

Seer. 8. In all actions, brought for breach of the condition of a bond, or to recover a penalty for the non-performance of any covenant, contract, or agreement, when it shall appear by verdict, default,
confession, or otherwise, that the condition is broken, or the penalty
forfeited, judgment shall be entered in the common form for the penal
sum, but no execution shall issue thereon, except as is provided in
the following sections.

SECT. 9. The court shall award an execution, in such case, for I
so much of the penal sum, as shall then be due and payable in equity 7
and good conscience, for the breach of the condition, or other non- r
performance of the contract ; which sum shall be ascertained and determined by the court, unless either party shall move to have it assessed by ajury, or unless the court shall think proper to have the
question so decided ; in which cases, the sum so due shall be assessed by a jury.

Seer. 10. If any further sum shall afterwards become due on
such bond or other contract, the plaintifff or his executors or administrators may have a scire facias on the judgment, from the court in
which it was rendered, against the original defendant, or his executors,
administrators, heirs, devisees, or assigns, as the case may be, suggesting such further breaches of the contract as shall have occurred,
and summoning the adverse party to show cause why execution
should not be awarded upon the judgment, for the damages caused by
such further breaches.

Snow. 11. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed and determined in the same manner as in the original suit, and execution
shall be awarded accordingly, and the like proceedings may be repeated, upon occasion of any further breaches of the same contract,
as often as they shall occur, until the whole of the penalty is exhausted.

SECT. 12. Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person
from bringing an action, for the breach of any covenant or other contract, instead of suing for the penalty by which the performance of
the covenant or contract may have been secured.

Seer. 13. The supreme judicial court may, by general rules,
prescribe the mode of declaring in actions on bonds, or other contracts with penalties, and may allow or require the breaches, for
which the action is brought, to be set forth in the declaration, or suggested on the record, in such cases, as shall be found expedient and
useful.

SECT. 14. The payment or tender of payment of the whole sum,
due on any contract for the payment of money, although made after
the money has become due and payable, may he pleaded to an action
subsequently brought, in like manner and with the like effect, as if

such payment or tender had been made at the time prescribed in the
contract.

SECT. 15. A tender may also be made, after an action is brought
on such contract, of the whole sum due thereon, with the legal costs
of suit incurred up to that time, provided it be made four days at least
before the return day of the original writ.

SECT. 16. The tender last mentioned may be made either to the
plaintifff, or to his attorney in the suit, and if not accepted, the defendant may plead it, in like manner as if it had been made before the
commencement of the action, bringing into court the amount so tendered for costs, as well as for the debt or damages.

SECT. 17. If such tender is accepted, the plaintifff or his attori ney shall, at the request of the defendant, sign a certificate or notice

thereof to the officer, who hastbe writ, and shall deliver it to the defendant; and if any further costs shall be incurred, for any service
made by the officer, after the tender and before he receives notice
thereof, the defendant shall pay the same to the officer, or the tender
shall be invalid.

SECT. 18. When a defendant shall plead two or more pleas in
his defense, no averment, confession, or acknowledgment, contained
in any one of such pleas, shall be used or taken as evidence against
him, on the trial of any issue joined on any other of the same leas.

SECT. 19. If the defendant, in any action for slander, or gr publishing a libel, shall plead in his justification that the words spoken or
published were true, such plea, though not maintained by the evidence, shall not in any case be of itself proof of the malice alleged in
the declaration.

Seer. 20. Whenever, in any declaration or other pleading, it
shall be necessary to mention or refer to any general statute, it may
be done by specifying the chapter, containing the provision referred
to, or by mentioning in general terms the subject of the statute, or by
referring to it in some other manner that shall indicate, with sufficient
certainty, the statute that is intended.

SECT. 21. No writ, process, declaration, or other proceeding in
the courts, or course of justice, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or
reversed, for any circumstantial errors or mistakes, when the person
and case may be rightly understood by the court, nor through defect
or want of form only.

Seer. 22. The court, in which any civil action is pending, may,
at any time before judgment rendered therein, allow amendments,
either in form or substance, of any process, pleading, or proceeding
in such action, on such terms as shall be just and reasonable.

SECT. 23. After judgment rendered in any civil action, any defects or imperfections in matter of form, found in the record or proceedings in the action, may be rectified and amended by the court in
which the judgment is rendered, or by the court to which it shall
be removed by writ of error, if substantial justice requires it, and if
the amendment is in afiirmance of the judgment.

S1-:c'r. 24. No judgment shall be reversed for any defect or im»
perfection in matter of form, which might by law have been amended.

Sr-:c'r. 25. When a bond, note, or other security or contract, is
made to or with the treasurer of the Commonwealth, or of any county, city, town, parish, or other corporation, or to or with any other

ublic ofncer, an action thereon may be commenced and prosecuted
by any .successor in such office, in like manner as it might have been
by the person with whom the contract was made.

St-:c'r. 26. In every action brought against any justice of the
peace, sheriff, coroner, town officer, or any other public o$cer, civil
or military, for or concerning any act done by him, by virtue of his
office, or in the execution thereof, or brought against any other person,
for anything done by him, by command of such officer, or in his aid
or assistance in the execution of his office, the defendant may plead
the general issue, and give in evidence any special matter, which
might have been pleaded in bar of the action ; provided, that he shall
file in the cause, within such time as the court shall direct, a brief
statement of such special matter of defense.

SE01‘. 27. In every suit or action, brought to recover any for- ,
feiture, the defendant may plead the general issue, and give in evi— f
dence any special matter, which might have been pleaded in bar of i
the suit.

Snow. 28. Every writ of scire facias, sued out by any private‘
person, on a judgment or recognizance, shall be indorsed in the same 1
manner as is prescribed with respect to original writs, and all the re- i
gulations, concerning the indorsement of original writs, contained in
the ninetieth chapter, shall apply in like manner to the indorsement of
such writs of scire facias.

 

TITLE III.

Of actions relating to real property.

Cruuvrnn 101. Of the writ of entry for the recovery of the freehold.
CHAPTER 109. Of the writ of dower.

C n.u>'rsn 108. Of the partition of lands owned by several persons
Cmuvrsa 104. Of forcible entry and detainer.

Cunrsn 105. Of waste, and trespass on real estate.

CHAPTER 106. Of actions for private nuisances.

CHAPTER 107. Of suits to foreclose and redeem mortgages,
CHAPTER 108. Of informations of intrusion, and information: in the

nature of inquests of office.

CHAPTER 101 .

OF THE WRIT OF ENTRY FOR THE RECOVERY OF THE FREEHOLD

Snc-non Stone:
1. Action to recoverthe freehold. 4. What shall be proof of theneizln ll

2. 3. Declaration therein. leged.

Szcrron Sxcnos
5. Descent or discontinuance not to bar 31. Demandant’s remedy against other

right of entry. trespassers.
6, 7. What shall constitute a disseizin. 32. Value of the premises without the im
8, 9. Proceedings on the trial. provements, may be ascertained, &c.

10. Joint tenants, &c. how they may sue. 33. How to be estimated and assessed.
ll. Demandant may recover a part, &.c. 34- D°m‘“'d‘““ may "°ll“q“i5b hi‘ 93'

12. Case of the death of either party. 35 '3: ftigmey may emu such mun

13. Pleading: in the action. quishmem
14- 138108893 may be |’9¢°V¢1’°d in 83319 36. Time may be allowed for making. the
acli0n- election.
15. “ maybe assessed by the same 37. Tenant to hold the estate, upon paying
jury, unless, éac. the value assessed.

16, 17, 18. Rents and profits, how to be es- 38. To be paid in three annual instalments.

timated. 39. Upon failure to pay, demandant enl9, 20. Tenants, in what cases to be allow- titled, 5.-,c.

ed for improvements. 40. Execution in such case may be issued
21,22. Proceedings for obtaining such al- after the year,

lowance. 41, 42, 43. Remedy for tenant in case of a
23. The amount may be assessed by the subsequent eviction.

jury on the trial. 44. Death of either party after judgment in
24. Or may be assessed afterwards. writ of entry.
25. How to be assessed upon default, &.c. 45. Writ of seizin in such a case, in whose
26. May be assessed by arbitrators, &c. name to issue.

46. Upon a recovery by tenant for life, re27. Allowance for improvements, how limversioner, &c. to be liable.

ited.
23_ Immovemems and damage, to be set 47, 48, 49. Proceedings in such case.

03-_ 50. This chapter not to apply to amor29. Demandant to pay for improvements, 8'38“&.c. 51. Certain real actions abolished.
30. Further provisions as to set-06‘. ' 52. Saving for minors and others.

- SECTION 1. All estates of freehold, whether in fee simple, fee
tail, or for life, may be recovered by a writ of entry upon disseizin,
unless when a different action is prescribed by law.

St-:c'r. 2. The demandant shall declare on his own seizin within
twenty years then last past, without specifying any particular day,and
shall allege a disseizin by the tenant, but need not aver a taking of the
profits.

Seer. 3. He shall then set forth the estate, that he claims in the
premises, whether it is in fee simple, fee tail, or for life, and if the
latter, whether it is for his own life, or for the life of another, but he
shall not be required, in any case, to set forth the original gift, devise,
or other conveyance or title, by which he claims the estate.

SE01‘. 4. The demandant shall not be required to prove an actual
entry under his title, but if he shall prove that he is entitled to such
an estate, as he claims in the premises, whether as heir, devisee, purchaser or otherwise, and also that he has a right of entry therein, this
shall be deemed sufficient proof of his seizin, as alleged in the declaration, and no such action shall be maintained, unless the demandant has, at the time of commencing the same, a right of entry into the
premises.

Seer. 5. No descent or discontinuance, which may hereafter
occur, shall take away or defeat any right of entry or of action, for the

recovery of real estate.
Seer. 6. Every person, who is in possession of the premises

demanded in such writ of entry, claiming any estate of freehold therein, may be considered as a disseizor, for the purpose of trying the
right, whatever may have been the manner of his original entry on the
premises.

SE01‘. 7. If the person in possession shall have actually ousted
the demandant, or withheld from him the possession of the premises,
he may, at the election of the demandant, be considered as a disseizor,
for the purpose of trying the right, although he should claim therein
an estate less than a freehold.

S1’-:c'r. 8. Every suit, upon such writ of entry, shall be prosecuted and conducted in the same manner as if the demandant had, at
the time of commencing the action, made an actual entry on the demanded premises, and had been immediately ousted by the tenant;
so that on a trial upon the general issue, if the demandant shall prove
that he is entitled to such estate in the premises, as is set forth in the
declaration, and that he had a right of entry on the day, when the action was commenced, he shall recover the premises, unless the tenant
shall prove a better title in himself.

SE01‘. 9. The law and the practice, relating to the pleadings and
evidence, in the said action or writ of entry on disseizin, as now recognized and established, shall continue in force, except so far as they
are altered by the provisions of this chapter.

Snow. 10. Persons, claiming the same premises as joint tenants,
tenants in common, or coparceners, may all join or any two or more
of them may join, in a suit for the recovery thereof, or any one may
sue alone for his articular share.

SECT. ll. be demandant may, in all cases, recover any specific
part of the premises, or any undivided portion thereof, to which he
shall prove a sufiicient title, though such part or portion is less than is
demanded in the writ.

Snow. 12. In case of the death of any party, either demandant or
tenant, the action may proceed by or against the survivors, and the
heirs of the deceased party, in the manner prescribed in the ninety
third chapter.

SECT. 13. The pleas of nontermre, disclaimer, several tenancy,
and sole tenancy, may he pleaded either in bar or in abatement, but
no costs shall be allowed to the party pleading the same, except such as
shall accrue after the filing of the plea.

SECT. 14. If the demandant recovers judgment in a writ of entry, he shall also be entitled to recover in the same action damages
against the tenant, for the rents and profits of the premises, from the
time when the demandant’s title accrued, subject to the limitations
hereinafter contained, and he shall also recover damages for any destruction or waste of the buildings or other property, for which the
tenant is by law chargeable.

SECT. 15. If any issue of fact is tried in the case, and found for t

the demandant, the jury shall at the same time assess his. damages,

unless it shall be otherwise ordered by the court, as hereinafter provided.

Seer. 16. The rents and profits, for which the tenant shall be
liable, shall be the clear annual value of the premises, for the time
during which he was in possession thereof, after deducting all lawful

taxes and assessments on the premises, that shall have been paid
by the tenant, and all the necessary and ordinary expenses of cultivating the land, or of otherwise collecting the rents, profits or income

of the premises.
Snow. 17. In estimating the rents and profits, the value of the

use, by the tenant, of any improvements, whether made by himself or
those under whom he claims, shall not be computed nor allowed to

the demandant.
SECT. 18. The tenant shall never be liable for the rents and profits for any longer term than six years, nor for any waste or other damage committed before that time, unless when the rents and profits
are allowed, by way of set-off to his claim for improvements, as hereinafter provided.

SI-:c'r. 19. If the demanded premises have been actually held and
possessed by the tenant in the action, and by those under whom he
claims, for six years next before the commencement of the action,
he shall, in case of judgment against him, be entitled to compensation
in the manner hereinafter provided, for the value of any buildings or
improvements made or erected on the premises by himself, or by
any person under whom he claims.

Seer. 20. The tenant shall also be entitled to the like compensation, although the premises should not have been so held so long
as six years, provided he holds them under a title which he had reason to believe good.

SECT. 21. When the tenant in the action claims allowance for
any such improvements, he shall enter on the record a suggestion of
his claim, with a request that the value of the improvements may be
ascertained and allowed to him, in case judgment shall be rendered
for the demandant.

' SECT. 22. The suggestion shall be entered at the same term with
the plea, if any, made by the tenant, unless the court shall, for sumcient reasons, allow it to be made afterwards, and if judgment is rendered for the demandant, on default or otherwise, without any plea,
the suggestion shall be entered at such seasonable stage of the proceedings, as the court shall prescribe or allow.

Seer. 23. If any issue of fact is tried in the case and found for
the demandant, the jury shall at the same time ascertain and deter, mine the sum to be allowed to the tenant for such improvements, unless it shall be otherwise ordered by the court, as provided in the following section.

Snow. 24. If it shall appear to the court, on the motion of either
party, that it would be more convenient to postpone the assessment
of the sums due respectively to the demandant for the rents and profits or other damages, or to the tenant for improvements, until after
the trial of the title and a verdict thereon, the court may make an order for that purpose, at any time before the verdict on the title is recorded.

Sam. 25. If the assessment of the sums due to either party is so
postponed, or if there is no issue of fact tried in the cause, and judgment is to be rendered for the demandant on demurrer, default or
otherwise, the said sums shall be assessed by the court, unless either
party shall move to have them assessed by a jury, or unless the court

shall think proper to have them so assessed, in which cases a 
shall be empannelled to assess the same.

Sr-:c1*. 26. The sums due for rents and profits, or other damages, ;
and for improvements, may in all cases be assessed by arbitrators or ;
assessors, appointed by the court with the consent of the parties.

Stacr. 27. The sum to be allowed for improvements shall never .
exceed the amount actually expended by the tenant and those under ?
whom he claims, nor shall it exceed the amount to which the value of '
the premises is actually increased thereby at the time of the assessment.

SEc'r. 28. In all cases, when any sum is allowed to the tenant
for improvements, it shall be set off against the sum found due from 5
him for rents and profits and other damages, and if there is a balance
due from him, the demandant shall have judgment and execution
therefore, as well as for his seizin of the demanded premises.

SECT. 29. If there is any sum due to the tenant for improvements, after deducting the rents and profits, and other damages for
which he may be found chargeable, the demandant shall pay the same
before taking out his execution for seizin of the premises, and the
money may be paid in such case to the tenant himself, or to the clerk
of the court for his use ; and the demandant shall not be entitled to
recover against the tenant, or any person claiming under him, any
rents and profits that shall accrue after the judgment, and before he
shall have paid the sum so due to the tenant.

Saar. 30. If the sum, found due to the tenant for improvements,
exceed the sum due from him for the rents and profits accrued within
the six years, he shall be chargeable with the rents and profits accrued before that time, so far as may be necessary to balance his claim
for improvements, but in such case he shall not be liable to repay the
excess, if any, of the rents and profits beyond the value of the improvements.

Srzcr. 31. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the
demandant from maintaining an action of trespass for mesne profits, ,
or for damage done to the premises, against any person, except the »
tenant in the writ of entry, who may have had possession of the premises, or may be otherwise liable to such action.

SECT. 32. When the tenant in the action shall claim allowance
for improvements, as before provided, the demandant may, by a like i
entry on the record, require that the value of his estate in the de- 7
manded premises, without the improvements, shall also be ascertain- :
ed and determined.

SECT. 33. The value of the premises in such case shall be estimated, as it would have been at the time of the inquiry, if no such 
buildings or improvements had been made or erected on the premises
by the tenant, or by any person under whom he claims, and this sum
shall be ascertained and determined, either by the court or jury, or
by arbitrators or assessors, in the same manner as is provided for assessing the sums due for rents and profits, and for improvements.

SI-ICT. 34. The demandant in such case, if judgment is rendered
for him, may, at any time during the same term, enter on the record 
his election to relinquish his estate in the premises to the tenant, at
the price or value thereof. so ascertained and determined.

St.-:c'r. 35. Such entry, if made by the demandant’s attorney in

V the cause, shall have the same effect as if made by himself.

SECT. 36. If the demandant shall require further time to make

l his election, as to relinquishing the premises, the court may, on his

motion, suspend the entry of the judgment, and continue the cause,
but without any further costs for the demandant.
SE01‘. 37. If the demandant shall relinquish the premises, as bei fore provided, the tenant shall thenceforth hold all the estate that the

demandant had therein at the commencement of the action, provided
that he shall pay therefore the said estimated price or value thereof, in
the manner following.

SEC1‘. 38. The said price shall be paid in three equal instalments, with interest annually, the first instalment to be paid on or
before the expiration of one year from the time when the demandant’s
election to relinquish the premises shall be entered on the record,
the second instalment to be paid on or before the expiration of two
years from the time before mentioned, and the third instalment to be
paid on or before the expiration of three years from the same time.

Seer. 39. The said sums shall be aid to the demandant, or to
the clerk of the court for his use, and i the tenant shall fail to make
either of the said payments, within the times before limited therefore,
respectively, the demandant shall be entitled forthwith to take out his
writ of seizin on the judgment recovered by him, and shall take and
hold the premises, without allowance for any improvements that may
have been made thereon.

Sacr. 40. The expiration of a year after the judgment shall not
prevent the issuing of the execution or writ of seizin, in the case
mentioned in the preceding section, but it ma be taken out, at any
ttme within three months after such default oly payment on the part
of the tenant.

SI-:c'r. 41. If the tenant or his heirs or assigns shall, after the

‘premises are so relinquished to him, be evicted thereof, by force of

any better title than that of the original demandant, the person so
evicted may recover from such demandant or his executors or administrators, heirs or devisees, as the case may be, the amount so
paid for the premises, as so much money had and received by such
demandant in his life time, for the use of the plaintifff, with lawful
interest therefore, ‘from the time of such payment.

Seer. 42. If the tenant, or the person holding under him, when
impleaded in such second action for the recovery of the premises,
shall give notice thereof to the person, who is so liable to refund the
purchase money, and shall permit such person to defend the action,
the judgment, if rendered against the tenant in the action, shall be
conclusive as to his right to recover the amount so paid for the
premises.

SI-:cT. 43. If the person impleaded does not give such notice to
the other party, and permit him to defend the suit, the latter shall be
permitted, in the suit afterwards brought against him for the price
paid for the premises, to deny the title upon which the second recovery was had, and the party so evicted shall not recover the said
price, unless he shall prove that he was evicted by force of a better
title than that of the original demandant.

St-:c'r. 44. If, after judgment is rendered for the demandant, in a
writ of entry, either party die before the writ of seiziu is executed,
or before the case is otherwise settled, according to the foregoing
provisions, any money payable by the tenant may be paid by him or
his executors or administrators, or by any person who is entitled to
the estate under him, to the demandant or his executors or administrators, in like manner and with the like effect, as if both parties were
living; and any money payable by the demandant may be paid by
him or his executors or administrators, or by any person who is entitled to the estate under him, to the tenant or his executors or administrators, in like manner and with the like effect, as if both parties
were living.

Saar. 45. The writ of seizin, if issuable in any such case, shall
be issued in the name of the original demandant against the original
tenant, although either or both of them be dead, and when executed,
it shall enure to the benefit of the demandant, or whoever is then entitled to the premises under him, in like manner as if it had been
executed on the day when the judgment was rendered.

SECT. 46. If the demandant in a writ of entry shall claim an
estate for life only in the premises, and if he shall pay any sum allowed to the tenant for improvements, he or his executors or administrators, at the determination of his estate, shall be entitled to receive of
the remainder-man or reversioner the value of the said improvements,
as they then exist, and shall have a lien therefore on the premises, in
like manner as if they had been mortgaged for the payment thereof,
and may keep possession thereof accordingly, until the sum be paid.

Saar. 47. If the amount, so due from the remainder-man or reversioner, shall not be agreed on by the parties, it may be ascertained and determined, as is provided for the redemption of a tnortgage,
upon a bill in equity, to be brought by the remainder-man or reversioner as mortgagor; and the like proceedings shall be had, as are
prescribed in that case, for ascertaining the sum due for redemption
of the premises, and for the recovery thereof by the remainder-man
or reversioner.

Snow. 48. The remainder-man or reversioner, or those claiming
under him, shall not, in such case, be limited to the three years prescribed for the redemption of a mortgage, but they shall not, in any
case, be entitled to recover from the adverse party any balance in
money, although the rents and profits of the premises, which accrued
after the determination of the estate for life, exceed the amount due
for the improvements. .

Snow. 49. The remainder-man or reversioner, and those claiming under him, shall, in such case, be considered as disseized at the
time of the determination of the life estate, so far as to bar their bill
in equity, and all other remedy by action or by entry, for the recovery of the premises, after the expiration of the time prescribed for
the limitation of the right of entry and of action, in cases of disseizin.

Snow. 50. Nothing contained in this chapter, concerning the
rents and profits to be recovered in a writ of entry, or the allowance
for improvements made on the demanded premises, or concerning the
estimated value of the premises without the improvements, shall extend or apply to any action, brought by a mortgagee or his heirs or

assigns against a mortgagor or his heirs or assigns, for the recovery of
the mortgaged premises.

SI-:c'r. 51. All writs of right, and of formedon, and all writs of
entry, except that which is allowed and provided for in this chapter,
shall be abolished from and after the thirty first day of December, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty nine, except as is
provided in the following section.

SI:-:c'r. 52. If any person, who, on the said thirty first day of December, shall be entitled to maintain any of the said actions, which
are to be abolished after that day, shall then be within the age of
twenty one years, a married woman, insane, imprisoned, or without
the limits of the United States, the action may be brought at any
time within five years after the disability shall cease, or after the death
of the person so disabled; provided, that no such action shall be
maintained, after it would have been barred by the statutes of limitation, in force at and immediately before the time when this chapter

shall take effect.

CHAPTER 1 02.

OF THE WRIT OF DOWER.

Slzcrtort Srzcrtort

1. Dower may be recovered by action. 6. Writ of seizin, how to be executed.

2. Must be previously demanded. 7. How, when the tenement cannot be
3. Damages may be recovered.- divided.

'4. Action to be brought against the tenant 8. Divorce, in what cases it entitles a

of the freehold.—Damages. woman to dower.

5. Damages may be recovered against a 9. General provisions.
prior tenant, in case, &c.

SECTION 1. When any woman is entitled to dower, and it is not
set out to her by the heir or other tenant of the freehold, to her satisfaction, according to the true intendment of law, nor assigned to her
by the judge of probate, she may recover the same by a writ of dower, in the manner hereinafter provided.

Snow‘. 2. She shall demand her dower of the person, who is
seized of the freehold at the time of making the demand, and shall
not commence her action therefore before the expiration of one
month, nor after the expiration of one year from such demand ; but
this shall not preclude her from making a new demand and commencing an action thereon.

Seer. 3. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, she
shall also in the same suit recover damages for the detention thereof.

Seer. 4. The action shall be brought against the person, who is
tenant of the freehold at the time when it is commenced ; but if he
is not the same person of whom the demand was made, he shall be
liable for damages only for the time during which he held the premuses.

SE01‘. 5. In the case mentioned in the preceding section, if the
demandant shall recover her dower and damages in the writ of dower,
she may afterwards maintain an action on the case, against the prior
tenant of the freehold, of whom her demand was made, for the rents
and profits, for the time during which he held the premises, after the
making of the demand.

Saar. 6. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, a
writ of seizin shall be issued, requiring the officer to cause the dower
to be set out by three disinterested persons, to be appointed by the
court, and they shall be sworn, before a justice of the peace, to set
out the same equally and impartially, and as conveniently as may be,
according to their best skill and judgment.

SE01‘. 7. When the estate, out of which the dower is to be assigned, consists of a mill, or other tenement, which cannot be divided
without damage to the whole, the dower may be assigned of the rents,
issues or profits thereof, to he had and received by the demandant, as
tenant in common with the other owners of the estate.

Seer. 8. Any woman who is divorced from her husband, for the
cause of adultery committed by him, or on account of his being sentenced to confinement to hard labor, may recover her dower, in the
manner provided in this chapter, against her former husband, or whoever shall be the tenant of the freehold.

Saar. 9. The provisions, contained in the sixtieth chapter,
as to the lands, out of which dower may be claimed, the manner in
which it may be barred, and the liability of the tenant for waste,
shall be applied and enforced in all cases, when dower is demanded

or recovered by force of this chapter.

CHAPTER 103.

OF THE PARTITION OF LANDS OWNED BY SEVERAL PERSONS.

Sl:c'rioit SECTION

1. Partition, when and how to be made. 15. Replication by petitioner, in case. doc.

2. “ upon petition by one or more. 16. Proceedings thereon.

3. “ by one who has an estate in 17. Costs of the trial of an issue.
possession. 18. Interlocutory judgment.

4. “ by a tenant for years,in what 19. Appeal allowed from C. C. Pieas.
cases. 20. Partition to be made by commissioners.

. Duration thereof. 21. How, among several petitioners.

- Subslance °f “"3 P°‘l‘l°“- 22. Commissioners to be sworn.

5

6

7. FT (1 ' th . . .
8 ‘mg’ an notice end 23. To give notice to all parties.
9

9A. Acts of majority valid.

. Notice how to be served.
. Notice to persons absent or unknown.

10. Proceedings in such case. 25. “Then money may be awarded to
11. Defects in service, how supplied. equalize partition.
12. Time to be allowed for absent parties. 26. Alternate occupancy may be assignI3. Guardian to be appointed for an infant ed. ,

or insane person. 27. Liability of occupant to his co-tenants

I4. Pleading: in such case

Sncrrorr

28. Remedy of co-tenants for trespass by a
stranger.
29. Return of the commissioners, and judgment thereon.

30. Return may be set aside.

31. Appeal allowed from C. C. Pleas.

32. Appeals on writ of partition, regulated.
33. Final judgment, how far conclusive.
34. Absent part owner may apply for a

new partition.

35. Proceedings thereon.

36. New partition, how to be made.

37. Case of improvements atler-the first

partition.

38. “ “ a stranger, claiming in severalty.
39,40. “ “ “ claiming one of
the shares.

4-1,42. “ “ two respondents,claiming the
same shares.

43,44. “ “ a stranger, claiming an additional share.

45. “ “ a share, left for or assigned
to a part owner who is dead.

46. “ “ a party, evicted of his share.

4-7. Mortgagee, «Sac. bound by the partition.
48. Case of the death of any party.

49. Costs. by whom to be paid.

50. Partition may be made in the probate
court.

51. Commissioners to be appointed and
sworn, Gcc.

Stcrrorr

5?. Partition of lands lying in diferenl
counties.

53. Proceedings for partition in probate
court.

54-. Guardian to be appointed for a minor
or insane person.

55. Partition to be made of the whole, doc.

56. And a share to be assigned to each
owner, unless, &.c.

57. W’hen money may be awarded to

equalize partition

58. Preference of males. and of elder
children

59. Return may be set aside and new par
tition ordered.

60. Costs to be paid by all the parties.

61. No partition in the probate court, when
the shares are disputable.

62. Questions of advancement to be determined in probate court;

63. Or in the court, where the suit for partition is pending.

64». Estate of deceased to be severed from
that of others.

65. Notice to be given to such co-tenants.

66. If they are absent, the proceedings to
be stayed.

67. Appeal allowed.

68, 69. Partition, on whom it is binding.

70,71. Case of improvements afleratirst
partition.

72. Jurisdiction of the respective courts.
73. Petition for partition to be indorsed.

SECTION 1. All persons, holding lands as joint tenants, coparceners, or tenants in common, may be compelled to divide the same,
either by writ of partition at the common law, or in the manner provided in this chapter.

Seer. 2. Any one or more of the persons, so holding lands, may
apply by petition to the court of common pleas, or the supreme 'udicial court, held within or for the county in which the lands lie, iior a
partition of the same ; and the said courts are severally empowered
to cause partition to be made accordingly, and the share or shares of
the petitioners to be set off and assigned to them, and the residue of
the premises shall remain for the person or persons entitled thereto,
and subject to a future partition among them, if there is more than one
person so entitled.

SECT. 3. Such petition may be maintained by any person, who
has an estate in possession, but not by one who has only a remainder
or reversion.

SECT. 4. No tenant for any term of years, unless twenty years
thereof at least remain unexpired, shall maintain such a petition against
any tenant of the freehold ; but when two or more persons hold jointly,
or in common, as tenants for any term of years, either of them may
have his share set off and divided from the others, in the same man
ner as if they had all been tenants of the freehold.

SE01‘. 5. Such partition, between two or more tenants for years, ;
shall continue in force only so long as their estates endure, and shall 1
not affect the premises, when they revert to the respective landlords
or reverstoners.

SE01‘. 6. Every petition for partition shall set forth the rights and :
titles, so far as known to the petitioner, of all persons interested in the ‘
premises, who would be bound by the partition, whether they have an
estate of inheritance or for life or years, and whether it be an estate
in possession, or in remainder or reversion, and whether vested or
contingent ; and if the petitioner holds an estate for life or years, the
person, entitled to the remainder or reverson after his estate, shall be
considered as one of the persons so interested, and shall be entitled
to notice accordingly.

SECT. 7. The petition may be filed in vacation or In term time, 1
in the office of the clerk of the court, in which the suit is brought; and '
a summons, to appear and answer thereto, shall be signed by the
clerk, and shall, together with a copy of the petition, be served on each
of the parties, who are named in the petition as interested in the premuses, if they shall be found within the state, fourteen days at least
before the sitting of the court, at which the petition is to be entered
or the petitioner may, fourteen days at least before the sitting of the
court, to which he intends to present his petition, cause the parties
interested to be served with a copy of the petition, as is provided in
the following section.

SE01‘. 8. If the petition shall have been so filed in the clerk’s I
odSce, the service shall be made by delivering to each of the said}
arties, an attested copy of the petition and of the summons, or by
leaving such copies at the place of his abode; the copies to be attested by the clerk or by the officer who serves the process ; and if the
petition shall be served, without being previously filed in the clerk’s
office, the service shall be made by delivering or leaving as aforesaid,a

copy of the petition attested in manner aforesaid.

SE01‘. 9. If any of the persons, so named as interested, are ab- I
sent from the state, or if there are any persons interested in the pre- f
mises, and who would be bound by the partition, whose names are 1
unknown to the petitioner, the court shall order notice to be given to
the persons interested, who are absent or unknown, by a publication
of the petition, or of the substance thereof, with the order of the court
thereon, in one or more newspapers, to be designated in the order, or
by delivering to any absent party, who is known, an attested copy of
the petition and order, or in such other manner, as the court shall
consider to be most proper and effectual.

SECT. 10. The petition, in the case last mentioned, may be pre- 1
sented to the court, when sitting in any county, without being previ- f
ously filed in the clerk’s office ; but the cause shall be heard and determined by the court, when held within or for the county, in which
the lands lie, and the summons or notice shall be made returnable to
that court.

SECT. 11. If any person, entitled to notice, shall fail to appear, ;
and if the service of the summons, or other notice to him, shall ap- f
pear to the court to be in any way defective or insufficient, the court t
may order such further notice to him, as they shall think proper.

SE01‘. 12. If, in any stage of the proceedings, it shall appear to ‘

the court, that any person interested as aforesaid, whether named in
the petition or not, is out of the state, and has not had opportunity to
appear and answer to the suit, it shall be continued from term to term,
until sufficient time has been allowed, to enable him to appear and
answer thereto.

SEC1‘. 13. The court may assign a guardian for the suit, for any
infant or insane person, who is interested in the premises, in the same
manner, as a guardian is admitted for an infant defendant, in actions at
the common law.

S1~:c'r. 14. Any person, interested as aforesaid in the premises
of which partition is prayed for, may appear and answer to the petition, and may plead, either separately, or jointly with any other respondents, any matter tending to show that the petitioner ought not
to have partition as prayed for, either in whole or in part ; and the replication and further pleadings shall be conducted, as in actions at the
common law, until an issue or issues, in law or in fact, shall be joined,
which shall be tried and determined as in other cases.

Seer. 15. If any person, who is not named in the petition, shall
appear and plead as a respondent, the petitioner may reply, that such
person has no estate or interest in the lands described in the petition,
and may pray judgment, if he shall he admitted to object to the partition ; and the petitioner may, in the same replication, plead over, in
answer to such plea, any other matter, in like manner, as he might
have done, if he had not disputed the respondent’s right to appear.

81101‘. 16. If, upon such a replication, it shall appear, that the
respondent has no estate or interest in the lands the matter of his
plea or objection to the partition shall be no further inquired of.

SEC1‘. 17. If, upon the trial of any issue, of law or of fact,
it shall appear, that the petitioner is entitled to have partition as prayed for, he shall recover his costs of such trial, against the party who
objected thereto, and shall have execution therefore in the common
form ;but if such issue is found or decided against him, in whole or in
part, the adverse party shall recover against him the costs of the trial,
and shall have execution therefore ; and judgment may notwithstanding
be rendered for the petitioner to have partition, and to have assigned
to him such part of the premises, if any, as he shall appear to be entitled to.

St-:c'r. 18. If, upon such a trial, or upon the fault [default] of the
respondent, or otherwise, it shall appear that the petitioner is entitled
to have partition, whether for the share or proportion claimed in his
petition, or for any less share, the court shall award the interlocutory
judgment, that partition shall be made.

SBc'r. 19. Upon such a judgment, rendered in the court of common pleas, either party may appeal to the supreme judicial court;
and the cause shall be there heard and determined, and the proceedings therein shall be conducted, in like manner, as in appeals in other
suits.

SECT. 20. When partition is to be made, the court shall appoint
three or five disinterested persons as commissioners, to make the
partition, and to set off to the petitioner or petitioners, the share or
shares belonging to them, which shall be expressed in the warrant.

SE01‘. 2] If there are several petitioners, they may have their

shares set off together, or the share of each one may be set of in severalty, at their election.

St-:c'r. 22. The commissioners, before proceeding to the execution of their duties, shall be sworn, before any justice of the peace,
faithfully and impartially to execute the same, a certificate of which
oath shall be made on the warrant, by the person who administered it.

SECT. 23. The commissioners shall give sufficient notice of the
time and place, appointed for making the partition, to all persons interested therein, who are known and within the state, that they may
be resent at the making thereof.

£5101‘. 24. All the commissioners shall meet for the performance
of any of their duties, but the acts of a majority of them shall be
valid.

SECT. 25. When the premises, of which partition is demanded,
consist of a mill or other tenement which cannot be divided without
damage to the owners, or when any specific part of the estate is of

‘greater value than either party’s share, and cannot be divided without

damage to the owners, the whole estate, or the part thereof so incapable of division, may be set off to any one of the parties, who will
accept it, be paying to any one or more of the others, such sums of
money as the commissioners shall award, to make the partition just and
equal ; but the partition, in such case, shall not be established by the
court, until all the sums so awarded shall be paid to the parties entitled thereto, or secured to their satisfaction.

Seer. 26. In the case mentioned in the preceding section, the
commissioners, instead of setting off the premises, or a part thereof,
in the manner therein provided, may assign the exclusive occupancy
and enjoyment of the whole, or the part, as the case may be, to each
of the parties, alternately, for certain specified times, in proportion
to their respective interests therein.

SECT. 27. When the whole or any specific part of the premises
is assigned, in the manner provided in the preceding section, the
person, entitled for the time being to the exclusive occupancy, shall
be liable to his co-tenants for any injury to the premises, occasioned
by his misconduct, in like manner and to the like extent, as a tenant
for years under a common lease, without express covenants, would
be liable to his landlord, and the other tenants in common may have
their remedy therefore against him, by an action on the case, either
jointly or severally, at their election.

SECT. 28. Whilst any estate is in the exclusive occupancy of
any co-tenant, under such an assignment as before mentioned, he
shall be entitled to the same remedy against any person, who shall
trespass upon, or otherwise injure the ‘premises, as if he held the
same under a lease for the same term, or which they were so assigned to him, and he and all the other tenants in common shall also
be entitled to recover, against the wrongdoer, such other and further
damages, as they shall have sustained by the same trespass or injury,
in like manner, as if the premises had been leased by them, for the
term aforesaid; and all joint damages, recovered by any such tenants in common, by force of this or the preceding section, shall be
apportioned and divided among them, according to their respective
rights, by the court in which the judgment is recovered.

Snow. 29. The commissioners shall makea return of their doings

» under their hands, together with their warrant, to the court which appointed them, and if their doings are confirmed by the court, judgment shall be thereupon rendered, that the said partition be firm and
effectual forever ; and the return shall then be recorded in the clerk’s
office, and also in the registry of deeds for the county where the
lands lie.

SECT. 30. The court may, for any sufiicient reason, set aside the
return and commit the case anew to the same or to other commissioners, to be appointed as aforesaid, whereupon the same proceeding shall be had as are before directed.

St=:c'r. 31. If the judgment, upon the report of the commissioners, is rendered in the court of common pleas, either party may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial court, and the proceedings
thereupon shall be conducted in ike tnanner as in appeals in other
suits, excepting, that upon this appeal, the interlocutory judgment,
awarding that partition be made, shall not be drawn in question.

Seer. 32. The same regulations, which are herein prescribed,

' as to appeals from the first and the second judgment, on a petition for

partition, shall apply and be enforced, in like manner, in the case of a
writ of partition.
Seer. 33. The final judgment, confirming and establishing the

' partition, shall be conclusive as to all rights, both of property and of

possession, of all parties and privies to the judgment, including all
persons, who might by law have appeared and answered to the petition, except as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 34. If any person, who was a part owner with the petitioner, and for whom a share is left upon the partition, should be out
of the state, when the summons or notice to him is served, and
should not return, in time to appear and answer to the suit, he may at
any time, within three years after the final judgment, apply to the same
court for a new partition of the premises.

SECT. 35. If upon such an application, and after a hearing of all
parties interested therein, it shall appear to the court that the share
left for the applicant was less than he was entitled to, or that the part
left for hint was not, at the time of the partition, equal in value to his
share of the premises, they may order a new partition thereof, which
shall be made in the manner before provided.

St-:c'r. 36. In such new partition, the commissioners shall not be
required to make a new division of the whole premises, but they
may take from any one share or shares, and add to any other or
others, so much as shall in their judgment be necessary to make the
partition just and equal, estimating the whole as in the state in which
it was when first divided; or, if an equal partition of the lands cannot be made, without inconvenience to the owners, the commissioners
may award money to be paid by one party to another as before provided, to equalize the shares.

SECT. 37. If, after the first partition, any improvements shall
have been made on any part of the premises, which, by the new partition, shall be taken from the share of the party who made the improvements, he shall be entitled to compensation therefore, to be estimated and awarded by the commissioners, and to be paid by the

party, to whom such part of the premises shall be assigned, on the
new partition, and the court may issue an execution therefore in the
common form.

Seer. 38. If any person, who has not appeared and answered to
the petition for partition, shall claim to hold in severalty the premises
therein mentioned, or any part thereof, he shall not be concluded by
the judgment for partition, but may bring his action, for the land
claimed by him, against any'or all of the petitioners or respondents, or
of the persons holding under them, as the case may require, within
the same time, in which he might have brought it, if no such judgment
for partition had been rendered.

S1-:c'r. 39. When any person, who has not appeared and answered as aforesaid, shall claim the share that was assigned to, or left for,
any of the supposed part owners, in the judgment for partition, he
shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition,
and the assignment of the shares, in like manner as if he had been a
party to that suit,but he shall not be prevented thereby from bringing
his action, for the share claimed by him, against the person to whom
it was assigned, or for whom it was left.

SECT. 40. The action in such case shall be brought against the
tenant in possession, in like manner as if the demandant had originally
claimed the specific piece demanded, instead of an undivided part of
the whole land, and it may be brought within the same time in which

it might have been brought, if no such judgment for partition had been
rendered.

n.-.—. A

Saar. 41. If two or more persons appear as respondents, claim- »

ing the same share of the premises to be divided, it shall not be necessary to decide on their respective claims, except only for the purpose of determining which of them shall be ‘admitted to appear and
plead in the suit ; and if partition is made, the share so claimed shall
be left for whichever of the said parties shall prove to be entitled to
it, in a suit to be thereafter brought between themselves.

SECT. 42. If, in such a case, it shall be decided in the original
suit for partition,upon the replication of the petitioner, or otherwise,
that either of the said respondents is not entitled to the share that he
claims, he shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects
the partition, and the assignment of the shares; but he shall not be
prevented thereby from bringing his action, for the share claimed by
him, against the other claimant thereof, in the manner provided in
the three preceding sections.

Seer. 43. If any person, who has not appeared and answered as
aforesaid, shall claim any part of the premises mentioned in the petition, as a part owner with those who were parties to that suit, or any
of them, and if the part or share so claimed was not known, or not
allowed and left for him, in the process for partition, he shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition; but he
shall not be prevented thereby from bringing an action, for the share
or proportion claimed by him, against each of the persons, who shall
hold any part of the premises, under the judgment for partition.

SECT. 44. If the demandant shall prevail, in the case last mentioned, he shall not be entitled to demand a new partition of the whole
premises, but he shall recover against each of the persons, holding

under the judgment for partition, the same proportion or share of the
part held by him, that the demandant was entitled to claim out of the
whole premises, before the partition thereof.

SI-:c'r. 45. If, after the making of partition, it shall appear that
any person, for whom a share was left, or to whom a share was assigned, had died before the partition was made, the heir or devisee
of such deceased person shall not, by reason of his having been a
party to the suit, either as a petitioner or a respondent, be barred
from claiming the share, that belonged to the deceased person ; but
the heir or devisee, in such case, shall have the same rights and the
same remedies, in all respects, as if he had not been a party to the
suit, and had not had notice of the pendency thereof.

Seer. 46. If any person, to or for whom any share shall have
been assigned or left, upon any judgment for partition, shall be evicted
thereof by any person, who, at the time of ' the partition, had a title
thereto, older and better than the title of those who were parties to
the suit for partition, the person so evicted shall be entitled to a new
partition of the residue, in like manner as if the former partition had
not been made.

SECT. 47. Any person, having a mortgage, attachment, or other
lien, on the share of any part owner, shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition and the assignment of the
shares, but his lien shall remain in full force upon the part, that shall
be assigned to, or left for, such part owner.

SECT. 48. In case of the death of any party in a petition for
partition, the suit shall not abate, but shall be conducted and prosecuted, in the manner provided in the ninety third chapter.

Seer. 49. The expenses and charges of the commissioners shall
be ascertained and allowed by the court, and all the other costs of
the proceeding shall be taxed in the usual manner, and the whole shall
be paid by the petitioner, except only the costs of a trial of any issue

joined in the case, as to which a different provision is before made ;

and when there is more than one petitioner, the whole costs and
charges, that are payable by them, shall be paid in proportion to the
shares or interests that they respectively hold in the premises.

St-:c'r. 50. The probate court, in which the estate of any deceased person is settled, or in a course of settlement, may make partition of all his real estate, lying within the state, among his heirs or
devisees, and all persons holding under them, in the manner and under the restrictions hereinafter provided.

Seer. 51. The partition shall be made by three or live disinterested persons, to be appointed as commissioners for that purpose by

t the judge of probate, and they shall, before proceeding to the execution of their duties, be sworn before the said judge or before any justice of the peace, faithfully and impartially to execute the same, and
shall proceed therein, in the manner before prescribed with regard to
commissioners appointed by the supreme judicial court, or the court
of common pleas, except as is hereinafter otherwise provided.

Seer. 52. If there is estate to be divided, lying in different
counties, the judge of probate may, if he shall think (it, issue a separate warrant, and appoint different commissioners, for each county ;
and the partition in such case shall be made of the estate in each
county, in like manner as if there were no other estate to be divided

Snow. 53. Such partition may be ordered on the petition of any i
of the said parties interested, after due notice to all the others to ap- ]
pear and show cause against it ; which notice shall be served, fourteen '
days at least before the time appointed for the hearing, on the said
parties personally, if they can be found within the state, and if not,
the notice shall be given by publishing it, in such newspapers as the
court shall order, once in each week for three weeks at least before
such hearing.

Snow. 54. If it shall appear to the court that any infant or Insane <
person is interested in the premises, and has no guardian within the f
state, the court shall assign him a guardian for the suit, to appear for ,
him and defend his interests therein, in the same manner as a guardian is admitted for an infant defendant, in actions at the common law.

SECT. 55. The partition, when made on the application of an
heir, shall be made of all the estate, that descended from the ancestor, and which any party interested, whether the applicant or others, i
shall require to have included in the partition, and when made on
the application of a devisee, it shall be made of all the estate, held by
the applicant jointly or in common with others holding under the
testator, which he or any other devisee shall require to have included;
and the same rule shall apply, when the application is made by any
person, holding under an heir or devisee.

SI-ZCT. 56. Upon every such partition, the court shall not only
assign and set off to the applicant his share in the premises, that are
to be divided, but shall also cause the residue thereof, to be divided
among the parties interested therein, and the share of each one to be
assigned to him, unless any two or more of the parties shall consent
to hold their shares together and undivided.

SECT. 57. When any messuage, piece of land, or other part of
the premises, of which partition is to be made, is of greater value
than either party’s share, and cannot be divided without great inconvenience to the owners, the same may be set off to any one of the
parties, who will accept it, be paying to any one or more of the
others, such sums of money as the commissioners shall award, to
make the partition just and equal ; but the partition in such case shall
not be established by the court, until all the sums so awarded shall be
paid to the parties entitled thereto, or secured to their satisfaction.

SECT. 58. In the assignment of any part of the premises, as provided in the preceding section, males shall be preferred to females,
and among the children of the deceased, elder shall be preferred to
younger sons.

Snow. 59. The court may, for any sufhcient reason, set aside
the return of the commissioners, and commit the case anew to the
same or to other commissioners; and the return, when finally accepted and confirmed by the court, shall be recorded in the probate
office, and also in the registry of deeds for the county in which the
lands lie.

Seer. 60. The expenses and charges, incurred in making the
partition, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and shall be
paid by all the parties interested in the partition, in pro ortion to their
respective shares or interests in the premises; andi any one shall
neglect to pay the part assessed on him by the court, an execution

therefore in common form may be issued against him, in favor of the

person or persons entitled thereto.
Seer. 61. No partition shall be made by the probate court, when

the shares or proportions of the respective parties are in dispute between them, or shall appear to the judge to be uncertain, depending

- upon the construction or effect of any devise or other conveyance, or

upon any other questions, that he shall think proper for the consideration of a jury and a court of common law.

Seer. 62. All questions, as to any advancement made or alleged
to be made by the deceased to any heir, may be heard and determined

' by the judge of probate, saving an appeal, as in other cases, to the

supreme court ; and the final decree or sentence, if any is made thereon, shall be binding on all parties interested in the estate, whether the
partition is made by the probate court, or by writ or petition in the
courts of common law. .

SEc'r. 63. If any writ or petition shall be brought in the courts
of common law, for partition among co-heirs, and either party shall
allege, that an advancement has been made to any other party, the
court may hear and determine the question concerning the advancement, or they may suspend their proceedings in the suit for partition,
until that question shall be decided in the probate court, in which the
estate of the deceased is settled.

SECT. 64. When the real estate of the deceased, or any part of
it, shall lie in common and undivided with that of any other person,
the probate court may cause it to be divided and set off from the part
held by such co-tenant, before making partition thereof among the
heirs or others claiming under the deceased.

SECT. 65. The court, in such case, shall order notice of the intended partition to be given to the co-tenant, which notice shall contain a description of the premises to be divided, with a statement of
the share or proportion, claimed as belonging to the estate of the deceased, and shall express the time and place, appointed for hearing
the case ; and it shall be served on the co-tenant, by delivering to him
an attested copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at the place of his
abode in this state, fourteen days at least before the time appointed
for the hearing. . _

Seer. 66. If it shall appear, in any stage of the proceedings,
that any person interested in the premises, other than the heirs and
devisees of the deceased, and those claiming under them, was absent
from the state, at the time when the notice was served, and has not
returned, the probate court shall either dismiss the application for partition, or shall stay all further proceedings therein, until such absent
party shall appear and answer thereto, or shall signify in writing, to the
probate court, his consent that partition be made as proposed.

SECT. 67. Any person, aggrieved by any order, sentence, decree, or denial of a judge of probate, in any process of partition, may
appeal therefrom in the manner prescribed in the eighty third chapter.

Seer. 68. The partition, when finally confirmed and established,
shall be conclusive on all the heirs and devisees of the deceased, and
all persons claiming under them: it shall also be conclusive on all
other persons interested in the premises, who shall have appeared and
answered in the case, or who shall have assented to the proposed

partition, as before provided, and also on every person so interested,
on whom notice was served, as before provided, by delivering to him
a copy thereof, or by leaving it at the place of his abode, at a time
when he was within the state.

SECT. 69. Such partition shall not be conclusive upon any persons, other than those mentioned in the preceding section; but all
such other persons may pursue their legal remedies for recovering the
premises, or as much thereof as may belong to them, and also for
obtaining partition thereof, in like manner as if the proceedings in the
probate court had not been had.

Sncr. 70. If, after a partition by the probate court, any improvements shall be made on any part of the premises, which shall afterwards, upon a new partition, in the‘ same or any other court, be assigned to any other person, the party, from whom such part is taken,
shall be entitled to compensation for the improvements thereon, to
be estimated and awarded by the commissioners, who shall make the
second partition, and to be paid by the party, to whom that part of
the premises shall be thereby assigned, and the court may issue an
execution therefore in the common form.

Snow. 71. Every person, holding any lands under a partition,
made by any of the courts mentioned in this chapter, shall be considered as holding them under an apparently good title, so that in
case of an eviction, he shall be entitled to compensation for any improvements made-thereon, in the manner prescribed in the one hundred and first chapter.

Sncr. 72. When proceedings for obtaining partition shall have
been lawfully commenced, in either of the courts mentioned in this
chapter, that court shall retain jurisdiction of the case, saving the right
of appeal, in all cases, where an appeal is allowed by law.

SECT. 73. Every petition for partition, filed originally either in
the supreme judicial court, or court of common pleas, shall be indorsed in the same manner as is prescribed with respect to original
writs, and all the regulations, concerning the indorsement of original
writs, contained in the ninetieth chapter, shall apply in like manner
to the indorsement of such petitions for partition.

CHAPTER 1 04.

OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

SECTION Sncrrox
1. Forcible entry forbidden. 8. Appeal allowed, as in other civil actions.
2. The person ousted or unlawfully held 9. Proceedings, when title to the hoehold
out may be restored. is in question.
3. Suit to be commenced within three 10. Defendanttorecognizeto pay rent,&.c.
years. 11. Liability of deft. for frivolous plea, Gm.
4. Form of writ and declaration. 12. The premises or further damages may
5. Proceedings in the suit. be afterwards recovered.
6. Judgment, when for the pla.intid'. 13. The suit may be brought before any
7. “ “ “ defendant. police or justices’ court.

SECTION 1. No person shall make any entry into lands or tenements, except in cases where his entry is allowed by law ; and in such
cases, he shall not enter with force, but in a peaceable manner.

SE01‘. 2. When any forcible entry shall be made, or when an
entry shall be made in a peaceable manner, and the possession shall
be unlawfully held by force, and also when the lessee of any lands or
tenements, or any person holding under such lessee, shall hold possession of the demised premises, without right, after the determination
of the lease, either by its own limitation, or by a notice to quit, as
provided in the sixtieth chapter, the person, entitled to the premises,
may be restored to the possession thereof, in the manner hereinafter
provided.

SEc'r. 3. No restitution shall be made, under the provisions of
this chapter, of any lands or tenements, of which the party complained of, or his ancestors, or those under whom he holds the premises,
have been in the quiet possession, for three years next before the
filing of the complaint, unless his estate therein is ended.

SE01‘. 4. The person, entitled to the possession of the premises,

* may take, from any justice of the peace, a writ in the form used for

an original summons in common civil actions before justices of the
peace, in which the defendant shall be summoned to answer to the
complaint of the plaintifff, for that the defendant is in possession of
the lands or tenements in question, describing them, which he holds
unlawfully, and against the right of the plaintifff, as it is said ; and no
other declaration shall be required.

Saar. 5. The writ shall be served seven days at least before
the return day, and the suit shall be conducted like other civil actions before justices of the peace.

SI.-:c'r. 6. If the defendant shall be defaulted, or if on a trial
it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the justice, that the plaintifff‘ is
entitled to the possession of the premises, he shall have judgment for
the possession thereof, and for his costs, and execution shall issue
accordingly.

Sacr. 7. If the plaintifff shall become nonsuit, or shall fail to
prove his right to the possession, the defendant shall have judgment,
and execution for his costs.

St-:c'r. 8. Either party may appeal from the judgment of the
justice, and the suit shall be thereupon conducted in the same manner, as is prescribed in cases of appeals from justices of the peace, in
other civil actions.

SE01‘. 9. If it shall appear by the pleadings or otherwise, in any
such suit, that the title to the freehold is brought in question, the
case shall, at the request of either party, he transferred to the court
of common pleas, and be conducted in all respects thereafter, in the
same manner as is prescribed in the eighty fifth chapter, when the
title to real estate is concerned or brought in question, in any other
civil action pending before a justice of the peace.

SECT. 10. If the plaintifff shall claim any rent, as due on any
lease, whether in writing or otherwise, and if the defendant shall appeal, or if the case shall be transferred to the court of common pleas,
at his request, he shall recognize to the plaintifff‘, with sufficient surety
or sureties, not only to enter the action, but also to pay all rent then

due, and all intervening rent, damages, and costs; and in case of
final judgment for the plaintifff, all such rent, damages and costs may
be recovered, upon a writ of scire facias upon the recognizance, or
in an action of debt thereon.

Seer. II. If the case shall be transferred to the court of common pleas, at the request of the defendant, upon any plea or suggestion by him, that shall bring in question the title to the freehold, and
if it shall appear to the court o common leas, or to the supreme
judicial court, in case the action should be ere determined, that the
defendant originally entered on the premises, under a lease from the

laintiff, or from any person, under whom the plaintifff claims, or that
lie held them under any such lease, and that his said lea or su esP 38

tion was frivolous and intended for delay, the court shall cause a certificate thereof to be entered on the record, and the defendant shall
thereupon be liable to pa double the yearly value of the demised
premises, frotn the time o the notice to quit the same, which may
be recovered of the defendant and his sureties in the recognizance,
upon a scire facias or an action of debt thereon.

Seer. 12. The judgment in such action shall not be a bar to
any action, thereafter to be brought by either party, to recover the

remises in question, or to recover damages for any trespass thereon ;
but the sum, if any, recovered for rent, according to the provisions
of the two preceding sections, shall be allowed and deducted in any
assessment of damages, upon such a subsequent action by the original

laiutitf. .
P SECT. 13. If any suit, under the provisions of this chapter, shall
be commenced in any place, within or for which a olice court or
justices’ court may be established, with jurisdiction 0 common civil
actions, which are triable before a justice of the peace, the suit may
be commenced in such police court or justices’ court, and shall be
prosecuted in like manner as if it had been commenced before a
justice of the peace, as herein before provided.

CHAPTER 105.

OF WASTE, AND TRESPASS ON REAL ESTATE.

Stories Stones
1. Action of waste may be brought by a 9. Penalty for waste after action for pounreverstoner. sron.
2. By an heir. 10. Penalty for willful trespass on lands.
3. Mode of trial. ll. Exception.
4. Action on the case for waste. 12. Tender allowed in case of involuntary
5. By whom it may be brought. trespass :
6. May be prosecuted or brought against ex-- 13. Or money may be brought into court.
ecutors, &c. 14. Equity jurisdiction in cases of waste.
7. Penalty for waste on lands held in joint 15. Injunction to stay waste.
tenancy, &.c. 16. How to be dissolved.

8. Damages, how recovered and appropri- 17. Injunction in case of land attached.
ated 18. Further proceedings in such case.

SECTION 1. If any tenant in dower, tenant by the curtesy, or
tenant for term of life or years, shall commit or suffer any waste on
the premises, the person, having the next immediate estate of inheritance therein, may have an action of waste against such tenant, wherein he shall recover the place Wasted, and the amount of the damage
done to the premises.

S1-zcir. 2. An heir may bring an action for waste done in the time
of his ancestor, as well as in his own time.

Snow. 3. If any issue of fact is joined in the cause, it shall be
tried by a jury in a court in the usual manner, either with or without
a view of the premises, as the court shall order ; and in all cases, the
jury that inquire of the waste shall assess the damages.

SECT. 4. Any person, who is entitled to such action of waste,
may, instead thereof, bring an action on the case in the nature of
waste, in which he shall recover such damages as he shall have suffered by reason of the waste complained of.

SE01‘. 5. Such an action on the case may also be maintained by
one who has the remainder or reversion, in fee simple or fee tail, after an intervening estate for life, and also by one who has a remainder or reversion for life or years only, and each of them shall recover
such damages as it shall appear that he has suffered by the waste
complained of.

S1301‘. 6. An action on the case for waste, if commenced in the
life time of the tenant, may be prosecuted against his executors or
administrators, in the manner prescribed by law, as to actions which
survive, and such action may be originally brought against the executors or administrators of the tenant, for waste committed or suffered
in his life time.

Sr-:c'r. 7. If any joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in common,
of undivided lands, shall cut down, destroy or carry away any trees,
timber, wood or underwood, standing or lying on such lands, or shall
dig up or carry away any stone, ore, or other valuable thing found
thereon, or shall commit any other strip or waste thereon, without
first giving thirty days notice in writing, under his hand, to all the
other persons interested therein, or to their respective agents or attorneys, of his intention to enter upon and improve the land, or if he
shall do any of the said acts during the pendency of a petition or other suit, for the partition of the premises, he shall forfeit three times
the amount of the damages that shall be assessed therefore, to be recovered and appropriated as provided in the following section.

Seer. 8. The said damages may be recovered in an action of
trespass, by any one or more of the other co-tenants, without naming
any one except the plaintifff, and said damages shall be appropriated,
one half to the persons who shall sue for the same, and the other half
to the same persons, together with all the other co-tenants, except
the defendant in the action, tobe divided among them in proportion
to their respective interests in the land.

SE07. 9. If, during the pendency of any action for the recovery
of lands, the tenant or person in possession shall, with the knowledge
of the pendencylof the action, commit any strip or waste thereon, the
demandant, if he recovers judgment in the suit, may afterwards recover, in an action of trespass against the person who committed the

I

waste, three times the amount of the damages that shall be assessed
therefore.

S1-:c'r. 10. If any person shall willfully cut down, carry away, gir- ;
dle, or otherwise destroy any trees, timber, wood or underwood, on ‘
the land of another person without license therefore, the owner may '
recover, in an action of trespass against him, three times the amount
of the damages that shall be assessed therefore, except as provided in
the following section.

SE01‘. 1 I. If, upon the trial of such an action, it shall appear that
the defendant had good reason to believe that the land on which the
trespass was committed was his own, or that he was otherwise lawfully authorized to do the acts complained of, he shall be liable only
for the single damages assessed therefore.

SECT. 12. When any trespass on lands shall have been casual
and involuntary, the trespasser may tender to the party injured stillicient amends therefore, before any action is brought for the same, and
if afterwards sued for such trespass, he may in his plea disclaim all
title to the land, and allege that the trespass was casual and involuntary, and set forth the tender in the usual form, bringing into court the
money so tendered ; and if upon the trial, the allegations in the plea
shall appear to be true, and the damages assessed for the trespass
shall not exceed the amount so tendered, the defendant shall recover
his costs of the suit.

SECT. 13. If the trespasser, in such a case, shall not have made a
tender before the commencement of the action, he may in his plea
disclaim all title to the land, and allege that the trespass was casual
and involuntary, and bring into court suthcient amends for the trespass, together with the costs of suit up to that time, and if the plaintifff shall not accept the same, in satisfaction of the trespass, and if,
upon the trial, the allegations in the plea shall appear to be true, and
the damages assessed for the trespass shall not exceed the amount
so brought into court, the defendant shall recover his costs of the
Sult.

SECT. 14. The supreme judicial court may hear and determine
in equity all matters concerning waste, in which there is not a plain,
adequate and complete remedy at law, and when it shall be necessary
or proper to have any fact in such a case tried by a jury, it shall be
done in such manner as the court shall direct.

SECT. 15. The said ltourt, or any one of the 'ustices thereof,
may, either in term time or vacation. at any time ter the filing of
the bill in such suit, or other commencement thereof, issue a writ of
injunction, to stay waste on the premises in question, and issue all
such other writs and processes, and make all such orders and decrees
in the case, according to the course of proceedings in chancery, as
justice and equity may require, and as may be necessary or proper to
carry into effect the powers hereby granted.

Seer. 16. Every such injunction ‘to stay waste may be dissolved, either in term time or vacation, by the supreme judicial court,
or by any one of the justices thereof, whenever he or they shall think
It proper.

Seer. 17 . If any person, whose real estate is attached in any
civil action, shall do any act of waste thereon, or shall threaten or

make. preparations to commit waste thereon, the court, in which the
suit is pending, or any one of the justices thereof may, on the application of the plaintifff, either in term time or vacation, issue a writ of
injunction to stay such waste.

SE01‘. 18. The same court may arrest and commit the defendant for any violation of such injunction, and issue such other process
as may be necessary or proper to enforce obedience thereto, in like
manner as the supreme judicial court may do upon a bill in equity
pending before them, and the injunction may be dissolved, either in
term time or vacation, by the court‘in which the suit is pending, or
by any one of the justices thereof, whenever he or they shall think

It proper.

CHAPTER 106.

OF ACTIONS FOR PRIVATE NUISANCES.

Sxcnox ~Ss:c-non
1. Judgment may be for abatement of the 5. Expenses of executing it.
nuisance. 6. Equity jurisdiction concerning’ man’
2. Warrant therefore. cos.
3. “ may be postponed. 7, 8. Injunction may be issued

4. “ when demandable of right. 9. Injunction, how dissolved.

SECTION 1. In actions on the case for a nuisance, when the
plaintifff prevails, the court may, in addition to the usual judgment for
damages and costs, also enter judgment, that the nuisance be abated
and removed. .

SE01‘. 2. The court, in such a case, may award an execution in
common form, for the damages and costs, and a separate warrant to
the proper officer, requiring him to abate and remove the nuisance,
at the expense of the defendant, in like manner as public and common
nuisances are abated and removed. I

SE01‘. 3. The court may on the motion of the defendant, order
a stay of the said warrant, for any time not exceeding six months, to
give him opportunity to remove the nuisance, upon his undertaking
to do so, within the time so ordered.

SE01‘. 4. If the plaintifff shall recover judgment in a second suit,
for the continuance or repetition of the same nuisance, whether there
had been in the first suit a judgment for the abatement and removal
thereof or not, he shall, in such second suit, be entitled as of right to
a judgment for the abatement and removal of the nuisance, and to a
warrant to be issued thereon, as before provided.

SE01‘. 5. The expense of abating and removing the nuisance
shall be collected by the officer, in the same manner as damages and
costs are collected upon execution ; except, that the materials of any
buildings, fences, or other things, that shall be removed as a nuisance,
may be sold by the officer, in like manner, as goods are sold on execution for the payment of debts ; and the officer shall apply the proceeds of such sale to defray the expenses of the removal, and shall
pay over the balance thereof, if any, to the defendant upon demand,
and if the proceeds of the sale are not sutiicient to defray the said expenses, he shall collect the residue thereof as before provided.

SE01‘. 6. The supreme judicial court may hear and determine
in equity, all matters concerning nuisances, in which there is not a
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law, and whenever it is necessary or proper to have any fact in such a case tried by a jury, it
shall be done in such manner, as the court shall direct.

SE01‘. 7. The said court or any one of the justices thereof may
either in term time or vacation, at any time after the commencement
of such suit, issue an injunction to stay or prevent any nuisance on the
premises in question, and may issue all such other writs and processes, and make all such orders and decrees in the case, according to
the course of proceedings in chancery, as justice and equity may require, and as may be necessary or proper, to carry into effect the

powers hereby granted.
Seer. 8. When an action on the case for a nuisance is pending,

either in the court of common pleas, or the supreme judicial court,
an injunction may be issued and enforced by the same court, or any
one of the justices thereof, in the manner provided in the preceding
section.

Snow. 9. Every injunction, issued as provided in the two preceding sections, may be dissolved, either in term time or vacation, by
the court by which it was issued, or by any one of the justices thereof,
whenever he or they shall think it proper.

 

CHAPTER 107.

OF SUITS TO FORECLOSE, AND TO REDEEM, MORTGAGES.

Sncrrorr Snc-non
1. Foreclosure by action or by entry, &c. 15. Account to be taken of rents, and im2. Certilicate of such entry to be recorded. provements, &.c.
3, 4. Form of the action, and judgment 16. Tender, when to be made-—Bill for rethe;-ein, demption thereon.

5, 6. Form of the conditional judgment. 17. Suit to be brought within one year alter

7. Assi ee of the mortgage may enter '°“d°"
0,. SE: meteom ’ 18. “ may be brought withouta previous
tender.

8. Proceedings in such case.
9. Mortgages may enter before breach,
and hold subject to account.

10,11. Mortgage, how foreclosed in such

19. Costs in such case.
20. Proceedings when the tender is in
sufficient.
21. Suit, in what court to be brought.

cue: . 22. Process therein.
12. Certificate of notice or of entry to be 23 Dec,” for redem tion
recorded. ' P °

24. Plaintiff may have execution thereon.
13- M°"€389: When l'¢d°em3bl°- 25, 95, 27. Case of a balance due from

14. Upon payment or tender of the debt. mortgagee.

Sncnon Sncrrott

28. New parties may be brought in. 35. Provision for mortgages to the Corn29. General powers of the courts in suits on monwealth.
m°“g3S'°9- 36. Proceedings for foreclosing them.

30. Executors, &.c. may tender and redeem. 37. 38’ 39. “

31. May bring a suit upon a tender by the
deceased. 40- M°“S"‘3'° °f P375099-1 P"°P¢“.Y: When

32. Tender may be made to a guardian. ’°d°°‘“°'bl°33. Foreclosure to be opened, in case, &.c. 41. Proceedings for redemption and re34. Kinds of mortgages, mentioned in this covery thereof.
chapter.

for redeeming them.

SECTION 1. After the breach of the condition of a mortgage of
real estate, the mortgagee may recover possession of the mortgaged
premises by action, in the manner hereinafter provided, or he may
make an open and peaceable entry thereon, if not opposed by the
mortgagor or other person claiming the premises ; and such possession,
obtained in either mode, being continued peaceably for three years,

shall forever foreclose the right of redemption.
SE01‘. 2. When an entry, for breach of the condition, is made

without a judgment, a memorandum or certificate thereof shall be
made on the mortgage deed, and signed by the mortgagor or the person claiming under him, and the same shall, within thirty days thereafter, he recorded in the registry of deeds, where the mortgage is
recorded, with a note of reference from each record to the other;

or else, a certiticate of two competent witnesses to prove the entry
shall be made and sworn to before a justice of the peace, and recorded within thirty days after the entry, in the registry of deeds,
where the mortgage is recorded, with notes of reference as before
provided ; and no such entry shall be eifectual, for the purposes mentioned in the preceding section, unless a certificate, or a deposition in
proof thereof, shall be made and recorded in the manner herein provided.
SI-:c'r. 3. The mortgagee, in an action for possession, may declare on his own seizin, as in a writ of entry, without mentioning the

deed of conveyance, or the condition or defeasance thereof, and if it
shall appear to the court, upon the default of the defendant, or upon
demurrer, or verdict, or otherwise, that the plaintifff is entitled to the
possession of the premises, for breach of the condition of ‘the mortgage, the court shall, at the motion of either party, award the conditional judgment hereinafter mentioned, except as is provided in the

following section.
SECT. 4. If the defendant in the action is not the mortgagor nor

an assignee of the mortgagor, and not entitled to hold or claim the
premises under him, such defendant shall not redeem the remises,
nor have a conditional judgment rendered in the manner betidre mentioned, unless with the consent of the plaintifff in the action, but the
suit shall be conducted, in all respects, like a writ of entry ; and in all
cases, when the plaintifff prevails, the judgment may be entered for
possession as at common law, unless one or the other of the parties
shall move for the conditional judgment.

Seer. 5. When the conditional judgment is to be entered, the
court shall inquire and determine how much is due to the plaintifff on
the mortgage, and shall then enter judgment, that if the defendant

shall, within two months after the judgment, pay to the plaintifff the
sum so found due on the mortgage, with interest and the costs of the
suit, the mortgage shall be void, and the defendant shall hold the premises discharged thereof; otherwise, that the plaintifff shall have his
execution for possession of the premises, and for the costs of the
suit.

SE01‘. 6. When the condition of the mortgage is for the doing
of somethin other than the payment of money, the court shall vary
the terms o? the judgment, as the case may require, but shall award
execution as before provided, unless the defendant shall, within two
months after the, judgment, perform what shall be therein prescribed.

SE01‘. 7. An entry for breach of the condition may be made, and
an action for possession may be brought, by any assignee of the mortgagee, whether the assignment be by deed or by 0 eration of law, and
the action shall be conducted in like manner, as i brought by the original mortgagee ; and when brought by an executor or administrator,
it shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in the sixty fifth chapter.
SI-JCT. 8. The action may be brought, in the same manner as a
writ of entry, against whoever is tenant of the freehold, and the mortgagor may, in all cases, be joined as a defendant, whether he then
has any estate in the premises or not ; but he shall not be liable for any
costs, when he has no estate in the premises, and makes no defense
to the suit.

Sr-zcr. 9. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent a mortgagee, or any person claiming under him, from entering on the premises, or recovering possession thereof, before any breach of the condition of the mortgage, when there is no agreement to the contrary ;
but, in such case, if the debt is afterwards paid, or the mortgage redeemed, the amount of the clear rents and profits, from the time of the
entry, shall be accounted for, and deducted from the sum due on the
mortgage.

S1-:c'r. 10. In case of such an entry, before a breach of the condition, the three years limited for the redemption shall not begin to
run, until after the condition is broken, nor until after a notice in writing, given by the mortgagee or the person claiming under him, to the
mortgagor _or the erson claiming under him, that the former will
thenceforward hold) the premises for the breach of the condition, or
for the purpose of foreclosing the mortgage.

SECT. 11. In the case mentioned in the preceding section, the
person, entitled to hold the premises for breach of the condition, may,
instead of such notice in writing, make a new formal entry for the
breach of the condition, or may bring an action therefore, in the manner before provided in this chapter ; and such action, if brought
against the mortgagor, or any person claiming under him, may be maintained, notwithstanding the premises are at that time in the possession
of the plaintifff.

SECT. 12. No such notice of an intention to hold for breach of
the condition, and no such new entry for breach of the condition, as
are mentioned in the two preceding sections, shall be effectual for the
purposes there mentioned, unless a certificate thereof, or a deposition to prove the same, shall be made and recorded in like manner, as

is before provided, in the case of an original entry for breach of the
condition.

SI.=:c'r. 13. When the condition of any mortgage of real estate
has been broken, the mortgagor, or any person lawfully claiming or
holding under him, may redeem the same, in the manner provided in
the following sections, unless the mortgagee, or some person lawfully
holding or claiming under him, has obtained possession of the premises for the breach of the condition, and has continued that possession for three years, as before provided in this chapter.

Saar. 14. The person entitled to redeem the estate shall pay

‘ or tender to the mortgagee, or to the person lawfully claiming or holding under him, the whole sum then due and payable on the mortgage,
and shall perform, or tender performance of, every other condition
contained therein ; and if there has been any suit for recovering the
premises, he shall also pay or tender the costs of such suit, if not before paid.

S1-:c'r. 15. If the mortgagee or any person under him has had possession of the premises, he shall account for the rents and profits thereof, and shall be allowed for all sums expended thereon in reasonable
repairs and improvements, all sums paid for lawful taxes and assessments,
and all other necessary expenses in the care and management of the
premises ; and if on such account there shall be a balance due from
him, that balance shall be considered as so much aid towards the
debt. due on the mortgage, and if there shall be a b ance due to him,
it dshall be added to the debt, and be paid or tendered as before provi ed.

SECT. 16. Such tender’ may be made at any time within the
three years before limited for the redemption, and before as well as
after an entry for breach of the condition ; and if the mortgagee, or
the person claiming or holding under him, shall not accept the same,
and thereupon discharge the mortgage in the manner prescribed by
law, the mortgagor, or the person claiming or holding under him, may
recover the premises by a bill in equity for redemption, to be prosecuted as hereinafter provided.

Saar. 17. Such tender, if not accepted, shall not prevent the
foreclosure of the right of redemption, unless a suit thereon be commenced within one year after the tender is made.

Seer. 18. The person entitledvto redeem, may bring a bill for
redemption without any previous tender, and may in his bill offer to
pay such sum as shall be found due from him, or to perform such
other condition as the case may require ; and such suit may be brought
at any time within the three years limited for the redemption, and
either before or after an entry for breach of the condition.

Seer. 19. If the suit is brought without a previous tender, and
if it shall appear that any thing is due on the mortgage, the plaintifff
shall pay to the defendant his costs of the suit, unless it shall appear
that the defendant has unreasonably refused or neglected, when requested, to render a just and true account of the money due on the
mortgage, and of the rents and profits of the mortgaged premises, and
of the money, if any, paid for taxes and expended in repairs and ‘improvements and other necessary expenses, or that he has otherwise,
by his default, prevented the plaintifff from performing or tendering

performance of the condition, before the commencement of the suit;
and in all other cases of a bill for redemption, the court may, in their
discretion, award costs to either party, as equity shall require.

SECT. 20. When a bill for redemption is founded on a previous
tender, and it shall appear that the tender was insutiicient, the plaintifff shall nevertheless be entitled to a decree for redemption, in the
same manner as if no tender had been set forth in the bill, according
to the provisions of the two preceding sections, provided the suit be
commenced within the three years limited for the redemption.

SECT. 21. The bill for redemption may be brought, eitherin the
court of common pleas, or in the supreme judicial court, held for the
county where the land lies, and if brought in the court of common
pleas, an appeal may be had to the supreme judicial court, as in other civil actions.

Saar. 22. The bill may be inserted in a writ of original summons, or the suit may be commenced by a subpoena, according to the
course of proceedings in chancery, and in either case, the process
shall be served as in other civil actions‘.

SECT. 23. If it shall appear that the plaintifff is entitled to redeem the mortgaged premises, the court shall inquire and determine
what sum is due on the mortgage, or what other act the plaintifff is
bound to perform for the redemption thereof, and shall enter a decree, that upon the payment of such sum, or the performance of such
other thing, within such time as the court shall order, the plaintiff
shall have possession of the premises, to hold discharged of the mort8389- . ..
Snow. 24. The court may at the same time order or decree,
that if the defendant shall refuse or neglect to accept the money, or
other thing, required by the decree to be paid or performed, the money shall be left for his use with the clerk of the court, or that such
other thing shall be done as the case may require ; and the plaintifff,
in all cases, after having performed every thing required of him by
the decree of the court, may have an execution in common form, for
possession of the mortgaged premises.

Sracr. 25. If, upon a bill for redemption, it shall appear that the
defendant has received, from the rents and profits of the estate, or
otherwise, more than is due on the mortgage, the court shall award
judgment and execution against him, in the common form, for such
sum as shall be due to the plaintifff; and if there are several defendants, such judgment and execution may be awarded against them,
either jointly or severally, as the case may require, for the sums received by them or either of them respectively.

SECT. 26. When the money tendered and brought into court,
shall exceed the sum found to be due on the mortgage, and also when
any sum shall beawarded to the plaintifff, on account of the rents and
profits received by the defendant, or for costs of the suit, the court
may order the whole amount, so due to the plaintifff, to be deducted from
the money brought into court, and the same shall be restored to the
plaintifff, and the residue of the money brought into court shall he
paid to the defendant. Srzcr. 27. If a mortgagee, or any person claiming or holding under him, shall receive from the rents and profits of the premises, or

upon a tender made to him, or in any other manner, more than is due
on the mortgage, and if no bill for redemption is brought against him,
the mortgagor or other person entitled to such excess may recover it,
in an action of assumpsit for money had and received to his use.
SECT. 28. If, during the pendency of a bill for redemption, it

i shall appear that any other person is interested therein, the court may

cause him to be made a party to the suit, upon such terms as they
shall think proper, and may order a summons or a subpoena to be issued and served on him, in such manner as they shall direct ; and he
shall thereupon be required and allowed to a pear and answer to the
suit, and shall be considered as a defendant t erein, in like manner as
if he had been originally sued as a defendant.

SECT. 29. In all suits, brought under the provisions of this chapter, either for the redemption of mortgaged premises, or for the purpose of foreclosing the right of redemption, the court shall have power, as to all things not herein provided for, to make such order, judgment or decree, as justice and equity may require, and to issue such
process as may be necessary or proper, according to the course of
proceedings in chancery.

SECT. 30. If any person, entitled to redeem any mortgaged

estate, shall die without having made a tender for that purpose, a

tender may be made, and a bill for redemption commenced and
prosecuted, as well by the executors or administrators, as, by the
eirs or devisees, of the deceased person.

Sear. 3]. If a tender has been made by any such deceased person, in his life time, a bill for redemption, founded thereon, may be
commenced and prosecuted, either by his heirs or devisees, or by his
executors or administrators, in like manner as it might have been by
the party himself; and if the laintiff in any bill in equity shall die
pending the suit, whether it is founded on a previous tender or not,
the suit may be prosecuted to final judgment, by his heirs or devisees,
or his executors or administrators.

SECT. 32. When the mortgagee, or the person, claiming or holding under him, is under guardianship, as an infant or otherwise, the
tender may be made to the guardian, and he may, upon receiving
payment of the sum due on the mortgage, or upon the performance
of such other condition, as the case may require, execute a release
of the mortgage.

SECT. 33. If, after the foreclosure of any mortgage, the person,
entitled to the debt secured by the mortgage, shall recover judgment

V for any part of the debt, on the ground that the value of the mortgaged premises, at the time of the oreclosure, was less than the sum due
thereon, such a recovery shall open the foreclosure, and the mortgagor, or the person claiming or holding under him, may redeem the
premises, notwithstanding the three years limited in that behalf may
ave expired, provided his bill for redemption be brought within one
year after the recovery of such judgment.
S1-‘JCT. 34. The mortgages, mentioned in this chapter, shall inr clude not only those made by a common deed of mortgage, but also

such as are made by a conveyance, with a separate deed of defeasance.
SE01‘. 35. When artv mortgage is made or assigned to the Commonwealth, the treasurer may demand and receive the money due
thereon, and upon payment thereof, he shall make and acknowledge a
discharge of the mortgage.

SECT. 36. If the condition of such mortgage is not duly performed, the treasurer may cause an entry, for the breach of the condition, to be made by himself, or by any person whom he shall appoint for that purpose, in the name and behalf of the Commonwealth,
or he may bring an action, in the name of the Commonwealth, to
recover possession of the mortgaged premises ; and such possession,
obtained either by entry or by action, shall have the same effect towards foreclosing the right of redemption, as is before provided in
the case of such possession by any other mortgagee.

Seer. 37. The mortgagor or his assigns may redeem such mortgaged premises from the Commonwealth, in like manner, and upon
the same terms, as if they were held by any other mortgagee, and
the payment, or performance of the condition for that purpose, shall
be made or tendered to the treasurer, for the use of the Commonwealth.

Snow. 38. If the treasurer, and the person applying to redeem
such mortgage, shall disagree as to the sum due thereon, the person
so applying may bring a bill in equity against the Commonwealth, for’
the redemption thereof.

SECT. 39. The suit shall be brought in the supreme judicial
court for the county of Suffolk, and the process thereon shall be
served on the treasurer, whose duty it shall be to appear and answer
thereto, in behalf of the Commonwealth, and the like proceedings
shall be had thereon, and the like judgment rendered, as are before
provided, in the case _of a bill for redemption, against any other mortgagee ; except, that the treasurer shall accept the payment, if any,
due to the Commonwealth, and upon the receipt thereof, or upon
the performance of such other act, as the court shall order, the treasurer shall discharge the mortgage, in like manner as when the debt
is paid without any suit.

SECT. 40. When the condition of any mortgage of personal
property has been broken, the mortgagor, or any person lawfully
claiming or holding under him, may redeem the same, at any time
within sixty days thereafter, unless the property shall, in the mean
time, have been sold, in pursuance of the contract between the
parties. .

SECT. 41. The person, entitled to redeem the property, shall pay
or tender to the mortgagee, or to the person holding under him, the
sum due on the mortgage, with all reasonable and lawful charges and
expenses, incurred in the care and custody of the property, or otherwise arising from the mortgage thereof; and if the property is not
forthwith restored, the person, entitled to redeem the same, may
recover it in [an] action of replevin, or may recover such damages,
as he may have sustained by the withholding thereof, in any action
adapted to the circumstances of the case.

CHAPTER 108. '

OF INFORMATIONS OF INTRUSION, AND INFORMATIONS IN THE NATURE OF INQUESTS OF OFFICE.

Sncrron SECTIOII

1. Information of intrusion, when it lies. 9. Who may appear asldefcndants.

2, 3. Proceedings thereon. 10. Costs, when there are several defend4-. Costs. ants.

5. Commonwealth to be seized, without 1]. Provision as to rents, and as to imoxecution. provements.

6. Suits, when not to be commenced, un- 12. Judgment, how far conclusive.
less by order of the legislature. 13, I4. Provision for a claimant who is not

7. When to be brought without such order. concluded.

8. Public notice, in what cases to be 15. Provisionas to rents, andas toimprovegiven. ments.

SECTION 1. When any person shall unlawfully enter and intrude

P upon or hold any lands belonging to the Commonwealth, the same

may be recovered, upon an in ormation filed and prosecuted as provided in this chapter.

Seer. 2. The information shall be liled by the attorney general
or any district attorney, in the supreme judicial court in any county, describing the premises, and setting forth the title and claim of the
Commonwealth thereto ; and a summons shall thereupon issue to the
persons therein named as intruders or trespassers, and shall be made
returnable in the county where the lands lie.

' SE01‘. 3. The service of the summons, and all the other-proceedings in the suit, shall be conducted in the same manner, substantially, as in real actions between private persons, unless where a difterent course is prescribed.

S1-zcr. 4. Costs shall be awarded and taxed, as in other cases, for
the party prevailing, and if the judgment is in favor of the Commonwealth, an execution for the costs shall issue in common form, and if
it is in favor of the defendant, the costs shall be paid out of the treasury, by warrant of the governor and council.

Saar. 5. If the judgment is in favor of the Commonwealth, it
shall not be necessary to take out a writ of possession, or any like process, but the Commonwealth shall be deemed and taken to be actually seized and possessed of the premises, as soon as the judgment is
rendered.

SE01‘. 6. When the title of the Commonwealth is founded on a
forfeiture for the breach of a condition, in any grant or conveyance
made by'the Commonwealth, or by the late province or colony of
Massachusetts Bay, no suit therefore shall be commenced, unless by
an order of the legislature.

SE01‘. 7. If the claim of the Commonwealth is founded on an
escheat, for want of heirs of the last owner of the premises, or on
any other title, except that of the forfeiture mentioned in the preceding section, the attorney general or district attorney may commence
and prosecute a suit therefore, whenever he shall have good reason

to believe that the claim of the Commonwealth can be established
by proof. ~

Snow. 8. In case of any supposed escheat, when no person ap- ;
pears as the heir of the person last seized, and in all cases when there 
is reason to suppose that there is any person claiming any estate or 1
interest in the premises, whose name is unknown, or who is absent
from the state, or cannot be found therein, to be served with process,
the court shall, in addition to any other service, order notice to be
given to all persons interested, to appear and answer to the information, by causing the substance thereof, with the order of the court
thereon, to be published, three weeks successively, in such newspaper
as the court shall direct, the first publication to be ninety days at least
before the time appointed for the appearance of the parties.

SECT. 9. Any person, who claims any estate or interest in the ‘
premises, though he is not named in the information, nor served with l
process, may appear and answer thereto, but no defendant, who is I
not named in the information, shall recover costs against the Commonwealth, unless it shall appear that he has some estate or interest in the
premises, although the Commonwealth should fail to establish their
claim thereto.

SE01‘. 10. When there are several defendants, the court may:
award costs for or against any one of them, as the justice of the case ,
may require, in like manner as if he had been the only defendant in
the case.

SE01‘. 11. If the Commonwealth prevail in the suit, the de-3
fendant shall be chargeable for the rents and profits of the premises, 
and be entitled to an allowance for all improvements made thereon,
in like manner as is provided in the case of a writ of entry between
private persons.

SECT. 12. The 'udgment on any such information shall be con- .
elusive between the Commonwealth and the defendants, who appear 5
and answer thereto, and also against eve person named as a defendant, and upon whom the summons hasrheen duly served, within
the state, and a ainst all persons claiming under any such defendant.

SECT. 13. f judgment is rendered for the Commonwealth, any a
person, who is not concluded thereby according to the provisions of t
the preceding section, may, at any time until his claim is barred by the
law for the limitation of real actions or otherwise, bring a writ of entry, to recover the premises from the Commonwealth, or any person
who may then hold under them, and in such action he may deny and
disprove any facts alleged and proved in the first suit, and may allege
and prove any other facts, in support of his claim, and if it shall appear that he is entitled to the premises, he shall have judgment and
execution therefore in common form.

Saar. 14. If the Commonwealth shall continue seized of the

remises, at the time when such new action is commenced, it shall be
brought against the tenant or occupant of the premises, and in addition to the service on him, a copy of the original writ or summons
shall be left with the attorney general or district attorney, fourteen
days at least before the return day thereof, that he may appear and
defend the suit; and if the Commonwealth shall have granted away
the premises, the action shall be brought against the tenant of the

freehold, and in either case, it shall be conducted and disposed of, in
like manner and upon the same principles, as if no such information
had been filed.

Snow. 15. If the demandant in such action shall recover the
premises, he shall be entitled to recover the rents and profits thereof,
and he shall also be chargeable for all improvements made thereon, in
like manner as is provided in the one hundred and first chapter, although the premises should not have been held and possessed, under
the adverse title, as much as six years.

  

TITLE IV.

Of proceedings in special cases.

Cnsrran 109. Of foreign attachment, or the trustee process.

CHAPTER 110. Of suits by and against executors and administrators.
Cnnvrna 111. Of the writ of habeas corpus.

CHAPTER 119. Of writs of audits querela, of error, and of certiorari.
Gunman 113. Of distraining cattle, and of the action of replevin.
Crurrnn 114. Of reference to arbitration by agreement before a justice

of the peace.

Cnsrrnn 115. Of proceedings for improving meadows, swamps, and
_ low lands.

Cnnvrna 116. Of proceedings for the support and regulation of mills.
Cnuvrna 117. Of the lien of mechanics and others, for the cost of repairs and improvements on real estate.
Cuuvrnn 118 Of recognizances for debts, seizing and libelling forfeited
goods, and the recovery of pecuniary forfeitures.

 

CHAPTER 109.

OF FOREIGN ATTACHMENT, OR THE TRUSTEE PROCESS.

SBCTIOII Scenes
1. In what actions, this process lies. -1]. Tmstee, when and how to be dis2. Writ, how issued. charged.
3. Form of the writ. 12, 13. “ may be examined on oath.
4, 5. Who liableas trustees. 14_ u no, appeamg, sh,“ be d¢.
6. Corporations may be summoned; how fmmed_
‘hey 953-“ ‘‘-“3‘’'"- 15, 16. Mode of trial, when he appears.

7' Action’ in WM.‘ county  be bmughh 17. Adverse claimant may become a party
8. Manner of serving the wnt.

. th ' .
9. New trustees, and new service, when to 9 gm} _ h
anowei 18. Proceedings in suc case.

I0. Case of the discharge of all the trustees. 19. Evidence to be in writing.

Stones

20. Principal defendant may be a witness,
unless, &,c.

21. Cost for or against such adverse claimant.

22, 23. Case of trustee having specific
goods, &.c.

24. The suit not to prevent his delivering
them, unless, doc.

25, 26. Case of a trustee having alien on
the goods.

27. Such goods, how to be disposed of.

28. “ “ may be sold by the tmstee, in case, &.c.

29. Trustee, when liable for non-delivery of
such goods.

30. What demands are not attachable by
this process.

31 . Case of attachment of a demand already
in suit.

32, 33. Proceedings in such case.

34. Debt may be attached before it is
payable.

35. Case of a fraudulent conveyance to the
trustee.

36. Case of mutual demands between principal and trustee.

37. Certain demands excluded.

38. Scire facias against the trustee, afier

judgment.
39, 40. Proceedings therein, upon default.

41. Proceedings therein, upon examination
of the trustee.
42. Forms of judgment against trustee.

43, 44, 45, 46. Foreign attachment, how
and when dissolved.

4-7. Judgment against trustee shall protect
him, &.c.

48. Judgment for him not to bar his prineipal.

49. Costs and expenses of trustee.

SECTION 1.

Stories

50. Costs to be retained out oftbeefects,
if any 5

51. Or to be paid by the plaintiff.

52. Costs when trustee is out of the state.
53. “ when in another county.

54. When trustee shall pay costs.

55. Proceedings in such case.

56. When several trustees are liable for

costs.
57, 58, 59. Costs against trustee on the scire
facias.
60. Execution for costs against trustee.

61. Scire facias against several trusteesCosts in such case.

62. Executor and administrator, liable as
trustee.

63. Upon the death of a trustee, his executor, &.c. liable.

64, 65. Proceedings when the trustee dies
before judgment.

66. Scire facias against the executor, &.c.
in such case.

67. When the trustee dies after judgment.

68. When within thirty days after judgment.

69, 70. Judgment against executor, &.c.,
how to be enforced.

71. Trustee process, in suits before a justice of the peace.

72. Trustee, not liable out of his county.

73. Form of the writ, and course of proceedings.

74. Costs for trustee, and allowance for expenses.

75. Justice may issue scire facias, although,
&.c.

76, Jurisdiction of police court.

77. Limitation of jurisdiction of justices’ and
of police courts.

78. Penalty for perjury on examination as
trustee.

All personal actions, brought either in the court of

common pleas or the supreme judicial court, may be commenced by
the process of foreign attachment, or trustee process, in the manner
hereinafter provided, except actions of replevin, actions on the case
for malicious prosecution, or for slander, either by writing or speaking,
and actions of trespass for assault and battery.

Sscr. 2. The writ of foreign attachment shall be signed, sealed
bear teste, and be issued, like other original writs in civil actions.

Sr«:c'r. 3. It shall be made in the form heretofore established,
authorizing an attachment of the goods and estate of the principal defendant, in his own hands, and also in the hands of the trustees, and
shall be subject to such alterations, from time to time, as may be
made by the courts, according to the authority vested in them in the
ninetieth chapter.

Sncr. 4. Every person, having any goods, effects, or credits
of the principal defendant, entrusted or deposited in his hands or possession, may be summoned as a trustee, and such goods, effects, and

' credits shall be thereby attached and held to respond the final judgment in the suit, in like manner as goods or estate, when attached by

the ordinary process.

SECT. 5. If, after the service on the trustee, but before he has
any knowledge thereof, he shall in good faith make any payment, or
become in any way liable to any third person, for or on account of
the goods, effects or credits in his hands, or shall have delivered, the
same to the original defendant, or to any other person entitled thereto, he shall be allowed therefore, in the same manner as if the payment or delivery had been made, or the liability incurred, before the
service of the writ on him.

SECT. 6. All corporations may be summoned as trustees, and
they may appear and answer by their cashier, treasurer, secretary,
or such other officers, as they shall appoint, or as the court shall require, to attend for that purpose ; and the answer and examination on
oath of such officers or persons shall be received as the answer and
examination of the corporation.

SE01‘. 7. If all the persons, named in the writ as trustees, dwell
in one county, the writ shall be returnable in that county, otherwise
it may be returnable in any county, in which either of the trustees
dwells, without regard to the domicil of the principal parties.

Sncr. 8. The attachment of the goods and estate of the principal defendant, in his own hands and possession, if any, shall be made
in the usual manner, and the writ shall be further served on the principal, and also on each of the trustees, in the manner prescribed for

the service of an original summons, in other civil actions.

SECT. 9. At any time before the writ is served on the principal
defendant, the plaintifff may insert therein the names of any other persons, as trustees, and may cause the writ to be served on them ; and
after a service on any trustee, the writ may be served again on the
same person, in like manner and with the same effect, as if he had not
been previously served therewith, provided such second service be
made before the writ is served on the principal defendant.

SECT. 10. If all the persons, summoned as trustees, shall be discharged, the plaintifff shall not proceed in the suit against the principal defendant, unless there has been such a service of the writ on
him, as would be sufiicient in an action, commenced in the ordinary
mode of process, or unless the principal shall actually appear and
answer to the suit.

SE01‘. 11. If any supposed trustee shall appear, either in person
or by attorney, and declare in writing that he had not, in his hands or
possession, at the time when the writ was served on him, any goods,
effects or credits of the principal, and shall submit himself thereupon
to examination upon his oath, and if the plaintifff shall decline to ex
amine him, or if upon such examination his declaration shall appear
to the court to be true, he shall be discharged.

SECT. 12. Every such declaration may be signed by attorney,
and if the plaintifff proceeds to examine the supposed trustee thereupon, he shall propose interrogatories in writing, which shall be answered in writing, and signed by the supposed trustee, and sworn to
by him in open court, or before any justice of the peace.

Sr-:c'r. 13. If any person so summoned shall admit that he has
in his hands any goods, effects or credits of the principal, or shall wish
to refer that question to the court, upon the facts, he may, instead of
the declaration before mentioned, make a declaration, setting forth
such facts as he shall deem material, and submit himself thereu on to
a further examination on oath ; and such declaration, with the urther
examination, if any, shall be sworn to, in the manner before provided.

SECT. 14. When any person, who has been duly summoned as
a trustee, shall neglect to appear and answer to the suit, he shall be
defaulted, and shall be thereupon adjudged a trustee.

SECT. 15. The answers and statements, sworn to by any person
summoned as a trustee, shall be considered as true, in deciding how
far he is chargeable, but either party may allege and prove any other
facts, not stated nor denied by the supposed trustee, that may be
material in deciding that question.

Sr-:c'r. 16. Any question of fact, arising upon such additional allegations, may he tried and determined by the court, or may be submitted to a jury, in such manner as the court shall direct.

SECT. 17. If it shall appear that any goods, effects or credits,
in the hands of any supposed trustee, are claimed by any other person, by force of an assignment from the principal defendant, or otherwise, the court may permit such claimant to appear, if he see cause,
and maintain his right, and if he does not voluntarily appear, notice
for that purpose may be issued and served on him, in we manner as
the court shall direct.

Sr:c'r. 18. If any such claimant shall appear, either voluntarily
or upon notice given, as before provided, he may be admitted as a
party to the suit, so far as it respects his title to the goods, effects or
credits in question, and may allege and prove any facts, not stated
nor denied by the supposed trustee, and such allegations shall he
tried and determined, in the manner before provided.

SECT. 19. Upon the trial of any question, arising upon the additional allegations of any party, the testimony shall all be given by
depositions, taken and reduced to writing, in the usual form, and filed
in the case.

Sr-:c'r. 20. Upon any trial, between the attaching creditor and
any other person claiming the same effects, in the manner before
mentioned, the principal defendant may be examined as a witness for
either party, if there is no other objection to his competency, except
his being a party to the original suit.

Sr-:c'r. 21. When any such claimant is admitted as a party, in the
manner before mentioned, the court may, at their discretion, award
costs, between him on the one art, and the attaching creditor and
the supposed trustee, or either ofp them, on the other part, as justice
and equity may require.

Snow. 22. When any person is chargeable as a trustee, by reason of any goods or chattels, other than money, which he holds or is
bound to deliver to the principal defendant, he shall deliver the same,
or as much thereof as may be necessary, to the othcer who holds the
execution, and the goods shall be sold by the officer, and the proceeds thereof applied and accounted for, in the same manner as if
the had been taken on an execution in the common form.

gear. 23. The value of any goods, so delivered by the trustee,
shall be ascertained and fixed, as between him and the principal defendant, in like manner and upon the same principles, as if they had
been delivered to the defendant ; and upon the application of either
party, the court may, either pending the original suit, or upon the
scire facias, if any is afterwards brought against the trustee, determine the said value, and may make any other order, in relation to
such goods and the delivery thereof, that may be necessary or proper
to protect the rights of the trustee and of the principal defendant.

Seer. 24. When any person, who is summoned as a trustee, is
bound by contract to deliver any specific goods to the principal defendant, at any certain time and place, he shall not be compelled, by
reason of the foreign attachment, to deliver them at any other time or
place ; and he may, notwithstanding such process, tender or deliver
them to the person entitled under the contract, at the time and place
therein mentioned, unless he shall have been previously adjudged a
trustee on account thereof.

Seer. 25. When it appears that any such goods, in the hands
of any person summoned as a trustee, are mortgaged or pledged, or
in any way liable, for the payment of any debt to him, the attaching
creditor may be allowed, under an order of the court for that purpose, to pay or tender the amount due to the trustee, and the trustee
shall thereupon deliver the goods, in the manner before provided, to
the officer who holds the execution.

Seer. 26. If the goods in such a case are held for any purpose,
other than to secure the payment of money, and if the contract, condition, or other thing to be performed, is such as can be performed
by the attaching creditor, without damage to the other parties, the
court may make an order for the performance thereof by him ; and,
upon such performance, or a tender thereof, the trustee shall deliver
the goods, in the manner before provided, to the officer who holds
the execution.

Seer. 27 . All goods received by the olhcer, by force of the two
preceding sections, shall be sold and disposed of in the same manner
as if they had been taken on an execution in the common form ; except, that out of the proceeds of the sale, the oiiicer shall repay to
the attaching creditor the amount paid by him to the trustee for the
redemption of the goods, with interest thereon, or shall indemnify the
creditor for such other act or thing as he shall have done or per ormed, pursuant to the order of the court, for the redemption of the
goods.

Seer. 28. Nothing contained in any of the preceding sections
shall prevent the trustee from selling the goods in his hands, for the
payment of the demand, for which they are mortgaged, pledged or
otherwise liable, at any time before the amount due to him shall be
paid or tendered, as before mentioned, provided such sale would be
authorized by the terms of the contract between him and the principal defendant.

Seer. 29. If any trustee shall refuse or neglect to deliver any
goods in his hands. when thereto lawfullv required by the officer. who

serves the execution, he shall be liable to the plaintifff in the action
for the value thereof, after deducting the amount, if any, of his lien
thereon, to be recoverec in like manner as money is recovered,
when not paid on the first execution, pursuant to the judgment against

a trustee.
S1-:c'r. 30. No person shall be adjudged a trustee, in either of the

cases following, to wit :

First, by reason of having drawn, accepted, made, or indorsed any
negotiable bill, draft, note, or other security :

Secondly, by reason of any money or other thing, received or collected by him, as a sheriff or other officer, by force of an execution
or other legal process, in favor of the principal defendant in the
foreign attachment, although the same should have been previously
demanded of him by the principal defendant :

Thirdly, by reason of any money in his hands as a public officer,
and for which he is accountable, merely as such officer, to the principal defendant: ‘

Fourthly, by reason of any money or other thing due from him to
the principal defendant, unless it is, at the time of the service of the
writ on him, due absolutely and without depending on any contingenc : nor

yFifthly, by reason of any debt due from him on a judgment, so
long as he is liable to an execution on the ‘judgment.

SE01‘. 3]. If, during the pendency 0 any action, the defendant
therein is summoned as the trustee of the plaintifff, the first suit may
nevertheless roceed so far as to ascertain, by a verdict, award, or
otherwise, what sum, if any, is due from the defendant ; and the suit
shall not be delayed, on account of the foreign attachment, unless the
court, for good cause shown, shall see fit to continue the same for
judgment, until the termination of the trustee suit, or until the attachment therein shall be dissolved, by the discharge of the trustee, or by

the satisfaction of the judgment, or otherwise.
Snow. 32. The court may, on the application of the plaintifff in

the foreign attachment, continue the other suit, on such terms as they
shall think just and reasonable, and if it is not so continued, and the
judgment is rendered against the defendant therein, he shall not be afterwards adjudged a trustee, on account of the demand so recovered
against him, so long as he is liable to an execution on the judgment.

SI-:c'r. 33. If, before final judgment is rendered in the first suit,
the defendant in that suit shall be adjudged a trustee in the other, and
shall pay thereon the money demanded in the first suit, or any part
thereof, the fact shall be stated on the record of the first suit, and
judgment therein shall be rendered, for the costs due to the plaintifff,
and for such part of the debt or damages, if any, as shall remain due
and unpaid.

Snow. 34. Any money or other thing, due to the principal defendant, may be attached before it has become payable, provided it
be due absolutely and without any contingency, as before mentioned ;
but the trustee shall not be compelled to pay or deliver it, before the
time appointed therefore by thecontract.

SECT. 35. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee, shall

have in his possession any goods, effects or credits of the, principal ‘

defendant, which he holds by a conveyance or title, that is void as to
the creditors of the defendant, he may be adjudged a trustee, on
account of such goods, effects and cred Its, although the principal
defendant could not have maintained an action therefore against him.

SECT. 36. Every trustee shall be allowed to retain or deduct out
of the goods, effects and credits in his hands, all his demands against
the principal, of which he could have availed himself, if he had not
been summoned as a trustee, whether by way of set-off on a trial, or
by the set-off of judgments or executions, between himself and the
pfincipal ; and he shall be liable for the balance only, after all mutual
demandsbetween him and the principal are adjusted.

SECT. 37. In the demands, mentioned in the preceding section,
to be adjusted between the trustee and the principal defendant, there
shall not be included, on either side, any claim for unliquidated damages for wrongs or injuries.

- S1-:c'r. 38. If any person, who is adjudged a trustee in the original
suit, shall not pay over to the officer, upon demand, goods, effects or
credits, sutiicient to satisfy the execution, and if the execution is not
otherwise satisfied, the plaintifff may sue out a writ of scire facias
against the trustee, from the same court in which the judgment was
rendered, to show cause why judgment and execution should not be
awarded against him and his own goods and estate, for the sum remaining unsatisfied on the judgment against the principal defendant.

Seer. 39. If the trustee, having been duly served with the scire
facias, shall neglect to appear and answer thereto, he shall be defaulted, and if he shall not have been examined in the original suit, judgment shall be rendered against him, upon such default, for the whole
sum remaining unsatisfied on the judgment against the principal defendant.

' Srazcr. 40. If the trustee, who is defaulted on the scire facias,
shall have been examined in the original suit, judgment in the scire
facias shall be rendered upon the facts stated in that examination, or
proved in the trial that may have been had thereon, for such part, if
any, as shall remain in his hands, of the goods, effects or credits,
for which he was originally chargeable as a trustee, or for so much
thereof, as shall be then remaining unsatisfied, on the judgment against
the principal defendant.

SECT. 41. If the trustee appears and answers to the scire facias,
and if he had not been examined in the original suit, he shall be liable
to be examined, in the same manner, as he might have been in that
suit, and if he had been examined in the original suit, the court may
require or permit him to be examined anew, in the suit on the scire
facias, and in either case, he shall be permitted to plead and prove
any matter, that may be necessary or proper, for his defense in the
suit on the scire facias ; and upon the whole matter appearing upon
such examination and trial, the court shall render such judgment, as
law and justice shall require.

SECT. 42. When any person is adjudged to be a trustee in the
original suit, it shall not be necessary to specify in the judgment the
sum for which he is chargeable; but if, upon a writ of scire facias
against him, it shall appear that he is chargeable as a trustee, the sum.
for which he is chargeable, shall be expressed in the judgment

SE01‘. 43. If, after any person is adjudged a trustee, the goods,
effects and credits in his hands shall not be demanded of him, by
force of the execution, within thirty days after final judgment, the
same goods, effects and credits shall be liable to another attachment,
whether made before or after the said judgment, in like manner as if
such prior attachment had not been made.

SE01‘. 44. If there shall be no such second attachment, the principal defendant in the suit may recover the goods, effects and credits,
if not demanded, as aforesaid, within the said thirty days, in like manner as if they had not been attached.

Saar. 45. If no such second attachment is made of the same
goods, effects and credits, and no action is brought therefore by the
principal defendant, and if they shall not have been paid or delivered
to him, before the same are demanded of the trustee by the officer,
the trustee shall be liable to pay and deliver the same, when so demanded, although it should be after the expiration of the said thirty
da s.

ySnc'r. 46. If the trustee cannot be found in the state, by the
officer to whom the execution is committed for service, a copy of the
execution may be left at his dwelling house, or at his last and usual
place of abode, with a notice to the trustee, indorsed thereon and
signed by the officer, signifying that he is required to pay and deliver,
towards satisfying the execution, the goods, effects and credits, for
which he is liable ; and this shall be deemed a suliicient demand, for
all the purposes expressed in the three preceding sections.

SECT. 47. The judgment, against any person as atrustee, shall
acquit and discharge him from all demands by the principal defendant, or his executors or administrators, for all goods, effects and
credits, paid, delivered or accounted for by the trustee, by force of
such judgment ; and if he is afterwards sued therefore, by the said defendant, or his executors or administrators, he may plead the general
issue, and give the special matter of discharge in evidence.

SECT. 48. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee, is discharged, the judgment shall be no bar to an action, brought against
him by the princi al defendant, for the same demand.

SECT. 49. I any person, summoned as a trustee, shall appear at
the first term, and submit himself to an examination upon oath, as
before provided, he shall be allowed his costs for travel and attendance, and such further sum as the court shall think reasonable, for his
counsel fees and other necessary expenses.

Sac/r. 50. If such person shall be adjudged a trustee, his said
costs and charges shall be deducted and retained, out of the goods,
effects and credits in his hands, and he shall be chargeable for the
balance only, to be paid on the execution.

St~:c'r. 51. If such person shall be discharged as a trustee,
whether by reason of his having no goods, effects or credits in his
hands, or because the plaintifff shall not recover judgment against the
principal defendant, or for any other cause, his said costs and charges
shall be paid by the plaintifff, and the trustee shall have judgment and
execution therefore accordingly. '

.,r;c'r. 52. If the person, summoned as a trustee, is out of the
state at the time of the service of the original writ on him, and if he

shall appear as before provided, at the first term after his return, he

shall be allowed for his said costs and charges, in the same manner

as if he had appeared at the term when the action was entered.
SECT. 53. If the person so summoned does not dwell in the

' county in which the writ is returnable, he shall in all cases be allowed

his said costs and charges, which shall be retained or recovered as
before provided, whether he appears at the first or at any other term,
and whether in the original suit, or upon a scire facias against him.

Sncr. 54. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee, and
who dwells in the county in which the writ is returnable, shall, without any reason which the court shall deem sufficient, neglect to appear at the first term and submit himself to an examination as before
provided, he shall be liable for all costs for the plaintifff ’s travel and
attendance, until the trustee shall appear as aforesaid, provided the
plaintifff recovers judgment in the suit, and that his said costs are not
otherwise recovered and received by him.

Seer. 55. If the person, so liable for costs, shall not voluntarily
pay the amount thereof, when demanded by the‘ officer who serves
the execution, the officer shall state that fact in his return on the execution, and if it appears by the same return, that the said costs have
not been paid by any other person, or in any other manner, the court
shall award a new execution, against the person so summoned as a
trustee, for the costs due from him.

SEc'r. 56. If there are several persons summoned as trustees,

’ and liable for costs, according to the provisions of the two preceding
sections, the second execution shall be awarded against them all
jointly, and if any one shall pay more than his proportion thereof, the
others shall be bound to contribute equally, to indemnify him for the
excess.

. SECT. 57. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee, and
who dwells in the county in which the writ is returnable, shall be defaulted in the original suit, and a writ of scire facias shall be issued
against him, he shall be liable for all the costs of the suit on the scire
facias, to be paid out of his own goods and estate, whether he is

finally adjudged to be a trustee or not, except as hereinafter pro-_

vided.

SECT. 58. If it shall appear that the person so defaulted had in
his hands goods, effects or credits, liable to the attachment, and that
he has paid and delivered the whole amount thereof on the execution
issued on the original judgment, he shall not be liable for any costs in
the suit on the scire facias, nor shall he be entitled to recover any
costs.

SECT. 59. If the person so defaulted shall have been prevented
from appearing in the original suit, by his absence from the state, or
for any other reason that the court shall deem sufficient, he shall not
be liable for any costs in the suit on the scire facias, but the court
may, if it shall appear to them reasonable, allow him his costs and
charges for travel and attendance, and for his counsel fees and other
necessary expenses, to be retained or recovered, in like manner as if
he had appeared in the original suit.

Seer. 60. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee, shall
be held_ liable to pay, out of his own estate. the costs of suit on the

scire facias, as before provided, and if he is at the same time liable
for the costs, for the plaintifff ’s travel and attendance, in the original
suit, one execution against him shall be issued for both sums.

Scar. 61. When there are several trustees liable to the writ of
scire facias, the plaintifff may have one writ against them all jointly,
or may have separate writs against each one, or against any two or
more of them, but°if he shall, without any reason which the court
shall deem sufficient, sue out two or more writs, when he might have

joined all the trustees in one writ, he shall recover no more costs in

the whole than if he had sued out only one writ, and the court may
apportion the costs equally and proportionally, among all the trustees
who are liable therefore.

Sr-:c'r. 62. Any debt or legacy due from an executor or administrator, and any other goods, effects or credits, in the hands of an
executor or administrator as such, may be attached in his hands by
the process of foreign attachment.

Seer. 63. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee in his
own right, shall die before the judgment, if any, recovered by the
plaintifff, shall be fully satisfied, the goods, effects and credits in his

ands, at the time of the attachment, shall remain bound thereby, and
his executors or administrators shall be liable therefore, in like manner
as if the writ had been originally served on them.

S1-:c'r. 64. If the person so summoned shall die before judgment
in the original suit, his executor or administrator may appear voluntarily, or may be cited to appear, in like manner as is provided in case
of the death of any defendant in a common action, and the further
proceedings shall then be conducted in the same manner as if the
executor or administrator had been originally summoned as a trustee,
except that the examination of the deceased, if any had been filed,
shall have the same effect as if he were still living.

S1-:c'r. 65. If the executor or administrator in such case shall not
appear, the plaintifff, instead of suggesting the death of the testator or
intestate, may take judgment against him by default or otherwise, as
if he were living, and the executor or administrator shall pay on the
execution the amount which he would have been liable to pay to the
principal defendant, and he shall be thereby discharged from all demands on the part of the principal defendant in the suit, for the amount
so paid, in like manner as if the executor or administrator had been
himself adjudged the trustee.

SECT. 66. If the executor or administrator, in the case last mentioned, shall not voluntarily pay the amount in his hands, the plaintifff
may proceed against him, by a writ of scire facias, in like manner as
if the judgment in the first suit had been against the executor or administrator himself as trustee.

Sr.-:c'r. 67. If the person, originally summoned as a trustee, shall
die after judgment in the original action, the executor or administrator may pay, on the execution, the amount which the deceased would
have been liable to pay, if living, and he shall be discharged from all
further demands on account thereof, in the manner before mentioned ;
and if he shall refuse so to do, the plaintifff may proceed against him,

by a writ of scire facias, in the manner provided in the preceding section.

Sizer. 68. If any person, against whom execution shall issue as
a trustee, shall not be living at the expiration of thirty days after final
judgment in the trustee suit, the demand, to be made by force of the
execution, for the purpose of holding the attachment, may be made
of the executor or administrator of the deceased person, at any time
within thirty days after the appointment of such executor or administrator, and it shall have the same effect as if made within thirty days
after the judgment.

SECT. 69. When an executor or administrator is adjudged to be
a trustee, for or on account of any goods, effects or credits in his
hands or possession, merely as such executor or administrator, whether in a suit originally commenced against him as a trustee, or against
the deceased testator or intestate, and whether the judgment be in the
original suit, or on a writ of scire facias, the execution shall not be
served on his own goods or estate, nor on his person, but he shall be
liable for the amount in his hands, in like manner and to the same extent only as he would have been to the principal defendant, if there
had been no foreign attachment.

SECT. 70. If, after a final judgment against an executor or administrator, for any certain sum due from him as a trustee, he shall
neglect to pay the same, the original plaintifff in the foreign attachment
shall have the same remedy for recovering the amount, either upon a
suggestion of waste, or by a suit on the administration bond, as the
principal defendant in the foreign attachment would have had, upon a
judgment recovered by himself, for the same demand, against the executor or administrator.

Sr.c'r. 71. All personal actions, which may by law be brought

, before a justice of the peace, except those which are excepted in the

first section of this chapter, may be commenced by the process of
foreign attachment, in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 72. No person shall be summoned, nor held to answer as
a trustee, in any action before a justice of the peace, in any other
county than that in which he dwells ; and if he is out of the county,
at the time of the service of the original writ on him, and shall not
return before the final judgment in the suit, he shall not be chargeable
as a trustee.

Sxcr. 73. The form of the writ, and all the proceedings in such
suit, before a justice of the peace, shall be substantially the same, as
are before provided in this chapter, in the case of a like suit in the
court of common pleas.

Snow. 74. VVhen any person, summoned as a trustee, before a
justice of the peace, shall be entitled to costs, his travel and attendance shall be taxed at the same rate as if he were a principal defendant, and he shall be allowed such further sum, as the justice shall
think reasonable, for his counsel fees and other necessary expenses.

Sncr. 75. VVhen it shall become necessary to sue out a writ of
scire facias against any person, who has been summoned as a trustee,
before a justice of the peace, it may be issued by the justice by
whom the judgment was rendered, although the amount of the debt
and costs therein should exceed twenty dollars.

Snow. 76. The provisions, contained in the five preceding sections, shall extend to all police courts, and other courts exercising the

jurisdiction of justices of the peace, and the said olice and other
courts may hear and determine, in the manner he ore provided, all
actions duly brought before them by the said process of foreign attachment.

S1-:c'r. 77. No action shall be maintained, before any justice of
the peace, or before a police court, or other court exercising the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, unless it be one of which the
same justice or court would have had jurisdiction, if it had been commenced by the ordinary process.

SECT. 78. If any erson, summoned as a trustee, or the executor or administrator olp any such person, or if any officer, agent or
other person, who shall appear and answer for a corporation, so summoned, shall, upon his examination on oath, knowingly and willfully
answer falsely, he shall, out of his own goods and estate, pay to the
plaintifff in the foreign attachment, or to his executors or administrators, the full amount due on the judgment recovered therein, with interest therefore, to be recovered in a special action on the case, and
he shall, moreover, on conviction thereof upon indictment, be adjudged guilty of perjury.

CHAPTER 1 10.

OF SUITS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

Sncnon S|:c'rron

1. Writs against executors and adminis- 6. Scire facias against executor, &c. on
tors, how to run. suggestion of waste.

2. Executor, &c. when personally liable '7. Death of executor, &c. pending a suit.
for costs. 8. Proceedings in such case.

3, 4. Execution in such case. 9. Death of executor, &c. after judgment.

5. Such costs to be allowed in their ad- 10. Writ of error, how brought in such
ministration accounts, unless, &.c. case.

SECTION 1. All writs of attachment, and all executions, against
executors or administrators, for debts due from the deceased testator
or intestate, shall run only against the goods and estate of the deceased in their hands, and not against their own bodies, or their goods or
estate.

Seer. 2. When a judgment for costs shall be rendered against
an executor or administrator, in any action commenced by or against
him, or in any action commenced by or against the testator or intestate, wherein the executor or administrator has appeared and taken
upon himself the prosecution or defense, he shall be personally liable
for the costs.

SE01‘. 3. When judgment is recovered against an executor or
administrator for costs only, the execution shall be awarded against his
body and his goods and estate, as if it were for his own debt.

SE01‘. 4. When the judgment is for debt or damages, and for

costs also, an execution, for the debt or damages, shall be awarded
against the goods and estate of the deceased, in the hands of the executor or administrator, and another execution, for the sum due for
costs, shall be awarded against the goods and estate of the executor
or administrator, and also against his body, as if it were for his own
debL

SE01‘. 5. All costs, paid by executors or administrators, and for
which they are made personally liable, shall be allowed them in their
administration accounts, unless the judge of probate shall decide that
the suit was prosecuted or defended without reasonable cause.

SECT. 6. When an execution against an executor or administrator, for a debt due from the estate of the deceased, is returned unsatistied, the creditor may sue out a scire facias, upon a suggestion 0!
Waste, against the executor or administrator, and if the defendant
shall not appear and show suilicient cause to the contrary, he shall be
deemed guilty of waste, and shall be personally liable for the amount
of such waste, when it can be ascertained, otherwise for the amount
due on the original judgment, with interest thereon, from the time
when it was rendered, and judgment and execution shall be awarded
accordingly as for his own debt.

Seer. 7. When an executor or administrator shall die or be removed from office, during the pendency of any suit, in which he is a
party, the suit may be rosecuted by or against the administrator de
bonis non, if any shall he appointed, in like manner as if it had been
originally commenced by or against such last administrator.

SECT. 8. The proceedings in such case, with respect to the appearance of the administrator de bonis non, whether voluntarily, or
upon a citation, and with respect to his nonsuit or default, if he does
not appear, shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in the ninety
third chapter, upon occasion of the death of either party during the
pendency of a suit.

SE01‘. 9. If any executor or administrator shall die or be removed, after judgment is rendered, either for or against him, a scire facias
may be sued out, either by or against the administrator de bonis non,
and a new execution may be issued accordingly, in like manner as it
may be done by or against an original executor or administrator, in
case of the death of his testator or intestate, after a judgment rendered
for or against him, except only, that a judgment against the first executor or administrator for costs, for which he was personally liable,
shall be enforced only against his executor or administrator, and not
against the administrator de bonis non.

SECT. 10. When a judgment is rendered in any case for or
against an executor or administrator, a writ of error may be brought
thereon, by or against an administrator de bonis non, if any should be
appointed, in like manner as it might have been brought by or against
the executor or administrator, who was party to the judgment.

CHAPTER 1 1 1 .

OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

Sncrton

l. Writ of babeas corpus for discharge of
prisoners.

2. In what cases, not issuable as of right.

3. Application therefore, bow and to whom
made.

4. To be issued and returned without
delay—Returnable to S. J. Court or to
one justice thereof.

5. Form of writ in certain cases.

6. Writ, how signed and served.

7, 8. “ by whom issued.

9. “ bow returned and proceeded on,
in certain cases.

10. The odicer, &c., how to be named or
described.

11. The party, how to be namedor described.

12. Costs of service to be advanced, when
the party is in legal custody.

13. Writ, when to be returned.

14. I Substance of the return.

15. Return to be signed; and sworn to, unless, &c.

16. The party to be produced with the
writ.

17. Proceedings when the party is sick, &c.

18. Examination to proceed without delay;,

adjournment thereof.
19. Notice, when to be given to other perSxcrrott

2]. Mode of examination and trial.
2?. Party, in what case to be discharged.‘
93- “ when and how to be bailed.

54-. How, when committed on mesne process.

25. In what case to be remanded.

26. Custody of the party, pending the examiuation.

27. Penalty on officer refining copy of
warrant.

28. Proceedings against one refusing to
obey the writ.

29. Proceedings against a sherif, &.c. in
such case.

30. New precept to issue to another officer,
&c.

31. Penalty on the person so refusing.

32. “ for removing or concealing a
prisoner.

33. These penalties not to bar an action by
the party.

34. Party discharged, not to be imprisoned
again, unless, &c.

35. Discretionary power of supreme court
to bail, &c. '

36. Person committed, &.c. how and by
whom bailable.

37. Habeas corpus, in what other cases to

i
u
i

sons. beissued.
20. “ when to be given to the attor-L 38. Writ de homine replegiando, abolney for the Commonwealth. i ished.
SECTION 1. Eve person, imprisoned in any common jail, or

otherwise restrained 0 his liberty, by any oiiicer or other person, except in the cases mentioned in the following section, may prosecute a
writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to
obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall prove to
be unlawful.

SE01. 2. The following persons shall not be entitled, as of right,
to demand and prosecute the said writ :

First. Persons committed for treason or felony, or for suspicion
thereof, or as accessories before the fact to a felony, when the cause
is plainly and s ecially expressed in the warrant of commitment:

Secondly. ‘Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal process,
civil or criminal : ,

Thirdly. Persons committed on mesne process in any civil action on which they were liable to be arrested and imprisoned, unless
when excessive and unreasonable bail is required.

Snow. 3. Application for such writ shall be made to the court or
magistrate authorized to issue the same, by complaint in writing,
signed by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person
in his behalf, setting forth,

First, the person by whom, and the place where, the party is imprisoned or restrained, naming the prisoner and the person detaining
him, if their names are known, and describing them if they are not
known :

Secondly, the cause or pretense of such imprisonment or restraint,
according to the knowledge and belief of the person applying :

Thirdly, if the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, or other process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be
made to appear that a copy thereof has been demanded and refused,
or that for some sufiicient reason a demand of such copy could not be
made: and

Fourthly, the facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified by
the oath of the person making the application, or by that of some other credible witness, which oath may be administered by the court or
magistrate to whom the application is made, or by any justice of the

eace.
P Snow. 4. The court or magistrate, to whom such complaint
shall he made, shall, without delay, award and issue a writ of habeas
corpus, which shall be substantially in the form heretofore established
and used in this state, except in the cases provided for in the following section, and shall, in all cases, be made returnable forthwith,
either before the supreme judicial court, or before any one of the
justices thereof, and at such place as shall be designated in the writ.

- Snow. 5. In cases of imprisonment or restraint, by any person
not a sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner or jailer of this state, nor a marshal, deputy marshal or other like officer of the courts of the United

- States, the writ shall be in the form following :

Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

[81-1AL.] To the sheriff's of our several counties, and their respective deputies. Greeting.
We command you, that the body of of by of
imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, you
take and have before a justice of our supreme judicial court, at
, immediate! after receipt of this writ, to do and receive
what our said justice shall then and there consider, concerning him
in this behalf; and summon the said , then and there to appear
before our said justice,-to show the cause of the taking and detaining
of the said , and have you there this writ with your doings
thereon. Witness at , this day of in
the year
SECT. 6. When the writ is issued by the supreme judicial court,
in session, it shall be signed by the clerk, otherwise by the magistrate or magistrates issuing the same, and may, in either case, be
served in any county, by any sheriff or deputy sheriff of the same or
of any other county.

SE01‘. 7. The writ may in all cases be issued by the supreme

judicial court, or by any of the justices thereof.

Saar. 8. The writ may be issued by any judge of the court
of common pleas, if no justice of the supreme judicial court is known
to him to be within ten miles of the place, where the party is imprisoned or restrained, or by any judge of probate, if no justice of the
supreme judicial court nor judge of the court of common pleas is
known to him to be within that distance, or by any two justices of
the peace and of the quorum, if no justice of the supreme judicial
court, judge of the court of common pleas, nor judge of probate is
known to them to be within that distance, and whether the place of
imprisonment be within or without the county, for which such judge
of robate or justices of the peace may have been appointed.

gear. 9. If the court, to which the writ is returnable, shall be
adjourned before it is returned, the return shall be made before any
one of the justices of the said court; and if the writ is in any case
returned before one judge, at a time when the court is in session, he
may adjourn the case into the court, to be there heard and determined, in like manner as if the writ had been returned into the
same court.

Snow. 10. The person, having the custody of the prisoner, may
be designated by his name of office, if he have any, or by his own
name, or if both such names are unknown or uncertain, he may be
described by an assumed appellation, and any one, who is served
with the writ, shall be deemed the person intended thereby.

Saar. 11. The person to be produced shall be designated by his
name, if known, and if that is unknown or uncertain, he may be
described in any other way, so as to make known who is intended.

SECT. 12. If the party is confined in a common jail, or in the
custody of any civil officer, the court or judge, who grants the writ,
shall certify thereon the sum to be paid for the expense of bringing
him from the place of imprisonment, and the officer, to whom the
writ is directed, shall not be bound to obey it, unless that sum be paid
or tendered to him.

Snow. 13. Any person, to whom the writ is directed, shall receive it, and upon payment or tender of the charges, if an , demandable for the execution of it, he shall make due return ereof,
within three days after receiving it, if the place of return is within
twenty miles from the place of imprisonment, and if it is more than
twenty, and within one hundred miles, he shall return the writ within
seven days, and if it is more than one hundred miles, he shall return
it within fourteen days.

SECT. 14. In cases, other than those provided for in the fifth
section, the person, who makes the return, shall state therein, and in
the cases provided for in the fifth section, the person, in whose custody the prisoner shall be found, shall state, in writing, to the court
orljustice before whom the writ is returnable, plainly and unequivocaly,

First, whether he has or has not the party in his custody or power,
or under restraint :

Secondly, if he has the party in his custody or power, or under
restraint, he shall set forth at large the authority, and the true and

whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, with a copy of the
writ, warrant or other process, if any, upon which the party is detained : and

Thirdly, if he has had the party in his custody or power, or under
restraint, and has transferred such custody or restraint to another, he
shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by
what authority, such transfer was made.

Star. 15. The return or statement shall be signed by the person
making it, and it shall also be sworn to by him, unless he is a sworn
public officer and shali make the return in his official capacity.

St=:c'r. 16. The person, who makes the return or statement,
shall, at the same time, bring the body of the party, if in his custody
or power, or under his restraint, according to the command of the
writ, unless prevented by the sickness or infirmity of the party.

SECT. 17. When, from the sickness or infirmity of the party,
he cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appointed for the
return of the writ, that fact shall be stated in the return ; and if it is
proved to the satisfaction of the court or judge, he may proceed to
tne jail or other place, where the party is confined, and there make
his examination, or may adjourn the same to another time, or may
make such other order in the case, as law and justice shall require.

SECT. 18. When the writ of habeas corpus is returned, the

j court or judge shall, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of

the imprisonment or restraint ; but the examination may be adjourned,
from time to time, as circumstances may require.

’ SECT. 19. When it appears,’ from the return of the writ or otherwise, that the party is detained on any process, under which any
other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or restraint, the party shall not be discharged, until sufiicient notice shall

‘have been given to such other person or his attorney, if within the

state, or within thirty miles of the place of examination, to appear
and object to such discharge, if he thinks fit.

SI-:c'r. 20. When it appears, from the return of the writ or otherwise, that the party is imprisoned on any criminal accusation, he

i shall not be discharged, until sufficient notice shall have been given to

the attorney general, or other attorney for the Commonwealth, that he
may appear and object to such discharge, if he thinks fit.
SECT. 21. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny any of

the facts, set forth in the return or statement, and may allege any

other facts, that may be material in the case, and the court or judge
shall proceed, in a summary way, to examine the causes of the imprisonment or restraint, and to hear the evidence that may be produced by any person, interested or authorized to appear, both in support of such imprisonment or restraint, and against it, and thereupon
to dispose of the party, as law and justice shall require.

SECT. 22. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment or
restraint, the court or judge shall discharge the party therefrom.

SECT. 23. If the party is detained for any cause or offense, for

, which he is bailafile, he shall he admitted to bail, if sufficient bail be

offered, and if not, he shall be remanded, with an order of the court
or judge, expressing the sum in which he shall be held to bail, and
the court at which he shall be required to appear ; and any justice of

the peace may, at any time before the sitting of the said court, hail
the party pursuant to such order.

SECT. 24. If the arty is committed on mesne process, in any
civil action, for want 0 ball, and if it shall appear that the sum, for
which bail is required, is excessive and unreasonable, the court or
judge shall decide what bail is reasonable, and shall order, that on
giving such bail, the party shall be discharged.

Sam‘. 25. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained, and
is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be remanded to
the person, from whose custody he was taken, or to such other person or officer, as by law is authorized to detain him.

Seer. 26_. Until judgment be given, the court or judge may remand the party, or may bail him to appear from day to day, or may
commit him to the sheriff of the county, or place him under such
other care and custody, as the circumstances of the case may reuire.
q Seer. 27. Any officer, who shall refuse or neglect, for six hours,
to deliver a true copy of the warrant or process, by which he detains
any prisoner, to any person who shall demand such copy, and tender
the fees therefore, shall forfeit and pay to such prisoner the sum of two
hundred dollars.

SECT. 28. If any person, to whom such writ of habeas corpus
shall be directed, shall refuse to receive the same, or shall neglect to
obey and execute it, according to the provisions of this chapter, and
no suliicient excuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect, the
court or judge, before whom the writ was returnable, shall proceed
forthwith, by process of attachment, as fora contempt, to compel obedience to the writ, and to punish the person guilty of the contempt.

SECT. 29. If such attachment shall be issued against a sheriff or
his deputy, it may be directed to any coroner, or to any other person to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute
the same ; and if the sheriff or his deputy should be committed upon
such process, he may be committed to the jail of any county other
than his own.

SECT. 30. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person to whom
the writ of habeas corpus is directed, the court or judge may also issue a precept to any officer or other person to be designated therein, commanding him to bring forthwith, before such court or judge,
the person, for whose benefit the writ of habeas corpus was issued,
and the prisoner shall be thereupon discharged, bailed, or remanded,
in like manner as if he had been brought in upon the writ of habeas
corpus.

SECT. 3]. Every person, guilty of such refusal or neglect to
receive and execute a writ of habeas corpus, shall moreover forfeit
gntlll pay, to the party aggrieved thereby, the sum of four hundred

o ars.

SECT. 32. If any one, who has in his custody or under his power, any person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether any writ
has been issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the service of such
writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such risoner to the cus
tody, or place him under the power or control, 0 any other person,
or conceal him. or change the place of his confinement, the person

justices thereo

so offending shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thereby the
sum of four hundred dollars.

SECT. 33. The recovery of any penalty, imposed by this chapter, shall not bar any action at the common law for false imprisonment,
or for a false return to the writ of habeas corpus, or for any other injury or damage sustained by the aggrieved party.

SECT. 34. No person, who has been discharged upon a habeas
corpus, shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the same cause,
unless he shall be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail by some court of record having 'urisdiction of
the cause, or, unless after a discharge for defect of] proof, or for
some material defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, he shall
be again arrested on suliicient proof, and committed by legal process
for the same offense.

Saar. 35. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to restrain the ower of the supreme judicial court, or any one of the

I}: to issue a writ of habeas corpus at their discretion,
and thereupon to bail any person, for whatever cause he may be committed or restrained, or to discharge him, as law and justice shall require ; except only persons committed by the governor and council,
or by the senate, or the house of representatives, in the manner and
for the causes, mentioned in the constitution.

SECT. 36. When any person is committed to jail on any criminal accusation, for want of bail, any justice of the court of common
pleas, or any two justices of the peace and of the quorum, may adrhit him to bail, in like manner as might have been done by the court
or magistrate who committed him ; and the saidjustices, respectively,
shall have power to issue a writ of habeas corpus, and to cause such
prisoner to be brought before them, when it shall be necessary for the
purpose expressed in this section.

SECT. 37. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus,
when necessary, to bring before them any prisoner, for trial in any
criminal case, lawfully pending in the same court, or to bring in any
prisoner, to be examined as a witness in any suit or proceeding, civil
or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall think the personal
attendance and examination of the witness necessary for the attainment
of justice.

Sncr. 38. The writ de homine replegiando is abolished.

 
 

CHAPTER 1 1 2.

OF WRITS OF AUDITA QUERELA, OF ERROR, AND OF CERTIORARI.

Bzcnou Sncnox
wnrr or AUDITA qunanu. 2. To what court returnable.
1. Writ of audita querela, how sued out 3. General issue, what; and trial thereon.
Ind |0fV¢d 4-. Judgment how rendered

Sac-non S3c1-joy

a new action.

_ 16. Writs of error in capital cases 3
. 6. Either party may appeal to supreme

17, 18. And in other criminal cases.

court.
7. Plaintiff may be discharged from pm- 19- All Writs of error limited to via: youron, on giving bond, die. *3” l“d8"n°“ 3
3, condition of the bond_ 3) Or to six years after anew suit on the
9. Plaintitf after surrender, to be held, 614:. .l°dS'm¢mW3". 0,. Ennom war!‘ or cnanonuu.
10. Writs of error to issue from the su- 21' wfll’ °f °°”i°“'i ‘° i"“° 5°” ‘I’
preme con". supreme court.
1]. Bond required for stay of execution. 22' C°"'3r in ‘”h'“ °”°‘ ‘"°"’d""C°“"
12. Sum and sureties, how determined. may ‘“°w °°“’ in 3“ ca-‘°‘°
13. Proceedings, when a bond is filed. 23' wfll “mlwd ‘° 3i‘ 3'33"I4. What costs, for the party prevailing. 24. What writs and petitions to be indoned.

WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.

SECTION 1. The writ of audita querela may be sued out and
served, like an original writ of attachment or summons in any civil
action, and the forms of process in the suit shall be substantially the
same as have been heretofore established and used in this state.

Sacr. 2. When the writ is brought to prevent, set aside, or annul, any proceedings upon a judgment or execution, it shall be sued
out of, and be returnable to, the court in which the judgment was
rendered ; and in all other cases, it shall be sued out of, and be returnable to, the court of common pleas for the county in which any
personal action might be brought by the same plaintifff against the deendant.

SECT. 3. The general issue, in actions upon this writ, shall be
the plea of not guilty, upon which issue, the plaintifff shall be held to
prove his whole case, and the defendant may give in evidence any
special matter which he might have pleaded specially in his defense.

Snow. 4. The court shall proceed to hear and determine the
cause, upon any issue of law or fact that shall be joined therein, or
upon the nonsuit or default of either party, as in other cases, and
shall render such judgment as law and justice shall require.

Snow. 5. If the writ is brought to set aside or annul any proceedings under an execution, and the plaintifff shall prevail in the suit,
he shall, at the same time, recover recompense for the damages that
he may have suffered by the said proceedings, and the judgment in
the suit on the audita querela, shall be a bar to any other action thereafter brought for the same damages.

Seer. 6. Either party, aggrieved by the judgment of the court
of common pleas, in a suit upon a writ of audita querela, may appeal
thereirom to the supreme judicial court, in like manner as in other
civil actions.

SE01‘. 7. If the plaintifff in such suit is imprisoned by force of
the execution or other process complained of, the court, in which the
suit is pending, may enlarge him, upon his giving bond to the defendant, in such sum as the court shall order, with two or more sureties
having sufficient within the county, and approved by the court, with
condition as provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 8. The condition of the bond shall be, that if final judgment in the suit on the audita querela shall be rendered for the defendant, the plaintifff shall, within thirty days thereafter, surrender
himself to the jailer or other officer by whom he was imprisoned, to
be detained in custody under the former execution or process, or
shall within that time pay the sum due on the former execution or
process, together with such costs as may be recovered by the defendant.

SI-:c'r. 9. If the plaintifff shall surrender himself, as mentioned In

T the preceding section, he shall be in custody under the execution or

other process, by force whereof he was imprisoned, in like manner
as if the writ of audita querela had not been brought, and the plaintifff
had not been enlarged.

WRIT OF ERROR.

SECT. 10. Writs of error, in civil and criminal cases, may issue
of course out of the supreme judicial court, in vacation as well as in
term time, and shall be returnable to the same court.

SECT. 11. No writ of error shall operate to stay or to supersede

t the execution in any civil action, unless the plaintifff in error, or some

person in his behalf, shall give bond to the defendant, with one or
more sufficient sureties, with condition that the plaintifff shall prosecute his suit to effect, and shall pay and satisfy such judgment as shall
be rendered thereon.

SECT. 12. The sufliciency of the sureties, and the sum for which

’ the bond shall be given, shall be determined, in each case, by any justice of the supreme judicial court, or by the clerk from whose office
the writ of error is issued, according to such general rules as the court

may from time to time establish.

SECT. 13.‘ The bond, if any is given, shall be filed in the clerk’s

‘ office for the use of the defendant, and no execution shall be thereafter issued upon the judgment complained of, during the pendency of
the writ of error ; and if execution shall have been already issued, the
clerk shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of the writ of
error and the filing of the bond, and after notice of such certificate to
the ofllcer holding the execution, all further proceedings thereon shall

be stayed.

SECT. 14. The party prevailing on a writ of error in any civil

' action shall, in all cases, be entitled to his costs against the adverse
. party, and if the judgment is affirmed, the court shall adjudge to the

defendant in error damages for his delay, not less than at the rate of
six per cent., and not exceeding twelve percent. a year, on the
amount recovered by the former judgment, and in such case they
may also, in their discretion, award to the defendant double cqsts.

SECT. 15. The proceedings upon writs of error, as to the assignment of errors, and the scire facias to the defendant, and the pleadings, judgment, and all other matters not herein provided for, shall be
according to the course of the common law, as modified by the practice and usage in this state, and such general rules as shall be made
by the supreme judicial court.

Sncr. 16. No writ of error, upon ajudgment for any capital of~ fence, shall issue, unlass allowed by one of the justices of the supreme

judicial court, after notice given to the attorney general, or other attorney for the Commonwealth.

SECT. 17. Writs of error, upon judgments in all other criminal .
cases, shall issue of course, but they shall not stay or delay the exe- ‘
cution of the judgment or sentence, unless they shall be allowed by
one of the justices of the supreme judicial court, with an express order thereon for a stay of proceedings on the judgment or sentence.

Seer. 18. When a stay of proceedings shall be ordered, as provided in the preceding section, the judge may at the same time make
such order as the case may require, for the custody of the plaintifff in
error, or for letting him to bail, or the party may, upon a writ of
habeas corpus, procure his enlargement upon giving bail, if entitled
thereto.

SECT. 19. No judgment in any case whatever shall be reversed
or avoided, for any error or defect therein, unless the writ of error
thereon be sued out within six years next after the entering of the
judgment, or within six years after this act shall take effect.

SECT. 20. If an action of debt, or awrit of scire facias, should be
brought on any judgment, a writ of error to reverse the judgment
may be sued out, at any time within six years after the bringing of
such action of debt or writ of scire facias.

WRIT OF CERTIORARI.

SECT. 21. All writs of certiorari, to correct errors in proceedings that are not according to the course of the common law, shall be
issued from and returnable to the supreme judicial court, according
to the practice heretofore established, and subject to such further regulations, as shall be made, from time to time, by the general rules of
the supreme judicial court.

Seer. 22. Upon every application for a certiorari, and also on
the final adjudication, when a certiorari is granted, the court may, in
their discretion, award costs against any party who shall appear and
undertake to maintain or object to the proceeding in question.

SECT. 23. No such writ of certiorari shall be issued, unless application therefore be made within six years next after the proceeding
which is complained of, or within six years after this act shall take
effect.

SI-:c'r. 24. All writs of audita querela, writs‘ of error in civil cases, and petitions for writs of certiorari, shall be indorsed in the same
manner as is provided with respect to original writs, and all the regulations concerning the indorsement of original writs, contained in
the ninetieth chapter, shall apply in like manner to the indorsement
of writs and petitions mentioned in this section.

CHAPTER 1 13.

OF DISTRAINING CATTLE, AND OF THE ACTION OF REPLEVIN.

Sncuon

or DISTRAINING CATTLI.
l. Beasts distrained shall be impounded.

2. Fees to tielddriver and poundkeeper.
3. To be paid by the owner of the beasts.

4. Beasts, doing damage, may be distrained:
5. And shall be impounded.
6. The person distraining to state his demand.
7. Beasts, not to be delivered, until all
costs and charges are paid.
8. Notice to be given to the owner or
keeper;
9. Or posted up, and published in a newspaper, in case, &.c.
10, 11. The sum due from the owner, how
to be determined.
12. If not paid, the beasts to be sold.
13. Proceeds, how disposed of.
14. Beasts escaped or rescued, may be retaken.
15. Penalty for rescuing beasts distrained.
16. The legality of a distress to be tried
only by replevin.

Sncnotr

20. In double the value of the property as
appraised.

21. Return of the writ, with the bond and
appraisal.

22. Judgment for defendant, how to be
rendered.

23. Beasts returned, how to be disposed of.

24. Judgment for the plaintiff.

25. Either party may appeal.

26. Certain cases to be removed to court
of common pleas.

or OTHER nrzrnnvrzt or GOODS.

27. Replevin of goods attached, &c.

28. Writ, how sued out, served and retumed—Issue.

29. Plaintid to give bond.

30. Judgment for the defendant.

3]. Damages for delaying an execution.

32, 33. Sums recovered on the bond, &.c.,
how disposed of.

34. Judgment for the plaintiff.

35. Damages by whom to be assessed.

36. Goods attached, held liable aller return.

37. Writ of reprisal, when to be issued

38. Forms of the writs of return and rennrnnvnt or c.n"rr.r: DISTRAINED. prisal.
17. vvm or replevin before a justice or the 39- These proceedings not to bar action on
peace. the bond, &.c.
18. Proceedings thereon. 40. Limitation of suit against suretv on the
19. Plaintiff to give bond : replevin bond.

OF DISTRAINING CATTLE.

SECTION 1. When any beasts are taken up and distrained by any
field driver, for going at large contrary to law, they shall be forthwith
impounded in the town pound, and the pound keeper shall furnish
them with suitable food and water, so long as they are detained in his
custody.

Snow. 2. The field driver shall be entitled to lifty cents per
head for all horses, asses, mules, and neat cattle, and ten cents per
head for all sheep, goats and swine, so distrained by him, and the
pound keeper shall be entitled to four cents per head for all the said
animals so impounded ; provided, that if more than ten sheep are
taken up at the same time, the fees for all above that number shall be
only one half of the fees before mentioned.

SE01‘. 3. The pound keeper shall not deliver to the owner any
beasts so impounded, until the owner shall ay him his fees and the
expense of keeping the beasts, and also t e fees due to the field
driver, which latter, when received, he shall pav to the field driver

SE01‘. 4. When any person is injured in his land, by sheep,
swine, horses, asses, mules, goats, or neat cattle, he may recover his
damages in an action of trespass against the owner of the beasts, or
by distraining the beasts doing the damage, and proceeding therewith
as herein after directed ; provided, that if the beasts shall have been
lawfully on the adjoining lands, and shall have escaped therefrom, in
consequence of the neglect of the person, who has suffered the damage, to maintain his part of the division fence, the owner of the
beasts shall not be liable for such damage.

SECT. 5. The beasts so distrained for doing damage shall be impounded, either in the town pound, or in some suitable place, under
the immediate care and inspection of the person who distrained them,
and he shall furnish them with suitable food and water, so long as
they remain im ounded.

SE01‘. 6. f the beasts are impounded, in the town pound, the
distrainer shall leave with the pound keeper a memorandum in writing,
under his hand, stating the cause of impounding, and the sum that he
demands from the owner, for the damage done by the beasts, and also
for the daily charges of feeding them ; and if they are impounded in
any other place, he shall give a like memorandum to the owner of the
beasts, if demanded by him.

Seer. 7. The pound keeper, when the beasts are in his custody,
shall not deliver them to the owner, until the owner shall pay him his
fees, together with the sum so demanded by the distrainer, for the
damages and charges aforesaid, and the expense of advertising the
beasts, if they are advertised, and all other legal costs and expenses.

SE01‘. 8. When beasts are impounded, the person impoundin'g
them shall, within twenty four hours thereafter, give notice thereo ,
in writing, to the owner or the person having the care of them, if
known, and living within six miles from the place of impounding, which notice shall be delivered to the party, or left at his place
of abode, and shall contain a description of the beasts, and a statement of the time, place and cause of impounding.

Saar. 9. If there is no person entitled to notice, according to the
provisions of the preceding section, the person impounding the beasts
shall, within forty eight hours thereafter, cause to be posted in some
public place in the town, and in a public place in each of any two adJoining towns, if within four miles from the place where they were
taken, a written notice, containing a description of the beasts, and a
statement of the time, place and cause of impounding them ; and in
such case, if the value of the beasts shall exceed thirty dollars, and
if no person shall appear to claim them, within seven days after the
day of impounding, a like notice shall be published, three weeks
successively, in some public newspaper, if there is any published
within twenty miles from the place of impounding, the first publication to be within fifteen days after the day of impounding.

St-:c'r. 10. If the owner or keeper of the beasts shall be dissatisfied with the claim of the person impounding them, he may have the
amount, for which he isliable, ascertained and determined by two disinterested and discreet persons, to be appointed and sworn for that
purpose, by a justice of ‘the peace or by the town clerk ; and the sum
so determined by them shall be received, instead of the sum demanded by the person who impounded the beasts, and they shall thereupon
be delivered to the owner or keeper thereof.

SE01‘. 1]. If the sum, for which the beasts are impounded and
detained, shall not be paid within fourteen days after notice of the
impounding shall have been given, as before directed, or after the last
publication of such notice in a newspaper, the person who impounded
them shall apply to a justice of the peace, or to the town clerk, and
obtain a warrant to two disinterested and discreet persons, to be appointed and sworn by the justice or town clerk, and the persons so
appointed shall ascertain and determine the sum, due from the owner
or keeper of the beasts, for the damages, costs and expenses, for
which they are impounded and detained, including a reasonable compensation for their own services.

SECT. 12. If the sum so found to be due shall not be forthwith
paid, the person, who impounded the beasts, shall cause them to be
sold by auction, in the town where they are impounded, first advertising the sale, by posting up a notice thereof, twenty four hours heforehand, at some public place in the same town.

SECT. 13. The proceeds of such sale, after paying all the said
damages, costs and expenses, with the charges for advertising and
selling the beasts, shall be deposited in the treasury of the town, for
the use of the owner of the beasts, in case he shall substantiate his
claim thereto within two years from the sale.

SECT. 14. If any beasts, that have been lawfully distrained or

' impounded, shall escape or be rescued, the pound keeper, field driver,

or other person who distrained them, may, at any time within seven
days ‘thereafter, retake the beasts, and hold and dispose thereof, as if
no such escape or rescue had taken place.

SECT. 15. If any person shall rescue any beasts, lawfully distrained or impounded, for any cause whatever, he shall be liable in an
action on the case, to be brought by any person injured, to pay all
damages which such person shall have sustained thereby, and all the
fees and charges, that shall have been incurred before the rescue;
and he shall moreover forfeit a sum not less than five, nor more than
twenty dollars, to be recovered by complaint, before a justice of the
peace or a police court.

SEc'r. 16. The defendant, in any action brought for rescuing
beasts distrained or impounded, shall not be allowed to allege or give
in evidence the insufiiciency of the fences, or any other fact or circumstance, to show that the distress or impounding was illegal; but
if there is any such ground of objection to the proceeding, of which
he is entitled to avail himself, he may have the advantage thereof, in
an action of replevin, to he brought as provided in the following
sections.

REPLEVIN OI-‘ CATTLE DISTRAINED.

SECT. 17. Any person, whose beasts are distrained or impounded, in order to recover any penalty or forfeiture, supposed to have
been incurred by their going at large, or to obtain satisfaction for any
damages, alleged to have been done by them, may maintain a writ of
replevin therefore, to be sued out, and prosecuted before any justice

of the peace for the county, in the same form, substantially, that has
been heretofore established and used in such cases.

SECT. 18. The writ shall be sued out, served and returned, and
the cause shall be heard and determined, in like manner as is provided in the case of other civil actions before a justice of the peace,
in all particulars in which a different course is not prescribed.

SECT. 19. The writ shall not be served, unless the plaintifff, or ‘V
someone in his behalf, shall execute and deliver to the officer abond ‘

to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer, in a penalty double the value of the property to be replevied,
with condition to prosecute the replevin to final judgment, and to pay
such damages and costs, as the defendant shall recover against him,
and also to return the said property, in case such shall be the final
judgment.

SECT. 20. The writ shall require that such bond shall be given l
in double the value of the property to be replevied, but shall not
express the sum or amount, for which it shall be given; and the;

value of the property shall be ascertained by three disinterested and
discreet persons, to be appointed and sworn by the officer, when the
parties shall not agree as to the value, and the penalty of the bond
shall be equal to double the value ascertained by the persons so appointed, or by any two of them.

SECT. 21. The officer shall return with the writ the bond that;
he shall take, to be left with the justice, for the use of the defendant, 1

and he shall also include in his return, indorsed on the writ, a certificate of the appointment of the said three appraisers, and of the appraisal, and of the expenses thereof.

SECT. 22. If it shall appear, upon the nonsuit of the plaintifff, or ~

upon a trial or otherwise, that the beasts were lawfully taken or distrained, the defendant shall have judgment for such sum, as shall be
found to be due from the plaintifff, for the penalty or forfeiture, or for
the damages, for which the beasts were impounded, together with all
the legal fees, costs, charges, and expenses, incurred by reason of
the distress, and also the costs of the action of replevin ; or instead
of such judgment, the justice may in his discretion enter judgment for
a return of the beasts to the defendant, to be held by him, irrepleviable by the plaintifff, and for the defendant’s damages for the taking
thereof by the replevin, and for his costs of the suit.

SECT. 23. \Vhen the beasts are returned to the defendant, pur- j
suant to such judgment, they shall be held and disposed of, in like p

manner as if they had not been replevied.

St-:c'r. 24. If it shall appear, upon the default of the defendant, i

or upon a trial or otherwise, that the beasts were taken or distrained,
without any sufficient or justifiable cause, the plaintifff shall have judgment for his damages caused by the unjust taking and detaining of the
beasts, and for his costs of the suit.

S207. 2.5. Either party may appeal from the final judgment of
the justice, in like manner as in other civil actions tried before a
justice of the peace.

Sr.c'r. 26. When it shall appear that the sum demanded for the
penalty, forfeiture or damages, exceeds the sum of twenty dollars, or
that the property of the beasts is in question, and that their value exceeds twenty dollars, or that the title to real estate is concerned or
brought in question, the case shall, at the request of either party, be
transferred to the court of common pleas, and be there disposed of,
in like manner as is provided in the eighty fifth chapter, with respect
to common civil actions, brought before a justice of the peace, in
which the title to real estate is concerned or brought in question.

or OTHER REPLEVIN or GOODS.
Snow. 27. When any goods, of the value of more than twenty

' dollars, shall be unlawfully taken, or unlawfully detained, from the

owner or the person entitled to the possession thereof, or when any
goods of that value, which are attached on mesne process or taken in
execution, are claimed by any person other than the defendant in the
suit, in which they are so taken or attached, such owner or other
person may cause them to be replevied, by a writ to be sued out and

prosecuted, as hereinafter provided.

1 SI-:c'r. 28. The writ shall be sued out of, and returnable to, the

' court of common pleas for the county, in which the goods are de' tained ; it shall be in the same form, substantially, that has been heretofore established and used, and shall be sued out, served and returned, like other writs in civil actions, in all particulars, in which a
different course is not prescribed, and the general issue shall be
joined on the plea of not guilty.

r Seer. 29. The officer, before serving the writ, shall take from
the plaintifff or from some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant,
with sufiicient sureties, in double the value of the goods to be replevied, with a condition like that of the bond before prescribed to

e taken upon a writ of replevin, brought before a justice of the peace;
and the officer shall proceed, with regard to the appraisal of the goods,
and the return of the writ, in the manner provided with respect to
such action before a justice, except that the bond shall be left with the
clerk of the court, for the use of the defendant.

SECT. 30. If it shall appear, upon the nonsuit of the plaintifff,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the defendant is entitled to a return
of the goods, he shall have judgment therefore accordingly, with damages for the taking thereof by the replevin, and his costs of suit.

S1~:c'r. 31. If the goods, when replevied, were taken in execution, or if they were then attached, and judgment be afterwards rendered for the attaching creditor, and if in either case the service of
the execution be delayed, by means of the replevin, the damages to
be assessed for the defendant, in case of a judgment for a return, shall
be not less than at the rate of twelve per cent. by the year, on the
value of the goods, for so long as the service of the execution shall
be so delayed.

Seer. 32. All sums, recovered in an action of replevin by any
officer, for or on account of any goods attached or taken in execution
by him, or recovered in an action upon the bond given upon the
replevin of such goods, shall be applied and disposed of, as far as

they will go, in the following manner :
First, to pay the lawful fees and charges of the officer, and the

reasonable expenses of the action of replevin, and the action on the
bond, so far as they are not reimbursed by the costs that mav be recovered :

Secondly, to pay to the creditor, at whose suit the goods were
attached or taken in execution, the sum, if any, recovered by him in
that suit, or as much thereof as shall remain unpaid, with interest
therefore, at the rate of twelve per cent. by the year, for such time, if
any, as the money shall have been withheld from the creditor, or the
service of his execution delayed, by reason of the replevin : and

Thirdly, if the attaching creditor, in such case, shall not recover
judgment in the suit in which the attachment was made, or if any balance shall remain of the monies so recovered by the oliicer, after paying what is due to the creditor, as before provided, such balance, or
the whole amount, as the case may be, shall be applied and disposed
of, in the same manner as would and ought to have been done with
the surplus, if any, of the proceeds of sale, in case the same goods
had been sold on execution.

SI-JCT. 33. All sums, received by such creditor from the proceeds
of the sale of any goods, that had been attached or taken in execution,
and which are afterwards returned, and all sums, received for the value
of any such goods, that are not returned, and also all sums recovered
from the officer, for the insufficiency of the sureties in the bond, shall
be applied towards the discharge of the judgment recovered by the
creditor; and all sums, received as interest or damages for the delay
of his execution, shall be retained to his own use, and shall not go in
discharge of the °udgment. \

SECT. 34. ff it shall appear, upon the default of the defendant,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the goods were unlawfully taken or
attached, or unlawfully detained, by the defendant, the plaintifff shall
have judgment for his damages caused thereby, and for his costs of
the suit.

SECT. 35. The damages, in all cases of replevin before a justice
of the peace, whether for the plaintifff or for the defendant, shall be
assessed by the justice, or if it is heard and determined in the court
of common pleas, or in the supreme judicial court, the damages shall
be assessed by the jury, by which the cause is tried, if there is any
trial by jury ; otherwise they shall be assessed upon an inquiry by the
court, or by a jury empannelled for that purpose, in like manner as
damages are assessed in other civil actions.

SECT. 36. If the goods which are replevied had been attached,
they shall, in case of judgment for a return, he held liable to the attachment, until final judgment in the suit, in which they were attached,
and for thirty days thereafter, in order to their being taken in execution ; and if such final judgment shall be rendered, before the return of
the goods, or if the goods when replevied were seized and held on
execution, they shall be held, subject to the same attachment or seizure, for thirty days after the return, in order that the execution may
be served thereon, or the service thereof completed, in like manner
as it might have been, if the goods had not been replevied.

SECT. 37. If the officer, to whom the writ of return is committed, shall not be able to find the beasts or other goods, that were replevied, so as to deliver them to the defendant, he shall make a return of that fact upon the writ of return, and the defendant shall
thereupon be entitled to a writ of reprisal, to be awarded and issued
upon his motion, by the court in which the judgment was rendered,

to take the beasts or goods of the laintiff and deliver them to the defendant, to be held and disposed oi? according to law.

Sr-:01‘. 38. The writ of return, in all actions of replevin, shall be
substantially in the same form, that has been heretofore established
and used in the like case, and the writ of reprisal shall be substantially in the same form with the writ heretofore called a writ of withernam.
Sr-:c'r. 39. The foregoing provisions shall not preclude the de' fendant from resorting to his remedy on the replevin bond, or to his

remedy against the officer for the insufiiciency of the sureties in the
bond, to recover the value of the goods, together with the loss or
damage caused by the replevin thereof, notwithstanding he may have
endeavored to recover the same, by the writs of return and of reprtsal,
as before provided.

SECT. 40. No action shall be maintained against any person, as
surety in a replevin bond, unless the writ be served on him within

' one year after the final judgment in the action of replevin; or if the

action shall not be entered by the plaintifff, and the defendant shall
not obtain judgment upon a complaint, such writ against the surety
may be served on him, within one year after the end of the term at
which the action of replevin ought to have been entered and not afterwards.

CHAPTER 1 14.

OF REFERENCE TO ARBITRATION BY AGREEMENT BEFORE A JUSTICE
OF THE PEACE.

Srtcnort Sac-non
1. Wliat controversies may be submitted. 7. The award to be delivered or sent to the
2. Form of submission. court.
3. “ may be varied, according to the 8, 9. Jurisdiction of the court thereon.
agreement. 10. Award, at what term to be returned.
4. Construction of submission of all de- 11. “ by a majority, in what cases
mands. valid.

5. Neither party may revoke the submis- 12. Power of the arbitrators, as to costs.
sion. 13. No appeal allowed. Writ of error

6. Time within which the award shall be - may be brought.
made. 14. Fees of the justice, &.c.

SECTION 1. All controversies, which might be the subject of a
personal action at law, or of a suit in equity, may be submitted to the
decision of one or more arbitrators, in the manner provided in this
chapter.

SECT. 2. The parties shall appear, in person or by their lawful
agents or attorneys, before any justice of the peace, and_ shall there
sign and acknowledge an agreement in substance as follows :

Know all men. that ————, of ——--—-, and -————. of

I

have agreed to submit the demand, a statement whereof is hereto annexed, [and all other demands between them, as the case may be] to
the determination of -—-—, ———, and ———, the award of
whom, or the greater part of whom, being made and reported within
one year from this day to the court of common pleas, for the county 
of —-—, the judgment thereon shall be final ; and if either of the
parties shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice
given them of the tinie and place appointed for hearing the parties,

the arbitrators may proceed in his absence. Dated this ————, day
of ——, in the year .

And the justice shall subjoin to the said agreement his certificate,
in substance as follows :

, ss. —:-, ———-. Then the above named ———,
and ————, personally appeared [or, the above named ———-—, personally, and the said ———-—, by the said ——:, his attorney, appeared, as the case may be,] and acknowledged the above instrument
by them signed to be their free act. Before me, -:—, justice of
the peace.

SECT. 3. If any specific demand is submitted to the exclusion of
others, the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement annexed to the agreement, otherwise it shall not be necessary to annex
any statement of a demand, and the words in the agreement relating
to such statement may be omitted, and the submission may then be
of all demands between the parties, or of all demands which either of
them has against the other ; or the submission may be varied in this
respect in any other manner, according to the agreement of the
parties.

SECT. 4. No such agreement to submit all demands shall include
any demands, but such as might be the subject of a personal action at
law, or ofa suit in equity.

SE01‘. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke a submission,
made as herein provided, without the consent of the other; and if
either of them shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due
notice, the arbitrators may nevertheless proceed to hear and determine
the cause, upon the evidence produced by the other party, as provided in the agreement of submission.

SECT. 6. The time, within which the award shall be made and
reported, may be varied, according to the agreement of the parties,
and no award made after that time shall have any legal effect or operation, unless made upon a re-commitment of the award, by the court
to which it is reported.

S1~;c'r. 7. The award shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators
to the court designated in the agreement, or shall be enclosed and
sealed by them, and transmitted to the court, and shall remain sealed
until opened by the clerk.

SECT. 8. The court, to which the award is returned, shall have
cognizance thereof, in the same manner, and the same proceedings
shall be had thereon, as if it had been made by referees appointed
by a rule of the same court.

SECT. 9; The award may be accepted or rejected by the court,
for any legal and sufficient reason, or it may be recommitted to the

same arbitrators, for a re-hearing by them; and when an award is
accepted and confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered
thereon, in the same manner as upon a like award made by referees
appointed by a rule of the court, and execution shall issue accordin I .

gSyEc'r. 10. The award may be returned at any term or session of
the court, that shall be held within the time limited in the submission,

- and the parties shall attend at every such term or session, without any

express notice for that purpose, in like manner as if an action for the
same cause were pending between them in the same court; but the
court may require actual notice to be given to either party, when it

shall appear to them necessary or proper, before they proceed to act
upon the award.

SECT. 11. All the arbitrators shall meet and hear the parties,
but an award by a majority of them shall be valid, unless the concurrence of the whole be expressly required in the submission.

SECT. 12. If there is no provision in the submission, concerning
the costs of the proceedings, the arbitrators may make such award
respecting the costs, as they shall judge reasonable, including therein
a compensation for their own services ; but the court may reduce the
sum, charged for the compensation of the arbitrators, if it shall appear
to them unreasonable.

Seer. 13. No appeal shall be allowed from any order or judgment of the court of common pleas, upon any award made under this
chapter, but any party, aggrieved by such judgment, may bring a writ
of error, for any error in law or fact, as in other cases, and the supreme judicial court shall thereupon render such judgment, as the
court of common pleas ought to have rendered. '

S1-:c'r. 14. The fees of the justice of the peace, for making out

the agreement of submission, and certifying the acknowledgment

thereof, shall be forty cents ; and the fees, payable in the court of

common pleas, shall be the same as for the like services, with respect
to an award made under a rule of that court.

0

CHAPTER 1 1 5.

OF PROCEEDINGS FOR IMPROVING MEADOWS, SWAMPS, AND LOW

LANDS.
Stcnou Sxcrron

1. Proprietors of meadows, &.c. how to 8. And appoint a collector thereof.

improve them. 9. Penalty on collector for withholding
2. Petition to C. C. P. and notice thereon. money.
3. Commissioners may be appointed. 10. Compensation of commissioners, and
4-, 5. Their power and duty. collector.
6 May employ persons to perform the 11. Return tobe made by commissioners.

work; _ I2. Apportionment of expense between
7. And may apportion the expense among tenant and landlord, or reversioner.

the proprietors ; _ I3. Provision In case of a mortgage

Szcnon Sscnoir
14. Commissioners may make or open 17. Proceedings thereon.

dams on land of other persons. 18. Notice to persons who are not parties.
15. Damages caused thereby, how ascer- 19. N9 appeal from C. C. P. allowedtained and paid. Bill of exceptions may be filed; and
16. Any person aggrieved may appeal to case removed into S. J. Court.
the court.

SECTION 1. When any meadow, swamp, marsh, beach, or
other low land, shall be held by several proprietors, and it shall be necessary or useful to drain or flow the same, or to remove obstructions
in rivers or streams leading therefrom, such improvements may be
effected, under the direction of commissioners, in the manner provided in this chapter.

Seer. 2. The said proprietors, or the greater part of them in interest, may apply by petition to the court of common pleas forthe county where the lands or any part of them lie, setting forth the proposed
improvements, and the reasons therefore, and the court shall cause
notice of the petition to be given, in such manner as they shall judge
proper, to the proprietors, if any, who have not joined in the petition,
that they may appear and object thereto.

Snow. 3. If, upon hearing the parties, it shall appear to the court
that the improvements proposed will be for the general advantage of
the proprietors, the court may appoint three, five, or seven suitable
persons, commissioners, to cause the same to be effected.

SE01‘. 4. The commissioners shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties ; they shall view the premises, and notify and
hear the parties concerned therein, as to the best manner of making
the improvements, and shall determine and prescribe the measures to
be adopted for that purpose.

SECT. 5. The commissioners, according to the tenor of the petition, and the order of court thereon, maycause dams or dikes to be
erected on the premises, at such places and in such manner, as they
shall direct, and may order the land to be flowed thereby, for such
periods of each year, as they shall think most beneficial, and also
cause ditches to be opened on the premises, and obstructions in any
rivers or streams leading therefrom to be removed; and they shall
meet from time to time, as may be necessary, to cause the work to
be completed, according to their directions.

SE01‘. 6. The commissioners may employ suitable persons, to
erect the dams or dikes, or perform the other work, under their direction, for such reasonable wages, as they shall agree upon, unless
the proprietors themselves shall do the same, in such time and inanner, as the commissioners shall direct.

Seer. 7. The commissioners shall apportion the whole charge
and expense of the improvements, and of executing the commission,
among the proprietors of the lands, having regard to the quantity,
quality, and situation of each person’s part of the lands, and to the
benefit that he will derive from the improvements; and they shall
assess the same accordingly, upon the said proprietors.

SE01‘. 8. The commissioners may appoint a collector of the
monies so assessed, and shall give him a warrant to collect, pay over
and account for the same, to such person as they shall appoint, and

the collector shall have the same power, and shall proceed in like
manner, in collecting the said assessments, as may be provided for

the collecting of town taxes.
St-:c'r. 9. If the collector shall neglect, for the space of twenty

‘ days after being thereto required by the commissioners, to account

for and pay over the monies, that he shall have collected, he
shall be liable to pay the whole amount, committed to him to collect,
to the commissioners, to be recovered by them, in an action of debt,
and the money so recovered, after deducting the expenses of recovery, shall be applied and accounted for by the commissioners, in the
same manner as if it had been collected and paid over by the collector, pursuant to his warrant.

St-:c'r. 10. The collector shall be allowed such compensation for
his services, as shall be agreed upon between him and the commissioners, and the commissioners shall be allowed such compensation
for their services, as shall be ordered by the court, by which they
were appointed.

Seer. 11. The commissioners shall, as soon as maybe, after the
completion of the business,make a return to the court, by which they
were appointed, of their doings under the commission, including an
account of all monies assessed and collected by their order, and of
the disbursement thereof. .

St-:c'r. 12. When it shall appear to the commissioners, that any
part of the land is held by any tenant for life, or for years, the commissioners shall determine how much of the sum, apportioned on
that part of the premises, shall be paid by the tenant for life or years,
and how much thereof by the landlord or reversioner, and shall assess
the same accordingly, unless the parties concerned shall agree on the
apportionment thereof between them; and every such tenant for life
or years, as well as the landlord or reversioner, shall be considered as

"a proprietor, for all the purposes of this chapter.

Seer. 13. If any part of the land shall be mortgaged, the person
in possession, whether mortgagor or mortgagee, shall be considered
as the proprietor, for all the purposes of this chapter, and all sums,
paid by such mortgagee, by order of the commissioners, shall be allowed to him, in like manner as other sums paid by him for improvements are by law to be allowed.

SEc'r.14. VVhen the commissioners shall lind it necessary or
expedient to reduce or raise the waters, for the purpose of obtaining a
view of the premises, or for the more convenient or expeditious removal of obstructions therein, they may open the flood-gates of any
mill, or make other needful passages through or round the dam thereof, or erect a temporary dam, on the land of any person, who is nota
party to the proceedings, and may maintain such dam, or such passages
for the water,as long as shall be necessary for the purposes aforesaid.

Seer. 15. All damages, occasioned by any doings of the commissioners, that are authorized in the preceding section, shall be estimated and determined by the commissioners, unless agreed on between them and the parties concerned therein, and shall be ‘paid by
the commissioners out of the monies to be assessed and collected by

them, as before provided.
Seer. 16. If any person, whether he is a party to the proceedings, or is otherwise interested therein, or affected thereby, shall find
himself aggrieved by any doings of the commissioners, he may appeal to the court which appointed them, at any time, either before or
after the return of their doings ; provided, it be not after the term
next following that at which the return is made.

Snow. 17. The court, upon such appeal, may affirm, reverse, or
alter any adjudication or order of the commissioners, and make such
order therein, as law and justice shall require ; and all questions of
fact, that shall arise upon the hearing of the appeal, shall, at the motion of either party, he tried by a jury, in such manner as the court
shall direct.

Saar. 18. The commissioners, before proceeding to open flood
gates, or to make other passages for water, through or around any
dam, or to erect a dam, on the land of any person who is not a party
to the proceedings, shall give to such person seasonable notice in
writing of their intention, to enable him to appear before them and
object thereto ; and if he shall appeal from their determination, and
shall give notice in writing of his a pea] to the commissioners, or any
of them, they shall suspend all liirther proceedings upon his land,
until the appeal shall be determined, provided the appeal be entered
at the court, which shall be held next after the expiration of seven
days from the time of claiming the appeal.

Seer. 19. No appeal shall be allowed from any order or judgment of the court of common pleas, made under the provisions of
this chapter; but any person, aggrieved by any opinion, direction or
judgment of the court, in any matter of law, may allege exceptions
thereto, which shall be reduced to writing, and allowed and signed by
the presiding judge, and thereupon the case shall be removed into the
supreme judicial court, as provided in the eighty second chapter.

CHAPTER 1 16.

OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE SUPPORT AND REGULATION OF MILLS.

Srzcrrox Sncnox
ERECTION AND REGULATION or nuLr.s. 12. Appeal allowed to supreme court; and
1. Mills and dams therefore maybe erected proceedings thereon.
on streams not navigable. 13. Warrant for jury, how served-Jurors,
2. Not allowed to the injury of an existing how summoned and returned.
“‘l“- 14. Proceedings on the trial.

3. Height of dam, &c., how regulated.
4-. Damages thereby, to be recovered on
complaint.
5. Substance of the complaint.
6, 7. Notice thereof to the mill owner.

15. Damages, how to be estimated.

16. Verdict for respondent.
1'7. “ for complainant.
18. Jury to fix the height of the dam, &c.

8. Pleas allowed to the respondent. 19. To assess annual damages, and also a
- 9. Further pleadings and trial. sum in gross.
10. Judgment for respondent. £3. Complainant may elect to take thc

I 1. “ for complainant. latter

Snerrott

21. If not paid, respondent to have no benetit, until, &c.

22. Complainant may take the annual damages, instead, &.c.

23. And shall have alien therefore on the
mill, &c.

24. Action therefore, against whom to be
brought.

25. The premises may be sold on the execution.
26. Such sale, how far e8'ectual.

27. Right of redemption thereon.

28. This chapter not to a3'ect existing mills
and dams, except, &c.
29. Court may grant new trials.

30. Action at the common law barred, except, &c.
31. Costs to the party prevailing.
32. Compensation to the officer, &.c.

33. A new inquiry of damages may be had
by either party—Gross damages to be
assessed only once in ten years.

34. \Vho may maintain a new complaint.

35. VVhen new complaint may be broughtEither party may make a tender.

36. Mill owners may tender a greater compensation, &.c.

37. Land owner may offer to accept less,
&.c.

38. Such offer may be made by and to the
tenants.

39. E8'ect of agreement, if signed and recorded.

ERECTION

SECTION 1.

AND REGULATION

SECTION

40. Verdict against complainant not to bar
him, &c.

4]. Respondent may make a tender in

court.

42. Judgment upon acceptance thereof-—
Acceptance may be for past or for future damages.

43. Complaint not to be abated by death of
parties—Remed y for abatement of complaint or reversal of judgment.

REPAIRING AND REBUILDIXG MILLS.

44. Repair of mills, owned by several
persons.

45. Meeting of proprietors, how called.

46, 47. Notice thereof, how served and
returned. '

48. Majority in interest may decide.

49. Each proprietor liable for his share of
the expense.

50. Remedy therefore bylien on the rents or
by action.

5]. Guardian of proprietor may act for him.

52. Husband may act for his wife.

53. Apportionment between tenant and reversioner.

54-. Case of a mortgagee in possession.

55. Case of a tenant in tail.

56,57. Suits by one proprietor against
others, how brought.

58. This chapter not to atTect agreements
to repair, Gcc.

59. Millers to keep scales, &.c. and weigh
grain if required, under penalty.

60. What toll allowed.

OF MILLS.

Any person may erect and maintain a water mill,

and a dam to raise water for working it, upon and across any stream,
that is not navigable, upon the terms and conditions, and subject to
the regulations, hereinafter expressed.

Sacr. 2. No such dam shall be erected, to the injury of any mill
lawfully existing, either above or below it, on the same stream, nor
to the injury of any mill site on the same stream, on which a mill or
mill dam shall have been lawfully erected and used, unless the right
to maintain a mill, on such last mentioned site, shall have been lost or
defeated, by abandonment or otherwise; nor shall any mill or dam
be placed on the land of any person, without such grant, conveyance
or authority from the owner, as would be necessary by the common
law, if no provision relating to mills had been made by statute.

Sscr. 3. The height, to which the water may be raised, and the
length of time, or period, for which it may be kept up in each year,
shall be liable to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a jury,

as hereinafter provided.
SE01‘. 4. Any person, whose land is overflowed, or otherwise

injured by such dam, may obtain compensation therefore, upon his
complaint before the court of common pleas for the county where the
land or any part thereof lies, provided, that no compensation shall be
awarded for any damage, sustained more than three years before the
institution of the complaint.

Seer. 5. The complaint shall contain such a description of the
land, alleged to be flowed or injured, and such a statement of the
damage, that the record of the case shall show, with sutiicient certainty, the matter that shall have been heard and determined therein.

SECT. 6. The complaint may be filed in the court in term time,
or in the clerk’s office in vacation, and in either case, notice thereof
shall be given to the owner or occupant of the mill, by delivering to
him, or by leaving at his dwelling house, an attested copy of the said
complaint, or if he is not found within the state, and has no dwelling
house therein, then by leaving such copy at the mill in question ; or
the complainant may, fourteen days at least before the sitting of the
court, at which his complaint may be brought, cause the owner or
occupant of such mill or dam to be served with an attested copy of
the complaint, by delivering or leaving such copy, in like manner as
when the complaint is filed as aforesaid.

Seer. 7. The notice shall be given fourteen days at least before
the term at which the complaint is to be heard, and it shall be served by any officer, who is authorized to serve any other civil process
between the same parties.

Seer. 8. The respondent may plead in bar of the complaint,
that the complainant has no estate or interest in the land, alleged to
be Bowed or injured, or that the respondent has a right to maintain his
dam, for an agreed price, or without any compensation, or any other
matter, which may show that the complainant cannot maintain the suit ;
but he shall not plead in bar of the complaint, that the land therein
described is not injured by such dam.

Snow. 9. If any plea is filed by the respondent, the replication
and other pleadings, and the trial of the issue, whether of law or of
fact, shall be conducted in like manner as in actions at the common
law.

SECT. 10. If upon such a plea, the issue is decided in favor of
the respondent, or if, in any stage of the proceedings, the complainant
shall become nonsuit, or shall discontinue his suit, the respondent
shall be entitled to his costs, to be taxed as in common civil actions.

SECT. 11. If the issue is decided in favor of the complainant, or
‘if the owner or occupant of the mill or dam shall, after due notice,
neglect to appear, or shall be defaulted, or if there be no plea in bar,
and no other legal objection to the proceeding, the court shall, without any further pleadings in the case, issue a warrant for a jury to
hear and determine the matter of the complaint.

SECT. 12. Either party may appeal to the supreme judicial court,
from the judgment of the court of common pleas, upon any such plea
in bar, and the cause shall be there heard and determined, as it ought
to have been in the court of common pleas ; except, that if the judgment of the supreme judicial court, in such case, shall be in favor of
the complainant, the case shall be remitted to the court of common
pleas, who shall proceed therein in like manner as if such judgment
had been rendered in that court.

Snow. 13. The warrant shall be directed and served, and the

i jurors shall be drawn, summoned and returned, in the same manner,

that is provided in the twent fourth chapter, with respect to a jury,

returned on the complaint oly any person, aggrieved by the laying out

of a highway, and the jurors shall be required to attend, under the
same penalty that is provided in the said chapter.

SE01‘. 14. All the proceedings, as to supplying a deficiency of
jurors, and swearing and empannelling the jury, and in conducting the
trial, either before the officer who serves the warrant, or before the
person, who may be appointed by the court to preside at the trial,
and also as to the signing and returning of the verdict, and all the
other proceedings, on the part of the officer and all others concerned in the case, shall be substantially the same, as are provided in
the said twenty fourth chapter, with respect to the-case before menuoned.

SECT. 15. The jury, in estimating the damage to the land of the

' complainant, shall take into consideration any damage, occasioned to
his other land, by the dam, as well as the damage occasioned to the
land overtiowed, and they shall also allow, by way of set-off, the
benefit, if any, occasioned by such dam to the complainant, in relation
to his said lands.

SEc'r. 16. If the jury shall find that the complainant is not entitled to recover any damages, they shall return their verdict accordingly, and if It is allowed and recorded by the court, judgment shall
be rendered thereon for the respondent.

St-zcr. 17. If the jury find that the complainant is entitled to recover any damages, they shall assess the amount of such damages,
sustained within three years next preceding the institution of the
complaint, and down to the time of rendering the verdict, and if the
verdict is allowed and recorded by the court, the complainant shall
havejudgment and execution.

SECT. 18. If it shall be alleged in the complaint, that the dam is
raised to an unreasonable height, or that it ought not to be kept up
and closed during the whole year, the jury shall decide how much, if
any, the darn shall be lowered, and also whether it shall be left open
any part of the year, and if any, what part, and shall state such decision as a part of their verdict.

St~:c'r. 19. The jury shall also ascertain and determine by their
verdict, what sum, if any, to be paid annually to the complainant,
would be a just and reasonable compensation for the damages that
shall he thereafter occasioned by the datn, so long as it shall be used
in conformity with the verdict, and also what sum in gross would be
a just and reasonable compensation for all the damages to be thereafter occasioned by such use of the dam, and for the right of maintaining and using the same forever, in manner aforesaid.

Sncr. 20. The complainant in such case, at any time within
three months after the verdict is allowed and recorded, may elect to
take the sum in gross, so awarded by the jury, for the right to maintain and use the dam forever, instead of receiving the annual compensation therefore, and if he shall make such election, he shall, within the
said three months, cause the same to be entered on the record of the
case in the clerk’s ofline.

Seer. 21. The owner or occupant of the mill or dam in such
case shall, within three months after such election is entered on the
record, pay to the complainant, or secure to his satisfaction, the sum
so due for the perpetual right to maintain the dam, with interest from
the time of the verdict ; and after the expiration of said three months,
such owner or occupant shall lose all benefit of the provisions contained in this chapter, until the payment of said damages and interest.

Seer. 22. If the complainant shall not, within the said three
months, cause an entry of his election to be made on the record, as
before provided, he and all persons claiming under him shall be entitled to demand and receive, from whoever shall be the owner or occupant of the mill, the annual compensation so established by the jury, so long as the dam shall be kept up and maintained, unless the
sum due in that behalf shall be increased or diminished, upon a new
complaint, as hereinafter provided.

Seer. 23. The person who shall be entitled to receive the said
annual com ensation, or gross damages, shall havea lien therefore from
the time ofp the institution of the original complaint, on the mill and
mill dam with their appurtenances, and the land under and adjoining
the same and used therewith, provided, that such lien shall not extend to any sum due more than three years before the commencement of an action therefore.

SECT. 24. The party, entitled to the said annual compensation
or gross damages, may maintain an action of assumpsit or debt therefore, in the court of common pleas, against the person who shall own
or occupy the mill when the action is brought, and shall therein recover the whole sum due and unpaid for the three years then last
past, whoever may have owned or occupied the mill during that time,
and the plaintifff shall be entitled to his full costs in such suit, although
the sum recovered shall not amount to twenty dollars.

SECT. 25. The execution issued on such judgment, if not otherwise satisfied, may, at any time within thirty days after the judgment
is rendered, be levied on the premises so subject to the lien ; and
the officer may thereupon proceed to sell the same, or so much thereof, as shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, and all charges of
levying it, and he shall proceed in making such sale, in like manner
in all respects as is provided with regard to the sale on execution of
a right to redeem real estate that is mortgaged.

Seer. 26. Such sale shall be valid and effectual against all persons claiming the premises by any title that shall have accrued within
the time covered by the lien.

Seer. 27. Any person, entitled to the premises sold as aforesaid, may redeem the same at any time within one year after the sale,
upon paying to the purchaser, or the person holding under him, the
sum paid therefore, with interest thereon, at the rate of twelve per
cent. a year.

SEc'r. 28. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect the
right to keep up, maintain, and use any water mill and mill dam now
lawfully existing, except as is herein expressly provided.

SECT. 29. Every verdict, rendered in any proceeding under this
chapter, shall be under the control of the court to which it is returned, in like manner as in trials at the common law, and may be set

U1

aside for any suliicient cause ; and in such cases a new trial shall be
had, upon a new warrant or otherwise, as the case may require.

SECT. 30. No action shall be sustained at common law for
the recovery of damages for the erecting, maintaining or using any
mill or mill dam, except as is provided in this chapter.

Seer. 31. The party prevailing, in every suit under this chapter, shall be entitled to his full costs, unless where it is otherwise expressly provided.

SECT. 32. The court shall award a reasonable compensation to
the person who presides at the trial, and also to the officer who executes the warrant, which together with the pay of the jurors, and all
other like charges, shall be advanced by the complainant, and shall
be taxed and allowed in the bill of costs, if he shall prevail in the
Suit.

S1-:c'r. 33. When either party shall be dissatisfied with the annual compensation established by a jury, either under the provisions of
this chapter, or those of the laws heretofore in force, a new complaint
may be brought, for the increase or diminution of the said annual
compensation, or for ascertaining the gross amount of the damages,
and all the proceedings, for ascertaining and determining said compensation or damages, shall be conducted substantially in the manner
before provided, in the case of an original complaint; provided, that
when any complainant has heretofore declined, or shall hereafter decline, to accept the amount of gross damages awarded him, no jury
shall again determine the amount of gross damages, until the expiration of ten years thereafter.

Seer. 34. Such new complaint may be maintained, by and

' against either of the parties to the original suit, or by and against any

person lawfully holding under either of them, respectively, as the case

may require.

SECT. 35. No such new complaint shall be brought, until the exiration of one month after the payment of the then last year shall
ave fallen due, and either party may, within the said month, make

an offer or tender to the other, in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 36. The owner of the mill or dam may, within the said
month, offer in writing, to the owner of the land that is injured, any
increase of the annual compensation to be thereafter paid for maintaining and using the dam ; and if the owner of the land shall not agree
to accept the same, but shall bring a new complaint, in order to obtain an increase of the compensation, he shall not be entitled to costs
thereon, but shall pay costs to the adverse party, unless he shall obtam a verdict for a greater annual compensation than was so offered
to him.

S1-:cr. 37. The owner of the land that is injured may also, within the said month, offer in writing, to the owner of the mill or dam.
to accept any smaller sum, than that which is established as the annual compensation, to be thereafter paid for maintaining and using the
dam ; and if the owner of the mill or dam shall not agree to pay such
reduced compensation, but shall bring a new complaint, in order to
obtain a diminution thereof, he shall not be entitled to costs upon his
complaint, but shall pay costs to the adverse party, unless the annual
compensation shall be reduced, by the verdict, to a sum less than that

which was so offered to him.

S£:c'r. 38. Such offer may be made by or to the respective tenants or occupants of the land, and of the mill or dam in question, in
like manner and with the like effect, as if made by or to the res ective owners, except that no agreement founded thereon shall bin the
said owners, unless it be made with their consent.

Sacr. 39. If the offer so made by either party shall be agreed to
and accepted by the other, it shall establish the annual compensation
to be thereafter paid, in like manner as if it had been established by
a verdict and udgment upon a new complaint, provided, that a
memorandum of such offer and acceptance, and of the agreement
thereupon, be made and signed by the respective owners of the mill
or dam and of the land, or by persons duly authorized by them, and
filed and recorded in the clerk’s office of the court, in which the
former judgment was rendered, with a note of reference, on the record of the former judgment, to the book where the agreement is
recorded.

SECT. 40. If, upon any complaint by the owner of the land alleged to be injured, the jury shall decide that he is not entitled to any
annual compensation, the judgment thereon shall be no bar to a new
complaint for damages, alleged to have arisen after the former verdict,
and for compensation for the damages, that may be thereafter sustained.

Snow. 41. In every case of an original complaint, brought by the
owner of land alleged to be injured by a mill-dam, the respondent
may bring into court and there tender any sum that he shall think
proper, to be paid to the complainant for the damages incurred up to
the time of such tender and also may offer to pay any certain annual compensation, for the damage that may be thereafter occasioned
by the dam in question ; and if the complainant shall not accept the
same, with his costs up to that time, but shall proceed in the suit, to
recover greater damages or compensation than is so offered, he shall
be entitled to his costs up to the time of the tender, and the respondent shall be entitled to recover his costs afterwards, unless the complainant shall recover greater damages or greater annual compensation
than was so offered.

SECT. 42. If the complainant, in the case mentioned in the preceding section, shall consent to accept the amount, so offered for the
past damage and the future annual compensation, he shall have judgment accordingly, and also for his costs up to that time, and the
judgment shall have the same effect, as if it had been rendered upon
the verdict of a jury, empannelled according to the provisions of this
chapter ; or the complainant may accept either the sum tendered for
past damages, or the offer for future annual compensation, and proceed to trial on the residue of the complaint, under the same liability
for costs as before provided.

Saar. 43. No complaint for flowing shall be abated, by reason
of the death of any party thereto, but the same may be prosecuted or
defended by the surviving complainants or respondents, or the executors or administrators of the deceased; and if any such complaint shall
be abated or otherwise defeated, for any matter of form, or if, after
verdict for the complainant, the judgment shall be reversed for error,
upon a certiorari or otherwise, the complainant, or any person claiming from, by or under him, may bring a new complaint, for the same
cause, at any time within one year after the abatement or other determination of the original complaint, or after the reversal of the judgment therein, and may, upon the new complaint, recover such damages. as shall have been sustained during the three years before the
institution of the first complaint, or at any time afterwards.

REPAIRING AND REBUILDING MILLS.

SECT. 44. When any mill, which is owned by several persons,
as joint tenants or tenants in common, or the dam or appurtenances
of such mill, shall need to be repaired or to be rebuilt, in whole or
in part, and the proprietors shall not all agree to join in repairing or
rebuilding the same, the greater part in interest of the proprietors may
cause the work to be done at the expense of the whole, in proportion
to their respective interests.

SECT. 45. Any one or more of the proprietors, in such case,
may call a meeting of the whole of them, to be held at the mill, to
consult and agree upon the measures to be taken for repairing or rebuilding the same ; which meeting shall be called by a written notice,
signed by the persons who call it, and addressed to each of the other
proprietors, expressing that the mill in question needs to be repaired
or rebuilt, and that a meeting of the proprietors thereof will be held
at the mill, on a certain day and hour, mentioned in the notice, to
consult and agree upon the measures to be taken for that purpose,
and requesting the attendance of the proprietor at such meeting.

SECT. 46. The notice shall be served by any ofticer, authorized
to serve civil process between the same parties, and his certificate
thereof, returned on a copy of the notice, specifying the several persons, if more than one, on whom he served it, and the time and
manner of the service on each, shall be deemed sufficient evidence
thereof.

SECT. 47. The notice shall be served by delivering the original
to the person to whom it is addressed, or by leaving it at his dwelling house, or at his last and usual place of abode, not more than thirty days, nor less than seven days, before the day appointed for the
meeting.

Seer. 48. At the meeting so called and warned, or at any adjournment thereof, the greater part in interest, of the whole body of
the proprietors of the mill, may take measures to cause the mill, or
the dam or appurtenances thereof, to be repaired or rebuilt, as they
shall judge most for the interest of all who are concerned therein.

SECT. 49. Every proprietor of the mill shall pay his just and
equal part of the charge and expense of such repair or rebuilding, in
proportion to his share or interest in the mill; which stun shall be
paid upon demand, after the work is completed, to the proprietors
by whom it shall have been advanced, with interest from the time of
the advance.

Seer. 50. The proprietors, who shall advance the money so
expended, shall have a lien therefore on the rents and profits of the
mill, and may retain so much thereof, as belongs to any proprietor,
who is indebted to them for such advance, to be applied to the payment of his debt, or they may maintain a suit for the debt, or for as
much thereof as shall not be paid out of the rents and profits.

Sacr. 51. When any proprietor is under guardianship, as a minor, or otherwise, his guardian may act for him, in calling a meeting
of the proprietors, and in attending such a meeting, and may there
vote for the ward, and may do all such other acts in the premises, as
the ward could do, if competent to act for himself ; all which shall be
binding on the ward and on his estate.

SECT. 52. When any part of the mill is held by a married woman, her husband may in like manner represent her, and appear and
act for her at such meeting, and his doings shall have the same effect,
as if they had been done by her before their intermarriage.

SECT. 53. When any part of the mill is held by one person, as
tenant for life, or years, with remainder or reversion to another person, the sum due for the repairs and other expenses, on that part of
the mill, shall be apportioned on the tenant for life or years, and on
the remainder-man or reversioner, in proportion to the value of their
respective interests in the premises; and the party, to whom the
money is due from such retnainder-man or reversioner, shall have a
lien on the rents and profits belonging to him, after his estate shall
come into possession, if not sooner paid, notwithstanding any limitation by lapse of time.

SECT. 54. Every mortgagee in possession shall be considered as
a proprietor, for all the purposes of this chapter, but the mortgagor
shall also be liable for all sums, so due on account of his share of the
mill, so far as the same are not recovered from the mortgagee, provided the action therefore is brought against the mortgagor, before his
right of redemption is foreclosed ; and all sums, paid on this account
by the mortgagee, shall be considered and allowed, between him and
the mortgagor, as so much paid for repairs or improvements of the
mortgaged premises.

S1-:c'r. 55. Every tenant in tail of any part of a mill shall, for all
the purposes of this chapter, be considered as the proprietor thereof
in fee simple.

SECT. 56. All sums, due from one proprietor to another, for
monies advanced by force of this chapter, may be recovered in an
action of assumpsit; and when two or more proprietors are so indebted, the creditor or creditors may maintain a bill in equity, against
any two or more of them, in which suit the court shall determine
what amount is due from each of the debtors, severally, and shall
award judgment and execution against each of them accordingly, and
shall apportion the amount, so recovered, among the plaintifffs in the
suit, if more than one, according to their respective rights.

SECT. 57. Such bill in equity may be brought in the court of
common pleas or supreme judicial court, and the court shall proceed
thereon, according to the course of proceedings in chancery, and
with or without a trial by jury, as the case may require, to make all
such orders, decrees and judgments, and to issue all such process, as
may be necessary and proper to carry into effect the provisions of
this chapter; and either party may appeal to the supreme judicial
court, from the final judgment or decree of the court of common
pleas. upon such bill in equity, in like manner, as in common civil
actions.

SECT. 58. Nothing contained in this chapter shall make void, or

in any way affect, any contract or agreement, by or between the proprietors of any mill, as to the repair or rebuilding thereof.

SECT. 59. Every miller, occupying and using a grist mill, shall
be provided with scales and weights, or a vibrating steelyard, to
weigh corn, grain and meal, to and from the mill, if required ; and
if he shall neglect to keep himself so provided, or shall refuse so to
weigh corn, grain or meal, when required, he shall, for every such
neglect or refusal, forfeit and pay to any person, who shall sue therefore, a sum not exceeding five dollars, to be recovered in an action
on the case.

Seer. 60. The toll for grinding any sort of grain shall not
exceed one sixteenth part thereof.

 
 

CHAPTER 1 17.

OF THE LIEN OF MECHANICS AND OTHERS, FOR THE COST OF REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS ON REAL ESTATE.

corded.
3. Limitation of the lien.
4. The land may be sold on petition.
5. Suit, when deemed to be commenced.
6. Substance of the petition.
7, 8, 9. Notice to the owner, and to other
creditors.
10. Claims may be proved and contested.
11. Facts may be tried by a jury.
12. Case of claims, not yet payable.
13. Case of a part performance of the contract.
14. Sale of the premises, in what cases
ordered.
1.’). A part may be sold, if sufficient.
16. Notice of the sale.
17. Right of redemption.
18, 19. Distribution of the proceeds, when
and how made.
20. Surplus how disposed of.

SECTION 1.

Stories Srzcrron ‘
1. Lien allowed for labor and materials. 21, 22. Case of a prior attachment of the
2. Contract must be in writing, and re- premises.

23. Case of a subsequent attachment.

24. Case of an intervening attachment.

25. Rights of the respective creditors and
contractors among themselves.

26. Case of the debtor having a life estate,
&.c.

27. Lien may be enforced against heirs or
assigns :

28. And by executors or administrators.

29. Appeal allowed to the supreme court.

30. Suit, commenced by one, may be prosecuted by another.

3l. Case of suit commenced prematurely,
and costs therein.

32. Costs, how paid.

33. This chapter not to bar an action at
law.

34. Register to record contracts.

35. Creditors, how to discharge the lien.

36. Petition to be indorsed.

Every person who shall by contract with the owner

of any piece of land, furnish labor or materials for erecting or repairing any building, or the appurtenances of any building, on such land,
shall have a lien upon the whole piece of land, in the manner hereinafttlar provided, for the amount due to him for such labor or materia s.

SE'c'r. 2. Such lien shall not attach, unless the contract is made
in writing, and signed by the owner of the land, or by some person
duly authorized by him, and recorded in the registry of deeds for the
county where the land lies.

SE01‘. 3. The lien shall be dissolved at the expiration of six
months after the time, when the money due by the contract, or the
last instalment thereof, shall become payable, unless asuit for enforcing the lien shall have been commenced within the said six months.

SE07. 4. When any sum due by such contract shall remain unpaid, for the space of sixty days after the same is payable, the creditor may, upon a petition to the court of common pleas for the county where the land lies, obtain a decree for the sale thereof, and for
applying the proceeds to the discharge of his demand.

S1-:c'r. 5. The petition may be filed in court, or in the clerk’s
office in vacation, and in either case, the filing of the petition shall be
deemed the commencement of the suit.

SECT. 6. The petition shall contain a brief statement of the contract on which it is founded, and of the amount due thereon, with a
description of the premises which are subject to the lien, and all other material facts and circumstances, and shall pray that the premises
may be sold, and the proceeds of the sale be applied to the discharge
of the demand. _

SE01‘. 7. The court, in which the petition is entered,shall order
notice to be given to the owner of the land, that he may appear and
answer thereto, at a certain day in the same term, or at the next term
of the court, by serving him with an attested copy of the petition,
with the order of the court thereon, fourteen days at least before the
time assigned for the hearing, and the court shall also order notice of
the filing of the petition to be given to all the other creditors who
have a lieu of the same kind upon the same estate, by serving them
with the last mentioned order, fourteen days at least before the time
assigned for the hearing.

Seer. 8. If it shall appear to the court that any of the parties so
entitled to notice are absent, or that they cannot probably be found to
be served with the notice, as before provided, the court may, instead
of the personal notice before mentioned, or in addition thereto, order
notice to all persons interested to be given, by publishing in some
newspaper the substance of the petition, with the order of the court
thereon, assigning the time and place for hearing the cause, or may
order such other notice to be given, as shall, under the circumstances
of the case, be considered most proper and effectual.

St-:c'r. 9. If, at the time assigned for the hearing, it shall appear
to the court that any of the persons interested have not had sufficient
notice of the suit, the court may order further notice to them, in such
manner as shall be considered most proper and effectual.

SECT. 10. At the time assigned for the hearing of the cause, or
within such further time as the court shall allow for that purpose, every creditor, having a lieu of the kind before mentioned upon the
same estate, may appear and prove his claim, and the owner shall be
admitted to deny and disprove the same, and also each of the said
creditors shall have a right to contest the claim of every other creditor, and the court shall hear and determine the several claims, in a
summary manner, either with or without a jury, as the case may require.

SECT. 11. Every material question of fact, arising in the case,
shall be submitted to a jury, if required by either party, or if it shall

be thought proper by the court, and such trial shall he had upon a
question stated, or an issue framed, under the direction of the court,
or otherwise, as the court shall order.

Seer. 12. The court shall examine all the claims that shall be.

presented, and shall ascertain and determine the amount due to each
creditor who has a lien, of the kind before mentioned, upon the estate
in question, and every such claim that is due absolutely and without
any condition, although not then payable, shall be allowed, with a rebate of interest to the time when it would become payable.

Seer. 13. When the owner of the land shall have failed to perform his part of the contract, and by reason thereof the other party
shall, without his own default, have been prevented from completely
performing his part, he shall be entitled to a reasonable compensation
for as much thereof as he has performed, in proportion to the price

stipulated for the whole, and the court shall adjust his claim accord- '

ingly.

vSEC'I‘. 14. If the lien should be established in favor of any of the
creditors whose claims are presented, whether the petitioning creditor or any other, the court shall order a sale of the premises to be
made by any officer, who is authorized to serve any civil process between the same arties.

Seer. 15. f any part of the premises can be separated from the
residue and sold, without damage to the whole, and if the value thereof should be sufficient to satisfy all the debts proved in the case, the
court may order a sale of that part, if it shall appear to be most for
the interest of all the parties concerned.

SECT. 16. The officer who makes the sale, shall give notice of
the time and place appointed therefore, in the manner prescribed in relation to the sale on execution of a right of redeeming mortgaged

-lands, unless the court shall order other or different notice to be

given.

SECT. 17. All lands, sold under such order of the court, maybe
redeemed in like manner, and upon the same terms, as are provided
in the case of a sale on execution of the right of redeeming mortgaged lands.

SECT. 18. If the claims against the estate are all ascertained, at
the time of ordering the sale, the court may at the same time order
the officer to pay over and distribute the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting all lawful charges and expenses, to and among the several
creditors, to the amount of their respective debts, if there is sufiicient
therefore, and ifthere is not sufficient, then to divide and distribute
the same among the creditors, in proportion to the amount due to each
of them. Seer. 19. If the claims are not all ascertained when the sale is
ordered, or if for any other reason, the court should find it necessary
or proper to postpone the order of distribution, they may direct the
officer to bring the proceeds of the sale into court, there to be disposed of according to the decree of the court; and if by reason of
the claims of attaching creditors, or for any other cause, the whole
cannot be conveniently distributed at once, the court may make two
or more successive orders of distribution, as the circumstances may
require

Seer. 20. If there be any surplus of the proceeds of the sale,
after making all the payments before mentioned, it shall be forthwith
paid over to the owner of the land, but such surplus, before it is so
paid over, shall be liable to be attached or taken in execution, in like
manner as if it proceeded from a sale made by the officer on an execuuon.

SECT. 21. If the land, to which any such contract relates, shall
be under attachment at the time of recording the contract, the attaching creditor shall be preferred, to the extent of the value of the land
and buildings, as they may be when the contract shall be recorded,
and the court shall ascertain, by a jury or otherwise, as the case may
require, what proportion of the proceeds of the sale shall be held subject to the attachment, as derived from the value of the premises,
when the contract was recorded.

Seer. 22. If the attaching creditor, in such a case, shall recover ‘

judgment in his suit, he shall be entitled to receive on his execution
the said proportion of the proceeds, that are held subject to his attachment, or as much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy his execution, and the residue, if any, of the proceeds of the sale, shall be
applied in the same manner as if there had been no such attachment.

SECT. 23. If the land, to which the contract relates, shall be at- f
tached after the recording of the contract, the proceeds shall be ap- ‘

plied, after discharging all prior liens and claims, to satisfy the execution of such attaching creditor, in like manner as is provided in the
ninety seventh chapter, in the case of two or more successive attachments, or seizures in execution, of a right of redemption, or of a
share in any incorporated company.

Seer. 24. If an attachment is made after the recording of such
a contract, and if after the attachment another like contract should be
recorded, the creditor in the latter contract shall be entitled to be
paid only out of the residue of the proceeds, if any, remaining after
satisfying the attaching creditor, and also paying all that is due on the
contracts that were recorded before the attachment.

SECT. 25. When there are several attaching creditors, they shall,
as between themselves, be entitled to be paid according to the order
of their respective attachments, but when several creditors, who are
entitled to the lien provided for in this chapter, have all equal rights
as between themselves, and the fund shall be insufficient to pay the
whole, they shall share it equally, in proportion to their respective
debts.

Seer. 26. If the person, who procures the work to be done,
has an estate for life only, or any other estate less than a fee simple,
in the land on which the work is to be done, or if the land, at the
time of recording the contract, is mortgaged, or under any other encumbrance, the person who procures the work to be done shall nevertheless be considered as the owner, for the purposes of this chapter,
to the extent of his right and interest in the land, and the lien before
provided for shall bind his whole estate and interest therein, in like
manner as a mortgage would have done, and the creditor may cause
the right of redemption, or whatever other right or estate the owner
had in the land, to be sold and applied to the discharge of his debt,
according to the provisions of this chapter.

Seer. 27. If the person indebted in any such contract shall die,

. or shall convey away his estate, before the commencement of a suit

on the contract, the suit may be commenced and prosecuted against
his heirs, or whoever shall hold the estate, which he had in the premises, at the time of making the contract ; or if a suit is commenced
in his life time, it may be prosecuted against his heirs or assigns, in
like manner as if the estate had been mortgaged to secure the debt.

Seer. 28. If the creditor in such contract shall die, before the
commencement of a suit thereon, the suit may be commenced and
prosecuted by his executors or administrators, or if commenced in
his life time, it may be prosecuted by them, as it might have been by
the deceased, if living.

SECT. 29. Any party interested in a suit brought under this chapter may appeal to the supreme judicial court, from the final decree
or judgment of the court of common pleas, and the appeal shallobe
conducted and prosecuted, in the same manner, substantially, as is
prescribed in relation to common civil actions, and the cause shall be
thereupon heard and determined in the supreme judicial court, according to the provisions of this chapter.

Seer. 30. If it appear, in any stage of the proceedings under this chapter, that the suit was commenced by the petitioning
creditor before the expiration of the sixty days, or after the expiration of six months, in that behalf before limited, or if the petitioning
creditor should become nonsuit, or should from any cause fail to establish his claim, the suit may nevertheless be prosecuted by any
other creditor having such alien, in the same manner as if it had
been originally commenced by the latter creditor ; provided, the circumstances of the case are such, that he might then, or at any time
after the commencement of the original suit, have commenced a like

suit on his own claim.

Seer. 31. If the suit is commenced by the petitioning creditor,
before the expiration of the sixty days, in that behalf limited, his
claim may nevertheless be allowed, if he is otherwise entitled thereto,
and if the suit is carried on by any other creditor, as provided in the
preceding section, but he shall not in such case be entitled to any
costs, and he may be required to pay the costs, that shall be incurred
by the debtor, or any part thereof, as the court shall think reasonable.

Seer. 32. The costs in all other respects shall be subject to the
discretion of the court, and shall be paid out of the proceeds of the
sale, or by any of the parties in the suit, as justice and equity may require.

SECT. 33. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to prevent any creditor in such contract from maintaining an action
thereon at the common law, in like manner as if he had no such lien
for the security of his debt.

S1-:c'r. 34. The register of deeds shall receive and record all
contracts, of the kind mentioned in this chapter, that shall be deliverel to him for that purpose, and he shall be entitled to the same fees
tl erefor, as for recording deeds or other papers of equal length.

Seer. 35. When any debt, secured by such lien, shall be fully
pzjd, the creditor shall, at the expense of the debtor, enter on the

margin of the registry, where the contract is recorded, a discharge of
his said lien, or shall execute a deed of release thereof, in like manner, as is rovided in relation to the release of mortgages, after the
payment t ereof.

SI-ZCT. 36. Eve petition, filed in pursuance of this chapter,
shall be indorsed in llhe same manner as is required with respect to
original writs, and all the regulations concerning the indorsement of
original writs, contained in the ninetieth chapter, shall applyto the indorsement of such petitions.

CHAPTER 1 18.

OF RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS; SEIZ IN AND LIBELLING FORFEITED
GOODS; AND THE RECOVERY OF PECUNIARY FORFEITURES.

Sncuox
21. Libel, when to be nled, and form

Szcrion

or nacoaitizaitcts ron burrs.
l. Debtor may bind himself by recogni- thereof.
zance. 22. “ before whom to be nled.

2. To be taken before the C. C. P. or 23. Proceedings in the C. C. P.—Noticeh

clerk thereo£—Form of the recognizance. be published.
3. Provision as to interest. 24. Proceedings, when there is no claimant;

4-. Recognizance to be recorded. 25' And when 3 °l*_‘i“‘3'“ ‘PP°‘_"-_
5_ Comma, mu“ be known ,0 an judge, 26. Decree of forfeiture, or restitution.

&c. 27. Damages, for seizure without reason6. Execution may be issued on the recog- able cause.
nizance. 28. Provision as to costs.

7. Proceedings for obtaining it.
8. Form of execution 5 and how issued.
9. Recognizance may be taken before a

29. Executions and other processes.

30. Either party may appeal to supreme
court.

jusuce or the peace' 31 Proceedings on a libel before a justice.
10. Justice’s execution not to run against ' _ _ _ _
land_ 32. Notice, trial and adjudication.

33. Either party may appeal to C. O. P.
34. Jurisdiction of police courts.

35. Depositions may be taken, be.

11. Clerk may record such recognizance
and issue execution thereon.
12. Executions, where they may run, and

)1’ SEIZING AND LIBILLING

when returnable.
13. How taken out by executor or administrator.

14 Proceedings in case of death of conusor.

15. Limitation as to the issuing of execution.

I6. Ifexecution is unsatisfied, alias, &.c.
may issue.

17. Death of one of several conusors or
conusees.

18. Audita querela, &c. as in case of a
judgment.

I9. Fees of the clerk and justice.

FORFIITID
GOODS.

20. Goods forfeited, to be seized.

36. Goods to bedelivered toclaitnant a
bond.
37, 38. Goods to be appraised.

39. Appraisement conclusive as to jurisdiction.
40. Goods may be sold if perishable,
41. Or for other sumcient cause.

RECOVERY OF PECUNIARY FORFEITUBEB.

42. Pecuniary forfeitures, how to be recovered.

ACTION 01'' ACCOUNT ABOLISHED.

43. Action of account abolished—Bill in
equity to account, and proceedings
therein.

or RECOGNIZANCES FOR nmrrs.
SECTION 1. Any person, who is by law capable of binding him’ self by a common bond, may enter into a recognizance, in the manner hereinafter mentioned, for the payment of any debt that he
may owe, and may thereby subject his person, and his goods and estate, to be taken in execution for such debt.

SECT. 2. The recognizance may be taken before the court of
common pleas in any county, in term time, or before the clerk of
said court, in vacation, and shall be substantially as follows :

Be it remembered, that on this day of —— of

personally appeared before the court of common pleas, now held at

within and for the county of [or, before -——the clerk of
the court of common pleas for the county of ] and acknowledged
himself to he indebted to ———— of in the sum of to be paid
to the said —— on the day of [or, in years
or in months, from this day] with interest from this day; and if

not then paid, to be levied upon his goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, and for want thereof, upon his body. In witness whereof
the said — hath hereto set his hand.
clerk of the court of common pleas for the county of

SE01‘. 3. The clause, as to the payment of interest, may be altered or wholly omitted, according to the agreement of the parties, but
interest shall always be allowed for the delay, if any, after the time of
payment, unless the recognizance contains an express agreement to
the contrary.

Seer. 4. The recognizance shall be attested by the clerk,
whether taken in term time or vacation, and shall he recorded at length
by him, among the records of the court, and the original shall then
be delivered to the conusee.

SECT. 5. No such recognizance shall be taken, unless the judge
or the clerk who takes it shall know, or have satisfactory evidence,
that the person, who offers to enter into the recognizance, is the individual whom he represents himself to be, and who is described as
the conusor.

Seer. 6. If the debt shall not be paid, at the time appointed in
the recognizance for the payment thereof, the conusee shall be entitled
to an execution for the sum due thereon, to be sued outof the clerk’s
office in which the recognizance is recorded, and to be directed, served and returned, in like manner as an execution issued upon a judgment of the same court.

Seer. 7. Before the issuing of such execution, the original recognizance shall be produced and delivered to the clerk, and shall be
filed and preserved by him, in like manner as is done with bonds, or
other evidences of debt, upon which judgment is rendered, and the
clerk shall compute the amount due on the recognizance, deducting
the payments, if any, that shall have been made and indorsed thereon,
and shall issue execution for the sum then due.

SE01‘. 8. The execution shall be in the usual form of an execution on a judgment for debt, except that instead of reciting a judgment, it shall recite the recognizance, and state the amount then due
thereon ; and it may be issued by the clerk, without any special order
of the court. '

Sr:c'r. 9. A recognizance for debt may be taken before any justice of the peace in his county, in any case where it might be taken
before the clerk of the court, and the form shall be the same, excepting the description of the officer before whom it is taken ; and the
justice shall record all recognizances by him taken, in a book kept for
that purpose, and shall, in each case, deliver the original to the conusee, as before required of the clerk of the court.

Sncr. 10. The justice, before whom a recognizance is taken,
shall have the same power to issue execution thereon, as is given in
this chapter to the clerk of the court, and such execution shall have
the same effect as an execution issued by the clerk, excepting that it
shall not be issued against the lands, but only against the money,
goods and chattels of the conusor, and against his body, like an execution issued upon a judgment recovered before a justice of the
peace.

S1.-:c'r. 11. When a recognizance is taken before a justice of the
peace, if the conusee shall desire to have an execution thereon against
the lands of the conusor, as well as against his money, goods and
body, he may, at any time within ninety days after the recognizance
was taken, deliver it to the clerk of the court for the county, who
shall record the same, in like manner as if it had been taken before
himself, and shall issue execution thereon, in like form, ‘and the execution shall have the same force and effect, and shall be directed,
served and returned, in like manner as if the recognizance had been
taken before the clerk.

SECT. 12. All executions, issued on recognizances by the clerk
of the court, or a justice of _the peace, may be executed and shall be
obeyed, in every county to which they are directed, and shall be
made returnable in sixty days from the date thereof.

SECT. 13. If the conusee shall die before the debt is fully paid,
his executor or administrator may sue out execution, in the same
manner as the conusee might have done, upon exhibiting to the clerk
or justice his letters testanleutary or of administration, and without
suing out a scire facias for that purpose, and the form of the execution
shall be altered accordingly.

SECT. 14. If the conusor shall die before the debt is fully paid,
no execution therefore shall be issued as of course, but the estate of the
ronusor in the hands of his executors or administrators, and his heirs
or devisees, shall be liable for the debt, in like manner as if judgment
therefore had been recovered against him in his life time ; and the conusee, or his executors or administrators, may have a scire facias, or
an action of debt, to recover the same, against the executors, administrators, heirs or devisees of the conusor, in like manner as they
might have had upon such a judgment.

Seer. 15. No original execution shall be issued as of course,
upon such a recognizance, after the expiration of three years from
the time therein set for payment of the debt, unless some payment on
account thereof shall have been made and indorsed on the recognizance, anu If there has been any such payment, no such execution
shall issue after the expiration of three years from the time of the last
payment so indorsed ; but the conusee in such case, or his executors
or administrators, may have a scire facias, or an action of debt, on the

recognizance, against the party liable thereon, in like manner and with
the same effect, as they might have had upon a judgment recovered
against the conusor.

Sister. 16. If any execution, issued for the debt secured by such
recognizance, shall be returned unsatisfied, the creditor shall be entitled to an alias, and other successive executions, in like manner as is
or may be allowed with regard to executions on a judgment in civil
actions.

SECT. 17. If there are several conusors, or several conusees,
and one or more of them shall die, before the debt is fully satisfied,
the right and interest of the surviving conusees, and the obligation of
the surviving conusors, and all the proceedings for the recovery of
the debt, shall be substantially the same, as in the case of the death
of one or more joint creditors, or joint debtors, in a judgment at
common law.

Seer. 18. If any person is injured by the wrongful suing out or
executing of any execution, under the provisions of this chapter, he
shall have his remedy, by a writ of audita querela, or otherwise, in
like manner as if the execution had been issued upon a judgment;
and in all cases, which are not otherwise specially provided for, the
parties to such a recognizance, and their respective representatives,
shall be entitled and liable to the like remedy, as is or may be provided for creditors and debtors by a judgment.

Seer. 19. _The fee of the clerk, for taking and recording a recognizance in term time or in vacation, and the fee of the justice of
the peace, for the like service, shall be fifty cents, and the clerks’
fee for recording a recognizance, taken before a justice, shall be
twenty five cents ; and for all other services, under the provisions of
this chapter, the same fees shall be paid, as for like services in other

C3588.

OF SEIZING AND LIBELLING FORFEITED GOODS.

SECT. 20. When any goods shall be forfeited for any offense,
and no special provision is made for the mode of recovering the
things forfeited, any person entitled to recover them, whether wholly
for his own use or otherwise, may seize the same, and shall keep them
safely, until they are disposed of, as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 21. The person making the seizure shall, within fourteen
days thereafter, file a libel in the clerk’s office of the court of common pleas for the county where the offense was committed, or before any justice of the peace for the same county, as the case may
require, stating briefly the cause of the seizure, without setting forth
all the special matter, and praying for a decree of forfeiture, according to the provisions of the statute, on which the seizure is founded,
referring to it in the following form; “according to the provisions
of the law concerning the survey of boards and other lumber,” or,
“the inspection of beef and pork,” (as the case may require,) and
mentioning the number of the chapter of the statute referred to, or
referring to the statute, in some other general terms.

SECT. 22. If the value of the goods seized shall exceed twenty
dollars, the libel shall be filed in the clerk’s office of the court of
common pleas; otherwise, it shall be filed before a justice of the

peace, and the value, for this purpose, shall be ascertained by an
appraisal, as hereinafter provided for.

Saar. 23. Upon the filing of such libel in the court of common 1
pleas, the clerk shall make out an advertisement, setting forth briefl 
the substance of the libel, and giving notice, to all persons interested, :
to appear at the term of the said court, to be held next after the expiration of twenty one days from the time of filing the libel, and show
cause, if any they have, why the goods should not be decreed forfeited ; which notice the libellant shall cause to be published, twice at
least, in some newspaper printed in the same county, if there be any,
otherwise, in a newspaper printed in the nearest county, the first

publication to be not less than fourteen days before the beginning of
the term.

Sncr. 24. The libel shall be entered like civil actions, and if i
after proclamation made, no claimant appears, the court shall pro-Z
ceed to hear and determine the cause, and shall decree a forfeiture
of the goods, or a restoration, or such other disposition thereof, as
law and justice shall require.

Seer. 25. If any claimant shall appear, he may allege and
plead any matter that may be necessary or proper for his defense in
the suit, and the further proceedings shall he conducted in the mode
that is usual in the courts, that proceed according to the course of the
civil law, except that all questions of fact shall be tried and determined by a jury.

SE01‘. 26. If upon such a trial, the libellant shall maintain his
suit, the court shall decree a forfeiture and sale of the goods, and a
distribution of the proceeds, or such other disposition thereof, as law
and justice shall require, and if the libellant shall discontinue or relinquish his suit, or in any way fail to maintain it, the court shall decree
a restitution of the goods to the claimant.

Snow. 27. If the jury shall find that the seizure was groundless
and without probable cause, they shall assess reasonable damages for
the claimant, and the court shall render judgment for such damages,
with costs of the suit.

Seer. 28. In all other cases, the court shall award costs to the

arty prevailing, or may order the costs, together with the charges of
lieeping and selling the goods, or any part of such costs and charges,
to be paid out of the proceeds of the goods.

Sr;c'r. 29. The court may issue an execution, in the common
form, for all costs and damages awarded to either party, and they
may also issue such warrants and other processes, as may he necessary or proper to carry into effect any other parts of their decree
or judgment.

Seer. 30. Either party, aggrieved at the decree of the court of
common pleas, may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial court,
and such appeal shall be claimed and prosecuted like appeals in civil
actions, and the cause shall be heard and determined in the supreme

judicial court, according to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 31. If the value 0 the goods seized does not exceed
twenty dollars, the libel shall be filed before a justice of the peace
for the county where the offense was committed, and the justice
shall make out an advertisement or notice, like that before required to

be made by the clerk of the court of common pleas, and mentioning
the time and place appointed for hearing the cause.

Sncr. 32. The libellant shall cause the notice to be posted ‘up,
in some public place in the county, not less than seven days before
the time appointed for hearing the cause, and any claimant may then
appear and answer to the suit ; and it shall be heard and determined
by the justice, without the intervention of a jury, but in all other respects, in the manner before prescribed, for a trial in the court of
common pleas.

SECT. 33. Either party, aggrieved at the decree of the justice of
the peace, may appeal therefrom to the court of common pleas, and
the appeal shall be conducted in all respects like appeals in civil actions, and the cause shall be heard and determined in the court of
common pleas, according to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 34. If the forfeiture is incurred in any town or place within
the jurisdiction of a police court, such court shall be considered, for
all the purposes of this chapter, as if held by a justice of the peace ;
and if the suit is cognizable by a justice, the libe shall be filed in such
police court, and the suit shall be there heard and determined, and
shall be finally disposed of, in all respects, as if it had been commenced before a justice of the peace.

Sncr. 35. In all trials upon any such libel, depositions may be
taken and used in like manner as in trials of actions at the common
law.

. SECT. 36. At any time, after the seizure of goods alleged to be

- forfeited, the owner, or any person entitled or authorized to claim the
same, may have them delivered to him, upon giving bond with sufficient surety to the person who made the seizure, in double the value
of the goods, with condition to restore them, or to pay the appraised
‘value thereof, if they should be decreed forfeited, and to abide by
and perform the final order, decree, or judgment of the court relating
thereto.

SECT. 37. The value of the goods in such a case shall be appraised and determined by three disinterested men, to be agreed on

y the parties, or appointed by any justice of the peace, to whom the
claimant shall apply for that purpose, and to be sworn to the faithful
performance of the duty, or if the appraisement is tnade after the
ibel is filed, the appraisers shall be appointed by the court or justice,
before whom the suit is pending.

Seer. 38. The person making the seizure, as soon as may be
thereafter, unless an application for an appraisement shall in the meantime be made by a claimant, shall apply to a justice of the peace, who
shall appoint three disinterested men, to make an inventory and appraisement of the goods seized ; and the said appraisers shall be sworn
to the faithful performance of the duty, and shall return their inventory and appraisement to the court or justice, before whom the suit is
brought.

Seer. 39. The appraisement, thus made on the application of

> the person who made the seizure, shall be conclusive as to the jurisdiction of the court before which the suit is to be brought, unless,
before the filing of the libel, a different appraisement shall be made,
upon the application of a claimant, in the manner before provided ; in

which case, such last mentioned appraisement shall be conclusive as
to the jurisdiction of the court.

S1-:c'r. 40. When any goods so seized are perishable, and liable
to depreciate in value, by keeping, and that fact shall be certified by
the appraisers appointed on the application of the person making the
seizure, any justice of the peace may, by an order indorsed on the
inventory, authorize asale by auction of such perishable goods, which
sale shall be made at such time, and with such notice, as shall be directed in the order.

Seer. 41. The preceding section shall not control or affect the a
power of the court, in which the suit is pending, to order a sale of t

the goods, for any sufficient cause, at any time during the pendency
of the suit.

RECOVERY OF PECUNIARY FORI-‘EITUREB.

S1-:c'r. 42. When any pecuniary forfeiture or line is, or hereafter
shall be, imposed by law, without any express provision for the mode
of recovering the same, or when such fine or forfeiture is made recoverable by bill, plaint or information, it may nevertheless be sued
for and recovered, in an action of debt, or an action of trespass on the
case, in any court proper to try the same.

ACTION 01-‘ ACCOUNT ABOLISBED.

Seer. 43. The action of account is hereby abolished ; and when
the nature of an account is such, that it cannot be conveniently and
properly adjustedand settled in an action of assumpsit, it may be
done upon a bill in equity, to be brought in the supreme judicial
court, and the said court shall bear and determine the cause, according to the course of proceedings in chancery, and may award an execution, in the common form, and such other process, as may be necessary or proper to carry into effect their final decree or judgment
in the case.

 

TITLE V.

Of the limitation of actions.

Cnuvrna 119. Of the limitation of real actions and rights of entry.
Cnan-an 120. Of the limitation of personal actions.

CHAPTER 1 19.

OF THE LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS AND RIGHTS OF ENTRY.

SECTION Sxcnott

I. No action or entry after twenty years, 2. Case of right first accruing to an ances
except, &c tor, &c.

Slcnon SECTION
3. Time, when the limitation begins to run. 11. These limitations, when to take effect.

4. Limitation, after disseizin of a. sole cor- 12 suits by the Commonwealth’ limited.

poration. . .
5. Exceptions for certain disabilities. '3'  °' d"°°"“““““°°'“°‘ ‘° 5”
6. Death of persons under disabilities. 3' '

7. No allowance for any second disability. 14' N°‘i°° '° P’°"°m 3" °”°m°m' " b‘
8. Entry on land, when eR'ectua.l. deemed “ di3""'ba'“°° l'h°’°°r'

9, 10. Estates tail, barred like estates in 15. On reversal or arrest of judgment, &.c.

fee. a new action may be brought.

SECTION 1. No person shall commence an action for the recovery of any lands, nor shall make an entry thereupon, unless within
twenty years after the right to make such entry or bring such action
first accrued, or within twenty years after he, or those from, by, or
under whom, he claims, shall have been seized or possessed of the

premises, exce t as is hereinafter provided. '
SECT. 2. f such right or title first accrued to an ancestor or predecessor of the person, who brings the action or makes the entry, or

W to any other person from, by, or under whom he claims, the said

twenty years shall be computed from the time when the right or title
so first accrued to such ancestor, predecessor, or other person.
Sect‘. 3. In the construction of this chapter, the right to make

an entry, or bring an action to recover land, shall be deemed to have

first accrued at the times respectively hereinafter mentioned, that is to
sa :

yFirst, When any person shall be disseized, his right of entry or
of action shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of such disseizin :

Secondly, When he claims as heir or devisee of one who died
seized, his right shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of such
death, unless there is a tenancy by the curtesy, or other estate, intervening after the death of such ancestor or devisor, in which case,
his right shall be deemed to accrue when such intermediate estate
shall expire, or when it would have expired by its own limitation:

Thirdly, When there is such an intermediate estate, and in all
other cases, when the party claims by force of any remainder or reversion, his right, so far as it is affected by the limitation herein prescribed, shall be deemed to accrue when the intermediate or precedent estate would have expired by its own limitation, notwithstanding
any forfeiture thereof, for which he might have entered at an earlier
time :

Fourthly, The preceding clause shall not prevent any person from
entering, when entitled to do so by reason of any forfeiture, or breach
of condition, but if he claims under such a title, his right shall be
deemed to have accrued when the forfeiture was incurred, or the
condition was broken 2

Fifthly, In all cases not otherwise specially provided for, the right
shall be deemed to have accrued, when the claimant, or the person
under whom he claims, first became entitled to the possession of the
premises under the title upon which the entry or the action is founded

SE01‘. 4. If any minister, or other sole corporation, shall be dis
seized, any of his successors may enter upon the premises, or may
bring an action for the recoverv thereof, at any time within five years

after the death, resignation, or removal, of the person so disseized,
notwithstanding the twenty years after such disseizin shall have expired.

SE01‘. 5. If, at the time when such ri ht of entry or of action
upon or for any lands shall first accrue as al%resaid, the erson, entitled to such entry or action, shall be within the age 0 twenty one

ears, or a married woman, insane, imprisoned, or absent from the
{Jnited States, such person, or any one claiming from, by, or under
him, may make the entry or bring the action, at any time within ten
years after such disability shall be removed, notwithstanding the
twenty years before limited in that behalf shall have expired.

Seer. 6. If the person, first entitled to make such entry or bring
such action, shall die during the continuance of any of the disabilities
mentioned in the preceding section, and no determination or judgment shall have been had 0 or upon the title, right or action, which
accrued to him, the entry may be made, or the action brought by his
heirs, or any other person claiming from, by, or under him, at any
time within ten years after his death, notwithstanding the said twenty
years shall have expired.

SE01‘. 7. If, at the time when such right of entry or of action
shall first accrue, the person entitled thereto shall be under any of
the disabilities before mentioned, and shall die without having recovered the premises, no further time for making such entry or bringing
such action, beyond what is herein before prescribed, shall be allowed
by reason of the disability of any other person.

SE01‘. 8. No person shall be deemed to have been in possession
of any lands, within the meaning of this chapter, merely by reason of
having made an entry thereon, unless he shall have continued in open
and peaceable possession of the premises, for the space of one year
next after such entry, or unless an action shall be commenced upon

such entry and seizin, within one year after he shall be ousted or
dispossessed of the premises.

SE01‘. 9. When the right of entry or of action of a tenant in tail,
or of a person entitled to a remainder in tail, is barred by force of
this chapter, the estate tail, and all remainders and reversions expectant thereon, shall be also barred, as fully as they might have been by
a conveyance made by the tenant in tail, in the manner provided in
the fifty ninth cha ter.

S1-:c'r. 10. hen any person, entitled to recover land as a tenant
in tail, or a remainder-man in tail, shall die before the expiration of
the period herein before limited for making an entry or bringing an
action therefore, no person claiming any estate, which the tenant in tail
or remainder-man might have barred, shall make an entry or bring an
action to recover such land, but within the period during which the
tenant in tail or remainder-man, if he had so long lived, might have
made such entry or brought such action.

SECT. 11. The limitations herein before prescribed, as to the
time within which an action may be brought to recover any land, shall
take effect from and after the thirty first day of December, in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and thirty nine ; and if any person, who shall then be entitled to bring any real action, which is to be
abolished after that day, shall then be within the age of twenty one

years, a married woman, insane, imprisoned, or without the limits of
the United States, the action may be brought, at any time within live
years after the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person
so disabled ; provided, that no such action shall be maintained, after
it would have been barred by the statutes of limitation, in force at
and immediately before the time when this chapter shall become 1
law.

S1.-:c'r. 12. No suit for the recovery of any lands shall be commenced by or in behalf of the Commonwealth, unless within twenty
years after the right or title of the Commonwealth thereto first accrued, or within twenty years after the Commonwealth, or those from
or through whom they claim, shall have been seized or possessed of

the premises.
SECT. 13. No descent or discontinuance, which may hereafter

' occur, shall take away or defeat any right of entry, or of action, for

the recovery of real estate.

SE01‘. 14. When a notice shall be given, to prevent the acquisition of a right or privilege of way, air or light, as provided in the
sixtieth chapter, such notice shall be considered so far a disturbance
of the right in question, as to enable the party, claiming such right, to
bring an action on the case, as for a nuisance or disturbance, for the
purpose of trying the right; and if the plaintifff in such action shall
prevail, he shall be entitled to full costs, although he should recover
onl nominal damages.

gear. 15. If any action, of which the commencement is limited
by this chapter, shall be abated by the death of any party thereto, or
if, after verdict for the demandant or plaintifff, the judgment shall be
arrested, or if judgment in any such action be given for the demandant or plaintifff, and the judgment shall be reversed for error therein,
the demandant or plaintifff, or any person claiming from, by, or under
him, may bring a new action for the same cause, at any time within
one year after the determination of the original action, or after the

reversal of the judgment therein.

 

CHAPTER 1 20.

OF THE LIMITATION OF PERSONAL ACTIONS.

Bzcrtox Ssc-non

1. Certain actions to be brought within six 10. Case of the death of either party.
years. 11. Remedy, in case of reversal, arrest of

2. Others to be brought within two years. judgment, &c.

3. Certain actions against sherihs, within 12. Case of fraudulent concealment by dell.
four years. 13. New promise, &.c. to be in writing.

4. Exception as to certain notes, &.c. 14-. Promise by one of several debtors.

5. And as to suits on accounts current. 15. 16. Proceedings in action against such

6. Exceptions for certain disabilities. debtors.

7. General limitation of twenty years. 17, 18. Effect of part payment.

8. Suits by aliens. 19. Limitation of demands filed in set-06'

9 Case of defendants out of the state. 20. Suits by the Commonwealth limited

Sxcrtox . Szcrion
21. Limitation of suits for penalties, byl 24. Presumption of payment of a judgment.
private persons. | 2.5. Provisions as to written promise, &.c.
22. Of such suits by the Commonwealth. when to take effect.
23. Case of suits limited by other statutes.

SECTION 1. The following actions shall be commenced within
six years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not afterwards :

First, all actions of debt, founded upon any contract, or liability
not under seal, except such as are brought upon the judgment or decree of some court of record of the United States, or of this, or some
other of the United States :

Secondly, all actions upon judgments rendered in any court, not
being a court of record :

Thirdly, all actions for arrears of rent :

Fourthly, all actions of assumpsit, or upon the case, founded on
any contract or liability, express or implied :

F ifthly, all actions for waste and for trespass upon land :

Sixthly, all actions of replevin, and all other actions for taking, detaining or injuring goods or chattels:

Seventhly, all other actions on the case, except actions for slanderous words, and for libels.

SECT. 2. All actions for assault and battery, and for false imprisonment, and all actions for slanderous words and for libels, shall
be commenced within two years next after the cause of action shall
accrue, and not afterwards.

Snow. 3. All actions against sheriffs, for the misconduct or negligence of their deputies, shall be commenced within four years
next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not afterwards.

SE01‘. 4. None of the foregoing provisions shall apply to any
action brought upon a promissory note, which is signed in the presence of an attesting witness, provided the action be brought by the
original payee, or by his executor or administrator, nor to an action
brought upon any bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by
any bank.

SECT. 5. In all actions of debt or assumpsit, brought to recover
the balance, due upon a mutual and open account current, the cause
of action shall be deemed to have accrued, at the time of the last item
proved in such account. _

SE01‘. 6. If any person, entitled to bring any of the actions, before mentioned in this chapter, shall, at the time when the cause of
action accrues, be within the age of twenty one years, or a married
woman, insane, im risoned, or absent from the United States, such
person may bring the said actions, within the times in this chapter
respectively limited, after the disability shall be removed, or within
six years after the disability mentioned in the preceding section.

SECT. 7. All personal actions on any contract, not limited by the
foregoing sections, or by any other law of this Commonwealth, shall
be brought within twenty years after the accruing of the cause of acnon.

SE01‘. 8. When any person shall be disabled to prosecute an
action in the courts of this Commonwealth, by reason of his being

an alien, subject or citizen of any country at war with the United
States, the time of the continuance of such war shall not be deemed
any part of the respective periods, herein limited for the commencement of any of the actions before mentioned.

SE01‘. 9. If, at the time when any cause of action, mentioned in
this chapter, shall accrue against any person, he shall be out of the
state, the action may be commenced, within the time herein limited
therefore, after such person shall come into the state ; and if after any
cause of action shall have accrued, the person against whom it has accrued shall be absent from and reside out of the state, the time of his
absence shall not be taken as any part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action.

SECT. 10. If any person, entitled to bring any of the actions, before mentioned in this chapter, or liable to any such action, shall die
before the expiration of the time herein limited therefore, or within
thirty days after the expiration of the said time, and if the cause of
action does by law survive, the action may be commenced by or
against the executor or administrator of the deceased person, as the
case may be, at any time within two years after the grant of letters
testamentary or of administration, and not afterwards, if barred by
the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 11. If, in any action, duly commenced within the time in
this chapter limited and allowed therefore, the writ shall fail of a sufHcient service or return, by any unavoidable accident, or by any default or neglect of the officer to whom it is committed, or if the writ
shall be abated, or the action otherwise avoided or defeated, by the
death of any party thereto, or for any matter of form, or if after a
verdict for the plaintifff, the judgment shall be arrested, or if a judgment for the plaintifff shall be reversed on a writ of error, the plaintifff
may commence a new action for the same cause, at any time within
one year after the abatement or other determination of the original
suit, or after the reversal of the judgment therein ; and if the cause
of action does by law survive, his executor or administrator may, in
case of his death, commence such new action within the said one
year.

SECT. 12. If any person, who is liable to any of the actions
mentioned in this chapter, shall fraudulently conceal the cause of such
action from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto, the action
may be commenced, at anytime within six years after the person,
who is entitled to bring the same, shall discover that he has such
cause of action, and not afterwards.

St-:c'r. 13. In actions of debt or upon the case, founded on any
contract, no acknowledgment or promise shall be evidence of a new
or continuing contract, whereby to take any case out of the operation
of the provisions of this chapter, or to deprive any party of the benefit
thereof, unless such acknowledgment or promise be made or contained by or in some writing, signed by the party chargeable thereby.

Sam‘. 14. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
executors or administrators of any contractor, no such joint contractor, executor or administrator, shall lose the benefit of the provisions
of this chapter, so as to be chargeable by reason only of any acknowledgment or promise, made or signed by any other or others of
them.

Snow. 15. In actions commenced against two or more joint contractors, or joint executors or administrators of any contractor, if it
shall appear on the trial, or otherwise, that the plaintifff is barred by
the provisions of this chapter, as to one or more of the defendants,
but is entitled to recover against any other or others of them, by virtue of -a new acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise, judgment
shall be given for the plaintifff, as to any of the defendants, against
whom he is entitled to recover, and for the other defendant or defendants against the plaintifff.

SE01‘. 16. If, in any action on contract, the defendant shall plead
in abatement, that any other person on ht to have been jointly sued,
and issue be joined on that plea, and i it shall appear on the trial,
that the action was, by reason of the provisions of this chapter, barred
against the person so named in the plea, the said issue shall be found
for the plaintifff.

SE01‘. 17. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections shall
alter, take away, or lessen the effect of a payment of any principal
or interest, made by any person; but no indorsement or memorandum
of any such payment, written or made upon any romissory note, bill
of exchange, or other writing, by or on behalf 0 the party, to whom
such payment shall be made, or purport to be made, shall be deemed
sufficient proof of the payment, so as to take the case out of the
operation of the (provisions of this chapter.

Seer. 18. I there are two or more joint contractors, or joint executors or administrators of an contractor, no one of them shall lose
the benefit of the provisions 0 this chapter, so as to be chargeable by
reason only of any payment, made by any other or others of them.

SECT. 19. All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
case of any debt on contract, alleged by way of set-off on the part of
a defendant; and the time of limitation of such debt shall be computed in like manner as if an action had been commenced therefore,
at the time when the plaintifff ’s action was commenced.

SECT. 20. The limitations, herein before prescribed for the commencement of actions, shall apply to the same actions, when brought
in the name of the Commonwealth, or in the name of any officer, or
otherwise, for the benefit of the Commonwealth, in the same manner
as to actions brought by citizens.

SECT. 21. All actions and suits, for any penalty or forfeiture on
any penal statute, brought by any person, to whom the penalty or forfeit_ure is given in whole or in part, shall be commenced within one
year next after the offense committed, and not afterwards.

S1~:c'r.22. If the penalty or forfeiture is given in whole or in
part to the Commonwealth, a suit therefore may be commenced by or
in behalf of the Commonwealth, at anytime within two years after the
offense committed, and not afterwards.

SECT. 23. The two preceding sections shall not apply to any
suit which is or shall be limited, by any statute, to be brought within a
shorter time than is prescribed in these two sections ; but such suit
shall be brought within the time that may be limited by such statute.

Seer. 24. Every judgmentaud decree, in any court of record of
the United Stzitos, or of this or any other state, shall be presumed to

he paid and satisfied, at the expiration of twenty years after the judgmom or decree was rendered.

Sr-:c'r. 25. None of the provisions of this chapter, respecting the
acknowledgment of a debt, or a new promise to pay it, shall apply to
any such acknowledgment or promise, made before the first day of
October in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty four ; but
every such last mentioned acknowledgment or promise, although not
made in writing, shall have the same effect, as if no provision relating
thereto had been herein contained.

Cnsrrsn 121.

 

TITLE VI.

Of costs, and the fees of officers.

Of costs in civil actions, and the taxation thereof.
CHAPTER 129. Of the fees of certain officers.

CHAPTER 1 2 1.

OF COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND THE TAXATION THEREOF.

Sacrrou

1. Party prevailing, entitled to costs.
2. Costs on appeal from a justice of the
peace.
3. “ on appeal from C. C. Pleas.
4. “ on appeal by defendant.
5. “ on appeal by plaintifff.
6,7. Plaintitlf recovering less thang 100,
and appealing.
8, 9. Defendant appealing from a like
judgment.
10. Costs on appeal for reasonable cause.
11. Case of a demand reduced by set-oil‘.
12. First and second judgments, how compared.
13. Full costs, in real actions, rcplevin, &c.
14. Costs, when defendant brings sufficient
money into court.

15. “ in several actions, which might
have been joined.
16 “ of trial on different counts.

17. Proceedings stayed, &c. till costs of
former suit are paid.
18. Double costs, how taxed.
19. Costs on petition for certiorari, &c.

SECTION 1.

Stories

20. Costs in suits in equity, &c.

21. Power of referees, under a rule, &.c.
as to costs.

22. Costs in civil suits by the Commonwealth.

23. When such suits are brought for the use
of a private person.

24. Costs against the Commonwealth, how
paid.

925. For the Commonwealth, how taxed.

26. Costs, on amendment, continuance, &.e.

27. U

auon.
28. Appeal from taxation by the clerk.
29, 30. Appeal, how conducted.
31. Costs of such appeal.
32. Allowance to parties recovering costs.
33. No allowance for travel to take out
writ, &.c.
34. Costs when defendant is defaulted.

35. “ for a corporation aggregate.

by whom taxed; notice of tax36. No costs for more than eighty miles
travel, unless, &.c.

In all civil actions, the party prevailing shall recover
his costs against the other party, except in those cases in which a
different provision is made by law.

SECT. 2. In all civil actions, tried before a justice of the peace,
or before any police court, or other court exercising the jurisdiction
of a justice of the peace, if the plaintifff shall appeal from a judgment
in his favor, and shall not recover, in the court of common pleas, a
greater sum for debt or damages, than he recovered by the first judgment, he shall not be entitled, for his costs of the whole suit, to more
than one quarter part of the sum finally recovered for debt or damaages.

SE07. 3. In all personal actions, brought originally in the court
of common pleas, except actions of replevin and of trespass on real
estate, and actions on the case for disturbance of any easement, and
all others in which the title to real estate may be concerned, if the
plaintifff shall finally recover any sum, not exceeding twenty dollars,
for debt or damages, whether in the court of common pleas or in the
supreme judicial court, he shall be entitled for his costs to no more

than one quarter part of the debt or damages so recovered, except as

is provided in the following section.

Seer. 4. In any such action, as is mentioned in the preceding
section, except the said actions of replevin and of trespass on real
estate, actions on the case for disturbance of an easement, and others
in which the title to real estate may be concerned, if the plaintifff shall
recover, in the court of common pleas, a sum not exceeding twenty
dollars, and the defendant shall appeal, and if the sum so recovered
shall not be reduced in the supreme judicial court, the plaintifff shall
be entitled to double costs, incurred after the appeal ; but for all the
costs incurred before the appeal, he shall be entitled, as before provided, to only one quarter part of the sum finally recovered for debt
or damages.

SECT. 5. If the plaintifff appeals from such a judgment, as is
mentioned in the preceding section, and shall not recover, in the supreme judicial court, more than he recovered in the court of common
pleas, the defendant shall be entitled to his costs, incurred after the
appeal.

SECT. 6. In all personal actions, brought originally in the court
of common pleas, except re levin and those in which the title to real
estate may be concerned,i the plaintifff recovers in that court any
sum exceeding twenty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, for debt or damages, and if he appeals, and does not recover in
the supreme judicial court more than he recovered in the court of
common pleas, he shall not be entitled to any costs, incurred after the
appeal, but the defendant shall be entitled to costs after the appeal,
and shall have a separate judgment therefore ; which judgment may be
executed in the usual manner, or may be set off against the judgment
recovered by the plaintifff.

Seer. 7. If the plaintifff appeals from such a judgment, as is mentioned in the preceding section, and recovers in the supreme judicial
court more than he recovered in the court of common pleas, he shall
be entitled to his full costs in both courts.

A Seer. 8. If the defendant appeals from such a judgment. as is
mentioned in the two preceding sections, and if the sum, so recovered
by the plaintifff, is not reduced in the supreme judicial court, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to double costs, incurred after the appeal.

Seer. 9. If, upon an appeal by the defendant, in such a case as
is last above mentioned, the sum recovered by the plaintifff, in the
court of common pleas, be reduced in the supreme judicial court, the

defendant shall be entitled to his costs, incurred after the appeal.
Seer. 10. If, upon a trial in the supreme judicial court, of an

' appeal made by either party, it shall appear to the court, before which

the trial is had, that there was reasonable cause for the appeal, the
court may in their discretion exempt the appellant from the payment
of the costs of the appeal, and they may award to him his costs of
the appeal, in whole or in part, as justice and equity shall require,
any thing contained in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding.

Sr-:c'r. 1]. If the plaintifff ’s claim, as established on the trial,
shall exceed one hundred dollars, and shall be reduced by set-offs to
one hundred dollars or less, or if it shall be overbalanced by such setoffs, it shall nevertheless be considered, for all the purposes of this
chapter, as having exceeded one hundred dollars, and the party, who
finally prevails and recovers 'udgment in the suit, shall be entitled
accordingly to his full costs o the whole suit.

SECT. 12. In comparing the sums recovered by the two judgments, for the purposes specified in this chapter, the sum, if any,
allowed for interest accrued on the plaintifff ’s demand, after the first
verdict or 'udgment, shall not be included, and he shall not be considered as having recovered more on the appeal than on the first trial,
merely on account of the addition of interest, accrued between the
two trials. The same rule shall apply to all demands of the defendant, which are proved by way of set-off.

Seer. 13. In all real actions, and in all actions of replevin and
of trespass on real estate, actions on the case for disturbance of any
easement, and all others, in which the title to real estate may be concerned, the party finally prevailing, whether in the court of common
pleas, or on the appeal to the supreme judicial court, shall recover his
full costs, without regard to the amount of damages, if any, recovered
in the action.

Seer. 14. When a defendant shall bring money into court, and
offer the same in satisfaction of the damages demanded by the plaintifff, the plaintifff shall, in all cases, be entitled to the costs which had
previously accrued, though he may not recover a larger sum than is
so brought into court.

SECT. 15. When a plaintifff shall, at the same court, bring several actions against the same defendant, upon demands which might
have been joined in one, he shall recover costs in one action only,
unless it shall appear to the court that the actions affect differen‘
rights or interests, or that for other sufficient reasons they ought not
to have been joined.

SECT. 16. When there are two or more counts in any case, on
several and distinct causes of action, and a verdict shall be rendered
for the plaintifff on one or more of them, and for the defendant on any
other or others, each party shall recover his costs, paid for the travel
and attendance of witnesses, and for depositions and other evidence.
produced, examined or used on the trial of the counts, upon which the
verdict is in his favor, and shall recover nothing for the like charges,
lDCUl'l'Cd on the trial of the other counts. '

Snow. 17. When, after a 'udgment for costs upon a nonsuit or
discontinuance, a second suit or the same cause shall be brought, by
the original plaintifff or by his executor or administrator, before the
costs of the former suit shall have been paid, the court, in which the
second suit is pending, may order all further proceedings therein to
be stayed, until such costs shall be paid, and may further order that
the suit be dismissed, unless the costs are paid within such time as
shall be expressed in the order.

Sear. 18. In all cases, in which any party is entitled to recover
double costs, the sums paid as fees to witnesses, and for the costs of
taking depositions and procuring evidence, and for copies, and all
court dues, shall be taxed and recovered singly, and the remainder
only of the taxable costs shall be doubled; and the same rule shall
apply when treble costs are recovered.

SEc'r. 19. In all cases, where application shall be made, at the
suit or in behalf of any private person, for a writ of certiorari, mandamus, quo warranto, or other like process, the court may in their discretion allow costs to any person, who shall appear and object thereto, and may award judgment and execution therefore, against the person by whom, or in whose behalf, the application is made.

Sacr. 20. In all suits in equity, and in all civil suits and proceedings, in which no provision is expressly made by law, the subject of costs shall be wholly in the discretion of the court, but no
greater sum shall be taxed in any such bill of costs, than is allowed
or similar charges in suits at common law.

SECT. 21. Nothing contained in this chapter shall take away or
control the ower of arbitrators or referees, appointed by a rule of
court or ot erwise, from making such award concerning costs, as
justice and equity shall require.

St-:c'r. 22. In all civil suits and proceedings, duly instituted and
brought by or in the name of the Commonwealth, and not brought on
the relation, or in behalf, or for the use, of any private person, the
Commonwealth shall be liable for costs, in like manner, and to the
same extent, as any citizen would be, if the suit or proceeding had
been instituted by him.

Seer. 23. \Vhen any suit or proceeding is instituted in the name
of the Commonwealth, on the relation, or in behalf, or for the use of

any private person, such person shall be liable for the costs, in like a

manner and to the same extent, as if the suit or proceeding had been
instituted in his own name, and judgment may be rendered, and execution issued therefore, against him.

SECT. 24. VVhen any judgment for costs shall be rendered
against the Commonwealth, the treasurer of the county where the
court is held shall pay the same, upon the production of an attested copy of the judgment, and the sum so paid shall be allowed to
him in his account with the treasurer of the Commonwealth.

SECT. 25. When costs shall be taxed for the Commonwealth, as
a party in any civil suit or proceeding, no fees shall be taxed or allowed for the travel of the attorney general, or of any other attorney for
the Commonwealth.

SI-ICT. 26. Nothing contained in this chapter shall take away or
control the power of any court, to require costs to be paid by either

party, as the condition of an amendment, continuance, or other order
passed at his motion, or to withhold and refuse costs, on the like occasions.

SE01‘. 27. All bills of costs, in suits before a justice of the

peace, shall be taxed by the justice, and in suits before the court of

common pleas and the supreme judicial court, shall be taxed by the
respective clerks of those courts ; and no costs shall be taxed without
notice to the adverse party to be present, provided he shall have given
seasonable notice in writing to thejustice or clerk, of his desire to be
present at the taxation, or shall have caused such notice to be entered
on the clerk’s docket ; and notice, given by or to the attorney in the
suit, shall be equivalent to notice by or to the party himself.

Sncr. 28. Either party may appeal, from the taxation of _costs by
the clerk, to the court in which the suit is pending, or to any one of
the justices thereof, and the appeal shall be conducted in the manner
hereinafter provided.

SECT. 29. The appeal shall be heard and determined, at the next
term or session, unless the party, who recovers costs, shall elect to
have it determined before one of the justices, in vacation, and shall
give seasonable notice thereof to the adverse party, in which case, it
shall be determined before one of the justices; and in either case,
the judgment shall be considered as rendered on the day when the
costs are finally taxed and allowed, except as is provided in the following section.

Stacr. 30. If the appeal is made by the party who is to pay the
costs, the other party may, notwithstanding the appeal, take out his
execution and cause it to be satisfied, provided he first give bond to
the adverse party, with sufiicient surety or sureties, to be approved
by the clerk, in a sum equal to the whole amount of the costs, with
condition to repay such part of the costs, if any, as shall be disallowed
on the appeal, and to perform such other order, as the court or judge
shall make thereon.

Sncr. 31. The court or judge, before whom any such appeal is
heard, may allow to either party, as justice may require, the costs incurred by the appeal, and the same may be added to, or deducted
from, the costs awarded in the principal suit, or a separate execution
may be issued therefore, as the case may require. '

St-:c'r. 32. All parties, recovering costs in civil causes, shall be
allowed as follows :

For an attorney’s fee in the supreme judicial court, in all cases, in
which an issue in law or fact is joined, two dollars and fifty cents;
and in all other cases, one dollar and twenty five cents :

For an attorney’s fee in the court of common pleas, when an issue
in law or fact is joined, one dollar and fifty cents ; and in all other
cases one dollar :

For the declaration in each writ, in any justice’s court, or other
court whatever, fifty cents :

For attendance and travel, in either of the courts before mentioned,
or before a justice of the eace, police court, or any other court of
record, thirty three cents or each day’s attendance, and thirty three
cents for every ten miles’ travel.

Snow 33 No allowance shall be made for travel to or from the

clerk’s office, to take out any writ or process, nor for carrying the
same to an officer.

Sr-:c'r. 34. No plaintifff shall be allowed for more than three days’
attendance, when the defendant shall be defaulted, without having appeared in the cause ; and if he shall be defaulted, after an appearance,
no allowance shall be made for the plaintiffi’s attendance, after the
default.

Seer. 35. When any corporation aggregate is entitled to costs,
an allowance shall be made for travel, as in other cases, and the travel shall be computed from the place where the corporation is situated,
if it is in its nature local, otherwise from the place in which its business is chiefly or commonly transacted.

SE01‘. 36. No party shall be allowed for travel, for more than
eighty miles out and home, unless he, or some agent or attorney for
him, shall actually travel more than forty miles, for the special purpose
of attending the court in such cause; in which case, allowance may be
made, in the discretion of the court, according to the distance that is
actually travelled.

-- .._ .._m _ _

CHAPTER 1 22.

OF THE FEES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.

Szcrtos Section
1. Fees of justices of the peace. 13. Fees in the office of the secretary of
2. “ clerks of county commissioners. state.
and of clerks of supreme court, and C. 14. “ of secretary to be accounted for.
C. Pleas. 15. “ of the register of deeds.
3. Clerks’ fees to be accounted for. 16. “ of notaries public.
4. Fees of crier of the courts. 17. List of fees to be hung up in public om5. Sherifi’s fees. C885, jailer’; fees, 18. Omcer to give a bill of fees received
7. Coroner’s fees. when required, under penalty.
8. Constable’s fees. 19. Penalty for extortion.
9. Fees to be intlorsed on writs. 20. Fees in municipal court, and in police
10. “ of jurors, witnesses, and others. courts.
11. “ for marriages. 21. “ in cases not specified.
12. “ of town clerk. 22. The word “ page" dehned.

The fees of the several officers hereafter mentioned, for the services specilied, with respect to each of them, shall be as follows, to
wit :

SECTION 1. FEES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

For every blank writ of attachment and summons thereon, or original summons, seventeen cents :

For every subpoena, for one or more witnesses, ten cents:

For the entry of an action, or filing a complaint in civil causes,

including tiling of papers, examining, allowing and taxing the bill of
costs, and entering up the judgment and recording the same, sixty one
cents :

For the copy of a record, or other paper, if less than one page, ten
cents ; if more than one page, at the rate of twelve cents a page :

For a writ of execution, twenty five cents :

Taking a recognizance to prosecute an appeal, including principal
and surety, twenty cents :

Taking a deposition in any case required by law, fifty cents; for
writing the deposition and caption, at the rate of twelve cents a page;
and for the notice to the adverse party, twenty cents ; and the justice shall certify on the deposition his own fees, and those of the
de onent:

llJ§‘or administering an oath, in all cases, in which it is required by
law, except on any trial on examination before himself, whether it )8
administered to one or to more persons, at the same time, twenty
cents :

Taking the acknowledgment of a deed, whether by one or more
grantors, if done at the same time, seventeen cents :

Granting a warrant of appraisement of the estates of deceased persons, and of strays, and forfeited goods, and in all other cases, twenty
cents :

Receiving a complaint and issuing a warrant in criminal cases, fifty
cents :

Entering a complaint in criminal prosecutions, rendering judgment
and recording the same, examining, allowing and taxing the costs and
filing the papers, seventy five cents :

For the trial of an issue, fifty cents :

For a mittimus for the commitment of any person on a criminal accusation, twenty tive cents :

For travel, in the performance of any official duty, at the rate of
fifty cents, for every ten miles, in going and returning:

And, in all cases, where the attendance of two or more justices is
required, each of them shall be entitled to the fees, prescribed for all
services rendered by him personally.

SECT. 2. FEES on THE CLERKS on THE JUDICIAL COURTS.
For their services as clerks of the county commissioners.

For the warrant for acounty tax, twenty cents :

For a warrant to lay out or alter a road, twenty cents.

For recording reports concerning highways, and all other proceedings, required to be recorded, and also for copies of records and other
pagers, at the rate of twelve cents a page :

or all other services, the same fees as are allowed in like cases,
in the supreme judicial court, or court of common pleas.

For their services as clerks of the supreme judicial court, or of the
court of common pleas.

For the entry of an action or complaint, in any civil suit or proceeding, or the entry of a petition for the sale or partition of real estate, sixty cents :

Entry of an indictment, presentment, complaint or information. including the recording of the judgment, taxing the costs, and tiling the
papers, sixty live cents :

Entry of an appearance, ten cents :

Entering a rule of reference to arbitrators, fifteen cents :

For every continuance of a cause, twelve cents :

For opening and filing a deposition, ten cents :

Taking a recognizance of any kind, twenty cents :

For every nonsuit, or dismission of an action, confession of judgment, default, or joinder in demurrer, fifteen cents :

For entering and recording a verdict, or report of referees, twenty
cents :

Entering and recording a judgment, in all civil cases, forty cents :

Entering avltnowledgment of. satisfaction _of a judgment, twelve
cents :

Entering an appeal, either in a civil or criminal case, including the
recognizance, if any is taken, twenty cents :

For every writ of execution, whether in real or personal suits or
proceedings, twenty five cents :

Every warrant in any criminal suit or proceeding, twenty cents :

Every blank writ of attachment and summons thereon, and every
ori inal summons, fifteen cents :

Every writ of review, scire facias, certiorari, habeas corpus, or
other special writ, forty cents :

Every subpoena, for one or more witnesses, ten cents :

Every venire facias for jurors, six cents :

Every writ not before mentioned, forty cents :

For examining and casting the grand jurors’ accounts, and order
thereon, thirty cents :

Examining any other account, eight cents :

For the certificate of the proof of a deed in court, twenty cents :

For copies of all papers, containing less than one page, ten cents ;
and if containing more than one page, at the rate of twelve cents a
Page ‘ . . . . . . .

For recording proceedings in suits in equity, such compensation as
the court shall deem reasonable, having regard to the fees established
by law, for services of a similar nature.

SECT. 3. The said clerks shall account for all the said fees, received for their services, with the county treasurer of their respective
counties, in the manner prescribed in the eighty eighth chapter.

SI-JCT.  CRIER’S FEES IN THE JUDICIAL COURTS.

The crier shall be allowed two dollars a day, to be paid out of the
county treasury, but if he is a deputy sheriff, he shall not receive pay
for his attendance in that capacity also.

S1-:c'r. 5. snniuri-*’s runs.

For the service of an original summons, or a scire facias, either by
reading the same, or by leaving a copy, thirty cents ; and if served on
more than one defendant, thirty cents for each defendant :

For the service of a capias, or of an attachment with summons,
thirty cents for each defendant on whom it is served, and if the oHicer, by the direction of the plaintifff or his attorney, shall make a special service of such writ, either by attaching property, or arresting the
body, he shall be entitled to fifty cents for each defendant on whom
the writ is so served :

For a copy of any precept, when required by law, or when furnished to any party at his request, at the rate of twelve cents a page :

For taking bail, and furnishing and writing the bail bond, twenty
cents, to be paid by the defendant, and taxed in his bill of costs, if
he shall prevail :

For serving a warrant, thirty cents for each person on whom it is
served : ‘

Summoning witnesses, either in civil or criminal cases, ten cents
for each witness, and in criminal cases, the court may, under special
circumstances, allow such further sum as they shall judge reasonable :

Dispersing venires for jurors, treasurers’ warrants, and roclamations of all kinds, eight cents each, without any allowance or travel :

Serving executions in personal actions, and collecting damages or
costs on any execution, warrant of distress or other like process, for
any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, four cents for every dollar ; all above one hundred dollars, and not exceeding two hundred
dollars, two cents for every dollar; and for all above two hundred
dollars, one cent for every dollar :

Serving a writ of seizin or possession in real actions, one dollar
and ten cents, and if served on more than one piece of land, seventy
five cents for each piece after the first :

Serving an execution upon a judgment for partition, or for assignment of dower, one dollar a day :

Travel for the service of all original writs, executions, warrants,
subpoenas, and other like processes, four cents a mile, to be compu. ted from the place of service to the court, or place of return ; only

one travel to be allowed for the service of any one precept, and if
the same precept be served on more than one person, the travel shall
be computed from the most remote place of service, with such further travel as may have been necessary in serving it :

If the distance from the place of service to the place of return shall
exceed fifty miles, only one cent a mile shall be allowed for all travel
exceeding that distance :

Whilst attending any court of record, or at any meeting of the
county commissioners, three dollars a day, to be paid out of the county treasury; and in every county, where there is more than one
shire town, the fees shall be four dollars a day, except at the court
or meeting, held in the town nearest the residence of the sherifj or
in which he resides.

To every deputy sheriff, who shall attend said courts or meetings by their order, two dollars a day, to be paid in the manner aforesaid.

And no sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner or constable, shall be entitled to any fees for attendance as a witness in any criminal case, whilst
he is paid for attending as an officer of the same court, or on the same
examination or trial.

To the sheriff, for returning the votes for gcvemor, lieutenant go
vernor, counsellors and senators, to the secretary’s office, twelve
cents a mile, to be computed from the place of his abode to the secretary’s office, and to be paid out of the treasury of the Commonwealth, and only one travel shall be allowed for the whole.

Sncr. 6. JArLEn’s FEES.

For furnishing food for each prisoner, such sum, weekly, as the
county commissioners for the respective counties, or the mayor and

aldermen of the city of Boston shall, from time to time, judge reasonable.

Sncr. 7. coRoN1-:1t’s mans.

For all services performed by them, the same fees as are allowed
to sheriffs and deputy sheriffs, for the like services :

For granting a warrant and taking an inquisition on a dead body,
three dollars ; if more than one at the same time, twenty cents for
each one after the first, to be paid out of the county treasury.

Snow. 8. co:\'snnL1-:’s mans.

For all services performed by them, the same fees as are allowed
to sheriffs for the like services, unless when other provision is expressly made therefore :

For attending any court of record, by order of the court, and for
any services performed there, the same fees as are allowed to deputy
sheriffs, in like cases :

For serving a venire, twenty five cents, and for travel to the place
of return, at the rate of four cents a mile, to be paid out of the county treasury.

For summoning the jurors upon a coroner’s inquest, and attendance thereon, at the rate of ninety cents a day, to be paid out of the
county treasury.

SE01‘. 9. All travelling fees and fees for the service of writs or
precepts, of which the sheriff or other officer is required to make a
return, shall be indorsed on the writ, or they shall not be allowed.

Seer. 10. runs or JURORS, WITNESSES, APPRAISERS, coumssxonnns AND ornnns.

To each person attending as a grand juror or traverse juror, in
any court, one dollar and seventy five cents a day for his attendance,
and eight cents a mile for his travel out and home ; and to each person attending as a juror, before a sheriff, or coroner, or on any other
occasion prescribed by law, one dollar and twenty five cents a day
for his attendance, and six cents a mile for his travel out and home :

To each person, attending as a witness, in any civil or criminal
cause, in the supreme judicial court, court of common pleas, or municipal court of the city of Boston, one dollar a day, and for his attendance before a justice of the peace, or before referees or arbitrators, or on any other occasion, fifty cents a day, and in all cases four
cents a mile for his travel out and home, and the witness shall certify in writing the amount of his travel and attendance :

To all appraisers of the estate of deceased persons, appraisers of
real estate taken in execution, persons appointed under any legal process for assigning dower, or for making partition of real estates, sheriffs’ aid in criminal cases, and all other private persons, performing

any lute service required by law, or in the BXBCUUOD of any legal process, when no express provision is made for the compensation therefore, one dollar a day each for their services, and four cents a mile for
travel out and home

Seer. 1]. Fans ron MARRIAGES.

To the town clerk, for publishing the banns of matrimony, recording the same, giving a certificate thereof, and recording the marriage
upon receiving the minister’s or justice’s certificate thereof, fifty cents,
to be paid on delivering the certificate of publishing the banns :

To every minister or justice of the peace, who shall lawfully solemnize a marriage, and certify the same, one dollar and twenty five
cents.

SECT. 12. TOWN cLERK’s FEES.

For recording births and deaths, eight cents each :

For a certificate of a birth or death, ten cents 2

For copies of town records, and other documents, furnished to
any person at his request, if containing less than one page, ten cents,
and if containing more, at the rate of twelve cents a page.

SECT. 13. FEES IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF
STATE.

For a copy of any resolve or order of the general court, or of the
governor and council, of a private or local nature, furnished to any
private person, fifty cents: _

For copies of all other papers so furnished, at the rate of twelve
cents a page:

Seer. 14-. The secretary shall keep an account of all fees reI-ceived by him, and shall exhibit a quarterly return thereof, under

oath, to the governor and council ; and the amount so received shall
be deducted from his salary, and [a] warrant shall be issued for the
‘balance.

Snow. 15. Fees or THE REGISTER or manna.

For entering and recording a deed, or other paper, and certifying
the ‘same on the original, seventeen cents, and if it contains more
than one page, at the rate of fourteen cents, for every page, after the
first; the said fees to be paid, when the instrument is left to be
recorded :

For all copies, at the rate of fourteen cents a page :

For entering in the margin a discharge of a mortgage, twelve cents.

SE01‘. 16. FEES or NOTARII-38 PUBLIC.

For every protest for the non-payment or non-acceptance of a
bill of exchange, order, draft or check, one dollar and fifty cents :

For every protest for the non-payment of a promissory note, one
dollar and fifty cents.

For recording the same, seventy five cents :

For noting the non-payment or non-acceptance of a bill of exchange, order, draft or check, seventy live cents ; and

For noting the non-payment of a promissory note, seventy five
cents :

For recording the same, fifty cents.
For each notice of the non-acceptance or non-payment of any such

bill, order, draft, check, or note, given to any party liable for the payment thereof, fifty cents; provided, that the whole cost of protest,
including all necessary notices and the record thereof, shall in no
case exceed three dollars.

SECT. 17. Each one of the officers before mentioned, who
keeps a public office, shall always keep hung up in some conspicuous
and convenient place in his office, a printed or written list of the fees
prescribed in this chapter, so far as they relate to him.

SECT. 18. Every officer, upon receiving any fees for any official
duty or service, shall, if required by the erson paying the same,
make out in writing a particular account olPsuch fees, specifying for
what they respectively accrued; and if he refuses or neglects so to
do, he shall forfeit, to the party paying the fees,three times the amount
so paid, to be recovered in an action on the case.

SE01‘. 19. If any officer shall willfully and corruptly demand and
receive, for any official duty or service, any greater fee than is allowed
by law, he shall forfeit thirty dollars for every such offense, which
sum may be recovered for the use of the Commonwealth, on indictment in any court proper to try the same, or it may be recovered in
an action of debt, for the use of any person, who shall sue therefore ;
but no such indictment or action shall be commenced, unless within
one year after the committing of the offense.

Snow. 20. All fees and costs, for services and proceedings in the
municipal _court of the city of Boston, shall be the same, as are prescribed, in like cases, in the court of common pleas ; and all such fees
and costs, in any police court, or other court exercising the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, shall be the same as are prescribed in
like cases before justices of the peace.

SECT. 21. In all cases, not expressly provided for by law, the
fees of all public officers, for any official duty or service, shall be at
the same rate as those prescribed in this chapter for the like services.

Sncr. 22. The word “ page,” when used as the measure of

computation, shall mean two hundred and twenty four words.


