PART III.

OF COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS AND PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES.

T I T L E I .
OF COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

CHAPTER 112.—Of the Supreme Judicial Court.

CHAPTER l13.—Of the Court of Common Pleas.

CHAPTER 114.—Of the Superior Court of the County of SuEolk.
CHAPTER 115.—Of the Municipal Court of the City of Boston.
CHAPTER 1l6.—Of Police Courts._ CHAPTER 117.—Of Probate Courts.

CHAPTER 118.—Of Courts of Insolvency.

CHAPTER ll9.—Of Judges and Registers of Probate and Insolvency.
CHAPTER 120.—Of Justices of the Peace. ‘

CHAPTER l2l.—Of Clerks, Attorneys, and other Oilicers of Courts.

CHAPTER 122.—Specia.l provisions respecting Courts and the Administration
of Justice.

CHAPTER 112.

OF THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Sscnos Sscrxon

1. Appointment and number ofjusticee. i 14. Court of law. Jurisdiction.
2. Three justices a quorum. \ 15. Justices may remove clerks, sheritis, com3. Justices to be conservators of the peace. t missioners of insolvency, registers of pro4. General superlntendence of inferior courts.  bate, district-attorneys, &c.
5. May issue writs of error, certioruri, &c. i Court of trials, jurisdiction, &c.
6. Original and exclusive jurisdiction. 5 —may arraigu in capital cases, and pass
7. Original and concurrent jurisdiction.  sentence, if, &c.
8. Jurisdiction in equity. 1 —may assign counsel, ‘&.c.
9. May frame new write, to. ; . —may set aside verdict, &c.

10. To establish general rules of practice. . —may reserve questions of law.

11. May award judgments. &c.
12. Power over children of parents living separately. . —or allow exceptions.

13. Rules in adiudicsting as to custody, &c., of . Trial by jury, not delayed by allowance of
children. exceptions.

—may reserve cases on motions for new
trials.

5333 ?38'<'o'E-'3 F352‘

SECT. 5. They may issue writs of error, certiorari, mandamus, prohibition, and quo warranto, and all other writs
and processes, to courts of inferior jurisdiction, corporations,
and individuals, that shall be necessary to the furtherance
of justice and the regular execution of the laws.

- SECT. 6. The court shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction of actions of waste, and of tort in the nature of
waste, writs of entry, and other real actions, (except for
the foreclosure of mortgages,) and of all actions in which
relief in equity is prayed for, unless otherwise specially
provided.

SECT. 7. The court shall have original and concurrent

jurisdiction with the court of common pleas, and in the

county of Suffolk with the superior court, of writs of entry
for the foreclosure of mortgages, actions respecting easements on real estate, (except complaints for flowing land,)
petitions for partition, and of all other civil actions in which
the damages demanded or property claimed shall exceed
in amount or value three thousand dollars if brought in the
county of Suffolk, or three hundred dollars if brought in any
other county, if the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, before
service of the writ, shall make oath or affirmation before
some justice of the peace that the matter sought to be recovered actually exceeds in amount or value said sums re ectively; a certificate of which oath or ailirmation sha be

indorsed on or annexed to the writ.

SE01‘. 8. The court may hear and determine in equity
all cases hereafter mentioned, when the parties have not a
plain, adequate, and complete remedy at the common law;
that is to say,Suits for the redemption of mortgages, or to foreclose the
same: A i ,

Suits and proceedings for enforcing and regulating the
execution of trusts, whether the trusts relate to real or
personal estate :

Suits for the specific performance of written contracts
by and against either party to the contract and his heirs,
devisees, executors, administrators, and assigns:

Suits to compel the redelivery of goods or chattels taken
or detained from the owner and secreted or withheld so
that the same cannot be replevied:

Suits for contribution by or between devisees, legatees, or
heirs, who are liable for the debts of a deceased testator or
intestate, and by or between any other persons who are
respectively liable for the same debt or demand, when there
is more than one person liable at the same time for such
contribution :

Other cases in which there are more than two parties
having distinct rights or interests, which cannot be justly
and definitely decided and adjusted in one action at the
common law:

Suits between copartuers, joint tenants, and tenants in
common, and their legal representatives, and between joint
trustees, co-executors, and co-administrators, and their legal
representatives :

Suits concerning waste and nuisance, whether relating to
real or personal estate:

Suits upon accounts when the nature of the account is
such that it cannot be conveniently and properly adjusted
and settled in an action at law :

Bills by creditors to reach and apply in payment of a debt
due from a debtor, any property, right, title, or interest,
legal or equitable, of such debtor, within this state, which
cannot be come at to be attached or taken on execution in
a suit at law against such debtor:

Cases of fraud, and conveyances or transfers of real estate
in the nature of mortgages:

Cases of accident or mistake:

Suits or bills for discovery when a discovery may be
lawfully required according to the course of proceedings
in equity:

And shall have full equity jurisdiction according to the
usage and practice of courts of equity, in all other cases

where there is not a full, adequate, and complete remedy
at law.

S1-301'. 9. The court shall frame, in conformity with the
principles of law and the usage and practice of the state,
any new writ or process which may be required, and for
which no form is prescribed by statute.

SECT. 10. The court shall from time to time make and
promulgate rules for regulating the practice and conducting
the business of the court in all cases not expressly provided
for by law; for the purpose of—First. Simplifying and shortening the pleadings and
other proceedings:

Second. Prescribing the terms upon which amendments
will be allowed by the court or some justice thereof, or upon
which unnecessary counts and statements will be stricken
out of the record; discouraging negligence and deceit; preventing delay; securing parties from being misled; placing
the party not in fault as nearly as possible in the same condition he would have been in if no mistake had been made;
distinguishing between form and substance; and affording
known, fixed, and certain requisitions in place of the dis~
cretion of the court or some justice thereof :

Third. For conducting trials by the court:

Fourth. Prescribing the time within which aiiidavits of
defense shall be filed in actions praying relief in equity:

Fifth. Presenting more distinctly the questions to be
tried by the jury: ‘

Sixth. Giving each party notice of matters intended to
be given in evidence by the other, so as to prevent surprise
and enable suitors to prepare for trial:

Seventh. Respecting the forms of verdicts, so as to place
upon the record the finding of the jury in matters of fact:

Eighth. Settling the truth of exceptions alleged and
refused in cases removed from the court of common pleas,
superior court, and municipal court:

Ninth. Expediting the decision of causes:

Tenth. Remedying all abuses and imperfections that may
be found to exist in the practice: and,

Eleventh. Diminishing costs.

SECT. 11. The court may make and award such judg-3
ments, decrees, orders, and injunctions, issue such executions and other writs and processes, and do such other
acts, as may be necessary or proper to carry into full effect
all the powers which are or may be conferred upon said
court.

SECT. 12. Where the parents of minor children live separately, the justices of said court, upon the petition of either
parent, shall have the same power to make decrees concerning their care, custody, education, and maintenance, as they
have concerning children whose parents are divorced.

SECT. 13. In making an order or decree relative to the
custody of children pending a controversy between their
parents, or in regard to their nnal possession by the respective
parents, the rights of the parents in the absence of misconduct shall beheld to be equal, and the happiness and welfare
of the children shall determine the custody or possession.
The court may as a court of equity make such orders and
decrees from time to time in relation to such custody or
possession as shall be deemed necessary and proper.

SE01‘. 14. Trials of indictments for capital crimes, questions of law on exceptions and on appeals from the court of
common pleas, superior court of the county of Suffolk, and
municipal court of the city of Boston, cases stated by the
parties, and on special verdicts, and all issues in law, shall
be heard and determined by the court of law.

SE01‘. 15. The justices or a majority of them may remove
from office the clerk of said court for the county of Suffolk,

and the clerk of the courts for any other county, when in
their judgment the public good shall require such removal;
and on bill, petition, or other proper process, they or a
majority of them may remove any clerk of the superior
court or municipal court, and any commissioner of insolvency, sheriff, register of probate and insolvency, districtattorney, or attorney for the commonwealth in the county
of Suffolk, if sufficient cause is shown therefore and it shall
appear that the public good requires it; and a summary
hearing may be had upon bill, petition, or other process, in
term time or vacation.

SECT. 16. The court of trials may be held by one justice
at the times and places designated by law for jury terms,
and shall have and exercise all the powers not expressly
reserved to the court of law.

SECT. 17. A person indicted for a capital crime may be
arraigned before the court of trials, and if he shall plead
guilty the same court may award sentence against him
according to law.

SECT. 18. If the prisoner in such case shall plead not
guilty, stand mute, or otherwise put himself on trial, the
court may assign him counsel and take all other measures
preparatory to the trial, which shall afterwards he had before
a court of law.

SECT. 19. At a jury term the court may at any time
before judgment in a civil action, set aside the verdict and
order a new trial for any cause for which a new trial may by
law be granted; or may report the case for determination
by the court of law.

Snor. 20. When a question of law arises in a trial or other
proceeding, either of a civil or criminal nature, at law or in
equity, before the court of trials, the same may be reserved
for the consideration of the court of law to be held for the
same county; and the justice shall report the case or as
much thereof as may be necessary for a full understanding
of the question.

SECT. 21. Cases may be reported and reserved in like
manner, upon the motion of either party for a new trial on
account of an opinion, direction, order, or refusal, of the
justice, in a matter of law.

SECT. 22. If a party shall think himself aggrieved by
such opinion, direction, order, or refusal, and the justice shall
not think fit to reserve the case upon his motion, he may

allege exceptions thereto, and the same being reduced to
writing in a summary mode, presented to the court before
the adjournment thereof without day, and found conformable to the truth, shall be allowed and signed by the justice.

SECT. 23. A trial by jury shall not be prevented or delayed
by the filing or allowance of such exceptions, but the verdict
shall be received and such further proceedings had in the
case as shall be ordered by the court where the trial is had.

SECT. 24. If the exceptions appear to the justice before
whom’ the trial is had to be frivolous, immaterial, or
intended for delay, judgment may be entered, and execution awarded or stayed on such terms as the court shall
deem reasonable, notwithstanding the allowance of the
exceptions. ‘

SECT. 25. If the justice refuses to allow and sign the
exceptions, the truth of the allegations therein contained
may nevertheless be established before the court of law and
the exceptions allowed.

SE01‘. 26. Upon exceiiions allowed or questions reserved
in any of the modes before provided, the same shall be heard
and determined by the court of law held for the same county,
and such judgment or other proceedings shall be had therein as to law and justice shall appertain.

SECT. 27. When upon the hearing of a case brought
before the court upon exceptions alleged it shall appear
that the exceptions are frivolous, or immaterial, or were
intended for delay, the court may award against the party
taking the exceptions double costs from the time when
the same were alleged, and also interest from the same
time, at the rate of twelve per cent. a year on the sum, if
any, found due for debt or damages; or may award any
part of such additional costs and interest.

SECT. 28. If judgment shall have been rendered in any
case in which exceptions are allowed as aforesaid, the
judgment may be vacated by the court of law without a
writ of error, and in like manner as if it had been entered
by mistake at the same term at which it is so vacated, and
thereupon such further proceedings shall be had in the case
as to law and justice shall appertain.

SECT. 29. When a suit in equity is pending, any justice
may in term time or vacation in any county hear and
determine all motions, and make any interlocutory ‘orders
and decrees which may be necessary or proper to prepare

the case for a linal hearing; and he may make such
further orders and issue such writs and processes as may
be necessary to carry into effect any decree or order which
shall in such case have been made.

SECT. 30. A motion shall not be heard nor a decree or
order made in vacation under the preceding section, until
reasonable notice has been given to the adverse party or his
counsel to appear and object thereto.

SECT. 31. Either party in such case may transmit to the
justice his reasons in writing for or against the application,
and the justice shall examine the same and proceed thereon
in like manner as if the parties were present.

SE01‘. 32. Every order or decree so made in vacation
shall be transmitted as soon as may be to the clerk for the
county in which the suit is pending, to be there filed or
recorded as if made in term time.

SECT. 33. Such orders and decrees made in vacation
may be revised by the court of law at the next succeeding
law term for the county, and may be reversed or altered as
to the court shall seem just and reasonable.

S1-:c'r. 34. In suits’ in equity the court may issue writs
of seizin and execution in common form when such process
shall appear to be an appropriate method of enforcing the

decree.

SECT. 35. When an appeal is claimed from the judgment
of the court of common pleas or superior court in a civil
action, and by reason of mistake or accident the appeal
shall not be duly entered, the supreme judicial court may
on the petition of the appellant allow the appeal to be
entered at any other term of the court held for the same
county, upon such terms as they may deem just and reasonable; and if the appeal is so entered they shall proceed
therein as if it had been entered at the proper term.

S1-:01‘. 36. When an appeal so claimed shall not be duly
entered, and the adverse party shall by reason of any mistake pr accident fail to enter his complaint for obtaining an
allirmance of the judgment, the court may on his petition
allow the complaint to be entered at any other term of the
court held for the same county, upon such terms as they
may deem just and reasonable; and if the complaint is so
entered they shall proceed therein as if it had been entered

at the proper term.

SECT. 37. A petition for the entry of such appeal or
complaint shall not be maintained unless it is presented to
the court or filed in the clerk’s oiiice within one year after
the term at which it ought to have been entered.

SECT. 38. Attachments made and bail taken in the
original action shall not be revived or continued in force by
the entry of any appeal or complaint of the original plaintifff
which shall be allowed under the three preceding sections ;
but such attachment and bail shall remain discharged.

SECT. 39. Appeals in civil actions from the court of

common pleas and superior court may at the option of the .

appellant be entered at any session of the supreme judicial
court held within the proper county as an adjourned term,
if any such session be held before the next stated term; and
the appeals so entered shall be heard and determined in like
manner as if such adjourned session had been a stated term:
provided, that the appellant at the time of claiming the

appeal give to the adverse party written notice of his intention .so to enter it, and also to the clerk to be entered on his
docket.

SECT. 40. Cases in which exceptions shall be allowed in
said courts, shall be removed to and entered at the supreme
judicial court by the party taking the exceptions in like
manner as in case of an appeal; and if he shall fail so to
enter the same and produce the papers required by law, the
adverse party may enter a complaint, and have the former
judgment afiirmed in like manner as when an appeal is
claimed and not entered, or he may on motion be allowed
to enter the case, which shall then proceed in the same
manner and with like effect as if entered by the proper party.

SECT. 41. Cases so entered shall _be heard and determined
by the court of law for the cotmty in which the original
judgment was rendered, and shall be disposed of in like
manner as if they had been brought before the court by

appeal; and the court may affirm the former judgment

‘with additional damages, at the rate of six per cent. a year,

or may reverse the same in whole or in part, and after a
decision of all the questions of law raised thereon may
remit the case to the court of common pleas or superior
court for trial, or may order a new trial to be had in the
supreme judicial court, and may enter such judgment,
order, or decree, and take such other order therein as the
court of common pleas or superior court ought to have
done, and shall cause such other proceedings to be had in
the case as to law and justice shall appertain. If the party
taking the exceptions fails to appear in order to sustain the

same, he may be nonsuited or defaulted and judgment
entered accordingly without regard to the exceptions.

SECT. 42. When it shall appear to the supreme judicial
court that any exceptions alleged as aforesaid are frivolous,
immaterial, or intended for delay, they may award against
the party taking the exceptions double costs from the time
when the exceptions are alleged, and also interest from the
same time at the rate of twelve per cent. a year on the sum,
if any, found due for debt or damages, or may award any
part of such additional costs and interest as shall appear to
the court to be just and reasonable.

SECT. 43. When at a term appointed as a jury term
three or more justices are present, they shall have and
exercise the powers of a court of law; when at a term
appointed to be held as a law term only one justice is present,
he shall have and exercise the authority of a court of trials.

SECT. 44. When no justice is present at the time and
place appointed for holding a court, whether at the beginning of a term or at any adjournment thereof, the sheriff of
the county or either of his deputies shall adjourn the court
from day to day until one of the justices shall attend, or
until an order in writing shall be received from one of them
respecting such adjournment.

SECT. 45. In such case any justice shall have power by
an order in writing under his hand to require the sherili‘ or
his deputy to adjourn the court without day, or to such time
as shall be expressed in the order; and the officer shall
adjourn the court accordingly by public proclamation in the
court house. If required by the order he shall also give
public notice of the adjournment by advertisement in some
newspaper, or in such other manner as shall be directed.

SECT. 46. For the trial of an indictment for a capital
offense the court may adjourn an established term in one
shire town to another shire town in the same county.
Persons, recognizances, and processes, required to appear at
or be returned to the established term, shall appear at, be
returnable to, and have day in, the adjourned term.

SECT. 47. When an indictment for a capital offense is
pending and for trial in a county in which there is no law
term established, the justices shall form a court in such
county for the trial thereof. '

SECT. 48. The chief justice upon receiving notice of the
pendency of such an indictment, shall take measures for

convening three or more of the justices for the trial at the
stated term of the court in the county, or at an adjournment of such term; which trial shall be had as soon after
the finding of the indictment as the other oiiicial duties of

the justices will admit, and the circumstances of the case
may require. SECT. 49. If there shall not be, within six months after 5
the finding of the indictment, a session of the court to be

held in the county, a special term may be held for the
purpose by three or more of the justices, at such time and
place as they shall direct by an order in writing under their
hands addressed to the sheriff of the county.

SECT. 50. The sheriff shall give notice of the intended
special term, by posting a copy of the order on the door of '
the court house, and by publishing the same in such other
manner as shall be therein directed; and the clerk for the
county shall issue venires for jurors, and he and all other
oiiicers shall do all things necessary or proper in relation to
such term, as if it were a stated term.

SECT. 51. The court assembled at such special term
shall have and exercise the same powers as they might
exercise at a stated term, except that no party in a civil
action pending in the court shall be required to attend, or

shall be defaulted, or suffer any other penalty, for not
attending thereat.

SECT. 52. When an indictment for a capital offense is
found in the county of Dukes county, it shall be tried at a
court to be held in the county of Barnstable; and the
court for that purpose shall be convened and held and all
the proceedings in relation thereto shall be conducted in
the manner provided with respect to such courts when held
in the county in which an indictment is found.

SECT. 53. If a special term is required to be held in the
county of Barnstable for the trial of an indictment found in
the county of Dukes county, _an order of the court shall be
sent to the sheriff of each of said counties; and each of them
shall be required to do in his county whatever may be neces-,
sary or proper in relation to such term.

SECT. 54. The law terms of the court shall be held in
every year at the times and places following, that is to say :—

At Boston, in the county of Suffolk, and for the counties
of Suffolk and Nantucket, on the first Tuesday of March:

At Lenox, within and for the county of Berkshire, on the
second Tuesday of September:

At Northampton, in the county of Hampshire, and for the
counties of Hampshire, Franklin, and Hampden, on the
Monday next preceding the fourth Tuesday of September:

At Worcester, within and for the county ‘of Worcester,
on the first Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September:

At Cambridge, within and for the county of Middlesex,
on the third Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September:

At Taunton, in the county of Bristol, and at Plymouth,
in the county of Plymouth, alternately, for the counties of
Bristol, Plymouth, Barnstable, and Dukes county, on the
fourth Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September:

At Dedham, within and for the county of Norfolk, on the
filth Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September:
and ‘

At Salem, within and for the county of Essex, on the sixth
Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September.

SECT. 55. The term established at Lenox may be commenced by one of the justices, and he shall proceed in the
trial of causes by jury, and in all other business that may
be performed by one justice, for the first week of the term,
and until three or more of the justices shall be present.

SECT. 56. The court at any term held for two or more
counties shall have cognizance of all suits and other matters
which require the consideration of a court of law, which
may arise or be pending in either of the counties, in like
manner as if the court were held in the county in which the
matter is pending; and, except in Nantucket, of original
writs, and all other writs and processes, sued out in either
of said counties, which may be made returnable to the law
term then next to be held for the same county, in like
manner as if the court were held in the county within
which such writs and processes are sued out; but no issue
shall be tried by a jury in any county other than that in
which the suit is pending.

SECT. 57. Writs and processes in suits cognizable by the
court of law, except original writs, shall be sued out of the
clerk’s office of the county in which the matter is pending,
but shall be returnable to the court of law then next to
be held for the same county; appeals and other matters
cognizable by such court may be entered thereat, if not
previously entered in the county in which they are pending;
and all such writs, processes, appeals, and other matters,
shall be heard and determined in like manner as if the
court were held in the county in which the same may be
respectively pending.

SECT. 58. At such courts held for two or more counties a separate docket shall be kept for the matters pending
in each county, and all the proper entries therein shall be
made by the clerk of the county in which the court is held,
unless ‘the clerk of the county in which the matter is pending shall be present ; and the last mentioned clerk shall
prepare a docket of the matters pending in his county and
attend the court and make all the proper entries therein, or
transmit such docket with all papers relating to the matters
pending in said court to the clerk of the county in which
the court is held ; and all fees due to the clerk for services
at such court shall be received and retained by the clerk by
whom the services are performed.

SECT. 59. The dockets and papers shall immediately after
the rising of the court be returned to the county to which
they pertain, and the clerk thereof shall enter and record
all judgments and proceedings of the court relating to suits
pending in his county, and shall issue executions and other
proper processes thereon in like manner as if the court had
been held in the same county.

SECT. 60. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections shall apply to any suit, matter, or thing, arising or
pending in the county of Dukes county and which is cognizable by the court of trials, but all such matters shall be
entered, heard, tried, and determined, at the court held in
the county of Barnstable, in like manner in all respects as
if the same court were held in the county of Dukes county;
and all matters cognizable by the court of law, which may
arise or be pending in the county of Dukes county, shall be
heard and determined as above provided at the court of law
held alternately at Taunton and Plymouth for the counties
of Bristol, Plymouth, Barnstable, and Dukes county.

SECT. 61. Whenan action shall be continued nisi from
any law term, either for argument or advisement, and shall
be determined by the court before the next law term in the
same county, the judgment may, by order of the court on
the motion or at the request of the party prevailing, be
entered as of the then last term of the court in the county
where the action is pending, whether it be a law term or
not. '

SECT. 62. The clerk in such case shall note on his docket
the time of receiving such order, and when the order is for
final judgment in favor of the plaintifff, the bail in the suit,

and all goods and estate attached therein, shall be held for l

the same time thereafter that they would be held,after the
entry of judgment in the usual manner.

SECT. 63. The jury terms of the court for the consideration of such matters as are cognizable by the court of
trials, shall be held in every year at the times and places
following, viz.:—

For the counties of Barnstable and Dukes county, at
Barnstable, on the ninth Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March:

For the county of Berkshire, at Lenox, on the tenth
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March:

For the county of Bristol, at 'l‘aunton, on the seventh
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March, and at New
Bedford, on the second Tuesday of November:

For the county of Essex, at Salem, on the eighth Tuesday
next after the first Tuesday of March :

For the county of Franklin, at Greenfield, on the sixth
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March, and on the
second Tuesday of September:

For the county of Hampden, at Springfield, on the eighth
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March, and on the
first Tuesday of September:

For the county of Hampshire, at Northampton, on the
seventh Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March:

For the county of Middlesex, at Lowell, on the second
Tuesday of April:

For the county of Nantucket, at Nantucket, on the first
Tuesday of July:

For the county of Norfolk, at Dedham, on the third
Tuesday of February:

For the county of Plymouth, at Plymouth, on the tenth
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March :

For the county of Suffolk, at Boston, on the seventh
Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of September; and

For the county of Worcester, at Worcester, on the sixth
Tuesday next after the first Tuesday of March.

SECT. 64. In writs, processes, records, and judicial proceedings, civil and criminal, the day on which any ‘term
is to commence may be designated as the first, second, or
other Monday or Tuesday, as the case may be, of the month
in which the same shall happen.

S1-:c'r. 65. The chief justice of the court shall receive an
annual salary of four thousand five hundred dollars, and
each of the other justices shall receive an annual salary
of four thousand dollars, from the treasury of the commonwealth. i

SECT. 66. The words “court of law” as used in this
chapter, designate the supreme judicial court held by three
or more of the justices. The words “ court of trials”

SE01‘. 4. The court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of complaints for flowing land, and of all civil actions
not cognizable by police courts and justices of the peace and
of which the supreme judicial court has no jurisdiction.

SE01‘. 5. The court shall have original and concurrent
jurisdiction with the supreme judicial court of writs of
entry for the foreclosure of mortgages, actions respecting
easements on real estate, petitions for partition, and of all
other civil actions in which the sum demanded in damages
exceeds three hundred dollars; and original and concurrent
jurisdiction with police courts and justices of the peace,
of actions of contract, tort, and replevin, of which such
justices have jurisdiction, where the debt or damages
demanded or the value of the property alleged to be
detained exceeds twenty and does not exceed one hundred
dollars; except actions of replevin of beasts distrained for
the recovery of any penalty or ‘forfeiture or to obtain
satisfaction for damages.

Sscr. 6. ' The court‘ shall have jurisdiction of all civil
actions that shall be legally brought before them by appeal
or otherwise from justices of the peace or police courts.

SE01‘. 7. No action shall be commenced in the court
wherein the debt or damages demanded do not exceed

twenty dollars.

Sscr. 8. The court shall issue all writs and processes
that may be necessary or proper to carry into effect the
powers granted to them, and when no form for any such
writ or process is prescribed, the court shall frame one in
conformity with the principles of law and the usual course
of proceedings in the courts of this state.

SE01‘. 9. The court shall from time to time make rules
for regulating the practice and conducting the business
therein in all cases not expressly provided for by law; provided, that such rules be not repugnant to the laws of the
state, nor to the rules established by the supreme judicial
court : and in every thing relating to simplifying, shortening,
and expediting, the pleadings, proceedings, and decision of
causes, and presenting distinctly and fully the point in issue
on trials by jury, the rules shall be in conformity with those
of the supreme judicial. court on the same subjects.

S1-3c'r. 10. The court shall also from time to time as may

be needful, frame and promulgate rules upon the subjects
specified in the second, third, sixth, and seventh clauses in

section ten of chapter one hundred and twelve.

SECT. 11. Actions entered in the court when the ad
damnum in the writ is over three hundred dollars may
before the trial is commenced be carried by consent of
parties to the supreme judicial court. The plaintifff shall
enter the action at the next term of that court, and the
cause shall proceed as if the action was originally brought
there.

SECT. 12. If the defendant in such an action or the
respondent in petition for partition, or any person in behalf
of either of them, at the first term at which such defendant
or respondent is held by law to appear, shall make oath or
ailirmation before the clerk or a justice of the peace that he
verily believes he has a substantial defense and intends to
bring the cause to trial, and request that the same be removed
to the supreme judicial court, it shall be immediately transferred with the papers therein to the clerk of the court, and

' by him fo'rthwith entered at the charge of the party removing

the same, and the cause shall proceed asif originally brought
in that court.

SECT. 13. When an action is submitted to the determination of the court upon a case stated by the parties, they may

agree that the judgment of the court of common pleas shall
be final.

SECT. 14. There shall be no appeal from a judgment of
the court upon the verdict of a jury ; but any party aggrieved
by a judgment of the court founded upon matter of law
apparent on the record, (except judgment upon any pleas in
abatement,) may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial
court at the next term thereof for the same county. An
issue of law joined in the court of common pleas shall not
be waived by consent of parties after such appeal shall have
been entered in the supreme judicial court; but that court
may for good cause allow the parties to withdraw or amend
the pleadings; and if the same shall end in an issue of fact,
the case shall be remanded to the court of common pleas to
be theretried.

SECT. 15. The appellant shall before the allowance of his
appeal recognize with sullicient surety or sureties to the
adverse party, if required by him, in a reasonable sum, with
condition to prosecute his appeal with effect and to pay all
costs arising after the appeal. .

SECT. 16. The appellant shall produce in the supreme
judicial court attested copies of the writ, pleadings, and
judgment, and of all papers filed in the case at the court
of common pleas, except that when depositions or other

written evidence or documents are so filed he shall produce the originals.

SECT. 17. Executions shall not issue on the judgment
appealed from. If the appellant shall fail to enter his
appeal and produce the necessary papers, the supreme

judicial court may upon the complaint of the adverse party i

ailirm the former judgment, or render such other judgment
as law and justice shall require.

SECT. 18. The court may at any time before judgment
in a civil action, set aside the verdict and order a new trial

for any cause for which by law a new trial may and ought
to be granted.

SECT. 19. A party whose motion for a new trial is overruled, or who is aggrieved by any opinion, ruling, direction, or judgment, of the court in matter of law, (except
upon questions arising on pleas in abatement,) in any
civil action, suit, or proceeding, whether it be according
to the course of the common law or otherwise, may allege
exceptions thereto, which, being reduced to writing in a
summary mode, and presented to the court before the
adjournment without day of the term at which his motion
is so overruled or he is so aggrieved, and being found conformable to the truth, shall be allowed and signed by the
judge presiding at the court. '

_ SECT. 20. When a judge refuses to allow and sign exceptions alleged under the preceding section, the case may
be removed to the supreme judicial court, the truth of the
allegations there established, the exceptions allowed, and

the same proceedings had as if they were allowed in the
court below.

SECT. 21. N 0 trial shall be prevented or delayed by the
allowance of exceptions, and judgment shall be entered
according to the opinion and direction of the court; but no
execution shall issue on such judgment.

SECT. 22. Cases remitted by the supreme judicial court
for further proceedings shall take the same place upon the
docket, and shall have day, with precedence, in the same
manner as if they had not been removed.

SECT. 23. Attachments made and bail taken in the
original suit shall not be dissolved nor discharged in any
case which shall be carried to the supreme judicial court
upon exceptions so taken, but they shall continue responsible upon the final judgment in the supreme judicial court,

or in the court of common pleas if the case should be
remitted there for trial.

SECT. 24. When an appeal is claimed from the judgment of a police court or justice of the peace in any civil
action, and by reason of mistake or accident it shall not
be duly entered at the court of common pleas, the court
may on the petition of the appellant allow the appeal to
be entered at any other. term of the court in the same
county, upon such terms as they may deem just and reasonable; and if the appeal be so entered, they shall proceed
therein as if it had been entered at the proper term.

SECT. 25. When an appeal so claimed shall not be duly
entered, and the adverse party shall by reason of mistake
or accident fail to enter his complaint for obtaining an
afiirmance of the judgment, the court may on his petition
allow the complaint to be entered at any other term in the
same county, upon such terms as they may deem just and
reasonable. If the complaint be so entered, they shall
proceed therein as if it had been entered at the proper term.

SECT. 26. A petition forithe entry of any such appeal or
complaint shall not be maintained unless it be presented to
the court or filed in the clerk’s office within one year after
the term at which the same ought to have been entered.

SECT. 27. Attachments made and bail taken in the original action shall not be revived or continued in force by the
entry of an appeal or complaint of the original plaintifff
allowed under the three preceding sections ; but such attachment and hail shall remain discharged.

SECT. 28. The court shall in all the counties except
Suifolk have original jurisdiction of all crimes, offenses, and
misdemeanors, committed within such counties respectively,
and appellate jurisdiction of all offenses which shall be tried
and determined before a police court or justice of the peace;
and in criminal cases legally brought before them their
jurisdiction shall be final, except as is hereinafter otherwise
provided.

SECT. 29. The justices or a majority of them shall from
time to time make such arrangements for the attendance
of some one of them at the several times and places
appointed for holding the courts, as will be most convenient

for themselves and insure a punctual and prompt discharge
of their duties.

SECT. 30_. When no justice is present at the time and
place appointed for holding a court, whether at the beginning of a term or any adjournment thereof, the sheriff of I
the county or either of his deputies may adjourn the court
from day to day or from time to time as the circumstances
may require, or as may be ordered by any of the justices,
and ‘he shall give notice of such adjournment by making
public proclamation in the court house and by a notification
thereof posted on the door of the court house or published
in some newspaper.

SECT. 31. The court shall be held in every year at the-.
times and places following, that is to say :—-I 3

For the county of Essex, for civil business, at Lawrence ;
on the third Monday of March, at Salem on the thirdf
Mondays of June and December, and at Newburyport on}
the third Monday of September; for criminal business, at f
Salem on the fourth Monday of January, at N ewburyport
on the fourth Monday of May, and at Lawrence on the
second Monday of October.

For the county of Middlesex, for civil business, at Lowell ;
on the second Monday of March and the first Monday of 5
September, at Concord on the first Monday of June, and 3
at Cambridge on the second Monday of December; for;
criminal business, at Cambridge on the second Monday of r
February, at Concord on the fourth Monday of June, and
at Lowell on the third Monday of October.

For the county of Hampshire, at Northampton, for civil F
business, on the third Monday of February, the first Monday
of June, and the third Monday of October; for criminal
business, on the second Monday of June and third Monday
of December.

For the county of Franklin, at Greenfield on the third
Monday of March and the second Mondays of August and
November.

For the county of Hampden, at Springfield, for civil
business, on the second Mondays of March and June, and
the first Monday of October; for criminal business, on the
third Monday of May and first Monday of December.

For the county of Berkshire, at Lenox, for civil business,
on the fourth Mondays of February, June and October;
for criminal business, on the first Mondays of January and
July.

For the county of Norfolk, at Dedham on the fourth
Monday of April and the third Mondays of September and
December. .

For the county of Plymouth, at Plymouth on the second
Mondays of April and August, and the first Monday of
December. ’

For the county of Bristol, at Taunton on the second
Mondays of March and September, and at New Bedford on

L the second Mondays of J une and December.

For the county of Barnstable, at Barnstable on the Tuesday next after the first Monday of April and on the first
Tuesday of September.

For the county of Nantucket, at Nantucket on the first
Mondays of June and October.

For the county of Dukes county, at Edgartown on the
last Mondays of May and September.

For the county of Worcester, for civil business, at Worcester on the first Monday of March, the Monday next after
the fourth Monday of August, and on the second Monday
of December, and at Fitchburg on the second Mondays of
June and November; for criminal business, at Worcester
on the third Monday of January, the second Monday of May,
and the third Monday of October, and at Fitchburg on the
second Monday of August.

SECT. 32. In the counties where both civil and criminal
terms are established, civil business exclusively shall be
transacted at civil terms, and criminal at criminal terms;
and continuances of civil and criminal cases shall be to civil
and criminal terms respectively without any special order
therefore.

SECT. 33. In such counties civil suits on recognizances
entered into in criminal prosecutions shall be returnable to
and have day in criminal terms.

SECT. 34. Two sessions of the court may be held, each
by one of the justices, in the same county at any term for
the transaction of civil business when the public convenience so requires ; and such division of the business may be
at any time made as shall conduce to its more speedy and
convenient disposal.

SECT. 35. In writs, processes, records, and judicial—

proceedings, civil and criminal, the day-on which any term
is to commence may be designated as the first, second, or
other Monday, or other day of the week, in the month in
which the same shall happen. '

SECT. 36. The court shall receive, examine, and allow,
the accounts for services and expenses incident to the court
in the several counties, and shall order payment thereof out
of the respective county treasuries.

SECT. 37. The chief justice of the court shall receive an
annual salary of twenty-seven hundred dollars, and each of
the other justices shall receive an annual salary of twentylive hundred dollars, from the treasury of the commonwealth.

SE01‘. 3. All laws applicable to the court of common
pleas, except those which relate to jurisdiction and powers
in criminal proceedings, shall in the county of Shifolk apply
to said superior court so far as they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 4. Judges, clerks, and other officers, in relation
to the court and the business thereof, shall have the powers
and perform the duties of like oilicers in relation to the
court of common pleas, except in cases in which different
provisions are expressly made. The proceedings and processes of or relating to said court shall be the same as
those of or relating to the court of common pleas varied
to conform to the provisions of this chapter.

SE01‘. 5. No action shall be removed from said court to
the supreme judicial court upon application of the defendant
or by consent of parties, unless the damages demanded or
property claimed exceeds in amount or value the sum of

three thousand dollars.

SEc'r. 6. Six terms of the court shall be held in each
year in the city_of Boston, as follows: on the first Tuesdays
of January, March, May, July, September, and November.

SECT. 7. When the public convenience requires it, two
sessions_of the court may be held, each by one justice.

SE01‘. 8. When no justice is present at the time and
place appointed for holding the court, whether at the beginning of a term or an adjournment thereof, the sheriff of the
county of Suffolk or either of his deputies, may adjourn the
court from day to day or from time to time, as circumstances
may require or any justice may order.

SECT. 9. The chief justice shall receive an annual salary
of thirty-two hundred dollars, and each of the other justices
an annual salary of three thousand dollars, and in the same
proportion for any part of a year, to be paid in quarterly
payments from the treasury of the city of Boston. .

SECT. 10. ' The city council of the city of Boston shall provide from time to time for the payment of the salaries of the
judges and clerks of said court, and all expenses attending
its sessions and the transaction of business therein.

SECTION 1. The judges of the superior court_of the
county of Suffolk shall continue to be judges of the municipal court of the city of Boston. '

SE01‘. 2. The seal of the court shall be the same as the

seal of the superior court of the county of Suffolk.

SECT. 3. The court shall have the same jurisdiction and
powers in criminal prosecutions and proceedings in the
county of Suffolk as the court of common pleas has in
other counties. And all laws applicable to the court of
common pleas relating to jurisdiction and powers in criminal
proceedings, and to the actions, suits, and prosecutions,
mentioned in the following section, shall in the county of
Suffolk apply to said municipal court, so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.

SE01‘. 4. All actions, suits, and prosecutions, in the name
of the commonwealth upon recognizances taken in any
criminal prosecution or proceeding in the county of Suffolk,
may be brought in said court, which shall have jurisdiction
thereof concurrently with the superior court and the supreme judicial court in said county, in all cases wherein
said courts respectively have jurisdiction. _

SECT. 5. Judges, clerks, and other oiiicers, in relation to
said court and the business thereof, shall have the powers and
perform the duties of like officers in relation to the court of
common pleas, except in cases in which diiferent provisions
are expressly made. The proceedings and processes of or
relating to said court shall be- the same as those of or
relating to the court of common pleas, varied to conform
to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 6. The court shall be held in the city of Boston
on the/first Monday of every month, and may be adjourned
from time to time as occasion shall require.

exercise the powers of the standing justice, the fact being
stated upon the record.

SI-3c'r. 4. In case of a vacancy in the office of standing
justice the special justice, holding the oldest commission shall
have the powers, perform the duties, and receive the compensation, of the standing justice.

SECT. 5. Police courts in their respective counties shall
have the same jurisdiction as any justice of the peace in all
matters relating to crimes and offenses; and in relation to
crimes and offenses committed in their respective districts
such jurisdiction shall exclude the jurisdiction of other
police courts and of justices of the peace, except as is provided in section ten.

SEc'r. 6. They shall in their respective counties, concurrently with the court of common pleas and municipal
court of the city of Boston, have jurisdiction of all offenses
which may be punished by fine or forfeiture not exceeding
one hundred dollars or imprisonment in the jail or house of
correction not exceeding one year, or both said punishments:
and of cases of assault and battery, ‘(except where committed with intent to commit some other oifence, or with a
weapon dangerous to life, or where the life of the person
assaulted is in danger, or such person is maimed,) and in
such cases may punish by imprisonment in the jail or house
of correction not more than six months or by fine not exceeding thirty dollars.

SECT. 7. They shall also have concurrent jurisdiction as
aforesaid of larcenies ; and offenses of obtaining property by
any false pretense, or privy or false token, or by the game of
three-card monte, or any other game, device, sleight of hand,
pretensions to fortune telling, trick, or other means, by the
use of cards or other implements or instruments; and offenses
of buying, receiving, or aiding in the concealment of, stolen
goods or other property; where the property alleged to be
stolen or so obtained, bought, received, or the concealment
of which is so aided, is not alleged to exceed the value of
fifty dollars ; and in such cases may punish by imprisonment
in the jail or house of correction not more than two years
or by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars.

SECT. 8. Said courts may in their discretion decline to;
exercise final jurisdiction of any case in which the punish- 5
ment may exceed the limit of their jurisdiction therein, and :
may send the same to the court of common pleas or in the
county of Suffolk to the municipal court for examination,

in like manner as they may send cases in which they have
not final jurisdiction.

S1-nor. 9. When the court is not in session the standing
justice, or in Boston any justice of the court, may receive
complaints and issue warrants.

SECT. 10. All warrants issued by said courts, or a justice
thereof, or by a justice of the peace in any district, in a
criminal suit or prosecution, or under the provisions of
chapter seventy-two, shall be returnable before the police
court of the district. Warrants issued by justices of the
peace of the county for offenses committed out of the district,
may be made returnable before any police court in the
county. N o fees shall be allowed to a justice of the peace,
for any such warrant, but all fees therefore shall be payable
to the court to which the warrant is returnable.

SECT. 11. Fines, forfeitures, and costs in criminal prosecutions, received by or paid into the hands of the justice
or clerk of either of said courts, shall except in cases
otherwise provided for be by him accounted for and paid
over in the manner and under the penalties for neglect,
which are by law prescribed in the case of justices of the
peace. Fees and costs in such prosecutions not thus received
shall be made up, taxed, certified, and allowed, and shall be
paid and satisfied in like manner as is provided by law in
prosecutions before justices of the peace.

SECT. 12. When a trial or, examination pending before
a police court is adjourned to a future day, as provided in
chapter one hundred and , the parties and wit»
nesses shall not be required to attend from day to day,
but they shall attend at the time to which the cause is
adjourned, and the recognizances, if any, shall be taken
accordingly.

SECT. 13. The justices’ court for the county of Suffolk
and police courts, except that in the city of Boston, in
their respective counties shall each have the same jurisdiction as justices of the peace of all civil actions and proceedings, and such jurisdiction, except that of the police
court of Worcester, shall when the plaintifff and defendant
both reside in the district, exclude the jurisdiction of other
police courts and justices of the peace.

SECT. 14. When there are two or more plaintifffs or
defendants, the jurisdiction of the court shall not be exclusive, unless all the parties reside in the district.

SECT. 15. Said courts, and all police courts hereafter
established, may within their respective counties exercise;
the powers, and shall perform the duties,.and be subject
to the liabilities, of justices of the peace, except that the

police court of Boston shall exercise, perform, or be subject,
to the same only in criminal proceedings, and the justices’
court for the county of Suffolk only in civil proceedings.

SE01‘. 16. Their jurisdiction shall not be limited by
reason of interest on the part of any justice thereof arising
from the payment of fines, forfeitures, penalties, costs, or

fees, into the treasury of the city, town, or county, in which
such courts are established. 1

ISI-nor. 17. Proceedings in the hearing, trial, and determination, of cases, and all matters relating thereto, shall.

be substantially the same, and the fees and costs shall
be the same, as in like cases before justices of the peace.
Said courts shall have and exercise the powers necessary
or proper for the discharge of their duty, in the same
manner as justices of the peace.

Smcr. 18. A party aggrieved by the judgment of either
of said courts, may appeal to the court of common pleas,
or in the county of Suffolk in civil cases to the superior
court, and in criminal cases to the municipal court. Such
appeals shall be had, entered, conducted, and disposed of,
in all respects like appeals from justices of the peace in the
same county. 1

SECT. 19. The standing justices may establish rules for
the orderly and uniform conducting of the business of their
respective courts, and when no clerk is appointed shall keep
a fair record of their proceedings and perform all other
duties of clerk.

SECT. 20. Each court shall be held within the district
for which it is established, in the court house, or in any
other suitable place to be provided at the expense of the
district, and may be adjourned from time to time to the
same or any other place in the same district, as occasion
shall require.

Sscr. 21. No justice of the police court of the city of
Boston, and no standing justice, clerk, or assistant—clerk,
shall be retained or employed as counsel or attorney in any
suit, complaint, or proceeding pending, in his court, nor in
any which shall have been heard, examined, or tried, therein ;
and no special justice shall be so retained or employed
in any case in which he shall oiliciate as justice.

SECT. 22. The standing justice of each court shall receive, and when no other provision is made for his compensation retain for his own use, all such fees for the
services performed by him, as would be taxable by law
for like services when performed by a justice of the peace.
The salaries of justices and clerks, provided for in this
chapter, shall be paid quarterly out of the treasury of the
city or town in which the court is established, and in the
same proportion for any part of a quarter.

SECT. 23. No justice or clerk who is paid by a fixed
salary or allowance for his services, shall receive any compensation besides his regular salary or allowance, for making
or issuing in any capacity, complaints, warrants, subpoenas,
or other criminal process, which he is by law authorized
to issue.

SEc'r. 24. Every special justice when officiating in a police
court shall receive, and unless other provision is made for
his compensation retain for his own use, the fees which
would be taxable for like services performed by a justice of
the peace. Fees which he is not allowed to retain, and
costs taxed, allowed, and certified, by him, shall be paid to
the clerk, or if there is no clerk to the standing justice, to
be accounted for as provided by law.

SECT. 25. The clerks now in office shall hold their offices
according to the tenor of their respective appointments.
The standing justice of any police court, unless dif1"erent
provision is made, may appoint a clerk, to be paid by him,
and for whose official acts and doings he shall be responsible, and who shall hold his oilice during the pleasure of
such justice. In case of the absence or death of the clerk
the court shall appoint a clerk pro tempore who shall act
until the clerk resumes the performance of his duties or a

clerk is appointed.

SECT. 26. The clerk of each court shall be sworn; and
when a bond is required of him it shall be with a surety or
sureties to the acceptance of the treasurer of the city,
town, or county, with a condition for the faithful performance of the duties of his office. He or his assistant shall
attend all sessions of the court and keep a record of all
the proceedings. The records in civil and criminal cases
shall be kept separately in different books.

SECT. 27. The clerk shall make all warrants, writs, and
processes, ordered by the court, tax bills of costs, and receive
fmes, forfeitures, and fees, awarded and payable in his court
or to any justice thereof, and all fees for blanks and copies

in civil and criminal suits, and shall make all returns
required of the court. The amount of all fees received by
him for copies shall be indorsed thereon.

SECT. 28. The fees, fines, forfeitures, and costs, received
by the clerk shall be accounted for and paid as required of
him by law, or as the standing justice would be required to
account for and pay the same if received by him. If the
standing or special justices could retain such fees for their
own use if received by them, the clerk shall pay the same
to the party entitled thereto.

SECT. 29. With the approval of the justices of the
police court in Boston or of the standing justice of other
courts, the clerk may from time to time appoint to aid him
in the discharge of his duties one or more assistant-clerks,
who shall be removable at his pleasure, and for whose doings
he shall be responsible, and who shall be sworn.

SECT. 30. Processes issuing from the justices’ court for
the county of Suffolk, or a police court having a clerk,
shall be under the seal of the court, signed by the clerk or
an assistant clerk, and shall bear test of the first justice who

‘is not a party thereto, or of the standing justice; and in case

of the death, absence, or disability, of the standing justice,
then of one of the special justices. In other respects the
processes of said courts shall be substantially like the processes issued by justices of the peace.

SECT. 31. The foregoing provisions shall apply and be
in force only so far as they are consistent with the special

-provisions hereinafter made.

' SECT. 32. Where in this chapter a court is required to
be held each day of the week, Sundays and other days on
which by chapter one hundred and twenty-two no court is
to be held, are excluded.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR COURTS IN CERTAIN DISTRICYPS.

Adams.

SECT. 33. The police court of the town of Adams shall
be held at some suitable place provided at the expense of
the standing justice in the north village in said town,
two days each week at nine o’clock in the forenoon; and
at some suitable place in the south village in said town
one day every two weeks at nine o’clock in the forenoon,
and as much oftener at each place as may be necessary for

4

4

civil and criminal business. Such times and places shall be
appointed and made known by the standing justice.

SECT. 34. The standing justice shall annually pay to the
treasurer of the county of Berkshire all fees received by
him in criminal prosecutions during the year above the sum
of four hundred and fifty dollars.

Boston.

SECT. 35. The justices of the police court of the city of
Boston shall continue to hold their offices according to the
tenor of their commissions, and as vacancies occur others
shall be appointed in the manner provided by the constitution, so that there shall be three justices.

SECT. 36. The court shall be held by one or more of the
justices each day of the week at nine o’clock in the morning,
and in the afternoon, except on Saturday, at three o’clock
or some hour thereafter. It may be holden on Saturday

afternoons if it shall appear expedient to any of the justices.

S1"-:c'r. 37. Different justices may hold different sessions
at the same time for the trial of criminal cases, in any

rooms in the court house or in other places assigned by
the aldermen of the city of Boston.

SECT. 38. In all prosecutions before the court, under
the by-laws of the city of Boston, the city-solicitor, or other
person appointed by the board of aldermen, may enter
a nolle prosequi, or do any other matter or thing which

may be done by a district-attorney in criminal prosecutions. ‘

SECT. 39. The court shall have jurisdiction of complaints made under chapter seventy-two, and the justices’

court of the county of Suffolk shall have no jurisdiction in
such cases.

SECT. 40. The court may issue summons and other
process to procure the attendance of witnesses in the trial
and examination of criminal cases, to run into any county,
to be served by the sheriff of the county of Suffolk or
any other county, or either of their deputies, or any constable
of the city or town in which any witness may be.

SECT. 41. The justices’ court for the county of Suffolk
; shall be held weekly by one or more of the justices of the
« police court of the city of Boston. Each term shall commence on Saturday, and ‘actions therein may be continued 5
to any future day fixed for the sitting of the court.

SEc'r. 42. The justices shall meet from time to time to :
establish necessary rules for the orderly and uniform con-I
ducting of the business of the courts, and also to arrange, T
distribute, equalize, and insure a prompt and punctual
discharge of, their duties.

SE01‘. 43. The senior justice shall be the first justice of

the police court and justices’ court, but each court shall
have a separate and distinct seal.

SEc'r. 44. Upon any vacancy in the office of clerk, the
governor, with the advice of the council, shall nominate and
appoint one person, to be clerk of said courts, who shall

hold his office during the [pleasure of the governor and
council.

SECT. 45. The clerk shall give bond to the city of Boston

in such sum as the city council shall order.

SECT. 46. He shall render to the board of accounts of
the city of Boston a quarterly account of all monies
received by him for fees, fines, forfeitures, and costs, which
may accrue or be recovered in either of the courts, and for
blanks and copies in civil and criminal cases; and upon the
approval thereof by the board, he shall forthwith pay over
the amount due to the city treasurer, for the use of the city.

SECT. 47. Each justice and clerk shall receive an annual
salary, the amount of which shall be from time to time
determined by the city council, in full compensation for all
their services, except those required of the justices_as members of the board of accounts of the city of Boston.

SECT. 48. The assistant-clerks shall receive from the
city such compensation for their services as shall be ordered

by the city council, if the board of accounts shall certify
that their services were necessary.

Cambridge.

S1-zcr. 49. The police court of the city of Cambridge
shall be held each day of the week at such hour in the
forenoon as the standing justice shall by general rule
appoint, for criminal business ; and on one fixed day of the
week at ten o’clock in the forenoon, and by adjournment
so much oftener as may be necessary, for civil business.

SECT. 50. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of not less than one thousand dollars, the amount of
which, if above that sum, shall be determined not oftener
than once in each year by the concurrent vote of the city
council.

SECT. 51. The justice shall annually on the first days
of June and December‘ account for and pay over to the
city treasurer all fees received by him in the course of his
judicial proceedings, and annually in December, exhibit to
to the city council a true and faithful statement of all such
monies received by him.

SECT. 52. The special justices shall be paid for the
services performed by them, out of the salary of the standing
justice.

Chelsea.

SECT. 53. The police court of the city of Chelsea shall
be held each day of the week, at eight o’clock in the forenoon for criminal business; and one day each week at
eight o’clock in the forenoon, and at such other times as
may be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 54. The standing justice shall annually in January
pay to the treasurer of the county of Suffolk all fees
received by him in criminal prosecutions above the sum of
seven hundred dollars a year, in the same manner as justices
of the peace are required to pay money received for fines.

Chicopee.

SECT. 55. The police court of the town of Chicopee shall
be held two days each week, at nine o’clock in the forenoon, and as much oftener as may be necessary for criminal
business; and two days each week, to be appointed and
made known by the standing justice, for civil business:
provided, that one of each of said terms shall be holden in
the village of Chicopee Falls.

SECT. 56. The standing justice shall pay to the treasurer
of the county of Hampden all fees received by him in

criminal prosecutions above the sum of six hundred dollars
a year. a

Fall River. '

SECT. 57. The police court of the city of Fall River shall
be held five days each week at nine o’clock in the forenoon

for criminal business ; and one day each week at ten o’clock
in the forenoon and at such other times as may be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 58. The standing justice shall receive an annual,‘
salary of eight hundred dollars. I

SECT. 59. Upon a vacancy in the oiiice of clerk thej
governor with the advice of the council shall appo t a?
clerk, who shall hold his office during the pleasure of the
governor and council.

SECT. 60. The clerk shall give bond to the city in such a
sum as the city council shall order. He shall receive for
his services, except for copies of papers and proceedings,
an annual salary of four hundred dollars.

SECT. 61. He shall account to the city government for
all fees and charges received by him in the court, except
fees for copies and the fees of the special justices, and shall
quarterly pay the same into the city treasury.

Gloucester.

SECT. 62. The police court of the town of Gloucester
shall be held at some place in the town to be provided at
the expense of the standing justice, three days each week
and as much oftener as may be necessary for criminal

business; and one day each week and oftener if necessary
for civil business.

SE01‘. 63. The special justices shall not be counsel in

any court for a party in a case which has been or is pending in their court.

SECT. 64. The standing justice shall annually on or
before the tenth day of January account for and pay over to
the treasurer of the county of Essex all fines and forfeitures
received in his court, and all fees received by him for his
services in criminal cases above a sum which with the fees

retained by the special justices in such cases shall amount
to six hundred dollars a year.

Haverhill.

SECT. 65. The police court of the town of Haverhill
shall be held two days each week at nine o’clock in the
forenoon and as much oftener as may be necessary, for
criminal business; and two days each month to’ be ap» pointed and made known by the standing justice for civil

business.

SECT. 66. The standing justice shall pay over to the
treasurer of the county of Essex all fees received by him in
criminal prosecutions above the sum of three hundred
dollars a year. ‘’

Lawrence.

SECT. 67. The police court of the city of Lawrence shall
be held each day of the week for criminal business; and
twice at least each month at ten o’clock in the forenoon and

by adjournment as much oftener as may be necessary for
civil business.

SECT. 68. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of not less than thirteen hundred dollars, the amount
of which, if above that sum, shall be determined not oftener
than once in each year by the concurrent vote of the city
council. The special justices shall receive from the city
treasury three dollars a day, for each day’s service.

Seer. 69. Upon a vacancy in the oiiice of clerk the
mayor and aldermen shall appoint a person, who at the
time of his appointment shall be a justice of the peace
within the county of Essex, to be clerk of said court, who
shall hold his odice three years or until another is appointed
in his place, unless sooner removed by the mayor and aldermen; but he shall hold his office no longer than he continues to be a justice of the peace.

SE01‘. 70. The ‘clerk shall give bond to the city in such

sum as the mayor and aldermen shall from time to time
order. '

SECT. 71. The clerk, as a justice of the peace, shall
receive complaints and issue warrants and processes in
criminal matters and under the provisions of chapter seventy-two, which are within the jurisdiction of the court, and
shall make the same returnable thereto; and neither the
standing justice nor special justices shall receive complaints
or issue warrants in such cases returnable before the court.
He shall when no counsel is employed for the commonwealth examine the witnesses in criminal prosecutions and
conduct the cause on the part of the -government.

SE01‘. 72. All writs and processes issuing from the
court, except warrants and processes mentioned in the preceding section, shall be under the seal of the court, signed
by the clerk, and shall bear test of the standing justice, or
if he is a party thereto of either of the special justices who
is not interested.

SECT. 73; The clerk shall tax all bills of costs, receive
the fines, forfeitures, and fees, awarded and payable in said
court, and fees for blanks and copies in civil and criminal
suits which are by law payable therein; which fines, forfeitures, ‘and fees, together with the‘ fees for receiving complaints and issuing warrants, he shall quarterly account for
and pay into the city treasury. He shall annually, in
January exhibit to the mayor and aldermen a true and
faithful account of all monies so received by him.

SECT. 74. The clerk shall receive in full compensation
for. all his services under this chapter as justice of the peace
and as clerk, except for such copies as he is not required by
law to make, an annual salary of not less than eight hundred
dollars, the amount of which, if above that sum, shall be
determined by the city council. The clerk pro tempore,
when appointed, shall receive for his services two dollars a
day to be paid from the city treasury and deducted from
the salary of the clerk. The standing justice shall be resporliisible for the oiiicial acts and doings of the temporary
c er .

Lee.

Sscr. 75. The police court of the town of Lee shall be
held two days each week, at nine o’clock in the forenoon
and as much oftener as may be necessary, for criminal business; and at such other times as may be necessary for civil
business.

SECT. 76. The standing justice shall annually on or
before the first day of January pay over to the treasurer of
the county of Berkshire all fees received by him in criminal prosecutions above the sum of three hundred dollars a
year. "

Lowell.

SECT. 77. The police court of the city of Lowell shall
be held on two fixed days each week, and as much oftener
as may be necessary for criminal business; and on the first
and third Mondays of each month for civil business.

SECT. 78. The standing justice shall retain out of the
fees which he is by law entitled to receive, the sum of two
thousand dollars annually for his services and the services
of the special justices, and at the rate of eight hundred
dollars annually for the services of his clerk duly appointed,
and while actually employed. All fees of the standing
justice and special justices accruing in said court above

said sums, shall be paid to the treasurer of the county of
Middlesex.

SECT. 79. When the standing justice shall request either
of the special justices to aid him in performing the duties
of his oiiice, such special justice may hold a court for. the
trial of any matter pending in said court, with all the
powers of the standing justice. The special justices shall be
paid for their services by the standing justice.

Lynn.

SECT. 80. The police court of the city of Lynn shall be
held two days each week at nine o’clock in the forenoon
and as much oftener as may be necessary for criminal business ; and one day each fortnight and as much oftener as
may be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 81. The standing justice shall twice in each year
account for and pay over to the city treasurer all fees
received by him in the course of his judicial proceedings,
which are in other cases retained by justices of the peace;
and he shall annually in January exhibit to the mayor

and alderman a true and faithful account of monies so

0

received by him.

Seer. 82. He shall receive an annual salary of eight
hundred dollars. '

SECT. 83. The special justices shall be paid by the standing justice out of his salary.

Milford.

SECT. 84. The police court of the town of Milford shall
be held two days each week at nine o’clock in the forenoon
and as much oftener as may be necessary for criminal business; and two days each month, to be appointed and made
known by said justice, for civil business.

Sncr. 85. Upon a vacancy in the oiiice of clerk, the
governor with the advice and consent of the council shall
appoint a clerk, who shall hold his office for the term of
five years, unless sooner removed by the governor and
council.

SECT. 86. The clerk shall give bond to the treasurer of
the county of Worcester in the sum of three thousand

dollars.

SECT. 87. The fees and charges in civil and criminal proceedings, and the fines, forfeitures, and costs, in
criminal cases, by law payable to the standing or special
justices, shall be received by the clerk, and by him annually
accounted for and paid over to said treasurer, except as
provided in the following section.

SECT. 88. He shall pay quarterly to the standing justice
in full compensation for all his services, the fees in criminal
prosecutions not exceeding the amount of six hundred dollars a year, and the fees in civil cases which shall- accrue to
him. He shall pay to the special justices the fees in civil
actions and criminal prosecutions which accrue to them.
Out of the balance of fees, or if such balance is not sufiicient
out of the fines and forfeitures, the clerk shall retain in full
compensation for his services the sum of three hundred
dollars annually. '

New Bedford.

SE01‘. 89. The police court of the city of New Bedford
shall be held two fixed days each week and as much oftener
as may be necessary for criminal business; and one fixed
day each week and as much oftener as may be necessary for

civil business.

Snor. 90._ Neither of the special justices shall be retained 3
or employed as counsel or attorney in a criminal prosecution, §
complaint, or proceeding, pending in said court, or which ‘
shall have been heard, tried, or determined, therein.

SECT. 91. The standing justice shall receive an annual 3
salary of not less than twelve hundred dollars, the amount 5
of which, if above that sum, shall from time to time be fixed 7

by the city council.

SI-JCT. 92. Each special justice shall receive five dollars «
a day for services while holding the court, to be paid?
quarterly out of the city treasury and deducted from the
salary of the standing justice.

S1101‘. 93. Upon a vacancy in the office of clerk, the;
governor with the advice of the council shall appoint a:
clerk who shall hold his oiiice during the pleasure of the

governor and council.

SEOT. 94. The clerk shall give bond to the city in such sum as the city council shall order. He shall receive in:
full compensation for all his services, except for certificates ‘

and copies of papers and proceedings, an annual salary of
four hundred dollars.

SECT. 95. He shall collect all fees and charges of the
standing justice, special justices, and clerk, arising in the
court, and for receiving and issuing any criminal process as
justices of the peace or otherwise, and shall account for and
pay over the same, except his fees for copies, to the city
treasurer.

Newburyport.

Snow. 96. The police court of the city of Newburyport
shall be held each day of the week, at nine o’clock in the
forenoon for criminal business; and one day each fortnight
at ten o’clock in the forenoon, and as much oftener as may
be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 97. In all actions in which a person who resides
in the city is summoned as trustee, the jurisdiction of the
court shall exclude the jurisdiction of justices of the peace
and other police courts.

SECT. 98. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of not less than eight hundred dollars, the amount
of which, if above that sum, shall be‘ determined not oftener
than once in each year by the concurrent vote of the city
council.

SECT. 99. When the court is held by either special justice he shall receive in compensation for his services the
same sum per day that is paid to the standing justice, to be
deducted from the salary of the standing justice.

SECT. 100. The mayor and aldermen shall annually in
January, and when a vacancy occurs, appoint a clerk, who
shall be paid an annual salary the amount of which shall be
determined in the same manner as the salary of the standing justice.

SECT. 101. The clerk pro tempore, when appointed, shall
be paid at the same rate as the clerk, and in case of
absence of the clerk his pay shall be deducted from the
clerk’s salary.

SECT. 102, The clerk shall give bond to the city in such
sum as the board of mayor and aldermen shall from time
to time order.

SECT. 103. The fees received by the clerk, with the costs
in criminal prosecutions taxed, certified, and allowed, and

the lines and forfeitures which inure to the city, shall be <
collected by the clerk in the mode prescribed by law for!
justices of the peace in like cases, and he shall quarterly
account for in detail and pay over the same to the city
treasurer, who shall pay therefrom the officers, witnesses,

and other persons, whose fees have been taxed, certified, and
allowed, by the clerk.

Saar. 104. The mayor of the city and the treasurer of 2
the county of Essex shall constitute a board of accounts, ?
to examine and allow or disallow all bills of cost, accounts, 1
and charges, which may appertain to the course of proceedings in the court. A certificate of such examination and
allowance shall be indorsed by the board on the accounts
exhibited, and shall be addressed to the public, officer by or
to whom such charges, fees, and expenditures, may be payable by law. The members of the board shall be entitled to

receive from the city treasury three dollars for every day
devoted to said duties.

SECT. 105. The standing justice shall annually in January make a report to the city council specifying every
criminal complaint made in his court, the name of the person
accused, the description of the offense alleged, and the
decision of the court, with the full costs incident thereto.

Pitts/ield.

SECT. 106. The police court of the town of Pittsfield
shall be held two days each week, at nine o’clock in the
forenoon, and as much oftener as may be necessary, for
criminal business; and at such other times as may be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 107. The standing justice shall annually on or
before the first day of January pay to the treasurer of the
county of Berkshire all fees received by him in criminal

prosecutions above the sum of three hundred dollars a
year.

SECT. 108. The special justices for their services shall be
paid by the standing justice out of his salary.

Roxbury.

SE01‘. 109. The police court of the city of Roxbury shall
be held each day of the week at nine o’clock in the forenoon, and as much oftener as may be necessary for criminal
business; and one day each week to be appointed and made
known by the standing justice for civil business.

Snor. 110. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of not less than one thousand dollars, the amount of
which, if above that sum, shall be determined not oftener
than once in each year by the concurrent vote of the city
council.

' Sncr. 111. The special justices shall be paid for their
services, out of the salary of the standing justice, such sum
as the standing justice would be entitled to for the same
service. - ‘

SECT. 112. The standing justice shall quarterly account
for and pay to the city treasurer all fees and charges
received by him, and shall annually in December exhibit
to the city council a true and faithful statement of all
monies received by him as fees.

SE01‘. 113. The city council may, when the business of
the court shall require it, by concurrent vote elect a clerk.
He shall be chosen annually, and shall give bond to the
city in such sum as the mayor and aldermen shall from
time to time determine. He shall receive in full compensation for all his services, except for certificates and copies
of papers and proceedings, such sum as shall be annually
fixed upon by concurrent vote of the city council.

SECT. 114. The clerk pro tempore, when appointed, shall
receive the same rate of compensation for his services as the
clerk, to be paid in case of his absence out of the clerk’s
salary.

Salem.

SECT. 115. The police court of the city of Salem shall
be held each day of the week -at nine o’clock in the forenoon for criminal business; and one fixed day each week
at ten o’clock in the forenoon and as much oftener as may
be necessary for civil business.

SECT. 116. In all actions in which a person who resides
in said city is summoned as trustee, the jurisdiction of the
court shall exclude the jurisdiction of justices of the peace
and other police courts.

SECT. 117. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of not less than twelve hundred dollars, the amount

of which, if above that sum, shall be determined not oftener

than once in each year by the concurrent vote of the city
council.

S1-301'. 118. When the sum of one hundred dollars shall
have been earned in any one year by the special justices,
they shall thereafter be paid at the rate of four dollars a
day, to be deducted from the salary of the standing justice,
and the fees to which they would otherwise be entitled shall
be received by the clerk, and by him accounted for and paid
to the city treasurer . as hereinafter provided with regard to
the fees of the standing justice.

SECT. 119. The mayor and aldermen shall annually in
May, and when a vacancy occurs, appoint a clerk, who shall
give bond to the city in such sum as the mayor and aldermen
shall from time to time order.

SECT. 120. He shall receive in full compensation for
his services, except for such copies as he is not required
by law to furnish, an annual salary of not less than seven
hundred dollars, the amount of which if above that sum
shall be determined not oftener than once in each year, by
the concurrent vote of the city council. The clerk pro tempore, when appointed, shall be paid at the rate of two
dollars a day, to be deducted from the salary of the clerk;
and for his ofiicial acts and doings t'he justice shall be
responsible.

SECT. 121. The clerk shall receive all fees and charges
by law payable to the standing justice, and quarterly
account for and pay over the same to the city treasurer.

- \
Springfield. _
SI-:c'r. 122. The police court of the city of Springfield
shall be held two days each week at‘ nine o’clock in the
forenoon and as much oftener as may be necessary for
criminal business; and one day each fortnight at ten o’clock

in the forenoon and at such other times as may be necessary
for civil business.

SECT. 123. The standing justice shall receive an annual
salary of one thousand dollars in full compensation for all
his services in criminal cases. '

SECT. 124. The special justices shall be paid for their
services by the standing justice, who may retain out of
the monies received by him in each year for fees, fines and
penalties, an amount equal to the sums he may be required
by law to pay over in each year to the special justices for
their services: provided, that when ‘the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars shall have been thus earned in any
one year by the special justices, they shall thereafter be

paid by the standing justice out of his salary, at the rate of

four dollars for each day they are actually engaged in bolding court. '

SECT. 125. The fines, forfeitures, and fees, in criminal
cases allowed by law to justices of the peace, which shall
be received by or paid to said standing justice, shall be by
him accounted for and paid over to the treasurer of the
city, except as provided in the preceding section, and the
justice shall annually in January exhibit to the mayor and
aldermen a true and faithful account of all monies received
by him. SECT. 126. When complaint is made before said court
by a person not an officer of the city, for the recovery of
any fine, forfeiture, or penalty, accruing for the breach of a
by-law or ordinance of the city, or of an order of the
mayor and aldermen, no warrant shall issue on such complaint until the complainant shall recognize with suhicient
surety to the satisfaction of the justice of said court,
conditioned to pay all the costs of such prosecution in case
the person complained of shall not be convicted thereon.
And in case of default of such recognizance, the same may
be enforced and the same proceedings had thereon as in
case of a recognizance to prosecute an appeal from the
judgment of the court.

Taunton.

SECT. 127. The police court of the town of Taunton
shall be held three days each week and as much oftener as
may be necessary for criminal business; and one day each
week and oftener if necessary for civil business.

SECT. 128. When a vacancy occurs in the oilice of clerk,
the governor shall appoint a clerk.

Sncr. 129. The fees and costs in criminal prosecutions
shall be paid to the standing justice, out of which he shall
retain for his services one thousand dollars for each year, and
in the same proportion for part of a year; shall pay to the
clerk for his services in such cases three hundred dollars for
each year and in the same proportion for part of a year ;
and he shall annually on or before the first day of January
pay the balance of all such fees and costs and all lines
received by him, to the treasurer of the county of Bristol.

SECT. 130. The standing justice and clerk shall retain
for their own use the fees received by them for civil business, and the clerk shall be entitled to his fees for copies in

criminal cases. The standing justice shall out of his compensation pay the special justices for their services.

SE01‘. 131. Neither of the special justices shall act asj
counsel before said court or in any cause which may have 1

been heard or tried or be pending therein.

lVilliamstown.

Sncr. 132. The police court of the town of Williams;
town shall be held at some suitable place in said town, to j
be provided at the expense of the standing justice, two days 3

each week at nine o’clock in the forenoon, and as much
oftener as may be necessary, for criminal business; and one
day each week, to be appointed and made known by the
justice, for civil business.

SECT. 133. The standing justice shall pay over to the}

treasurer of the county of Berkshire all fees received by

him in criminal prosecutions above the sum of three hun-1

dred dollars a year.

Worcester.

SECT. 134. The police court of the city of Worcester‘
shall be held two days each week for criminal business;?
and one day each month and as much oftener as may be 1

necessary for civil business.

Seer. 135. Upon a vacancy in the office of clerk, the
governor with the advice and consent of the council shall
appoint a clerk, who shall hold his oiiice for five years unless
sooner removed by the governor and council.

SECT. 136. The clerk shall give bond to the treasurer

of the county of Worcester in the sum of five thousand
dollars.

\ SE01‘. 137. He shall be clerk in all matters except in
L civil suits between private parties; in‘whieh suits the judge
1 shall act as clerk.

SE01’. 138. He shall annually in January exhibit to the

i treasurer of the county of Worcester a true and particular

account under oath of all sums of money by him received

: accruing from fees, lines, and penalties, in criminal prosecu» tions before the court, and, immediately after rendering his

L account shall pay to the treasurer any surplus remaining

’ lclll liis hands after paying the salaries of the justice and
» er . ‘

SECTION 1. The judge and register of probate and insolvency for each county shall continue to be judge and
register of the probate court of such county, and shall have
all the jurisdiction, power, and_ authority, given to judges
and registers of probate respectively.

SE01‘. 2. The probate court for e h county shall have
jurisdiction of the probate of wills, ting administration
of the estates of persons deceased who at the time of their
decease were inhabitants of or resident in the county, and
of persons who die without the state leaving estate to be
administered within such county; of the appointment of
guardians to minors and others in cases prescribed by law;
and of all matters relating to the settlement of the estates
of such deceased persons and minors; and of petitions for
the adoption of children and the change of names.

Sncr. 3. When a case is within the jurisdiction of the
probate court in two or more counties, the court which
first takes cognizance thereof by the commencement of
proceedings, shall retain the same; and administration or
guardianship first granted shall extend to all the estate of
the deceased or ward in this state, and exclude the jurisdiction of the probate court of every other county.

SECT. 4. The jurisdiction assumed in any case by the
court, so far as it depends on the place of residence of a
person, shall not be contested in any suit or proceeding,
except in an appeal in the original case, or when the want
of jurisdiction appears on the same record.

SECT. 5. When a person who shall have entered into a
written agreement for'the conveyance of real estate dies
before making such conveyance, the probate court for the
county wherein the estate is situated shall have jurisdiction
concurrent with the supreme judicial court to enforce a
specific performance, and upon a petition therefore presented
by any person interested in the conveyance, shall order the
petitioner to give notice to all persons interested, that they

may appear and show cause either for or against the prayer
of the petition.

SECT. 6. If upon the hearing it shall appear that the
deceased, if living, would be required to make the conveyance, the court shall order the executor or administrator
of the deceased to make the same; and when so made it
shall have like force and effect as if made by the deceased
in his lifetime.

SE01‘. 7. When a judge is interested in a case within his
jurisdiction in a sum due or claimed exceeding one hundred
dollars without interest, the case shall, except as provided
in section ten, be transferred to the probate. court of the
most ancient adjoining county, and shall be there disposed
of and settled in the same manner as if it had originally
occurred within the latter county; except that when the
case occurs in the county of Nantucket or Dukes county, it
shall be transferred to the county of Barnstable, and be
there disposed of and settled in manner aforesaid.

SE01‘. 8. When a-case is so transferred from Nantucket
to Barnstable, the register for Barnstable shall transmit to
the register for Nantucket, copies of the record of all proceedings had and of all papers filed in the case, within thirty
days after the same shall be repsectively had or filed, and
the same shall be recorded and filed in the registry of pro-‘
bate in Nantucket, in like manner as if the case had been
pending in that county.

SE01‘. 9. A judge may order any case in which he is
executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, and which was
unfinished and pending at the time of his appointment in
the court of which he is judge, to be removed to the probate
court of the most ancient adjoining county. Copies of the

records of proceedings and of all papers filed in the case, shall thereupon be entered, filed, and recorded, in the probate
court of the latter county; and the further proceedings shall
be the same as if it had been originally commenced in said
county.

SECT. 10. A judge may on motion of any person interested order a case commenced before his appointment
in the court of which he is judge, and in which he was
retained or employed as counsel, or otherwise concerned or
interested, to be removed to the most ancient adjoining
county, in the same manner and with the same effect as
provided in relation to the removal of other cases by the
preceding section. If no motion is made, the jurisdiction
of the court shall continue.

SECT. 11. The supreme judicial court shall be the
supreme court of probate, and have appellate jurisdiction of
all matters determinable by the probate courts and the
judges thereof, except in cases in which other provisions are
specially made. ’

SECT. 12. Any person aggrieved by an order, sentence,
decree, or denial, of the court or judge, except in cases
otherwise provided for, may appeal therefrom to the supreme
judicial court.

SECT. 13. The ‘appeal shall be claimed and notice
thereof given at the probate office Within thirty days after
the date of the act appealed from, and be entered at the
term of the supreme judicial court to be held Within or for
the county next after the expiration of said thirty days.

SECT. 14. If there shall be a session of the supreme

judicial court held in or for the county as an adjourned j
term, after the expiration of said thirty days and before the 1

next stated term of the same court, the appeal may, at the
option of the appellant, be entered at such adjourned session,
if he give to the adverse party written notice of his intention
so to enter it, fourteen days at least before the session.

SECT. 15. The appellant shall file in the probate office,

his reasons of appeal, and cause an attested copy thereof to
be served on the adverse party fourteen days at least before
the time when the appeal is to be entered.

SECT. 16. When an appeal is claimed from the court or
judge in Barnstable in a case transferred from Nantucket
under section seven, the time for claiming the appeal, and
for all other proceedings relating thereto, shall be computed
from the expiration of the thirty days mentioned in section
eight, in like manner as if the decree or other proceeding
appealed from had taken place at that time.

SECT. '17. Such appeals shall be made to the supreme
judicial court for the county of Nantucket, and there prosecuted, heard, and determined, in like manner as if the
original proceeding had been had in the probate court in
Nantucket. V

SECT. 18. When a case is transferred under section
seven from the county of Dukes county to Barnstable, all
the proceedings upon an appeal, as Well as in the original
case, shall be conducted in the same manner as if the case

had been originally within the jurisdiction of the court in
Barnstable.

SECT. 19. If a person aggrieved shall, without default
on his part, have omitted to claim or prosecute his appeal,
the supreme court of probate, if it shall appear that justice
requires a revision of the case, may on the petition of the
party aggrieved and upon such terms as they shall deem
reasonable, allow an appeal to be entered and prosecuted
with the same eifect as if it had been done seasonably.

SECT. 20. Such appeal shall not be allowed without due
notice to the party adversely interested, nor unless the petition therefore be filed within one year after passing the decree
or order complained of, except as provided in the following section.

SECT. 21. If the petitioner was without the United
States at the time of passing the decree or order, he may
file his petition at any time within three months after his
return, and within two years after the act complained of.

Snow. 22. The petition may in all cases be filed in the
clerk’s oilice in vacation, or in the court in term time, and
the clerk shall note on it the time when it is filed.

Sscr. 23. After an appeal is claimed, and notice given
at the probate oiiice, all proceedings in pursuance of the
order, sentence, decree, or denial, appealed from, shall cease

until the determination of the supreme court of probate
shall be had.

SECT. 24. The supreme court of probate may reverse or
atiirm, in whole or in part, the sentence or act appealed
from, and may pass such decree thereon as the probate court
or judge ought to have passed, and remit the case for further proceedings, or take any other order therein, as law
and justice shall require.

SE01‘. 25. If the appellant shall fail to enter and prosecute his appeal, the supreme court of probate may, upon the
complaint of any person interested, affirm the former sentence or take such other order as law and justice shall
require.

SECT. 26. If upon the hearing of an appeal in the supreme court of probate, any question of fact shall occur
proper for trial by jury, the court may cause it to be so tried

upon an issue formed ibr the purpose under the direction of
the court.

SECT. 27. The several judges shall from time to time;
make rules for regulating the practice and conducting the 3
business in their courts in all cases not expressly provided 
for by law; and shall return a statement of their rules and
course of proceedings to the supreme judicial court, as soon
as conveniently may be after making the same. The supreme judicial court may alter and amend the same, and
make other and further rules from time to time for regulating the proceeding in the probate courts as they shall
deem necessary, in order to introduce and maintain regularity and uniformity in the proceedings.

SECT. 28. The judge shall make and issue all warrants 1
and processes necessary or proper to carry into effect the}
powers granted to him; and when no form for a warrant;
or process is prescribed by statute or the rules of the
court, he shall frame one in conformity with the principles
of law, and the usual course of proceedings in this state.

SECT. 29. All his decrees and orders shall be made in;
writing, and the register shall record, in books to be kept;
for the purpose, all decrees and orders, wills proved in the .;
court, with the probate thereof, letters testamentary and of ;
administration, warrants, returns, reports, accounts, and
bonds; and all other acts and proceedings required to be
recorded by the rules of the court or a special order of the
judge.

SECT. 30. When the validity of a decree is drawn in g
question in another suit or proceeding, every thing neces- s
sary to have been done or proved in order to render the ?
decree valid, which might have been proved by parol evidence at the time of making the decree’, and was not
required to be recorded, shall after twenty years from such
time be presumed to have been done or proved, unless the
contrary appears on the same record.

SECT. 31. Orders of notice and other ofiicial acts which 1
are passed as matters of course and do not require a previous j
notice to an adverse party, may be made and done in vaca‘- '
tion as well as in court.

SECT. 32. Any warrant or commission for the appraise- ‘
ment of an estate, for examining the claims on insolvent:
estates, for the partition of real estate, or for the assignment
of dower or other interests in real estate, may be revoked
by the judge for sufiicient cause; and he may thereupon

issue a new commission, or proceed otherwise as the circumstances of the case shall require.

SECT. 33. In cases contested either before the probate
court or supreme court of probate, costs in the discretion of
the court may be awarded to either party, to be paid by the
other, or to either or both parties to be paid out of the
estate which is the subject of the controversy, as justice
and equity shall require.

SECT. 34. When costs are awarded to be paid by one
party to the other, said courts may issue execution therefore
in like manner as is practised in the courts of common law.

SECT. 35. When an executor, administrator, guardian, or
trustee, who is required to make oath to an account, is
unable by reason of sickness or otherwise to attend personally in the probate court, the judge may administer the oath
to the accountant out of court, or may by his commission
authorize a justice of the peace to administer it. And a
certificate of the oath with the account and vouchers
produced therewith, and the commission, if any, shall be
returned into the registry of probate and there filed and
recorded.

SECT. 36. All other oaths required to be taken by executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees, and all oaths
required of commissioners of insolvency, appraisers, dividers
of estates, and other persons, in relation to any proceeding
in the court, may be administered either by the judge or
register in or out of court, or by a justice of the peace, or
by the city or town ‘clerk where there is no justice of the
peace, and a certificate thereof, when administered out of

court, shall be returned into the registry of probate and
there filed and recorded.

SECT. 37. Persons having business in the court may
select such newspapersas they may prefer'for the publication of legal_ notices which. may be ordered upon their
applications, but if the judge deems the newspaper thus
selected insufficient to give due publicity, he may order the
publication in one other newspaper.

SECT. 38. The register shall make, without charge, one
copy of all wills proved, inventories returned, and accounts
settled; of all partitions of real estate and assignments of
dower; and of all orders and decrees of the court; and shall
deliver the same when demanded to the executor, administrator, guardian, Widow, heir, or other party principally
interested. For additional copies of such documents, and

copies of other papers, he shall be paid by the person
demanding the same at the rate of twelve cents a page.

SECT. 39. Each county shall provide all books necessary I
for keeping the records and all printed blanks used‘ in 
probate proceedings ; but other stationery and the incidental ‘
expenses of the oiiice shall be paid by the register.

SECT. 40. N o clerk or other person employed in the j
oiiice of a probate court shall be commissioner of insolvency ,
or appraiser or divider of an estate in any case within the 5

jurisdiction of the court, unless his appointment is requested by all parties in interest.

SESSIONS OF THE COURTS.

SECT. 41. The judge may keep order in court and.
punish any contempt of his authority in like manner as;
such contempt might be punished in the court of common ~

pleas.

SECT. 42. He may adjourn the court as occasion requires ; ;
and when he is absent at the time appointed for holding a E
court, the register shall adjourn it as he thinks necessary,
or as ordered by the judge.

SECT. 43. No court shall be held by adjournment orj
otherwise unless the register, assistant-register, or a tem-;
porary register, is present.

, Andover, on the second Tuesday of August; at North
7 Andover, on the second Tuesday of February; and at Lawrence on the second Tuesdays of March, June, September,
and December:

For the county of Middlesex, at Cambridge, on the second
Tuesdays of each month, (except J uly,) and on the fourth
Tuesdays of January, February, March, April, August,
November, and December; at Lowell on the first Tuesdays
of February, April, June, September, and December; at
Concord on the first Tuesdays of January, March, May, and
October; at Groton, on the fourth Tuesdays of May and
September; and at Framingham, on the fourth Tuesdays
of June and October:

For the county of Worcester, at West Brookfield, on the
second Tuesdays of May and October; at Clinton, on the
third Tuesdays of May and October; at Templeton, on the
Thursdays next after the third Tuesdays of May and
October; at Barre, on the Fridays next after the third
Tuesdays of May and October; at Milford, on the fourth
Tuesday of May and the Wednesday next after the fourth
Tuesday of October; at Uxbridge, on the fourth Tuesday
of October; at Fitchburg on the Wednesdays next after the
third Tuesdays of May and October; and at Worcester, on
the first Tuesdays of every month: For the county of Hampshire, at Northampton, on the
first Tuesday of every month; at Amherst, on the second
Tuesdays of January and August; at Belchertown, on the
second Tuesdays of May and October; and at Chesterfield,
on the third Tuesdays of May and October:

For the county of Hampden, at Springfield, on the first
Tuesdays of January, February, March, April, June, July,
and November; and on the fourth Tuesdays of April, August, and September; at Westtield, on the third Tuesdays of
March, June, September, and December; at Monson, on the
second Tuesday of June; and at Palmer on the second
Tuesday of September:

For the county of Franklin, at Greenfield, on the first
Tuesday of November, on the second Tuesdays of February,
March, May and October, on the third Tuesday of December, and on the fourth Tuesday of August; at Conway, on
the first Tuesday of February and the third Tuesday of
July; at Charlemont, on the third Tuesdays of May and
October; at Orange, on the last Tuesday of April and the
third Tuesday of September; at Lock’s Village in Shutesbury, on the Fridays next after the last Tuesday of April
and next after the third Tuesday of September; and at
Northfield, on the Wednesdays next after the last Tuesday
of April and next after the third Tuesday of September:

For the county of Berkshire, at Lenox, on the first Tuesdays of January, February, March, April, May, June, September, October, and December, on the third Tuesday of
July, and on the second Tuesday of November; at Great
Barrington, on the Wednesdays next after the first Tuesdays of February and May, next after the third Tuesday of
July, and next after the second Tuesday of November; at
Lanesborough, on the second Tuesdays of January and
October, and on the fourth Tuesdays of April and July;
at Adams, on the Wednesdays next after the second Tuesdays of January and October, and next after the fourth
Tuesdays of April and July:

For the county of Norfolk, at Dedham, on the first Tues- 2
day of every month; at Quincy, on the second Tuesdays of 5

February, May, and August ;'at Roxbury, on the fourth
Tuesdays of February, May, August, and November; at
Wrentham, on the third Tuesdays of May, August, and

November; and at Medway, on the third Tuesdays of
February, June, and October: '

For the county of Bristol, at Taunton, on the first Tues- E
days of January, March, and June, and on the Friday next A

after the first Tuesday of November; at New Bedford, on
the first Tuesday of February, on the Friday next after the
first Tuesday of May, on the last Tuesday of August, and
on the first Tuesday of December; at Pawtucket, on the
first Tuesday of April ; at Fall River, on the Fridays next
after the first Tuesdays of April and July, and on the
first Tuesday of October; at Attleborough, on the first
Tuesday of May; at Norton, on the first Tuesday of July;
at Seekouk, on the first Tuesday of September, and at
Rehoboth, on the Friday next after the ii-rst Tuesday of
September :

For the county of Plymouth, at Plymouth, on the third
Mondays of January, February, and May, on the second
Mondays of April and August, and on the first Monday of
December; at Scituate, on the first Tuesday of June, and
last Tuesday of November; at Hingham, on the first
Tuesday of March and last Tuesday of August; at East
Bridgewater, on the first Tuesdays of April, July, and
October; at Bridgewater on the last Tuesday of February;
at North Bridgewater on the last Tuesday of July;
at Middlebrou-gh, on the first Tuesdays of May and
August, and last Tuesday of October; at Wareham on the
Wednesdays next after the first Tuesdays of May and
November; at Abington on the second Monday of January;
and at Hanover on the last Monday of September:

For the county of Barnstable, at Barnstable, on the
second Tuesdays of January, February, March, August,
September, and December, and on the third Tuesdays of
May and June; at Sandwich, on the second Tuesday of
November; at Falmouth, on the Wednesday next after
the second Tuesday of November; at Harwich, on the

SECTION 1. The courts of insolvency in the several counties shall continue courts of record, and the judges and
registers of probate and insolvency in their respective counties shall be judges and registers thereof.

SECT. 2. The courts shall have original jurisdiction in
their respective counties of all cases of insolvency arising
under the provisions of this chapter.

, SECT. 3. Each court shall be held at the shire towns of
the county at such times as the judge shall appoint, and
may be held at such other places as will best promote the
convenience of the public. The judge may adjourn any
court or meeting from time to time as occasion shall require,
and all things lawfully done at an adjourned meeting shall
have like force and effect as if done at the original meeting.

SE01‘. 4. In case of a vacancy in the oilice of judge, or
of his sickness, absence, or inability to perform his duties,
or of his interest in a‘ case arising in his county the duties
while the vacancy or impediment continues, 1 cases in
which he is 'nterested, shall be performed in that county by
the judge the court of that adjoining county having the
least nu'mber of inhabitants according to the next preceding
decennial census, except that in the counties of Nantucket
and Dukes county the duties of the judge in such cases
shall be performed by the judge "for the county of Barnstable. The register shall forthwith certify the fact upon
the record and transmit a certified copy of the certificate to
the judge whose duty it is to act in the case.

SECT. 5. The judge may in vacation as well as in court
approve compositions and assignees’ bonds, approve or order
sales, receive petitions, issue orders of notice and warrants,
and do such other official acts as are done as matters of course
and do not require a previous notice to an adverse party.

SE01‘. 6. The judge may keep order in his court, and
punish any contempt of his authority; administer oaths,
issue commissions, take testimony, and compel the attendance of witnesses and the giving of testimony, in the same
manner and to the same extent as the court of common
pleas; and may appoint such oilicers to attend upon the
court as may be necessary for the transaction of its business
and keeping order therein.

Sncr. 7. The proceedings in courts of insolvency shall
be deemed matters of record, and the assignment and certificate of discharge shall be recorded in full. The other
proceedings need not be recorded at large, but shall be
carefully filed, kept, and numbered, in the oiiice of the
register. Copies of all parts of the records, and of records
of prior proceedings in insolvency deposited in his office,
duly certified by the register, shall in all cases be admissible
as evidence, primafacie, of the facts therein stated.

SECT. 8. The register shall keep a docket with an alphabetical index of all cases in court, in which he shall enter
short memorandums, with the numbers, of all proceedings
and papers filed. He shall make all computations of dividends and orders of distribution, and shall furnish to the
assignee a certified copy of such orders, and of the schedules
of creditors and assets filed in each case.

SE01‘. 9. He may administer all oaths required in the
course of proceedings before the court, except the oath
described by section seventy-two; and in the absence of the
judge may adjourn a court or meeting.

SECT. 10. For copies of orders for distribution and of
schedules, in addition to those required by law, and for
copies of other papers, he shall be paid by the person
demanding the same, at the rate of fourteen cents a page,
and no more. Sncr. 11. The docket, and all books, records, documents,
and papers, in his oiiice, relating to insolvency, shall at all
reasonable times be open to the inspection of the public.

S1-:c'r. 12. All assignments, warrants, orders of notice,
and processes, issuing from the court, shall be under the
seal thereof; and all warrants shall be returnable not less

than ten nor more than sixty days from the issuing of the
same.

SECT. 13. Persons having business in court may designate
the newspapers in which notices under their applications
shall be published; but if the newspapers thus selected
shall be deemed by the judge insuilicient to give publicity
to the notice, he may order publication in one other newspaper.

SECT. 14. Each county shall provide suitable court
rooms in the shire towns; and a suitable fire-proof room,
in which shall be kept all the records, books, documents,
and papers, appertaining to the business of the court; and
the records in all cases in insolvency.

Snow. 15. All expenses attending the sessions of the :
courts, the transaction of business therein, for blank books 1
for records, and for blank forms and stationery necessary for
the business of the courts, shall be paid out of the treasury
of the commonwealth.

S1-3c'r. 16. The judges or a majority of them shall from time to time make rules in writing for regulating thei.
practice and conducting the business of the courts in all
cases not provided for by law. They shall as soon as conveniently may be after making and adopting such rules;
submit a copy thereof to the supreme judicial court for
approval, and -amendment or alteration.

SECT. 17. The supreme judicial court shall have a gen- 1
eral superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases arising
under this chapter; and except when special provision is.
otherwise made, may upon the bill, petition, or other proper
process, of any party aggrieved, hear and determine the
case as a court of equity. They may from time to time
make such general rules and forms as they shall judge
necessary to establish and maintain a regular and uniform
course of proceedings in all the counties. The powers
thus granted may be exercised either by the court of law
or court of trials, except that general rules and forms shall
be made only at a law term.

APPLICATIONS BY THE DE-'B'l'0R—FIRST MEETING.

SECT. 18. Any inhabitant of this state owing debts contracted while such inhabitant, may apply by petition to the
judge for the county within which he resides, setting forth
his inability to pay all his debts, and his willingness to
assign all his estate and effects for the benefit of his creditors, and praying that such proceedings may be had in the
premises as are provided in this chapter.

SECT. 19. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
judge that the debts due from the applicant amount to not
less than two hundred dollars, he shall forthwith issue a
warrant under his hand to the sheriii‘ of the county or
either of his deputies, directing him forthwith as messenger to take possession of all the estate real and personal
of the debtor, except such as may be by law exempt from
attachment, and of all his deeds, books of account, and
papers, and keep the same safely until the appointment of
an assignee; to publish notice in such newspapers as the
warrant shall specify, send written notice by mail or otherwise to all creditors upon the schedule furnished him by the
debtor, and to give such personal or other notice to any

persons concerned as the warrant shall prescribe; which
notices shall state:

First—That a warrant has issued ‘against the estate of
the debtor;

Second—That the payment of any debts,‘and the delivery
of any property belonging to such debtor, to him or for his
use, and the transfer of any property by him, are forbidden
by law;

Third—That a meeting of the creditors of the debtor to
prove their debts and choose one or more assignees of his
estate, will be held at a court of insolvency to be holden at
a time and place designated in the warrant, not less than
ten nor more than sixty days after the issuing of the same.

SECT. 20. The messenger shall as soon as may be demand
and receive from the debtor and other persons all the estate
in his or their possession respectively, which is herein
ordered to be assigned, with all the deeds, books of account,
and papers, of the debtor, relating thereto.

SECT. 21. Upon demand made by the messenger under the
preceding section the debtor shall forthwith deliver to him
such part of the estate and other things demanded as may
then be within his possession or power, and shall disclose the
situation of such parts thereof as may be in the possession
of any other person, so as to enable the messenger to
demand and receive the same. The debtor shall also
within three days after the date of the warrant make and
deliver to the messenger a schedule, containing a full and
true account of all his creditors, with the place of residence
of each creditor, if known to the debtor, and the sum due
to each of them. The schedule shall also set forth the
nature of each debt, whether founded on written security,
account, or otherwise, and also the true cause and consideration thereof, and a statement of any existing mortgage,
pledge, or other collateral security, given for the payment
of the same.

SECT. 22. When it appears to the satisfaction of the
judge that the estate of the debtor or any part thereof
is of a perishable nature, or likely to deteriorate in value
before an assignee can be appointed, he may order the same
to be sold in such manner as he may deem expedient, under
the direction of the messenger, who shall hold the funds
received, in place of the estate disposed of.

SECT. 23. At the meeting held in pursuance of the
notice the messenger shall make return of the warrant
and of his doings thereon, and deliver to the register the
schedule of creditors received from the debtor; and at the

same meeting the debtor shall deliver to the register at
schedule of all his real and personal estate, giving a:

description of the same and stating where it is situated.

SECT. 24. If it appears to the judge that the notice to
the creditors required by section nineteen has not been given,

he shall forthwith adjourn the meeting and order such
notice.

SECT. 25. If ‘the debtor shall die after the issuing of the
warrant, the proceedings shall be continued and concluded

in like manner and with like validity and effect as if he
had lived.

DEBTS AND PROOF OF CLAIMS.

SECT. 26. Debts due and payable from the debtor at. the
time of the first publication of the notice of issuing the
warrant may be proved and allowed against his estate at any
meeting; and all debts at that time absolutely due, although
not payable, may be proved and allowed as if payable, with
a discount or rebate of interest when no interest is payable
by the contract. Moneys due on any bottomry or respondentia bond or policy of insurance may be proved ‘and
allowed, if the contingency or loss happens before the
making of the first dividend, in like manner as if the
same had happened before the first publication of the
notice. If the debtor is liable for any debt in consequence
of having made or indorsed a bill of exchange or promissory
note before said first publication, or in consequence of the
payment by any party to a bill or note of any part of the
money secured thereby, or of the payment of any sum by
a surety of the debtor in any contract, if the payment be
made before the making of the first dividend, such debt
may be proved and allowed as if it had been due and
payable by the debtor before the first publication. All
demands against the debtor for or on account of goods or
chattels wrongfully obtained, taken, or withheld, by him,
may be proved and allowed as debts, to the amount of the
value thereof. No debt other than those above mentioned
shall be proved or allowed against the estate.

SECT. 27. If it appears that there has been mutual

credit given by the debtor and any other person, or mutual

debts between them, the account between them shall be
stated, and one debt set off against the other, and the
balance shall be allowed or paid on either side.

SECT. 28. When a creditor has a mortgage or pledge
of real or personal estate of the debtor, or a lien thereon,
for securing the payment of a debt claimed by him, the

property so held as security shall, if he require it, be sold,
and the proceeds applied towards the payment of his debt,
and he shall be admitted as a creditor for the residue
thereof, if any. The sale shall be made in such manner
as the judge shall order, and the creditor and assignee
respectively shall execute all deeds and papers necessary or
proper for effecting the conveyance. If the creditor shall
not require such sale and join in effecting the conveyance, he may release and deliver up to the assignee the
premises held as security and be admitted as a creditor
for the whole of his debt. If the property shall not be so
sold, or released and delivered up, the creditor shall not be
allowed to prove any part of his debt.

SECT. 29. N o debt shall be proved or allowed unless the
creditor, or if he resides in a foreign country and the debt
is founded on a contract made by the debtor with the consignee or agent of the creditor residing in the United

States, such consignee or agent, shall make oath in substance
as follows :I, , do swear that , of , by (or against,) whom
proceedings in insolvency have been instituted, at and before the date of
such proceedings was, and still is, justly and truly indebted to me in the
sum of , for which sum or any part thereof I have not, nor has
any other person to my use, to m knowle or belief, received any
securi or satisfaction whatever, yond w at has been disposed of
agreea ly to law. And I do further swear, that said claim was not
procured b me for the purpose of influencing the proceedings in this
case. An I do further swear that I have not, directly or indirectly,
made or entered into any bargain, arrangement, or agreement, express or
implied, to sell, transfer, or dispose of, my claim, or any part of my claim,
against said debtor, nor have, directly or indirectly, received or taken,
or made or entered into any bargain, arrangement, or agreement, express
or implied, to take or receive, directly or indirectly, any money, property,
or consideration, whatsoever, to myself, or to any person or persons to my
use or benelit, under or with any understanding or agreement, express or
implied, whereby m vote for assignee or my assent to the debtor's discharge is or shall he in any _way affected, influenced, or controlled, or

whereby the proceedings in this case are or shall be affected, influenced,
or controlled.

No claim shall be allowed unless all the statements set
forth in the oath are true.

SECT. 30. If the creditor is disabled by absence from
the state, sickness, or other cause, from proving his claim,
the above oath may be made by an agent or attorney of
the creditor testifying to the best of his knowledge and
belief; in which case the judge may require such further

proof of the truth of the statements therein as he shall
deem expedient.

SE01‘. 31. The oath may be made before a justice of the
peace; but the judge may at any time require the personal

appearance in court of the party making such affidavit, to
be further ‘interrogated on oath. The debtor and any
party proving a debt may be examined on oath in presence
of the judge on all matters relating thereto.

SECT. 32. When a claim is presented for proof before:
the election of the assignee, and the judge entertains doubts j
of its validity or of the right of the creditor to prove it, and is ‘
of opinion that such validity or right ought to be investigated
by the assignee, he may postpone the proof of the claim till
after the assignee is chosen. ‘

SECT. 33. A person who has accepted any preference,;
having reasonable cause to believe that the same was;
made or given by the debtor contrary to any provision of:
this chapter, shall not prove the debt or claim on account of
which the preference was made or given, nor receive any
dividend thereon.

SE01‘. 34. The judge shall allow all debts duly proved, ;
and shall cause a list thereof to be made and certified by E
the register; and any creditor may act at all meetings by his j?
duly constituted attorney_ the same as though personally;
present.

SECT. 35. A supposed creditor whose claim shall be ;
wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee who is dissatisfied 7
with the allowance of a claim, may appeal from the decision ; :
but no appeal shall be allowed unless it is claimed and notice ;
thereof given to the register, to be entered with the record of .
the proceedings, and also to the assignee or creditor, as the J
case may be, within ten days after the decision ‘appealed i
from. If the debt demanded exceeds three hundred dollars 1
the appeal shall be to the supreme judicial court, otherwise
to the court of common pleas, or in the county of Suffolk
to thesuperior court. The appeal shall be entered in the
proper court which shall be first held within or for the county
in which the proceedings are had next after the expiration
of fourteen days from the time of claiming the same.

SBCT. 36. Upon entering the appeal‘the creditor shall
file in court a statement in writing of his claim, setting‘
forth the same substantially as in a declaration for the
same cause of action at law, and the assignee shall plead
or answer thereto in like manner; and like proceedings
shall be thereupon had in the pleadings, trial, and determination of the cause, as in an action at law commenced and
prosecuted in the usual manner; except that no execution
shall be awarded against the assignee for the amount of a
debt found due to the creditor. .,

S1-:c'r. 37. The final judgment of the court shall be conclusive; and the list of debts shall, if necessary, be altered
to conform thereto. The party prevailing in the suit shall

be entitled to costs agai_nst the adverse party, to be taxed '

and recovered as in suits at law; which costs if recovered
against the assignee shall be allowed out of the estate.

SECT. 38. A bill of exchange, promissory note, or other
instrument, used as evidence upon the proof of a claim
and left in court or deposited in the oliice, may be delivered
by the register to the person who used it, upon his filing
a copy thereof attested by the register; the register also
indorsing upon it the name of the party against whose estate
it has been proved, and the date and amount of any dividend declared thereon.

ASSIGNMENT AND ASSIGNEE.

SE01‘. 39. The creditors shall at the lirst meeting in the
presence of the judge choose one or more assignees of the
estate of the debtor; the choice to be made by the greater
part in value of the creditors who have proved their debts:
provided, that when the number of creditors present shall

amount to five and less than fen, the votes of two at least, ‘

and when the number of creditors shall amount to ten or
more, the votes of three at least, shall be necessary for a
choice. If no choice is made by the creditors at said meeting, the judge shall appoint one or more assignees. If an
assignee so chosen or appointed shall, within four days, fail
to express in writing his acceptance of the trust, the judge
may fill the vacancy.

SECT. 40. All elections of assignee shall be subject to

the approval of the judge; and when in his judgment it '

shall for any cause be needful or expedient he may appoint
additional assignees or order a new election.

SECT. 41. The judge at any time may, and upon the
request filed in writing of any creditor who has proved his
claim shall, require the assignee to give good and suliicient
bond to the judge and his successors in office, with a condition for the faithful performance and discharge of his
duties. The bond shall be approved by the judge by his
indorsement thereon, shall be filed with the record of the
case, inure to the benefit of all creditors proving their
claims, and may be prosecuted in the manner provided for
the prosecution of administration bonds.

SECT. 42. If the assignee fails to give the bond within such
time as the judge shall order, not exceeding ten days after

notice to him of such order, the judge shall remove him
and appoint another in his place.

SECT. 43. The judge shall by an instrument under his
hand, assign and convey to the assignee, all the estate real
and personal of the debtor, except such as may be by law
exempt from attachment, with all his deeds, books, and
papers, relating thereto.

SECT. 44. The assignee shall forthwith cause the assign- a
ment to be recorded in the registry of deeds in each district 
or county in which there may be real estate of the debtor 4
on which it may operate; and shall give such public notice
of his appointment as the judge shall order.

SECT. 45. The assignment shall vest in the assignee all 5
the property of the debtor real and personal which he could f
have lawfully sold, assigned, or conveyed, or which might 1
have been taken on execution upon a judgment against him, f
at the time of the first publication of the notice of issuing the ‘
warrant, although the same may then be attached on mesne 1
process as the property of the debtor; and shall be effectual T
to pass all said estate and, subject to the provisions of ;
the following section, dissolve any such attachment. The ;
assignment shall vest in the assignee all debts due to the:
debtor or any person for his use, and all liens and securities 1
therefore, and all his rights of action for goods or estate, real 3
or personal, and all his rights of redeeming such goods or§
estate. The assignee may redeem all mortgages, condi- ?
tional contracts, pledges, and liens, of or upon any goods‘;
or estate of the debtor, or sell the same subject to such;

mortgage or other encumbrance. 1

Dissolution of at- 481, 504. 2 Cush. 124. Time of vesting
tlehment. 6 Met. 299. 493. 8 Cash. 306, 318. 2 Met. 258.

21 Pick. 169. 7 Met. 818. 4 Cuah. 357, 893, 4 Met. 846.

92 Pick. 450. 8 Met. 29. 441. 6 Met. 637.

8 Met. 25]. 416. 9 Met. 23. 10 Cush. 317 7 Met. 318.

4 Met. 2%, 470, 13 net. 200,535. . 3 Gray, 245. 1 Cash. 800.

SECT. 46. If a debtor whose property has been attached, i
shall before judgment and execution in_ the suit convey any 3
part of such property, and subsequently thereto and before i
execution issues proceedings are commenced by or against §
him as an insolvent debtor, or if a dissolution of an attach- 
ment under the preceding section might prevent the property -.
attached from passing to the assignee, the judge before whom
proceedings in insolvency are pending, or the court to which
the process of attachment is returnable, may upon application made on or before the day of the third meeting of
creditors by any person interested, and cause shown thereon,
order the lien created by the attachment to continue. The
action may be continued or executién staid until the assignee

is chosen and takes charge of the action. The assignee may
proceed with the action and levy the execution at the cost
and expense of the estate; and the amount recovered exclusive of costs shall vest‘in the assignee.

' SECT. 47. The assignee shall demand and receive from
the messenger and all other persons, all the estate in his or
their possession which shall have been assigned or intended
to be assigned under the provisions of this chapter; and he
shall sell all such estate, real and personal, which shall
come to his hands, on such terms as he shall think most
for the interest of the creditors; and shall keep a regular
account of all monies received by him as assignee, to which
every creditor shall at reasonable times have free resort.

SECT. 48. He shall have the like remedy to recover all
said estate, debts, and effects, in his own name, as the debtor
might have done if no assignment had been made. If at
the time of the assignment an action shall be pending in
the name of the debtor for the recovery of a debt or other
thing which might or ought to pass to the assignee by the
assignment, the assignee shall, if he requires it, be admitted
to prosecute the action in his own name, in like manner and
with like effect as if it had been originally commenced by
him. No suit pending in the name of the assignee shall be
abated by his death or removal; but upon the motion of the
surviving, remaining, or new assignee, as the case may be,
he shall be admitted to prosecute the suit in like manner
and with like effect as if it had been originally commenced
by him. In suits prosecuted by the assignee, the assignment made by the judge shall be conclusive evidence of his
authority to sue.

SECT. 49. Drafts, bills of exchange, promissory notes,
claims, demands, and causes of action, which shall, subsequently to the sixth ‘day of July in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and within six months before the filing of
the petition by or against a debtor, have been assigned,
transferred, conveyed, or delivered, to any person indebted
or liable to the debtor, shall not be offset or pleadable in
defense in any suit by the assignee to recover such debt
or liability ; but the assignee may recover the same notwithstanding such draft, bill of exchange, promissory note, claim,
demand, or cause of action: provided, that the person to
whom the same shall be so assigned, transferred, conveyed,
or delivered, had at the time of such assignment, transfer,
conveyance, or delivery, reasonable cause to believe the
debtor insolvent.

SECT. 50. The assignee shall as soon as may be after
receiving any money belonging to the estate, deposit the

same in some bank, in his name as assignee, or otherwise
keep it distinct and apart from all other monies in his
possession; and shall as far as practicable keep all goods
and effects belonging to the estate separate and apart from
all other goods in his possession, or designated by appropriate marks ; so that they may be easily and clearly distinguished and may not be exposed or liable to be taken as his
property or for the payment of his debts.

SE01‘. 51. He shall give written notice to all creditors
by mail or otherwise of all dividends; and such notice of
all meetings after the first as the judge shall order.

S1301‘. 52. He shall be allowed, and may retain out of the
monies in his hands, all the necessary disbursements made
by him in the discharge of his duty, and a reasonable compensation for his services, in the discretion of the judge.

S1':c'r. 53. He may under the direction of the judge,
submit any controversy that shall arise in the settlement of
demands against the estate or of debts due to it, to the
determination of arbitrators, to be chosen by him and the
other party to the controversy; and may under such direction compound and settle any such controversy by agreement with the other party as he shall think proper and most
for the interest of the creditors.

SECT. 54. When it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
judge that the title to any portion of an estate which has
come into possession of the assignee is in dispute, and that
the property is of a perishable nature or liable to deteriorate in value, he may on the petition of the assignee and
after such notice to the claimant, his agent, or attorney, as
the judge shall deem reasonable, order it to be sold under
the direction -of the assignee, who shall hold the funds
received, in place of the estate disposed of; and the proceeds of the sale shall be considered the measure of the
value of the property in any suit or controversy between
the parties. But this provision shall not prevent the recov‘ery of the property from the possession of the assignee by

action of replevin commenced at any time before the judge
orders the sale.

SECT. 55. When an assignee has received from the estate
assets sufficient to pay fifty per cent. of the debts and claims
proved against it, he shall certify the fact and render his
accounts therefore to the judge; and when he has received
twenty-live per cent. more from the assets, he shall in like
manner certify and render his accounts therefore. He shall
also certify and render his accounts at any time when
required by the judge.

SECT. 56. At a meeting called by order of the judge in

; his discretion for the purpose, and which shall be called

upon the application of a majority of the creditors either
in number or value, the creditors may remove any assignee
by such a vote as is provided in section thirty-nine for the

choice of assignees.

SECT. 57. The judge after due notice and hearing may
remove an assignee if it shall appear to him upon the
complaint of any person interested in the estate that the
assignee has fraudulently received, concealed, embezzled, or
conveyed away, any of the money, goods, effects, or other
estate, of the debtor, or has been interested in any suit at
law in relation to said estate for the purpose of securing to
himself a preference or priority over the other creditors, or
has in his possession or control any portion of the estate
with intent to appropriate the same unlawfully to his own
use, or has been guilty of any fraudulent act in relation to

the same.

Sncr. 58. He may also remove an assignee who having
removed from the state unreasonably refuses or neglects
to obey any lawful order for calling meetings of the creditors, to settle his accounts, or otherwise unreasonably refuses
or neglects to discharge his duties; and for any other cause
which shall in his judgment render such removal necessary

or expedient.

SEC-T. 59. An assignee may resign his trust and be
discharged therefrom, if the judge shall accept his resignation.

SECT. 60. Vacancies caused by death or otherwise in
the office of assignee may be filled by appointment of the
judge, or at his discretion by an election of the creditors in
the manner prescribed in section thirty-nine at a regular
meeting, or at a meeting called for the purpose, with such
notice thereof in writing to all known creditors, and by
such person, as the judge shall direct.

SECT. 61. The resignation or removal of an assignee
shall in no way release him from performing all things
requisite on his part for the proper closing up of his trust
and the transmission thereof to his successors; nor affect
the liability of the principal or surety on the bond given by
the assignee.

S1-:c'r. 62. When by death or otherwise the number of
assignees is reduced, the estate of the debtor not lawfully
disposed of shall vest in the remaining assignee or assignees,

and the persons selected to fill vacancies, with the same
powers and duties relative thereto as if they were originally
chosen.

SE01‘. 63. Any former assignee, his executors, or administrators, upon request, and at the expense of the estate,
shall make and execute to the new assignee all such deeds,
conveyances, andassurances, and do all such other lawful
acts, as may be needful or proper to enable him to recover
and receive all the estate; and the judge may pass all orders
which he may deem expedient to secure the proper fulfilment of the duties of any former assignee, and to secure
the rights and interests of all persons interested in the
estate.

SECT. 64. No person who shall have received any preference contrary to the provisions of the laws relating to
insolvency, shall vote for or be eligible as assignee, but no
title to property, real or personal, sold, transferred, or
conveyed, by an assignee, shall be affected or impaired by
reason of his ineligibility.

SECT. 65. An assignee refusing or unreasonably neglecting to execute an instrument when lawfully required by
the judge, or disobeying a lawful order or decree of the judge
in the premises, may be committed to and detained in the
jail of the county where he is found, or in which he dwelt
when he was appointed, until he obeys such order or decree,
or is released by the supreme judicial court or some justice
thereof on a writ of habeas comus.

EXAMINATION, &c., or DEBTOB.

SECT. 66. The debtor shall at all times before the
granting of his certificate, upon reasonable notice, attend
and submit to an examination on oath before the judge and
the assignee upon all matters relating to the disposal of his
estate; to his trade and dealings with others, and his
accounts concerning the same; to all debts due or claimed
from him; and to all other matters concerning his estate,
and the due settlement thereof according to law; which
examination shall be in writing when so required by the
judge, shall be signed by the debtor, and filed with the other
proceedings.

SECT. 67. If the debtor shall be in jail in any suit or
proceeding for or on account of any debt or demand that
is provable against his estate, at any time before the
granting of his certificate and when his attendance may be
required before the court or the assignee, or at any meeting

of his creditors, the judge may, in his discretion, by warrant
under his hand require the jailer to produce the debtor for
the purposes aforesaid, at such time and place as may be
specified in the warrant.

SECT. 68. If the debtor is by reason of imprisonment,
sickness, or any other cause which shall be deemed suiiicient
by the judge, unable to attend before the judge, or the
assignee, or at any meeting of his creditors, the judge, or
some person to be deputed by him for that purpose, and
the assignee, or some person appointed by him, shall attend
the debtor, in jail or elsewhere, if he be within this state,
in order to take his examination; and the examination thus
taken shall be of the same force and effect as if the debtor
had attended in person before the judge or assignee, or at
the meetings aforesaid, and had there undergone the same
examination.

SECT. 69. If the debtor is without this state and unable
to return and give his personal attendance at any of the
times and for the purposes specified in this chapter, and if
it appears that such absence was not caused by his willful
default, and he shall as soon as may be after the removal of
such impediment offer to attend and submit to an examination on oath before the judge and the assignee as herein
provided, and do and perform all things required by this
chapter for the purpose of obtaining his certificate, he shall
be entitled thereto in like maner as if he had done the same
things at the times respectively herein prescribed.

S1-301'. 70. The debtor shall, at the expense of the estate,
make and execute such deeds and writings, and indorse
such bills, notes, and other negotiable papers, draw such
checks and orders for monies deposited in banks or elsewhere, and do all such other lawful acts and things, as the
assignee shall at any time reasonably require, and which
may be necessary or useful for confirming the assignment,
and enabling the assignee to demand, recover, and receive,
all the estate and effects so assigned, especially any part
thereof which may be without this state.

SI-JCT. 71. If the debtor refuses or unreasonably neglects
to execute an instrument when lawfully required pursuant
to an order of the judge, or disobeys any lawful order or
decree, the judge shall issue his warrant to any civil officer,
commanding him to arrest and commit the debtor to the jail
in the county where he may be found, or where he dwelt at
the time of his insolvency; and he shall remain in close
custody until he obeys such order or decree, unless he is
released by the supreme judicial court or some justice
thereof on a writ of habeas corpus.

SECT. 72. The judge shall appoint a second meeting of
the creditors, to be held at a court not more than three
months after the date of the warrant, regard being bad to
the distance at which the creditors reside. The debtor
shall then be allowed to amend and correct his schedule of
creditors, and shall take and subscribe an oath before the
judge, which shall be certified by him and filed in the case,
in substance as follows :—

" I do swear that the account of my creditors contained in the
schedule made and signed by me and now in the hands of the assignee
chosen by my creditors is in all res ects 'ust and true, according to my
best knowledge and belief‘. And I o furt er swear, that I have delivered
to , the messen er, all my estate, (excepting such parts thereof as
are by law exempted rom attachment, and such as have been necessarily
expended for the sup ort of myself and my family,) and all my books of
account and papers re ating to my said estate, that were within my possession or power when the same were demanded of me by the messenger;
that I have delivered to my assignee all such of my said estate, books, and
papers, as have since come to my Hossession; and that if any other estate,
e ects, or other thin , which sha or ought to be assigned and delivered
to the assignee. shal hereafter come to my knowledge or ossession, I
will forthwith disclose or deliver the same to him. And IP do further
swear, that there is not any part of my estate or effects made over or
disposed of in any manner for the future benefit of myself or my family,
or in order to defraud my creditors.”

SECT. 73. When a failure to call or hold a second or
third meeting within the time prescribed occurs, such
meeting may, upon the petition of an interested party, be
ordered at the discretion of the supreme judicial court or
any justice thereof, with like effect as to the validity of the
proceedings as if the meeting had been duly held.

SI-:c'r. 74. Upon the death, resignation, or neglect, of the
assignee, or his absence from the county, whereby a meeting
to be notified by him is liable to be defeated, such meeting
may be notified by the register on the order of the judge,
on petition of any ‘interested party, with notice at the
discretion of the judge to the assignee if living, and with
the like effect as if the meeting had been called and
notified by the assignee.

SECT. 75. The judge shall appoint a third meeting of the
creditors to be held within six months from the time of the
appointment of the assignee ; at which meeting or some
meeting thereafter, if it shall then appear to the satisfaction
of the judge that the debtor has made a full disclosure and
delivery of all his estate as herein required, and that he, has
in all things conformed himself to the directions and requirements of the laws relating to insolvent debtors, the judge
shall grant him a certificate, which shall state all fiduciary

debts specially exempt from discharge, and be in substance
as follows:

COMMONWEALTH or MASSACHUSETTS.
SS. Court of Insolvency.
To all people to whom these presents shall come, I, A. B.,  of

probate and insolvency for said county of , send eting.
Whereas, it has been made to a pear to me, that . D., of B., in the
said county of , merchant, w ose estate has been assigned for the

benefit of his creditors, accordin to law, has made a full disclosure and
delivery of all his estate and that e has in all things conformed himselfto
the requirements of law in that behalf made and provided: I do accordinrrl ' certify that said C. D. is absolutely and wholly dischar ed from
all: his debts which have been or shall be proved against is estate
assigned as aforesaid, and from all debts which are provable against his
estate, and which are founded on any contract made by him within this
state or to be performed within the same, and made since the last day of
July in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-eight. and from all debts
which are provable as aforesaid and which are founded on any contract
made by him since that date, and due to any persons who were resident
within this commonwealth on the day of last, being the day
of the first publication of the notice of the warrant issued for the seizure
of the estate of said C. D.; and from all demands against him for or on
account of any goods or chattels wrongfully obtained, taken, or withheld,
by him, according to the provisions of c iapter one hundred and eighteen of
the general statutes. And I do further certify that said C. D. is by force
of said chapter forever discharged and exempted from arrest or imprisonment in any suit, or upon any proceeding, for or on account of any debt
or demand whatever which might have been proved against his estate
assigned as aforesaid.

Given under my hand and the seal of said court this day of

, in the year '

SECT. 76. The debtor shall thereupon, except as provided in section seventy-nine, be absolutely and wholly discharged from all his debts which shall be at any time
actually proved against his estate; and from all debts which
are provable under this chapter, and which are founded on
any contract made by him subsequently to the last day of
July in the year eighteen hundred and tliirty-eiglit and
while an inhabitant of this state, if made within this state,
to be performed within the same, or due to any person
resident therein at the time of the first publication of the
notice of the issuing of the warrant; and from all demands
for or on account of any goods or chattels wrongfully
obtained, taken, or withheld, by him, as mentioned in
section twenty-six, while such inhabitant.

6 Cush. 226. 1 Gray, 8%, 6%. Contracts out of 7 Cash. 15, 242,
7 Cush. 15, 242, 2 Gray, 48, 111. state. 456.

455, W. 148. 10 Met. 594, 697. 10 Cush. 5%.

8 Cusn. 375. 8 Gray, 252. 551. _ 12 Met. 470. 2 Gray, 48.

10 Cash. 48, 523. 6 Gray, 51, 316.   3 Gray, 651.

as . .

_ Si-:cT. 77. If the debtor at the time of obtaining his
certificate is in jail on any suit or proceeding for or on
account of any claim provable against his estate, he shall be
discharged from such imprisonment upon producing to

the jailer his certificate granted pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.

SECT. 78. The debtor shall also be forever thereafter dis- ;
charged and exempt from arrest or imprisonment in any .
suit or upon any proceeding for or on account of any debt I
or demand which might have been proved against his estate. l
And the property and estate of the debtor by him acquired 
subsequently to the time of the first publication of the notice
of the issuing of the warrant, shall not be subject to attachment, by trustee process or otherwise, in any suit to recover
a debt which may have been so provable and due to any
person or persons not resident in this state at the time of
such first publication, or founded on any contract existing
at the time of said first publication and made or to be performed out of the limits of this state.

SECT. 79. A debt created subseqently to the fifteenth day I
of April in the year eighteen hundred and forty-four by the 1
debtor’s defalcation as a public officer, executor, adminis-]
trator, guardian, receiver, trustee, or assignee of an insolvent 2
estate, shall not be discharged under this chapter, but the f
dividend declared thereon shall be payment of so much of ‘
said debt. A claim for necessaries furnished to the debtor
or his family shall not be so discharged unless the claim is
proved against his estate,

SECT. 80. _ 'A discharge shall not release or discharge any :
person liable for the same debt as a partner, joint con- ’
tractor, indorser, surety, or otherwise, for or with the debtor. 4

SECT. 81. A discharge shall not be granted to a debtor '
whose assets do not pay fifty per cent. of the claims proved '
against his estate, unless a majority in number and value of 9
his creditors who have proved their claims shall assent ;
thereto in writing within six months after the date of the}
assignment.

SECT. 82. A discharge shall not be granted to a debtor a «
second time insolvent whose assets do not pay fifty per cent. 7
of the claims proved against his estate, unless three-fourths
in value of the creditors who have proved their claims shall i
assent thereto in writing. N o discharge shall be granted to A
a debtor a third time insolvent. But a debtor who shall
have paid all the debts owing by him at the time of his
previous insolvency shall be entitled to a discharge in the
same manner and with the same effect as if he had not been
previously insolvent.

SECT. 83. A creditor may assent to the debtor’s discharge
under the two preceding sections, notwithstanding an appeal

from the allowance of his claim is pending, and such assent
shall be valid if the claim is finally allowed.

SECT. 84. When a discharge is refused a debtor for the
sole reason that the requisite majority of his creditors have
not seasonably assented thereto, or for the reason that he has
not taken the oath required by section seventy-two, the judge
upon the application of the debtor made within twelve
months after the date of the assignment and with the written assent of three-fourths in number and value of the
creditors who have proved their claims, may grant his discharge if he shall satisfy the judge on a hearing had after
public notice of said application that the want’ of assent was
occasioned by accident or mistake, and by no fault of his
own ; or that the omission to take the oath was owing to his
inability by reason of sickness to attend and take the same ;
and if he shall be present and take_ the oath-and abide and
perform all lawful orders of the court.

SECT. 85. Either the debtor or the assignee may within
ten days after the decision of the judge upon the question
of granting the certificate of discharge, and not after, upon
giving notice to the register to be entered with the record
of proceedings, appeal from such decision to the supreme
judicial court which shall be first held within and for the
same county next after the expiration of fourteen days from
the time of claiming the appeal.

SECT. 86. The appeal may be heard and determined by
the court of trials or court of law ; and the assignee or any
creditor may appear and object to the allowance of the certificate. If after a full hearing of the parties it shall appear
to the satisfaction of the court that the debtor has made a
full disclosure and delivery of all his estate as herein
required, and that he has in all things conformed himself to
the directions of this chapter, the court shall cause a certificate thereof in substance like that prescribed in section
seventy-five, to be made under the seal of the court, signed by
the clerk, and delivered to the debtor.

MATTERS AVOIDING DISCHARGE.

S1-JCT. 87. A discharge shall not be granted, or valid, if the
debtor shall have willfully sworn falsely as to any material
fact in the course of the proceedings, or if he shall have
fraudulently concealed any part of his estate, or effects, or
any books or writings relating thereto; or if being insolvent
and having reasonable and sufficient cause to believe himself
so, he shall within one year next before the filing of a petition by or against him, have paid or secured, either directly

or indirectly, in whole or in part, any borrowed money, or T
pre-existing debt, or any liability of his or for him; or if

within six months before the filing the petition by or against ‘
him he shall procure his lands, goods, monies, or chattels, ‘
to be attached, sequestered, or seized on execution; or if

subsequently to the sixth day of July eighteen hundred and

fifty-six he shall have destroyed, altered, mutilated, or falsified, any of his books, documents, papers, writings, or

securities, or have made or been privy to the making of. any

false or fraudulent entry in any book of account or other

document with intent to defraud his creditors; or shall

have removed himself, or removed or caused to be removed

any part of his property from the state, with intent to

defraud his creditors; or shall have made any fraudulent

payment, gift, transfer, conveyance, or assignment, of any

part of his property, or spent any part thereof in gaming;

or if having knowledge that any person has proved a false

debt against his estate, he shall not have disclosed the

same to his assignee within one month after such knowledge ;

or, if being a merchant or tradesman, he shall not subsequently to said date have kept proper books of account.

And the discharge shall be null and void if the debtor or any

person in his behalf shall have procured the assent of any

creditor thereto by any pecuniary consideration.

SECT. 88. If any person in contemplation of becoming
insolvent and of obtaining a discharge in insolvency shall
make any payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance, of any part of his property, directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, for the purpose of preferring any
creditor or person having a claim against him, or who
is or may be under any liability for him, or for the purpose
of preventing the property from coming to the hands of his
assignee in insolvency, or of being distributed under the
laws relating to insolvency in satisfaction of his debts, except
as is provided in section ninety, he shall not be entitled to
a discharge, and any discharge which he may have received
shall be void and of no effect.

PREFERENCE .

SECT. 89. If any person being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency shall within six months before the
filing of the petition by or against him, with a view to give
a preference to any creditor or person having a claim
against him, or who is under any liability for him, procure
any part of his property to be attached, sequestered, or
seized on execution, or make any payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance, of any part of his property,
either directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, the

0 person receiving such payment, pledge, assignment, transfer,
1 or conveyance, or to be benefited thereby, having reasonable
2 cause to believe such person to be insolvent or in contempla3 tion of insolvency, and that such payment, pledge, a.ssignl ment, or conveyance, is made in fraud of the laws relating to
5 insolvency, the same shall be void; and the assignees may
3 recover the property, or the value of it, from the person so
I receiving it or so to be benefited.

l SECT. 90. The provisions of the two preceding sections
3 shall not apply to any payment of money, or transfer of
l property in payment, not exceeding twenty-five dollars in
L amount, upon a debt contracted for necessaries furnished

3 to the debtor or his family.

. SECT. 91. If any person being insolvent or in contemplaI tion of insolvency shall within six months before the filing of
I the petition by or against him make any sale, assignment,
» transfer, or other conveyance of any description, of any part
« of his property, to any person who then has reasonable cause
to believe such person insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, and that such sale, assignment, transfer, or other conveyance, is made with a view to prevent the property from
coming to his assignee in insolvency, or to prevent the same
from being distributed under the laws relating to insolvency,
or to defeat the object of, or in any wayimpair,hinder, impede,
or delay, the operation and effect of, or to evade, any of said
provisions ; the sale, assignment, transfer, or conveyance, shall
be void, and the assignee may recover the property or the
value thereof as assets of ‘the insolvency. And if such sale,

assignment, transfer, or conveyance, is not made in the
usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor, that

fact shall be prima facie evidence of such cause of belief.

-ALLOWANCE AND SURPLUS.

SECT. 92. The debtor shall receive from the assignee one
dollar a day for his attendance on the judge or the assignee
when required under section sixty-six. He shall also be
allowed out of his estate for the necessary support of himself and his family, such sum, not exceeding the rate of
three dollars per week for each member of his family, and
for such time, not exceeding two months, as the judge shall
order. And every debtor who is discharged shall be allowed
five per cent. on the net produce of all his estate received
by the assignee, if such net produce, after such allowance,
shall be sufficient to pay the creditors entitled to a dividend
the amount of fifty per cent. on their debts; but the allowgnple shall not exceed in the whole the sum of five hundred

o ars.

SECT. 93. If an allowance to the debtor on the net produce 3
of ‘his estate shall become due to a debtor, and shall not have
been paid tohim in his lifetime,it shall be paid to his executors
or administrators, and disposed of and distributed in like
manner as any other property of which he may be possessed
at the time of his decease.

SECT. 94. If after the payment of all debts proved any j
surplus shall remain in the hands of the assignee, it shall,
be paid or re-conveyed to, or re-vest in, the debtor or his.‘
legal representatives.

ACCOUNTS AND .DIVIDENDS.

SECT. 95. At the third meeting the assignee shall,
exhibit to the judge and creditors present, fair and just;
accounts of all his receipts and payments touching the:
estate, and shall, if required by the judge, be examined on I
oath as to the truth of such accounts. The judge shall
thereupon order a dividend of the estate and effects, or of
such part thereof as he shall think fit, among such of the
creditors as have proved their claims, in proportion to their
respective debts.

SECT. 96. In the order for a dividend under the preceding section the following claims shall be entitled to
priority or preference, and to be first paid in full in their
order.

First, All debts due to the United States, and all‘ debts
due to and taxes assessed by this state.

Second, Wages due to any operative to an amount not
exceeding fifty dollars for labor performed within one year
next preceding the first publication of the notice of 'insolvency, or for labor for the recovery of payment for which
a suit commenced within one year after the performance
thereof shall be pending, or has terminated within one year
from said first publication: prozgided, that in cases of insolvency pending on the twenty-seventh day of March in the
year eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, wages due to any
operative, only to an amount not exceeding twenty-five dollars for labor by him performed for the debtor within sixtyfive days before his insolvency, shall be so entitled to preference.

Third, All debts due to any persons who by the laws of
the United States, or of this state, are or may be entitled to
a priority or preference in like manner as if this chapter
had not been enacted.

Fourth, Legal fees, costs, and expenses, of suit, and for
the custody of the property proved as preferred under
section one hundred and twenty-seven.

SECT. 97. If at the time of ordering the dividend it shall
appear probable that there are just claims against the estate
which by reason of the distant residence of the creditor or
for other sufficient reason have not been proved, the judge
shall in ordering the dividend leave in the hands of the
assignee a sum suliicient to pay every such absent creditor
a proportion equal to what shall be then paid to the other
creditors, which sum shall remain thus unappropriated in
the hands of the assignee until the final dividend shall’ be
declared, or until the judge shall order its distribution.

SECT. 98. The assignee shall, at such time as shall be
directed by the judge within eighteen months after the
appointment of the assignee, make a second dividend of the
estate, if the same was not wholly distributed upon the first
dividend, and shall give notice of a meeting of all the creditors of the debtor for that purpose. At such meeting the
accounts of the assignee shall be produced and examined as

’ provided in section ninety-five, and settled by the judge ; and

any balance appearing to be in the hands of the assignee, shall,
by order of the judge, be divided among all the creditors who
who shall then have proved their debts, in proportion thereto.

SECT. 99. If at any time before the final dividend there
shall remain in the hands of the assignee any outstanding
debts or other property due or belonging to the estate which
cannot in the opinion of the judge be collected and received
by the assignee without unreasonable or inconvenient delay,
the assignee may, under the direction of the judge, sell and
assign such debts or other property in such manner as the
court shall order.

‘snow. 100. Such second dividend shall be final unless
a suit relating to the estate is then depending or part of the
estate is outstanding, or unless some other estate or effects
of the debtor shall afterwards come to the hands of the
assignee; in which cases another dividend shall be made
by order of the judge. Further dividends shall be made in
like manner as often as occasion shall require.

SECT. 101. No creditor whose debt shall be proved at the
time of the second or any subsequent dividend shall disturb
any prior dividend, but he shall be paid so far only as the
funds remaining unappropriated in the hands of the assignee
shall be suiiicient therefore.

APPLICATIONS BY CREDITORS.

SECT. 102. If any person arrested on mesne process in a
civil action for the sum of one hundred dollars or upwards,

founded upon a demand which is in its nature provable i
against the estate of an insolvent debtor, shall not have j
given bail therein on or before the return day of such pro- g
cess ; 'or shall be actually imprisoned for more than thirty 3
days, in any civil action founded on such contract, for the ;
sum of one hundred dollars or upwards; or if any person ;
whose goods or estate are attached on mesne process in any ;
civil action founded on such contract, for the sum of one 1
hundred dollars or upwards, shall not within seven days i
from the return day of such process have dissolved the J
attachment in the manner provided in chapter one hundred
and twenty-three; or if any person shall have removed himself or any part of his property from the state, with intent
to defraud his creditors ; or shall have concealed himself to
avoid arrest, or any part of his property to prevent its being
attached or taken on a legal process ; or procured himself or
his property to be arrested, attached, or taken, on any legal
process; or made any fraudulent payment, conveyance, or
transfer, of any part of his property ; then any of his creditors whose claims provable against his estate amount to the
sum of one hundred dollars, may, within ninety days thereafter, apply by petition to the judge for the county in which
the debtor resides, or, in case the debtor shall have ceased to
reside in this state within one year next before the commencement of proceedings against him, in the county in
which he last had his residence, setting forth the facts and
the nature of such claims, verified by oath, and praying that
his estate may be seized and distributed according to the
provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 103. The judge, after notice of the petition given
to the debtor by a copy thereof served upon him personally
or left at his last and usual place of abode, and a hearing
before him of the petitioner and debtor, or a default by the
debtor to appear in pursuance of said notice, if the facts
set forth in the petition shall appear to be true, shall forthwith issue his warrant to take possession of the estate of the
debtor. The warrant shall be directed, and the property of
the debtor shall be thereon taken and distributed, in the same
manner and with similar proceedings to those herein provided for the taking possession and distribution of the property of a debtor upon his own petition.

SECT. 104. When a person by accident or mistake has
failed to dissolve an attachment within the time required by
section one hundred and two, he may forthwith apply by
petition to the judge before whom proceedings against him
are pending, for a stay of the proceedings, and after such
notice to the petitioning creditor as the judge shall order, or
without notice if the urgency of the case shall not allow

notice to be given, the proceedings may be staid by an order
of the judge until a hearing; and if upon the hearing he
shall prove to the satisfaction of the judge that he is in fact
solvent, or that for any other cause the proceedings ought
to be staid, the judge shall order the proceedings to be
staid and finally suppressed.

CONCEALMENT or PROPERTY, &c.

Sscr. 105. If a debtor after notice of the filing of a petition by or against him shall secrete or conceal any property
belonging to his estate, or any books, deeds, documents,
or writings, relating thereto, or shall remove or cause to
be removed the same or any part thereof out of the state,
or otherwise dispose of any part thereof, with a view to
prevent it from coming to the possession of the messenger or
assignee, or to hinder, impede, or delay, either of them in
recovering or receiving the same; or shall make any payment, gift, sale, assignment, or conveyance, of any property
belonging to his estate; or shall spend any part thereof
in gaming or otherwise, except such parts as may reasonably
be expended for the support of himself and his family, not
exceeding the amount allowable by law; he shall be punished
by imprisonment in the state prison not exceeding five years,
or in the jail not exceeding two years.

SECT. 106. A judge before whom proceedings are pending.

in relation to the estate of a debtor may, upon the complaint
under oath of any person interested therein, against any one
suspected of having fraudulently received, concealed, embezzled, or conveyed away, any money, goods, elfects, or other
estate, of the debtor, cite the suspected person to appear
before him and be examined on oath upon the matter of
the complaint. If the person cited shall refuse to appear
and submit to such examination or to answer such interrogatories as shall lawfully be propounded to him, the judge
may commit him to the jail of the county, there to remain
in close custody until he submits to the order of the court.
All such interrogatories and answers shall be in writing,
signed by the party examined, and filed in court.

SECT. 107. When complaint is made on oath by the
messenger or assignee to the judge, stating that there is
reason to suspect and believe, and that the complainant
does suspect and believe, that any personal property, or
books, deed, documents, securities, papers, or writings,

‘belonging to the estate of the debtor, are secreted or concealed in any particular house or other place, he shall, if
satisfied that there is reasonable cause for such belief, grant
a warrant to the messenger or assignee to search for such

property, books, deeds, documents, securities, papers, or
writings; and the messenger or assignee may execute the
warrant in the manner, an shall be entitled to the protection, allowed by law in the execution of a search warrant
for property reputed to be stolen and concealed.

PARTNERSHIPS.

SECT. 108. When two or more persons who are partners .
become insolvent, a warrant may be issued as provided in ‘:
this chapter, by the judge in whose county either of the}
partners resides, upon the petition of one or more of the}
partners, (reasonable notice being first given by the judge to 4
the other partners if within the state to show cause why its g
prayer should not be granted,) or upon the petition of any ;
creditor of the partners; upon which warrant all the joint 5
stock and property of the company and the separate estate f
of each of the partners shall be taken, except such parts as 3
may be by law exempt from attachment; and all the credi- ‘
tors of the company, and the separate creditors of each
partner, may prove their respective debts.

SI-JCT. 109. The assignee shall be chosen by the creditors «
of the company; and shall keep separate accounts of thei
joint stock, or property of the company, and of the separate j
estate of each member thereof; and after deducting out of ;
the whole amount received by him the total expenses ’
and disbursements paid, the net proceeds of the joint stock i
shall be appropriated to pay the creditors of the company,
and the net proceeds of the separate estate of each partner
shall be appropriated to pay his separate creditors. If there
is any balance of the separate estate of a partner after the
payment of his separate debts, it shall be added to the joint
stock for the payment of the joint creditors. If there is a
balance of the joint stock after the payment of the joint
debts, it shall be divided and appropriated to and among
the separate estates of the several partners according to
their respective rights and interests therein, and as it would
have been if the partnership had been dissolved without
insolvency; and the sum so appropriated to the separate
estate of each partner shall be applied to the payment of his
separate debts.

SECT. 110. The provisions of the two preceding sections .
shall apply to limited partnerships formed under chapter:
fifty-five, or under chapter thirty-four of the Revised Statutes, when such partnerships become insolvent; but the
separate estates and separate debts of the special partners
shall not be subject to the proceedings against the partnership.

SECT. 111. In all proceedings against partners each shall
be entitled to allowance as herein before provided for the
maintenance of himself and his family ; and the allowance on
the net produce of the estates as provided in section ninetytwo, shall be computed on the joint estate, and also on each of
the separate estates, as if there had been a separate warrant
against each ; but neither of the partners shall receive in
the whole more than five hundred dollars.

SECT. 112. The certificate of discharge shall be granted
or refused to each partner as it would or ought to be if the
proceedings had been against him alone. In all other
respects the proceedings against partners shall be conducted
in the same manner as against a single person.

INSOLVENT CORPORATIONS.

SECT. 113. Any corporation created by authority of this
state, except railroad and banking corporations, may apply
by petition signed by an officer duly authorized by a vote of
a majority of the corporators present and voting at a legal
meeting called for the purpose, to the judge for the county
where the corporation has its principal place of business,
setting forth its inability to pay its debts and its willingness
to assign all its estate and effects for the benefit of its creditors, and praying that such proceedings_may be had in the
premises as are hereinafter provided. The judge shall
thereupon forthwith issue a warrant, as in the case of an
application by a debtor under section eighteen, but requiring
the notice given by the messenger to state further that the
making of any contract by the corporation is forbidden by
law.

‘ SECT. 114. Thereupon like proceedings shall be had,
with like powers, duties, and privileges, of the judge, register, messenger, assignee, and creditors, as are herein before
provided upon the petition of a debtor, except as hereinafter
mentioned.

SECT. 115. Claims on account of bills of exchange-,
indorsements, monies due on bottomry or respondentia
bonds, paid upon indorsements, or as surety, may be proved
against an insolvent corporation before the making of the
last dividend, in like manner as against the estate of an
insolvent debtor before the making of the first dividend.

SECT. 116. The schedules to be furnished shall be prepared and furnished by the treasurer or other financial
officer of the corporation, with such assistance as he shall
require from the other oiiicers; and all the provisions of this

chapter which apply to the debtor or set forth his duties in
regard to executing papers, submitting to examinations,
disclosing, making over, secreting, concealing, conveying,
assigning, or paying away, his money or property, shall in
like manner, and with like force, effect, and penalties, apply
to each and every officer of the corporation, in relation to
the same matters concerning the corporation, and the money
and property thereof. And said officers shall at the second

meeting severally make and subscribe an oath in substance
as follows :—

I, , (president, &c., or treasurer, &c.,) do swear that I verily
believe the account of the creditors of the corporation, contained in
the schedule signed by A. B., and now in the hands of the assignee
chosen by the creditors of such corporation,is in all respects just and true;
that I do verily believe that all the property and estate of said corporation, and all its books of account and papers, have been delivered to
the messenger or the assignee; and that if any goods or estate not so
delivered shall hereafter come to my knowledge, I will faithfully and diligently apprise the assi nee thereof. And I do further swear that
to the best and utmost o my knowledge, information, and belief, there is
no part of the estate or effects of said corporation made over or disposed
of in any manner in fraud of the laws relating to insolvency or of the
creditors of said corporation.

SECT. 117. In the case of a turnpike, canal, bridge, or
other corporation authorized by law to take toll, the assignment to the assignee shall be deemed to empower him to
sell and convey the franchise of the corporation, and any
and all property and rights connected with the exercise
thereof, to such persons as may become the purchasers of
the same; and by virtue of such sale and conveyance such
purchasers and their associates shall be deemed to be so far
the owners of all such franchises, that they may have such
corporation organized anew by themselves as its sole members, in the manner provided in section three of chapter
sixty-eight, and the provisions of law applicable to such corporation. When the corporation shall have been thus
organized anew, it shall be deemed to be lawfully possessed,
as of its own property, of all the franchises to such corporation previously granted, and of all the property and rights so
sold and conveyed with such franchises; and such purchasers, their associates, successors, and assigns, shall be
deemed to be the only members of the corporation. When
such corporation shall be so organized anew, it shall not be
liableto any suit at law or in equity, founded on any contract ( erformable within this state or made with any citizen
thereo ,) which existed prior to such organization, nor for
any claim provable under this chapter.

S1-:c'r.« 118. When an assignee proceeds to sell the franchises of a corporation under the preceding section, he shall,
if the judge has so ordered, expose the property, estate, or

assets, of the corporation, for sale in shares, in number
equal to the whole number of shares of the capital stock of
the corporation, and such shares may thereupon be sold

separately, and the purchasers thereof may organize anew‘

in the manner therein before provided.

SECT. 119. All claims against any turnpike, canal, or
other corporation authorized to take land or materials, for
damages for taking land or materials, or laying out such
road, canal, or turnpike, shall be deemed to be preferred
debts, next after debts due to the United States and to the
commonwealth.

SECT. 120. All payments, conveyances, and assignments,
made fraudulent and void by sections eighty-nine and ninetyone, when made by a debtor, shall in like manner, to the
like extent, and with like remedies, be fraudulent and void
when made by a corporation which is subject to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 121. An allowance or discharge shall not be

be granted to any corporation, or to any person as officer or
member thereof.

SECT. 122. If a corporation whose goods or estate are
attached on mesne process in any civil action founded on
a contract for the sum of one hundred dollars or_upwards,
which is in its nature provable under this chapter, shall not
within fourteen days from the return day of the writ, if the
term of the court to which the process is returnable shall so
long continue, or on or before the last day of the term if the
same shall sooner end, dissolve the attachment in the manner
provided in chapter one hundred and twenty-three; or if a
corporation shall make any fraudulent payment, conveyance, or transfer, of its property or any part thereof ; then
any of its creditors whose claims provable against its estate
under this chapter amount to the sum of one hundred
dollars, may apply by petition, stating the facts and the
nature of said claim or claims, verified by oath, to the judge
in the county in which the corporation is established, praying that its estate may be seized and distributed according
to law; and thereupon, after notice of the presentment of
the petition given to the corporation by a copy thereof served
on its president, treasurer, or clerk, thirty days at least
before the return day of the notice, and a hearing of the
petitioners and corporation, or after default of the corporation to appear at the time and place in the notice appointed,
if the facts set forth in the petition shall appear to be true,
the judge shall forthwith issue his warrant to take possession
of the estate of the corporation; and such further proceedings shall be had thereon as upon a warrant issuing upon
the petition of a corporation under section one hundred and
thirteen.

SECT. 123. If amortgage shall be foreclosed pending proceedings under the ten preceding sections and before the
appointment of an assignee, the assignee when appointed
shall have the right to redeem the same at any time within
sixty days after his appointment, with similar remedies to
those provided by law for the redemption of mortgages
before foreclosure.

SECT. 124. Nothing in the preceding sections shall be
deemed to give validity to or affect any mortgage made by a
corporation for any purpose whatever.

FEES AND COSTS.

Sncr. 125. In each case there shall be allowed and paid
the following fees, and none other, viz. :—

Fo_r issuing the warrant, five dollars:

For each day on which a meeting is held, seven dollars:

For each order for a dividend, five dollars:

Such fees shall have priority of payment over all other
claims out of the estate, and before a warrant shall issue the
petitioner shall deposit with the register, or with the judge
to be delivered to the register, forty dollars, as security for
the payment thereof; and if there are not sufficient assets
for the payment of the fees, the person upon whose petition
the warrant is issued shall pay the same, and the court
may issue an execution against him to compel payment to
the register.

SECT. 126. The register shall receive all fees, and account

for and pay over the same to the treasurer of the common- 

wealth quarter-yearly, on the first Mondays of January,
April, July, and October.

SE01‘. 127. When an attachment on mesne process has A
been made, if the claim upon which the suit was commenced 3
is proved against the estate of the debtor, the plaintifff may ;
also prove the legal fees, costs, and expenses, of the suit and ;
of the custody of the property, and the amount thereof shall 3

be considered a privileged debt.

SECT. 128. In all matters of insolvency contested before :
a court of insolvency or in the supreme judicial court, said 1

courts may in their discretion award costs to either party to
be paid by the other, or to either or both parties to be paid
out of the estate which is the subject in controversy, as
justice and equity may require.

SECT. 129. When costs are awarded to be paid by one

party to the other, said courts respectively may issue execution therefore.

VACATING PROCEEDINGS.

SECT. 130. When a creditor who has proved his debt
shall petition the judge to vacate the proceedings in a case,
the judge may order the proceedings to be staid, and after
due notice to all persons interested in the estate and a hearing of the matter, if no objection is made by the debtor or

any such creditor, pass an order vacating all proceedings
therein. '

RETURNS.

SECT. 131. Each judge shall on or before the tenth day
of each month make a return. to the secretary of the commonwealth of the name, residence, and occupation, of each
person by or against whom as an insolvent debtor, and of
the name of each corporation, the kind of business for
which it was created, the place or places where its business
was principally done, by or against which as an insolvent
corporation, a petition has been filed in his court during the
next preceding month, with the dates of such petitions.
The secretary shall enter such returns, conveniently for

reference, in a book which shall be open to the inspection
of the public.

cases BEFORE COMMISSIONERS, &c.

SECT. 132. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the jurisdiction of a commissioner of insolvency or master in chancery in any case pending before him at the time of its
enactment; but such jurisdiction shall continue in full
with the same fees of such commissioners, masters, and
their clerks, as heretofore established.

SECT. 133. If a commissioner of insolvency or master in
chancery before whom proceedings upon any case in insolvency mentioned in the preceding section are pending,
shall die, be removed from the charge of the case, or for
any cause be unable to perform the duties required of him,
the case and all papers connected. therewith shall be transferred to the court of insolvency for the county in which
the case is pending. The court shall thereupon have
jurisdiction of the case and proceed therein as if it had
been originally commenced in said court.

I

SECT. 134. When a case is transferred to the court of
insolvency under the preceding section, the judge and
register shall be allowed in addition to their established salaJUDGW.

SECTION 1. The judges of probate and insolvency shall
continue to hold their offices according to the tenor of their
commissions, and as vacancies occur they shall be filled in
the manner provided by the constitution, so that there shall
be one judge in each county.

SE01‘. 2. Each judge before entering upon the duties of
his office, in addition to the oaths prescribed by the constitution, shall take and subscribe an oath that he will faithfully
discharge said duties, and that he will not during his continuance in oiiice directly or indirectly be interested in or
benefited by the fees or emoluments arising from any suit
or matter pending in either of the courts of which he is
judge ; which oath shall be filed in the probate office.

Sncr. 3. No judge shall be retained or employed as
counsel or attorney, either in or out of court, in any suit
or matter which may depend on or in any way relate to a
sentence, decision, warrant, order, or decree, made or passed
by him; nor for or against an executor, administrator, or
guardian, appointed within his jurisdiction, in a suit brought
by or against the executor, administrator, or guardian, as
such; nor in a suit relating to the official conduct of such
party; nor for or against a debtor, creditor, or assignee, in
a cause or matter arising out of or connected with any

proceedings before him ; nor in an appeal in such cause or
matter.

REGISTERS.

SECT. 4. Every register of probate and insolvency before
entering upon the duties of his office, in addition to the
oaths prescribed by the constitution, shall take and subscribe
an oath that he will faithfully discharge said duties, and
that he will not during his continuance in office directly or
indirectly be interested in or benefited by the fees or
emoluments arising from any suit or matter pending in
either of the courts of which he is register; which oath
shall be filed in the probate oilice.

SE01‘. 5. He shall give bond with condition that he
will faithfully discharge the duties of his oftice, to the
treasurer of the commonwealth in a sum not less than one
thousand and not exceeding ten thousand dollars, as shall

be ordered by the judge, with one or more sureties approved
by him. ‘

SECT. 6. No register shall be of counsel or attorney
either in or out of court, in any suit or matter pending in

either of the courts of which he is register; nor in an appeal %
therefrom; nor shall he be executor, administrator, guardian, :
commissioner, appraiser, divider, or assignee, of or upon
an estate within the jurisdiction of either of the courts of
which he is register; nor be interested in the fees or emoluments arising from either of said trusts.

SE01‘. 7. The register shall have the care and custody of ;
all books, documents, and papers, appertaining to the courts j
of which he is register, or deposited with the records of
insolvency or filed in the probate office; and shall carefully ‘
preserve the same to be delivered to his successor. He shall i
perform such other duties appertaining to his office as may
be required by law or prescribed by the judge.

SE01‘. 8. The judges for the counties of Suffolk, Middlesex, Worcester, Essex, and Norfolk, may each appoint an
assistant register of ' probate and insolvency for his county,
who shall hold his office for three years unless sooner
removed by the judge. Before entering upon the discharge
of his duties the assistant register shall take the oaths prescribed by the constitution, and shall give bond with condition for the faithful performance of the duties of his office,
to the treasurer of the commonwealth in a sum not less
than five hundred nor more than five thousand dollars as

shall be ordered by the judge, with one or more sureties
approved by him.

SE01‘. 9. The assistant register shall perform his duties
under the direction of the register, and shall pay over to
him all fees and sums received as his assistant, to be
accounted for as required by law. He may authenticate
papers and perform such other duties as shall not be performed by the register. In case of the absence, neglect,
removal, resignation, or death, of the register, the assistant
may complete and attest any records remaining unfinished
and act as register until _a new register is qualified.

SECT. 10. If a vacancy shall occur in the office of register, the governor with the advice and consent of the council
may appoint some person to fill the odice until another is
elected as provided in chapter ten.

SECT. 11. Upon the death, resignation, removal, or
absence, of the register, if there is no assistant register
or if he is also absent, the judge shall appoint a suitable
person to act as temporary register until a register is
appointed or elected and qualified, or until the disability is
removed.

SECT. 12. Such temporary register shall be sworn before

i the judge, and a certificate thereof, with his appointment,

shall be recorded with the proceedings of each court in which
he acts.

SALARIES AND FEES.

SECT. 13. Judges, registers, and assistant registers, shall
receive from the treasury of the commonwealth annual salaries as follows :—

For the county of Suffolk, the judge and register each
three thousand, and the assistant register lifteen hundred
dollars:

For the county of Middlesex, the judge two thousand,
the register fifteen hundred, and the assistant register one
thousand dollars: .

For the county of Worcester, the judge eighteen hundred,
the register fifteen hundred, and the assistant register one
thousand dollars: ‘

For the county of Essex, the judge and register each
fifteen hundred, and the assistant register eight hundred
dollars:

For the county of Norfolk, the judge fourteen hundred,
the register one thousand, and the assistant register six
hundred dollars:

For the county of Bristol, the judge eleven hundred,
and the register thirteen hundred dollars:

For the county of Plymouth, the judge and register each
one thousand dollars:

For the county of Berkshire, the judge and register each
eight hundred dollars: For the county of Hampden, the judge and register each
eight hundred dollars:

For the county of Barnstable, the judge and register each
seven hundred dollars:

For the county of Hampshire, the judge six hundred and
fifty, and the register seven hundred and fifty dollars:

For the county of Franklin, the judge six hundred, and
the register seven hundred dollars:

For the county of Nantucket, the judge and register each
three hundred dollars:

For the county of Dukes county, the judge two hundred
gndl fifty, and the register two hundred and seventy-five

ol ars.

SECT. 14. When a temporary register is appointed, he
shall be entitled to the same compensation as the register,
and shall be paid by him if the appointment is caused by his
absence. If caused by the death, removal, or resignation,
of the register, he shall receive from the treasury of the
commonwealth the salary of the register.

after judgment against them, and also against the bail taken t
in a civil action before them, and proceed therein to judg-':
ment and execution in the same manner as the court of
common pleas might do in like cases.

SE01‘. 4. Such writs shall be served not less than seven ‘
nor more than sixty days before the time when they are?
returnable, and may run into any county in which the‘
defendant may be found.

SE01‘. 5. It shall be no bar to such suit that the debt;
and costs on the original judgment together exceed the
sum of one hundred dollars; but judgment and execution
may be awarded by the justice for the whole sum due to
the plaintiff with the costs of the new suit.

SECT. 6. The original writ in all civil actions commenced before a justice of the peace, shall be a summons
or a capias and attachment, and shall be signed by the
justice. The forms of such writs shall be regulated as is
provided in chapter one hundred and twenty-three; but no
writ issued by a justice of the peace shall run into any other
county than that in which it is returnable, except as provided
in the following section and section of chapter one
hundred and forty-two.

SE01‘. 7. Writs issued by justices of the peace may be
directed to the proper officers in any county for the purpose
of causing an attachment of property therein; but no more
than one dollar and fifty cents shall be chargeable to or
taxed against the defendant for the service of such writ.

SECT. 8. When an attachment is made upon a writ
returnable before a justice of the peace, and the defendant
is out of the state so that no service can be made on him,
and he has no agent or attorney residing within the state,
the justice may order the action to be continued until notice
thereof is given to the defendant in such manner as the
justice shall order. Upon proof of such notice having been
given, if the defendant fails to appear on the return day of
such notice, judgment may be entered and execution issued
for the plaintifff, upon his giving bond to the defendant with
sudicient surety for double the sum for which execution is
to be issued, to repay the amount recovered if within one

i year from the rendition of the judgment it shall be reversed.

SECT. 9. Actions before justices of the peace may be
heard and determined at their dwelling-houses or any other
convenient and suitable places; and writs and processes

may be made returnable accordingly, but not earlier than
nine o’clock in the forenoon nor later than five o’clock in
the afternoon.

SE01‘. 10. If ajustice fails to attend at the time and
place to which a civil process is returnable or continued
before him, any other justice for the same county may
attend and continue the process, not exceeding thirty days,
without costs and saving the rights of all parties; and he
shall make a certificate thereof, which shall be filed with the
papers in the case and entered upon the record by the
justice before whom the process was returnable.

SECT. 11. If any person duly served with process fails to
appear and answer thereto, his default shall be recorded and
the charge against him in the declaration taken to be true.
Upon such default, or when the plaintifff maintains his
action upon a trial, the justice shall award and enter judgment for such sum, not exceeding the amount of his jurisdiction in the case, as he shall upon inquiry find the plaintifff
is entitled to recover, with costs.

SECT. 12. If the plaintifff fails to enter and prosecute
his action, or if upon a trial he shall not maintain the
same, the defendant shall recover judgment for his costs, to
be taxed by the justice.

SECT. 13. When it appears by the pleadings or otherwise, in an action pending before ajustice of the peace, that
the title to real estate is concerned or brought in question,
the fact if it does not appearby the pleadings, shall be stated
on the record, and the case shall at the request of either
party be removed to the court of common pleas, or in the
county of Suffolk to the superior court, to be there tried and
determined in like manner as if it had been originally
commenced in that court. '

SE01‘. 14. The party requiring the case to be removed
shall recognize to the other party in a reasonable sum‘ with
sufficient surety or sureties, with condition to enter the
action at the court of common pleas or superior court next
to be held in the county ; and if he shall fail so to recognize,
the justice shall hear and determine the case as if there
had been no request to remove it.

SECT. 15. The party recognizing shall produce at the
court a copy of the record and all. such papers as are
required to be produced by an appellant, and if he fails
so to do, or so to enter the action, he shall upon the complaint of the adverse party be there defaulted or nonsuited

as the case may be, and such judgment shall be thereupon’
rendered as law and justice may require.

SI-JCT. 16. In civil actions the trial may be had at the
election of the defendant, either upon pleadings in writing
as heretofore used, or the defendant without filing any
written plea may orally deny the plaintiE"s right to maintain
his action; in which case an entry shall be made on the
record that the defendant appears and denies the plaintiE"s
right to maintain his action and puts himself on trial, or in
words to that effect. Upon the issue so joined a trial may
be had, and any matter may be given in evidence by either
party which would have been admissible if the defense had
been made under any plea in bar.

SECT. 17. Either party to a civil action before a justice
of the peace where the debt or damage exceeds twenty
dollars, and in actions of replevin where the value of the
property alleged to be detained does not exceed one hundred dollars, may on the return day of the writ, upon all
parties filing a written waiver of all right of appeal, demand
a trial by jury, which shall be granted; and there shall be
no right of appeal from the judgment of the justice upon
the verdict of the jury.

SECT. 18. Upon granting such trial the justice shall

issue a writ of venire facias directed to the sheri3' of the.

county or either of his deputies, or a constable of the city
or town where the court is held, requiring the attendance
of six jurors from such city or town at the time and place
stated in the warrant, but not more than twenty-one days
from its date. The same proceedings shall be had in drawing and summoning such jurors as in other cases, except
that it shall be sufficient to summon them two days before
the trial. The jury so summoned may try any number of
cases before the justice, but shall not be detained more than
fourteen days except to finish a case commenced within
that time. Judgment shall be entered according to the
verdict of the jury.

SECT. 19. The jury shall consist of six persons, who
shall be sworn and empaneled by the justice.

SECT. 20. They shall choose a foreman by ballot, and the
trial shall be conducted before the justice in the same
manner as nearly as may be as jury trials before the supreme
judicial court.

SECT. 21. A sheriff' or constable shall attend such trials
and attend on the jury when they retire to make up their

verdict. His fees shall be one dollar a day for attendance,
and such other sum as he may have to pay, not exceeding
two dollars a day, for the use of rooms in which to hold the
court, to be allowed by the justice.

SECT. 22. The fees of the jurors and of the officer who
summons the jury and attends on the court, including the
charge for rooms, shall be certified by the justice or his
clerk, and paid by the county treasurer.

SECT. 23. When by reason of challenge or otherwise a
suliicient number of jurors duly drawn and summoned
cannot be obtained for the trial of a cause, the justice shall
cause jurors to complete the panel to be returned by the
sheriff or constable from the by-standers of the city or town.

SECT. 24. The provision of chapter one hundred and
thirty-two so far as applicable, shall extend to jurors and
trials before justices of the peace.

SECT. 25. A party aggrieved by the judgment of a
justice of the peace in a civil action, except upon the
verdict of a jury, may within twenty-four hours after the
entry of the judgment appeal therefrom to the court of common pleas, or in the county of Suffolk to the superior court,
then next to be held in the county ; in which case no execution shall issue on the judgment appealed from, and the
case shall be entered, tried, and determined, in the court

appealed to, in like manner as if it had been originally
commenced there.

SECT. 26. The appellant shall before the allowance of
his appeal recognize with sufficient surety or sureties to the
adverse party, if required by him, in a reasonable sum with
condition to prosecute his appeal with effect, and to pay all
such costs as may arise after the appeal.

SECT. 27. The appellant shall produce at the court
appealed to a copy of tlie record, and of all the papers filed
in the case, except that when depositions or other written
evidence or documents are so filed the originals shall be
produced in the court appealed to instead of copies; and
if the appellant fails to produce such copies or papers, or
to enter and prosecute his appeal, the court may on the
complaint of the adverse party affirm the former judgment
or render such other judgment as law and justice may
require. ,

Sncr. 28. Any case so appealed may be tried at the
court appealed to upon the issue joined before the justice,

or the court may order the defendant to plead in the usual
manner, and the case shall then be tried upon such issue as
shall be joined therein.

SECT. 29. When a justice of the peace shall die whilst a

judgment rendered by him remains unsatisfied, any other‘

justice in the same county may upon the application of the
creditor cause the record of the judgment to be_ brought
before him, a-nd shall thereupon transcribe the same upon
his own book of records and deliver the original to the

person who produced it, noting on the original that he has
so transcribed it.

SECT. 30. The justice applied to in such case shall when
necessary issue a summons to the executor or administrator
of the deceased justice, or to any other person who is supposed to have the custody of the records, requiring him to
produce the same or to submit to an examination on oath
as to the place where they may be found; and the justice
may commit such person as for contempt until he shall
submit to such examination if required,'and produce the
record if within his custody or control.

SECT. 31. After the record has been so transcribed by
the justice, he may issue execution on the judgment as if it
had been rendered by himself, changing the form as the
circumstances shall require; and any copy of the record
certified by him shall have the same effect as an authenticated copy of the original.

JURISDICTION, &C. IN CRIMINAL MATTERS.

SECT. 32. Justices of the peace may as conservators
of the peace, upon view of any aE'ray, riot, assault, or
battery, within their respective counties, without any warrant in writing, command the assistance of every sheriff,
deputy-sheriff, and constable, and of all other persons present, for suppressing the same, and for arresting all who
are concerned therein as provided'in chapters ; and they
may issue warrants against persons charged with criminal
offenses. Persons so arrested shall be brought, and warrants so issued shall be returnable, before some police court
or justice designated to try criminal cases for examination,
and no fees shall be allowed to the justice issuing such
warrants.

TRIAL JUs'r1cns'.

SE01‘. 33. The justices of the peace designated and commissioned under chapter one hundred and thirty-eight of
of the statutes of eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, shall

: continue to hold their offices and powers according to the
tenor of their several commissions; and the governor with
the advice and consent of the council shall from time to
time designate and commission a suitable number of justices
of the peace in the several counties to try criminal cases.

SECT. 34. The number of justices thus designated and
commissioned shall at no one time exceed,

For the county of Barnstable, nine:

For the county of Berkshire, nine:

For the county of Bristol, thirteen:

For the county of Dukes county, two:

For the county of Essex, nineteen:

For the county of Franklin, eight:

For the county of Hampden, eight:

For the county of Hampshire, eight:

For the county of Middlesex, thirty:

For the county of Nantucket, two:

For the county of Norfolk, seventeen:

For the county of Plymouth, fifteen:

For the county of Suffolk, one:

For the county of Worcester, twenty-six:

and shall be distributed, as nearly as may be, as the convenience of the several counties may require.

SECT. 35. If any such justice after having been so designated and commissioned shall change his domicil, his
authority and jurisdiction in the trial and examination of
criminal cases shall thereupon cease, and some other justice
of the peace may be designated and commissioned in his
place.

SECT. 36. Justices of the peace so designated and commissioned shall have and exercise within their respective
counties, all the powers, authority, and jurisdiction,in criminal cases hereinafter set forth; and when any criminal
jurisdiction is given to justices of the peace it shall be construed to mean justices commissioned to try criminal cases;
and justices of the peace not so commissioned shall have no
power, authority, or jurisdiction, in criminal cases, except
as conservators of the peace and to receive complaints and
issue warrants.

SECT. 37. Justices of the peace so designated and'commissioned shall have jurisdiction of all offenses which may
be subject to the penalties of either aline not exceeding fifty
dollars, or imprisonment in the jail or house of correction
not exceeding six months, or both of said penalties.

SECT. 38. They may punish by fine not exceeding ten
dollars, or imprisonment in the jail or house of correction

not exceeding ninety days, all assaults and batteries, and
other breaches of the peace, when the offense is not of a
high and aggravated nature, and cause to be stayed and
arrested all aH'rayers, rioters, disturbers and breakers of the
peace, and all who go armed offensively to the terror of the
people, and such as utter menaces or threatening speeches,
or are otherwise dangerous and disorderly persons.

SECT. 39. Persons arrested for any of said offenses,
shall be examined by the justice, before whom they are
brought, and may be tried before him, and if found guilty,
may be required to find sureties of the peace, and be punished by fine as before provided; or, when the offense is of a
high and aggravated nature, they may be committed or bound
over for trial before the court of common pleas, or municipal
court of the city of Boston, as is provided in chapters

SECT. 40. They shall have jurisdiction of offenses against
city and town orders and by-laws; of offenses mentioned in
section of chapter eighty-six; of offenses for keeping
billiard tables or bowling alleys contrary to the provisions
of section sixty-one of chapter eighty-eight ; of violations
of the laws relating to the public health; and of offenses
against property in cemeteries ; but no single penalty imposed
for the last named offenses shall exceed fifty dollars.

SE01‘. 41. They shall have jurisdiction concurrent with
the court of common pleas, and in the county of Suffolk
with the municipal court of the city of Boston,

First-—Of larcenies mentioned in section of
chapter , when the money or other property stolen
shall not be alleged to exceed the value of fifteen dollars,
and o_f all other larcenies when the value of the property
stolen is not alleged to exceed the value of five dollars:

Second—Of offenses of buying, receiving, or aiding in
the concealment of, stolen goods or other property, where
they would have jurisdiction of a larceny of the same goods
or property:

Third—Of offenses of obtaining property by any false
pretense, or by any privy or false token; or by the game of
tlzree-card monte, or any other game, device, sleight of
hand, pretensions to fortune-telling, trick, or other means,
by the use of cards or other implements or instruments,
where they would have jurisdiction of a larceny of the same
property. In all which cases the punishment for a first
offense shall be by a fine not exceeding fifteen dollars or

imprisonment in the jail not more than six months; and;
upon a second conviction of the like offense, committed

after a former conviction before a police court or a justice
of the peace, the punishment shall be by line not exceeding

twenty dollars or imprisonment in the jail not more than
one year: provided, that if the party convicted of buying,
receiving, or aiding in the concealment of, such stolen
goods or property, shall make satisfaction to the person
injured to the full value of the property stolen and not

restored, the punishment of the offense may be mitigated as
justice may require.

SECT. 42. They shall have jurisdiction concurrent with
the court of common pleas or municipal court of all the
offenses mentioned in section of chapter when
the value of the trees, fruit, grain, or other property,
injured, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or the injury
occasioned by the trespass, shall not be alleged to exceed
the sum of fifteen dollars; and in any such case the punishment shall be by imprisonment in the county jail not
more than thirty days or fine not exceeding fifteen dollars.

SECT. 43. They may in their discretion take jurisdiction
and punish by fine not exceeding twenty dollars, or imprisonment in the jail or house of correction not exceeding
one year, larcenies from a building under section

of chapter , where the money or property stolen shall
not exceed in value ten dollars. *

SECT. 44. They shall cause to be arrested all persons
found within their counties charged with any offenses, and
persons who after committing any offense within the county
shall escape out of the same; examine into treasons, felonies,
high crimes, and misdemeanors; and commit or bind over
for trial those who appear to be guilty of crimes or offenses
not within their jurisdiction, and punish those guilty of
such offenses within their jurisdiction. SECT. 45. Every person convicted before a justice of the
peace of any offense whatever, except militia fines exceeding ten dollars exclusive of costs, may in the county of
Suffolk appeal from such sentence to the municipal court
then next to be held in the city of Boston, and in any other
county to the term of the court of common pleas then next

to be held in the same county for criminal business, as
provided in chapter

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SECT. 46. Justices of the peace may issue all writs,
warrants, and processes, necessary or proper to carry into
effect the powers granted to them ;‘ and when no form is prescribed therefore by statute, they shall frame one in conformity

with the principles of law and the usual course of proceedings
in the courts of this state.

SECT. 47. They may grant summons for witnesses in all ;
criminal cases pending before any court whatever, when .
requested by the attorney-general or other person acting in I
the case in behalf of the state, and also when requested by
the party who is prosecuted: provided, that in the latter
case it shall be expressed in the summons that it is granted
at the request of the party prosecuted, and the witness shall

not be required to attend unless upon payment or tender of
his legal fees.

Snow. 48. They may administer oaths or affirmations in ;
all cases in which an oath may be required, unless a 1
different provision is expressly made by law. ‘

SECT. 49. They may punish such disorderly conduct as ;
shall.interrupt any judicial proceedings before them, or be a 5
contempt of their authority or person, by fine not exceeding g
ten dollars, or by imprisonment in the common jail of the
county, not exceeding fifteen days.

SECT. 50. They shall keep a record of all their judicial ‘
proceedings, both in civil and criminal cases.

SECT. 51. They may adjourn their courts in all cases,
civil or criminal, on trial before them, to any other time or
place as occasion shall require.

SECT. 52. They shall not commence or be concerned in
the institution of civil actions returnable before themselves.

SECT. 53. They shall not be retained or employed as
counsel or attorney before any court, upon appeal or otherwise, in any suit or action which shall have been previously
determined before themselves; nor shall they try any civil
action commenced by themselves or by their order or direction; and every civil action so commenced shall be dismissed with costs for the defendant.

Ssor. 54. When the commission of a justice of the
peace expires whilst a judgment rendered by him remains
unsatisfied, he shall nevertheless be authorized to issue

execution thereon with the same effect as if his commission
had continued in force.

SECT. 55. When a justice of the peace shall be commissioned and qualified anew at or before the expiration of
his former commission, his authority shall be considered as
having continued without interruption; and all business
commenced by or before him under the former commission

may be prosecuted and completed in the same manner as if
that commission had continued in force.

Sscr. 56. They shall twice in every year account with
the treasurers of their respective counties and towns, for
all fines, forfeitures, and costs, received upon convictions
or other proceedings before them, and shall pay over to
said treasurers respectively all monies due and payable to
them on such account.

SECT. 57. Justices of the peace who shall receive from
any county treasurer the fees of sheriff's, deputy-sheriff's,
constables, or witnesses, in criminal cases, shall annually on
the first Monday of January return to the county treasurer
of their respective counties all such fees, with a schedule
thereof, as shall not have been paid out by them within
three years from the time of the taxing or allowance thereof
to the persons to whom they belong.

SECT. 58. Justices of the peace before whom criminal
causes have been commenced or examined previously to the
first day of October in any year, shall on or before the
fifteenth day of said month return to the secretary of the
commonwealth, under oath, a true statement of all such
causes, setting forth therein the date of such examinations,
the names of the parties prosecuted, the crimes, offenses, or
misdemeanors, for which the prosecutions were had, the
results thereof, the judgment of the court thereon, the
amount of the bill of costs in each case, and how the same
was paid.

S1-:01‘. 59.‘ Any officer neglecting to make the returns

required of him by the preceding section, shall forfeit two
hundred dollars.

SECT. 60. The secretary of the commonwealth shall annually in September furnish to justices designated to try
criminal cases, and police courts, blank forms for returns
under the two preceding sections, with said sections printed
thereon. Upon the receipt of such returns the secretary
shall transmit the same to the auditor, who shall examine
and report upon them to the general court.

SECT. 61. Nothing in this chapter shall control the regulations concerning any police or justices court whereby a
different provision is made for the exercise of any of the
powers of justices of the peace.

Sncr. 2. If a vacancy occurs in the office of clerk of the
courts in any county, or of the clerk of the supreme judicial
court in the county of Suffolk, the justices of said court
or a majority of them may appoint a clerk who shall hold
the office until the next annual election, or until another is
elected or. appointed in his stead. Upon a vacancy in the
office of clerk of the superior court of the county of Suffolk
or of the municipal court of the city of Boston, the justices
of the superior court shall in like manner appoint a clerk
for a similar term. '

S1-:c'r. 3. The assistant clerks of the courts in the counties of Middlesex and Worcester, of the supreme judicial
court in the county of Suffolk, and of the superior court of
the county of Suffolk, now in office, shall continue to hold
their offices according to the tenor of their respective
appointments. As vacancies occur the justices of the
supreme judicial court or a majority of them shall appoint
an assistant clerk of said court for the county of Suffolk
who shall hold his office for the term of three years, subject
to be sooner removed by the court ; and assistant clerks for
the counties of Middlesex and Worcester respectively, who
shall hold their offices for the term of two years subject to
removal. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
assistant clerk of the superior court the justices of said
court shall in like manner appoint an assistant clerk.

SECT. 4. When by reason of sickness or other cause the
clerk of the courts in any county or of the supreme judicial
court in Suffolk shall be unable to discharge the duties of
his office, if there is no assistant clerk or if he is also unable,
the justices of the supreme judicial court or a majority of
them may appoint a clerk pro tempore who shall perform
the duties of the office until the clerk or assistant clerk shall
resume his duties. The justices of the superior court of
the county of Suffolk may in like manner appoint a clerk
pro tempore when the clerk and assistant clerk of that court
or the clerk of the municipal court cannot perform the
duties of the office. When after any such temporary
appointment the clerk or assistant clerk resumes his duties,
he shall make a record of that fact, with the date, under
his signature, in the then latest book of records in each of
the courts.

SECT. 5. When at a term of any court the clerk, and if
there be one the assistant clerk, shall not be present, the
court may appoint a clerk pro tempore who shall perform
the duties of the office during the term or until the clerk or
assistant clerk resumes his duties; unless an appointment
under some one of the preceding sections or an election
pursuant to law is sooner made.

SECT. 6. The several clerks of the courts, assistant clerks,
and clerks pro tempore, shall be sworn before some justice of
the courts of which they are clerks.

SE01‘. 7. The clerks of the courts in the several counties,
the clerk and assistant clerk of the supreme judicial court
in the county of Suffolk, the assistant clerks in the counties
of Middlesex and Worcester, and the clerks pro tempore
appointed by the supreme judicial court under section four,
before entering upon the duties of their offices shall severally
give bond with sufficient surety or sureties to the treasurer
of the county in a sum not less than five hundred nor more
than two thousand dollars, to be determined by the court,
with a condition for the faithful performance of the duties

of their respective offices; which bonds shall be approved
by said court.

SE01‘. 8. The clerks shall attend all the courts of which
they are clerks when held in their respective counties, and
the sessions of the county commissioners, and record their
proceedings; and shall have the care and custody of all the
records, books, and papers, appertaining to and filed or
deposited in their respective offices.

SECT. 9. In suits in equity the clerks shall record at
large such part only of the proceedings as shall be directed
by the court, which direction may be given by general rules
or special order in any particular case.

SECT. 10. They shall keep in every book of records an
alphabetical list of the names of all the parties to any suit
or judgment therein recorded, with a reference to the page
where it is recorded; and when there are several persons,
either plaintifffs or defendants, the name of every person
with a like reference shall be inserted in its appropriate
place in the alphabetical list.

SECT. 11. At every term of the supreme judicial court,
the clerk shall exhibit the then latest book of records of
each of the courts in the county, and such others as shall be
required, so that the court may have notice of any errors or
defects in the keeping of the records, and may cause the
same to be corrected as occasion shall require.

SECT. 12. The justices of the several courts shall inspect
the doings of the clerks from time to time, and see that the
records are made up seasonably and kept in good order;
and if the records are left incomplete for more than six
months at any one time, such neglect unless caused by

sickness or other extraordinary casualty shall be adjudged
a forfeiture of the clerk’s bond.

SECT. 13. In case of any neglect causing a forfeiture of
the clerk’s bond, the justices shall forthwith give notice
thereof in writing to the treasurer of the county, who shall
thereupon cause the bond to be put in suit.

SECT. 14. The sum recovered in such suit shall be

applied to making up the deficient records under the direc- _

tion of the court in whose records the deficiency shall happen‘, and the surplus, if any, shall remain in the hands of
the treasurer for the use of the county.

SECT. 15. Nothing contained in the preceding sections
shall be construed to exempt the clerks from a suit for any
other breach of the condition of their bonds, or from their
liability in any other way or to any party for neglect or
misconduct in their offices.

SECT. 16. The assistant clerks may authenticate papers
and perform such other duties of the clerk as are not
performed by him.

SECT. 17. Each assistant clerk shall perform his duties
under the direction of the clerk and shall pay over to him
all fees and sums received as such assistant. Upon the
absence, resignation, death, or removal, of the clerk, the
assistant clerk shall perform his duties, under the direction
of the court, until a clerk is elected or appointed and
qualified. In case of the death, removal, or resignation, of
the clerk, the assistant clerk shall account with and pay
over the monies in his hands to the officer with whom the
clerk is by law required to account.

SECT. 18. The clerks of the courts in the several counties
and the clerk of the supreme judicial court in the county
of Suffolk shall keep an account of all fees received by them
for their official acts and services, except fees for such
copies as they are not required by law to furnish; and
shall on the first Wednesday of January in every year
render to the treasurer of the county their account on oath
of all fees so received within the year then past. The clerks
of the superior court of the county of Suffolk and of the
municipal court of the city of Boston, shall in like manner
account with the treasurer of said city.

SECT. 19. Each clerk of the courts in the several counties, and the clerk of the supreme judicial court in the
county of Suffolk, shall retain for his own use the sum

hereinafter provided for his annual salary, if he shall have
received so much for the fees for which he is to account;
and he shall retain one-half of ‘ any excess, for his own use,
and pay any residue to the treasurer for the use of the
county.

SECT. 20. The sums which the several clerks may retain
for their annual salaries, shall be as follows, to wit :—

The clerk of the supreme judicial court in the county of
Suffolk, two thousand dollars:

The clerk in the county of Essex, two thousand dollars:

The clerk in the county of Middlesex, two thousand
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Worcester, two thousand
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Hampshire, twelve hundred
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Hampden, eighteen hundred
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Franklin, twelve hundred
dollars: h

The clerk in the county of Berkshire, fourteen hundred
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Norfolk, fifteen hundred

: dollars :

The clerk in the county of Bristol, sixteen hundred
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Plymouth, fourteen hundred
dollars:

The clerk in the county of Barnstable, one thousand
dollars: _

The clerk in the county of Nantucket, four hundred
dollars: and '

The clerk in the county of Dukes county, two hundred
and fifty dollars:

And they may retain at the same rate for their services
for any part of a year. SECT. 21. The clerk of the municipal court of the city of
Boston shall in like manner retain from the fees so received
by him an annual salary of twelve hundred dollars and
one-half of the excess of fees, and in that proportion for a

~ part of a year; and he shall pay any residue to the city

treasurer.

SECT. 22. If the fees received by the several clerks shall
not amount to the salary above provided, the clerk shall
retain all that shall be received, which shall be in full for his
services for the year. '

SECT. 23. The clerk of the superior court of the county
of Suffolk shall pay all fees received by him into the treasury of the city of Boston; and shall receive an annual salary
of three thousand dollars: and '

The assistant clerk of said court an annual salary of
eighteen hundred dollars; to be paid from the treasury of
the city of Boston. ‘

SECT. 24. The assistant clerk of the supreme judicial

court in the county of Suffolk shall receive an annual salary
of fifteen hundred dollars:

The assistant clerk of the courts in the county of Middlesex, an annual salary of twelve hundred dollars : and

The assistant clerk of the courts in the county of Worcester, an annual salary of sixteen hundred dollars; to be paid
from the respective county treasuries.

SECT. 25. The several clerks pro tempore shall receive
for their services such compensation as the court appointing
them shall determine, to be paid by the clerk_or f'rom the
county treasury, (or in the courts in Boston from the city
treasury,) as the court shall direct.

ATTORNEYS AT LAW.

SECT. 26. Any citizen of this state, and any alien who
has made the primary declaration of his intention to become
a citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one
years and of good moral character, who shall have devoted
three years to the study of the law in the office of some
attorney within this state, shall on application to the supreme
judicial court, court of common pleas, or superior court of
the county of Suffolk,be admitted to practice as an attorney
in any court of this state, on complying with the other
requisitions contained in this chapter.

SECT. 27. Any person having the other qualifications
required in the preceding section, but who shall not have
studied the term therein prescribed, may on the recommendation of any attorney petition the supreme judicial court,
court of common pleas, or superior court of the county of
Suffolk, to be examined for admission as an attorney,
whereupon the court shall assign some time and place for
the examination, and if they shall be satisfied with his
aequirements and qualifications he shall be admitted in
like manner as if he had studied three full years.

SECT. 28. Every person admitted as an attorney shall in
open court take and subscribe the paths to support the constitution of the United States, and of this commonwealth,
and the oath of office.

SI-:c'r. 29. The oath of office shall be as follows :—

You solemnly swear, that you will conduct yourself in
the office of an attorney according to the- best of your
knowledge and discretion, and with all good fidelity as well
to the courts as to your clients. So help you,‘God.

SECT. 30. Every person admitted in any? court, may ;
practice in every other court in the state, and there shall be ;

no distinction of counsellors and attorneys. _

SECT. 31. Any person who shall have been admitted an «
attorney or counsellorof the highest judicial court of anyi

other state of which he was an inhabitant, and shall afterwards become an inhabitant of this state, may be admitted
to practice here‘ upon satisfactory. evidence of his good
moral character and his professional qualifications.

SEOT. 32. An attorney may be removed by the supreme
judicial court, the court of ‘common pleas, or superior
court for the county of Suii'olk;~f6r~ any deceit, malpractice,
or other gross misconduct, and*shal1-moreover be liable in
damages to the party injured thereby, and to such other
punishment as may be provided b’y"l'aw‘; and the expenses
of the inquiry and proceedings in either of said courts
for the removal of an attorney, shall be paid in the manner
provided for the payment of costs in criminal prosecutions
in the same courts.

SECT. 38. Parties may manage, prosecute, or defend,
their own suits personally, and by such counsel or attorneys
as they may see fit to engage; but no more than two persons
for each party shall without permission of the court he
allowed to manage any case therein.

SECT. 34. Any person of good moral character, although
not admitted an attorney, may manage, prosecute, or defend,
a suit for any other person, if he is specially authorized for
that purpose by the party for whom he appears, in writing
or by personal nomination in open court.

SEc'r. 35. Every attorney lawfully possessed of an execution in favor of his client, shall have a lien thereon for
the amount of his fees and disbursements in the cause,
but this shall not prevent the payment of the execution to

the judgment creditor by any officer or other person without
notice of the lien.

SECT. 36. N 0 person shall be employed or allowed to
appear as counsel or attorney before any court in any suit
which shall have been previously determined before himself
as a judge or justice of the peace.

SECT. 37. A sheriii‘, deputy-sheriii‘, coroner, or constable,
shall not appear in any court nor before a justice of the
peace as attorney or counsel for or in behalf of any party
in a suit, nor shall he draw, make, fill up, or alter, any
writ, declaration, plea, or process, for any such party.
Every person so offending shall forfeit the sum of fifty
dollars. '

MASTERS IN CHANCERY.

SECT. 38. The masters in chancery now in oilice shall
hold their respective oliices according to the tenor of their
commissions. As vacancies occur the governor with the
advice and consent of council shall from time to time make
appointments so that there shall be not more than five
masters in chancery in each of the counties of Middlesex,
Worcester, and Essex, and not more than four in any other
county. They shall be sworn, and shall hold their oliices
for the term of five years, unless sooner removed by the
governor and council.

SECT. 39. They shall, under the direction of the supreme
judicial court or of a justice thereof, perform all the duties
which according to the practice in equity appertain to the
office, and shall be allowed therefore such fees as the court
shall order. '

show. 40. Their reee shall be taxed with the other costs,
and shall be eventually paid by such party or in such
manner as the court shall order.

SECT. 41. If the masters appointed in any county are of
counsel or interested in a suit, or otherwise disqualified or
unable to act therein, the court upon ordering a reference
of any matter in such suit shall appoint some person to act
as a master.

SECT. 42. Proceedings and processes commenced under
the direction of a master in chancery previously to the
termination of his commission, shall be prosecuted to their
final termination by him in the same manner and with the
same force and effect as if his commission remained in
force.

AUDITORS.

SECT. 43. When a cause is at issue in any court,whether
the form of the action be contract, tort, or replevin, the court

may in their discretion appoint one or more auditors to
hear the parties, examine their vouchers and evidence, state
accounts, and report upon such matters therein as may be
ordered by the court; and the report shall be prima facie
evidence upon such matters only as are expressly embraced
in the order.

SECT. 44. The auditors _shall give notice to the parties of
the time and place appointed for their meeting, and may
adjourn from time to time as may be necessary.

SECT. 45. When there is more than one auditor, all shall
meet and hear the cause, but a report by a majority shall be
valid.

SECT. 46. The court may for sufficient reason discharge
the auditors and appoint others, and may recommit the
report for revision or further examination to the same or to
other auditors.

SECT. 47. The court shall award reasonable compensation
to the auditors, which shall be paid by the plaintifff and taxed
in his bill of costs if he prevail in the suit.

REPORTER.

SECT. 48. The reporter of the decisions of the supreme
judicial court now in office shall hold his office according to
the tenor of his commission. Whenever a vacancy occurs a
reporter shall be appointed by the governor by and with the

advice and consent of the council, who shall be removed at

their pleasure.

SECT. 49. He shall be’ sworn, before the court or any
justice thereof.

SECT. 50. He shall attend personally all the law terms of
the court, make true reports of their decisions on all legal
questions that shall be argued by counsel, and publish the
same annually. The reports of the decisions upon all questions of law argued and determined before the first day of
September in each year shall be published on or before that
day.

SECT. 51. He shall at his discretion report the several

cases more or less at large according to their relative impor- 5

tance, so as not unnecessarily to increase the size or number
of the volumes of reports.

SECT. 52. When in any of the cases mentioned in the
two preceding sections judgment shall be entered at any

SECTION 1. A failure to hold a stated term of a court, or of 1
any adjournment of such term, shall not operate as a discon- I
tinuance of suits, processes, or proceedings pending therein, ‘;
but they shall be respectively returned to, entered, and have
day in, the term or session which shall be held next after
such failure.

SE01‘. 2. If by reason of war, pesfilence, or other pub-;
lic calamity, it shall be deemed unsafe or inexpedient to‘
hold a court at the time and place appointed therefore,I
whether it be at a stated term or a session by adjournment,
the justices of the court or any one of them may appoint
any other place within the same county, and any other time,
for holding the same.

SE01‘. 3. Every such adjournment shall be made by an
order in writing signed by the justice or justices, and shall
be published by the sheriff or his deputy, or other person to
whom the order is directed, by public proclamation, to be
made in the shire town or as near thereto as may be deemed
safe, and also by advertisement in such newspaper, or in such
other manner, as shall be required in the order.

SECT. 4. Courts shall not be opened on Sunday, Thanksgiving, Fast, or Christmas day, the twenty-second day of
February, the fourth day of July, or on the following day
when either of the two days last mentioned occurs on Sunday, unless for the purpose of instructing or discharging a
jury or of receiving a verdict; but this section shall not
prevent the exercise of the jurisdiction of any magistrate
when it shall be necessary in criminal cases to preserve the
peace or arrest offenders.

SE01‘. 5. Sheriffs, deputy-sheriffs, coroners, constables,
and other officers, shall serve all lawful warrants and other

1 processes legally directed to them, issuing from any court,
: judge, judicial officer, or county commissioners.

SECT. 6. Counsellors, attorneys, justices of the peace,
sheriffs, deputy-sheriffs, coroners, or constables, shall not
directly or indirectly buy or be interested in buying any
bond, note, book debt, or other right of action, with the
intent to procure themselves to be employed in the collection
thereof, or to make to themselves any gain or profit from the
fees arising in collecting such demand by a suit at law.

SECT. 7. “ The officers mentioned in the preceding section
shall not directly or indirectly loan or advance, or agree
to loan or advance, any money or other goods, or give
or promise any valuable consideration whatever to any
person as an inducement to place, or in consideration of
having placed, in their hands or the hands of any other

person, any bond, note, book debt, or other right of action,
for collection.

SECT. 8. Every person who shall commit either of the
offenses described in the two preceding sections, shall for

every offense forfeit a sum not less than twenty nor more
than five hundred dollars. '

SECT. 9. The supreme judicial court, the court of common pleas, the superior court of the county of Suffolk, and
the municipal court of the city of Boston, shall entertain and
decide upon applications of aliens for naturalization.

held in open court, be made matter of record, and entered
upon the docket of the court at the term when the primary

application or declaration is made, and also at the term
when the final application or declaration is made.

SECT: 11. No otherlcourt established by this state shall
entertain any primary or final declaration or application

made by or in behalf of an alien to become a citizen of the‘

United _States, receive any registry of an alien, or entertain jurisdiction of the naturalization of aliens. Nor shall
any clerk of such court receive such application or papers.

SECT. 12. If any clerk or other person shall record or
file such application or declaration, or issue a certificate
of naturalization, in violation of the provisions of the preceding section, he shall be punished by a fine of ten dollars.

SEC'_r. 13. No person shall be disqualified from acting as
a magistrate, juror, appraiser, or officer of any kind, in a

districts, or parishes ; in the county in which either of the
cities, towns, school districts, or parishes, is situated:

Second—When it is between a city, town, school district,
or parish, and a natural person; either in the county in
which such city, town, school district, or parish, is situated,
or in that in which the other party lives.

'l‘hird—When one of the parties is a corporation of any
other description than those before mentioned in this section ;
in any county in which such corporation shall have an
established or usual place of business, or shall have held its
last annual meeting, or shall usually hold its meetings ; or
if the other party is a natural person, in the county where
such person lives.

SE01‘. 5. Actions, suits, and prosecutions, by and against
the city of Boston, may be brought in either of the counties
of Suffolk, Essex, Middlesex, or Norfolk, or in the county
where the plaintifff lives; but if brought by the city in the
county of Suffolk, may be removed to one of the other of
said counties as provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 6. The defendant or tenant, at the term at which
his appearance is entered, may file a motion in writing for
the removal of the suit, and the court shall thereupon order
it to be removed to the proper court in such one of the other
of said counties as the attorney of the city of Boston shall
elect. Said attorney shall enter the same accordingly in
the court so designated, at the then next term, and file
therein certified copies of the writ or other process and of
the order. of removal; and the proceedings shall be conducted in like manner as if the suit had been originally
commenced in that county.

SECT. 7. Every civil action for the recovery of a forfeiture shall be brought in the county in'which the offense
was committed, unless a different provision is made in the
statute imposing the forfeiture.

FORMS, ISSUING, AND RETURN, OF WRITS.

SECT. 8. Civil actions, except those founded on scire
facias or other special writs, shall be commenced by original
writs, which shall be signed, sealed, and bear teste, as
required by the constitution.

SE01‘. 9. The original writ may be framed, either,

To attach the goods or estate of the defendant, and for
want thereof to take his body; or,

It may be an original summons, either with or without
an order to attach the goods or estate. ‘

SECT. 10. When goods or estates are attached on either
of the writs before mentioned, there shall be a separate
summons, to be served on the defendant after the attachment, and the service thereof shall be a sufficient service of
the original summons.

SECT. 11. In actions against corporations, and in other
cases in which goods and estate may be attached but in
which the defendant is not liable to arrest, the writ of
attachment and original summons may be combined in one,
requiring the officer to attach the goods and estate, and to
summon the defendant.

SECT. 12. Original writs in actions before justices of
the peace, shall be signed by the justice before whom the
action is brought, and shall be dated and filled up like
the other writs before mentioned.

SE01‘. 13. The forms of writs in civil actions shall be
the same as heretofore established by law and the usage
and practice of the courts ; but alterations may be made or
allowed by the courts, when necessary to adapt them to
changes in the law, or for other sufficient reasons.

SECT. 14. All changes in the forms of writs shall be
subject to the final control of the supreme judicial court;
and said court may by general rules regulate such changes
in all the courts.

SECT. 15. When the name of a defendant is not known
to the plaintifff, the writ may be issued against him by a
fictitious name, and if duly served shall not be abated for
that cause, but may be amended on such terms as the court
shall deem reasonable.

SECT. 16. Original writs in the supreme judicial court
and all writs and processes in the court of common pleas,

shall be signed and may be issued in term time or vacation ;

by the clerk, may be returnable to the same court in any
other county, may run into any county, and shall be executed and obeyed throughout the state. Writs and processes
in the superior court of the county of Suffolk shall be
signed, issued, run, and be executed and obeyed, in the
same manner as writs and processes in the court of common
pleas.

SECT. 17. The subpoena on bills in equity shall be issued A

from the clerk’s office either in term time or vacation, upon
a bill there filed, shall bear teste of the first justice of the
court who is not a party to the suit, and shall be under the
seal of the court and signed by the clerk.

SECT. 18. Original writs issuing from the. supreme
judicial court, court of common pleas, or superior court of
the county of Suffolk, if required to be served fourteen
days before the return day, shall be made returnable
at the court next to be held after the expiration of fourteen
days from the date of the writ; and if required to be served
thirty days “before the return day, shall be made returnable
at the court next to be held after the expiration of thirty
days from the date of the writ.

SECT. 19. Original writs, writs of audita querela, scire
facias by private persons on judgment or recognizance,
writs of error in civil cases, petitions for certiorari, and bills
in equity, in which the plaintifff is not an inhabitant of the
state, shall before the entry thereof be indorsed by some
sudicient person who is such inhabitant; but if one of the
plaintifffs is an inhabitant of the state the process need not
be so indorsed. Every indorser in case of avoidance or
inability of the plaintifff, shall be liable to pay all such costs
as shall be awarded against the plaintiti‘, if the suit therefore
is commenced within one year after the original judgment.

SERVICE ON THE DEFENDANT.

SECT. 20. Original writs issuing from the supreme
judicial court, court of common pleas, or superior court of
the county of Suffolk, shall be served fourteen days at least
before the term at which they are returnable, and original
writs issued by a police or justices’ court or justice of the
peace shall be served not less than seven and not more than
sixty days before the day on which they are returnable.

SECT. 21. When an action is brought against a county,
city, town, precinct, parish, religious society, or school
district, or against proprietors of common and undivided
lands, or general fields or wharves lying in common, the writ
shall be served thirty days at least before the return day.

SECT. 22. When there is a separate summons to be
served after an attachment of goods or estate, it shall be
served by delivering the summons to the defendant or leaving it for him as hereinafter directed; and when there is an
original summons without an attachment, it shall be served
by reading it to the defendant, or by delivering to him a
copy thereof attested by the OH'lC8l' who serves it, or by

i leaving such copy for him as hereinafter directed.

SECT. 23. The separate summons may be served at any
I time after the attachment is made: provided, it is served the
L number of days at least before the return day required with

respect to the service of the original writ, and the certificate
of the service of the summons shall be indorsed on the
original writ.

SECT. 24. If the summons is not served personally on7
the defendant, the original or a copy, as the case may be, 4
shall be left at his last and usual place of abode if he _has I

any within the state known to the oiiicer, and if he has none
it shall be left with his tenant, agent, or attorney, if he has
any within‘ the state known to the officer. If he has no
such last and usual place of abode, and no tenant, agent, or
attorney, no service on him shall be required, except as is
provided in the three following sections.

S13c'r. 25. If an absent defendant whose goods or estate
are attached is sued with one or more others on a joint
contract, and he has no such last and usual place of abode,
tenant, agent, or attorney, within the state, the summons
for him, or a copy, as the case may be, shall be left with
one of the co-defendants, if there be any within the state.

SECT. 26. In real actions, if the defendant or tenant
in the action is out of the state and has no last and usual
place of abode here known to the demandant, the summons
or an attested copy shall, in addition to any other service
required, be left for him with the tenant or occupant of the
demanded premises if there be any, and if not, it shall be
left in some conspicuous place on the premises.

SECT. 27. In all cases when the defendant is out of the
state or his place of residence is not known to the officer,
and no personal service is made on him, he shall, in addition
to the service as herein prescribed, be entitled to further
notice of the suit as provided in chapter one hundred and
twenty-six.

SECT. 28. In suits against the inhabitants of a county
the summons shall be served by leaving an attested copy
thereof with one of the county commissioners, or with one
of the oiiicers who by law exercise the powers of county
commissioners. In suits against a city, town, precinct,
parish, religious society, or school district, or against the
proprietors of common and undivided lands, or general fields
or wharves lying in common, the summons shall be served
by leaving an attested copy thereof with the clerk of the corporation or proprietors, and also leaving another like copy
with the mayor or one of the aldermen or selectmen of the
city or town, or one of the assessors or standing committee
of the parish or religious society, or one of the proprietors of
such land or other estate, as the case may be; and if there

is no such clerk found within the county, the copy shall be
left with one of the other officers before mentioned or with
one of said proprietors; and if there are no such officers,
the copy shall be left with the city or town or one of the
members of the corporation.

SE01‘. 29. In suits against a corporation other than
those mentioned in the preceding section, the summons

"shall be served by leaving the original or copy, as the case

may be, with the clerk, cashier, secretary, agent, or any
other officer having charge of its business; and if there
is no such officer found within the county, the summons
may be served on any member of the corporation.

SECT. 30. Every writ of original summons or subpoena
issued in suits in equity shall be served in the same manner
and the same number of days, at least, before the day on
which it is returnable, as would be required for the service
of an original writ at common law between the same
parties.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY—-GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SECT. 31. All real estates, goods, and chattels, liable to
be taken on execution, (except such goods and chattels as,
from their nature or situation have been considered as
exempt according to the principles of the common law as
adopted and practised in this state,) may be attached upon
the original writ, in any action in which debt or damages
are recoverable, and held as security to satisfy such judgment as the plaintifff may recover: provided, that no attachment of lands or tenements shall be made on a writ
returnable before a justice of the peace, police court, or
justices’ court.

SECT. 32. Different attachments may be made successively upon the same writ by one or more oilicers and in
one or more counties, at any time before the service of the

summons; but no further attachment shall be made after
the summons is served.

ssos. 33. When goods are sold or disposed of, either by
consent of the parties or after an appraisal as hereinafter
provided, the proceeds whilst remaining in the hands of
the officer shall be liable to be further attached by him as
the property of the original defendant in like manner
as the goods themselves would have been liable if they
had remained in the possession of the officer ; and the proceeds so attached shall be held and disposed of in the same
manner as if the attachment had been made on the goods

themselves before the sale thereof. But this shall not
prevent the officer from paying over to the defendant the
surplus of the proceeds of such sale, after retaining enough
to satisfy all the attachments actually existing at the time
of such payment.

SECT. 34. All goods taken by replevin from an officer
who has attached them, shall be considered as still remaining in his custody and control so far as to be liable to
further successive attachments, in like manner as if the
goods themselves had remained in his possession.

SECT. 35. If there shall be judgment for a return of the
goods so replevied, the plaintifff in the replevin and his
sureties shall be liable for the whole of the goods, or the
value thereof, although the attachment for which they are
eventually held should have been made after the taking of '
the goods by the replevin.

SECT. 36. If an oiiicer after making an attachment of
goods shall die or be removed from office whilst the attach- ;
ment remains in force, the same goods, whether replevied
or remaining in possession of the oilicer or of his executors or administrators, may be further attached by any other
officer so as to bind the goods or the proceeds thereof, in
like manner as if the latter attachment had been made by
the first mentioned oiiicer. SECT. 37. The officer making the latter attachment in
such case shall not take the goods themselves, but the
attachment shall be made by a return setting forth an
attachment in the common form and stating by whom the
goods were previously attached, and, if the goods have not
been replevied, by leaving a certified copy of the writ,
(without the declaration ,) and of the return of that attachment, with the former officer if living, or if he is dead.
with his executor or administrator, or whoever else shall
then have possession of the goods; or if the goods shall
have been replevied and the officer who made the original
attachment is dead, such copy shall be left with the plaintill‘ in replevin, or his executors or administrators, and the
attachment shall be considered as made when such copy is
delivered in either of the modes before provided.

SECT. 38. Goods taken by replevin from an attaching:
officer shall not be further attached as the property of the 3
original defendant, in any other manner than that provided 4
in the four preceding sections, so long as they are held by
the person who replevied them, or by any one holding under
him, unless the original defendant shall have acquired a
new title to the goods.

SECT. 39. Goods and chattels attached by an oiiicer,
whether remaining in his custody at the time of his death
or taken from him by replevin or otherwise, and also all
claims for damages to goods so taken from him, shall remain
subject to the attachment in like manner as if the officer
had lived, and shall not be considered as assets in the hands
of his executors or administrators.

SECT. 40. If real estate that is attached is subject to a
mortgage or other encumbrance, and the mortgage is
redeemed or the encumbrance removed before the levy of
the execution, the attachment shall hold the premises discharged of the mortgage or encumbrance, and the execution
may be levied in the same manner and with the same effect
as if the mortgage or other encumbrance had never existed.

SECT. 41. If final judgment in any case is rendered for
the plaintifff, the goods and estate attached shall be held for
thirty days after the judgment, in order to their being taken
on execution; and if the attachment is made in the county
of Nantucket and the judgment is rendered in any other
county, or if the judgment is rendered in Nantucket and
the attachment is made in any other county, the goods and
estate shall be held for sixty days after final judgment, unless
in either case the attachment shall have been dissolved as
hereinafter provided.

Snow. 42. If the final judgment is for the defendant, the
attachment shall be forthwith dissolved.

SECT. 43. The final judgment intended in the two preceding sections, is that which is rendered in the original
action, whether upon appeal or otherwise, and not such as
may be rendered upon a writ of error or writ of review.

Seer. 44. When real estate, goods, chattels, or effects,
are attached, and the debtor dies before they are taken or
seized on execution, the attachment shall be dissolved if
administration of the estate of the deceased is granted in
this state within one year after his decease, or if application
therefore is made within said year and administration is
afterwards granted upon such application. If no such
administration is granted, the property attached shall continue bound by the attachment in like manner as if the
debtor were still living.

SECT. 45. When the attachment is of goods, the officer
shall upon demand deliver them to the executor or administrator, if any shall be appointed in this state within the
time limited in the preceding section, upon receiving from

the executor or administrator his legal fees and charges for
attaching and keeping the goods.

SECT.-16. If the oilieer shall have sold the goods on<
execution before such demand, or if he shall have sold in 
like manner any other chattel interest, or any right of‘
redeeming real estate attached as aforesaid, he shall not be
considered a trespasser for so doing ; but he shall be liable_
only for the proceeds of the sale after deducting his legal
fees and charges for attaching, keeping, and selling, the
goods, and such proceeds may be recovered by the executor
oradministrator in an action of contract for money had
and received.

SECT. 47. If the officer in such case shall have paid over i
the proceeds of the sale to the judgment‘ creditor beforel
such demand, he shall be exempt from all further liability 
therefore, and the executor or administrator, if appointed as
before provided, may recover from the judgment creditor
the amount so paid to him, in an action of contract for
money had and received.

SECT. 48. The defendant, in an action founded on either ;
of the three preceding sections,‘ shall not be allowed in any i
manner to set off a demand that he may have against
the executor or administrator, or against the estate of the
deceased.

ATTACHMENT OF IEAL ETATE, AND LEASEHOLD ESTATES.

SI-2C‘1‘. 49. In attaching real estate or any right or inter- A
est in land, it shall not be deemed necessary that the oiiieer
should enter upon the land or be within view of it. In A
attaching leasehold estates the oiiicer shall state in his i
return in general terms the leasehold property attached.

SECT. 50. N o attachment of real estate or of any leasehold
estates on mesne process shall be valid against a subsequent
attaching creditor, or against a person who shall afterwards
purchase the same for a valuable consideration and in good
faith, unless the original writ or a copy thereof, and so much
of the oilicer’s return thereon as relates to the attachment
of the estate, shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of
the courts for the county in which the lands lie, or in the
oilice of the clerk of the supreme judicial court if the lands
lie in the county of Suffolk, which copy shall be certified
by the oilicer, but need not contain the declaration in the
writ.

SECT. 51. Every oliicer making such attachment shall
deposit the writ or copy in the clerk’s office according to
the provisions of the preceding section; and he shall be
entitled to receive four cents a mile for his travel from the
place of service to the office of the clerk, together with his fee

for the copy.

SECT. 52. The clerk shall note on every such writ or
copy, the day, hour, and minute, when he receives it, and
shall file the same in his office. He shall also enter in a
book to be kept for that purpose the name of the plaintifff
and name of each defendant whose estate is attached,
the time when the attachment was made, and the time when
the writ or copy was deposited. His fee in each case shall
be twenty-live cents, for which he shall not be holden to
render any account, and which shall be paid on the delivery
of the writ or copy, and may be taxed for the plaintifff in his
bill of costs.

SECT. 53. If the writ or copy is deposited as aforesaid
within three days after the day on which the attachment is
made, the attachment shall take effect from the time it was
made, otherwise it shall take e&'ect from the time when the

writ or copy is so deposited.

SECT. 54. When an attachment on mesne process is made
of real estate or any right or interest therein which shall
have been fraudulently conveyed by the debtor to a third
person; or which shall have been purchased or the purchase money of which shall have been directly or indirectly
paid by the debtor and the title thereto retained in the
vendor or conveyed to another person, with the design and
for the purpose of fraudulently securing the same from
attachment by a creditor of such debtor, or with the intent
and for the purpose of delaying, defeating, or defrauding,
creditors; it shall riot be valid against a subsequent attaching creditor, or against a person who shall afterwards
purchase the estate for a valuable consideration and in good
faith, unless the officer in addition to the return required by
the preceding sections shall also return a brief description
of the estate attached, by its locality, situation, boundaries,
or otherwise, as known to him, and the name or names of
the person or persons in whom the record or legal title

stands.

Seer. 55. The clerk in such case in addition to the
names of the parties to the writ which he is required to enter
as provided in section fifty-two, shall also enter in his book
of attachments the names of the persons in whom the record
or legal title stands as returned by the oilicer, in the same

manner as if the estate of such persons were attached as
defendants in the writ.

ATTACHMENT OF GOODS, &C., WHICH CANNOT BE REMOVED.

SECT. 56. When an attachment is made of articles of
personal estate which by reason of their bulk or other cause
cannot be immediately removed, a certified copy of the
writ, (without the declaration,) and of the return of the
attachment, may at any time within three days thereafter
be deposited in the office of the clerk of the city or town in
which it is made; and such attachment shall be equally
valid and effectual as if the articles had been retained in the
possession and custody of the officer.

S1-:c'1'. 57. The clerk shall receive and file all such copies,
noting thereon the time when received, and keep them safely
in his office, and also enter a note thereof, in the order in
which they are received, in the books which are kept for
recording mortgages of personal property; which entry shall
contain the names of the parties to the suit and the date of
the entry. The clerk’s fee for this service shall be twentyfive cents, to be paid by the officer and included in his
charge for the service of the writ.

ATTACHMENT OF SHARES IN CORPORATIONS.
I

SECT. 58. The share or interest of a stockholder in any
corporation organized under authority of this state may be
attached by leaving an attested copy of the writ, (without
the declaration,) and of the return of the attachment, with
the clerk, treasurer, or cashier, of the company, if there is
such officer; otherwise with any officer or person who has
at the time the custody of the books and papers of the
corporation.

SECT. 59. Any share or interest so attached, with all the
dividends that shall thereafter accrue thereon, shall be held
as security to satisfy the final judgment in the suit, in like
manner as any other personal estate is held.

SECT. 60. If the officer having a writ of attachment
against such stockholder shall exhibit the writ to the officer
of the company who is appointed to keep arecord or account
of the shares or interest of the stockholders therein, and shall
request a certificate of the number of shares or amount of
the interest held by the defendant in the suit, such officer of
the company shall give such certificate to the officer holding
the writ. If he shall unreasonably refuse to do so, or if he
shall willfully give a false certificate thereof, he shall be liable

for double the amount of all damages occasioned by such
refusal or false certificate, to be recovered in an action of

tort, unless the judgment is satisfied by the original defendant.

ATTACHMENT, &c., or PERSONAL PROPERTY MORTGAGED on
PLEDGED.

SE01‘. 61. Personal property of a debtor that is subject
to a mortgage, pledge, or lien, and of which the debtor
has the right of redemption, may be attached and held in
like manner as if it were unineumbered: provided, the
attaching creditor shall pay or tender to the mortgagee,
pawnee, or holder, of the property, the amount for which it
is so liable, within ten days after the same is demanded.

SECT. 62. Every such mortgagee, pawnee, or holder,shall
when demanding payment of the money due to him, state
in writing a just and true account of the debt or demand
for which the property is liable to him, and deliver it to the
attaching creditor or oliicer. If the same is not paid or
tendered to him within ten days thereafter, the attachment
shall be dissolved and the property shall be restored to
him; and the attaching creditor shall moreover be liable to

him for any damages that he may have sustained by the
attachment.

SECT. 63. If he shall demand and receive more than the
amount due to him, he shall be liable for the excess, with
interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent. a year, to be
recovered by the attaching creditor in an action of contract
for money had and received.

SECT. 64. When property attached and redeemed as
aforesaid shall be sold, either on mesne process or on execution, the proceeds thereof, after deducting the charges of

the sale, shall be first appliedto repay the attaching creditor
the amount so paid by him, with interest.

SECT. -65. If the plaintifff after having redeemed the
goods shall not recover judgment in the suit, he shall
nevertheless be entitled to hold the goods until the defendant
repays to him the sum which he paid for the redemption, or
as much thereof as the defendant would have been obliged
to pay to the mortgagee, pawnee, or holder, of the goods, if
they had not been attached, with interest from the time when
the same shall be demanded of the defendant.

SECT. 66. Personal property of a debtor subject to a
mortgage and being in the possession of the mortgagor,

may be attached in the same manner as if it was unin-1
cumbered ; and the mortgagee or his assigns may be sum- 1
moned_ in the same action in which the property is attached, 3
as the trustee of the mortgagor or his assigns, to answerj
such questions as may be put to him or them by the court
or their order touching the consideration of the mortgage
and the amount due thereon.

SECT. 67. If upon such examination, or verdict of a jury *
as hereinafter provided, it shall appear to the court that the ;
mortgage is bona jide, the court having first ascertained the A
amount that is justly due upon it, may direct the attaching f
creditor to pay the same to the mortgagee or his assigns
within such time as they shall order; and if the attaching
creditor shall not pay or tender the sum within the time
prescribed, the attachment shall be void and the property be
restored. '

SECT. 68. If the attaching creditor shall deny the validity
of the mortgage and move that the same may be tried by a
jury, the court shall order such trial on an issue to be framed
under the direction of the court, and if upon such examina-‘
tion or verdict the mortgage shall be adjudged valid, the
mortgagee or his assigns shall recover his costs.

SECT. 69. When the creditor has paid to the mortgagee or his assigns the sum directed by the court, he shall
be entitled to retain out of the proceeds of the property
attached, when sold, the sum so paid with interest, and the
balance shall be applied to the payment of his debt.

SECT. 70. If the attaching creditor after having paid the
sum directed by the court shall not recover judgment in '
the suit, he shall nevertheless be entitled to hold the property until the debtor shall have repaid the sum so paid by
order of court, with interest. ‘

SALE BY CONSENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ATTACHED.

SECT. 71. When personal property is attached, whether
on one or more writs, and the debtor and all the attaching
creditors consent in writing to the sale, the attaching officer
shall sell it in the manner prescribed by law for selling like
property on execution; and the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting the necessary charges, shall be held by the officer
subject to the attachments, and shall be disposed of in like
manner as the property would have been held and disposed
of if it had remained unsold.

PERISHABLE PROPERTY ATTACHED.

SECT. 72. When an attachment is made of live «animals,

or of goods or chattels which are liable to perish, waste, or

be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot
be kept without great and disproportionate expense, and the
parties shall not consent to a sale thereof as before provided,
the property so attached shall upon the request of either of
the parties interested be examined, appraised, and sold or
otherwise disposed of, in the manner following.

SECT. 73. Upon such application made by either party
to the attaching officer, he shall give notice to all the other
parties or their attorneys, prepare a schedule of the goods,
and cause three disinterested persons acquainted with the
nature and value of such goods to be appointed and sworn
before a magistrate, or the attaching oiiicer, to the faithful
discharge of their duty as appraisers.

SECT. 74. If the defendant is not within the state and
has no attorney therein, the notice shall be left in writing
at his last and usual place of abode in the state if he has
any, otherwise it shall be delivered to, or left at the dwelling»
house or place of business of, the person who had possession
of the property at the time of the attachment.

SECT. 75. The appraisers shall be appointed, one by the
creditor or creditors in the several suits, one by the debtor
or debtors, and one by the officer; and if the debtors or
creditors respectively shall neglect to appoint such appraiser,
or shall not agree in the nomination, the officer shall appoint
one in their behalf.

SECT. 76. The appraisers shall examine the attached
property, and if they are of opinion that the same or any
part thereof is liable to perish or waste, or to be greatly
reduced in value by keeping, or that it cannot be kept
without great and disproportionate expense, they shall proceed to appraiseithe same according to the best of their
skill and judgment at the value thereof in money; and the
goods shall thereupon be sold by the officer and the proceeds
held and disposed of in the manner before provided in the
case of a sale by consent of parties, unless the goods shall
be taken by the debtor as provided in the following section.

SECT. 77. The goods so appraised shall be delivered to
the debtor, if he require it, upon his depositing with the
attaching officer the appraised value thereof in money, or
giving bond to him in a sufiicient penalty and with two
suliicient sureties, conditioned either to pay to him the

appraised value of the goods or satisfy all such judgments
as shall be recovered in the suits in which the goods were
attached, if demanded within the time during which the
goods would have been held by the respective attachments,
or within thirty days after the time when the creditors
respectively would have been entitled to demand payment
out of the proceeds of the goods if they had been sold as
before provided.

SECT. 78. The oiiicer taking such bond shall return the
same with the writ on which the first attachment is made,
in like manner as bail bonds are returned, with a certificate
of his doings in relation thereto, and if the bond is forfeited,
the creditors or any of them may bring an action of contract
thereon in the name of the officer.

SECT. 79. The writ in such action shall in addition to the
usual indorsement have also indorsed on it the names of the
creditors by whom the action is brought; and if judgment
is rendered for the defendants, executions for the costs shall
be issued against all the creditors whose names are so
indorsed.

SECT. 80. If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the
money recovered shall be first applied, under the order of
the court, to pay the reasonable expenses of prosecuting the
suit, so far as the same shall not be reimbursed by the costs
recovered of the defendant; and the residue shall belong to
all the attaching creditors according to their respective
rights.

SECT. 81. The court may upon a hearing in equity,
determine the rights of the several attaching creditors, and
award a separate execution for the amount due or payable
to each, to be served and levied to his own use in the manner
provided when a judgment is rendered on an administration
bond; or they may award one execution for the whole sum
due on the bond, and cause the money received to be distributed among the creditors according to their respective
rights.

SECT. 82. No judgment or execution shall be awarded
for the use of a creditor without reserving as much as may
be due upon any prior attachment, whether the creditor in
such prior suit be or be not one of those by whom the
action is brought on the bond.

SECT. 83. Any creditor entitled to the benefit of the
bond who shall not have joined in bringing the action
thereon, may bring a writ of some facias on the judgment,

and recover any sum that may be due to him upon the bond;
or he may upon motion at any time before final judgment,
be allowed upon such terms as the court shall prescribe
to become a party to the action as if he had been one of
those by whom it was originallybrought.

SI-JCT. 84. No creditor whose cause of action on such
bond accrued more than one year before the commencement
of the action, shall have judgment or execution in such
action,'and no creditor shall sue out a writ of st.-ire facias
on the judgment, unless within one year after his cause of
action shall accrue.

SECT. 85. When goods which are sold or appraised and
delivered to the debtor in the manner before provided shall
have been attached by several creditors, any one of them
may demand and receive satisfaction of his judgment notwithstanding a prior attachment, if he is otherwise entitled
to demand the money, and if a sutiicient sum of the proceeds

of the goods, or of the appraised value, is left to satisfy all
prior attachments.

HT PERSONAL PROPERTY‘ ATTACHED ON A WRIT AGAINST PART
OWNER.

SECT. 86. When personal property belonging to two or
more persons is attached in a suit against one or more of
the part owners thereof, it shall, upon the request of any
other of the part owners, be examined and appraised in the
manner before provided for an appraisement when made at
the request of a party in the suit; except that the part
owner who makes the application shall appoint one of the
appraisers, and the debtor shall not appoint any.

SECT. 87. The property so appraised shall be delivered to
the part owner at whose request it was appraised, upon his
giving bond to the attaching oiiicer, in a sufficient penalty
and with two sufficient sureties, conditioned to restore the
same in like good order, pay the officer the appraised value of
the defendant’s share or interest therein, or satisfy all such
judgments as shall be recovered in the suit in which it is
attached, if demanded within the time during which the
property would have been held by the respective attachments.

SECT. 88. If such appraised value or any part thereof
shall be so paid, the defendant’s share of the property shall
thereby become pledged to the party to whom it was
delivered, and he may sell it, if not redeemed, and shall

account to the defendant for the balance of the proceeds of
the sale.

SECT. 89. If the attachment shall be dissolved, the party 1
to whom the defendant’s share was delivered shall restore 4

the same to the defendant, or to the officer to be by him 9
delivered to the defendant.

SECT. 90. The doings of the officer, together with the
bond, shall be returned by him in the manner before
provided in the case of a bond given by a debtor upon the
delivery to him of property attached; and upon the forfeiture of such bond like proceedings may be had as are
provided upon the forfeiture of the bond given by a debtor.

mcnmnnrs DISPUTED BY masons HAVING SUBSEQUENT LIENS,
&c.

SECT. 91. When a person claims title or interest by
force of a subsequent attachment, purchase, or mortgage, or
in any other manner, in any estate real or personal that is
attached in a suit between other persons, he may dispute the
validity and effect of the prior attachment, on the ground
that the sum demanded in the first suit was not justly due,
or was not payable when the action was commenced.

SECT. 92. The person objecting to the attachment may
file his petition in the court in which the first suit is
pending, at any time before final judgment therein, praying
that the prior attachment may be dissolved, and setting
forth the facts and circumstances on which his petition is
founded, and the grounds of his own claim.

SECT. 93. The petitioner or some person in his’behalf
shall make oath that his claim is just and legal, and that

all the other facts set forth in the petition are true, or are
believed by the deponent to be so.

SEC1‘. 94. The court upon the hearing of the petition
shall at the motion of either party direct a trial by jury of
any question of fact arising in the inquiry, and if it appears
to the court that any part of the sum demanded in the prior
suit is not justly due, or was not payable when the action
was commenced, they shall order the attachment therein
made to be dissolved in whole or in part as justice shall

require ; but such order shall have no other effect on the prior
suit.

SECT. 95. The proceedings between the two adverse
claimants or plaintifffs shall not be affected by any answer,
plea, or other act, of the defendant in the prior suit, nor by
the judgment that shall be rendered therein.

SECT. 96. No attachment shall be dissolved in manner
aforesaid by reason of any defense to the action- founded
on the laws for’ the limitation of actions, restraining
usury, requiring certain contracts to be made in writing,
or of any other like defense, if it shall appear to the court
that the demand is otherwise well founded, and is justly
and equitably due.

SECT. 97. The court may upon such inquiry award to
either party reasonable costs; and if the prior attachment
is maintained, they may award to the attaching creditor
reasonable damages, and execution may be issued for such
costs and damages.

SECT. 98. The court shall also upon the filing of the
petition require a bond or recognizance of the ‘petitioner,
or of some person in his behalf, with suiiicient surety or
sureties, conditioned to pay to the adverse party all such
damages and costs as shall be awarded to him in the
proceedings upon the petition.

SECT. 99. If during the pendency of the proceedings
the action in which the attachment is made should be
carried to a higher court, the inquiry concerning the attachment shall be carried to the samecourt, and there heard
and determined as if the action had been originally commenced there.

S_EC'r. 100. The decision or judgment of the court upon
such an inquiry, whether the attachment be thereby vacated
or’ held to be valid and effectual, shall be a bar to any
action to be brought by the petitioner against the party
who made the attachment, for any supposed fraud or deceit
therein.

SECT. 101. Nothing contained in the ten preceding sections shall apply to any action commenced before a justice,

of the peace, police court, or justices’ court.’

REDUCTION OF EXCESSIVE ATTACHMENTS.

SECT. 102. If an excessive attachment of goods or estate
is made on mesne process, the defendant may apply in
writing, in any county, to a justice of the court to which
such process is returnable, for a reduction of the amount
of the attachment; and such justice shall order a notice
to the plaintifff, returnable before himself or any other justice
of the same court as speedily as circumstances may permit.
If upon summarily hearing the parties it shall be found
that the attachment is excessive, the justice shall order it

to be reduced, or a part of the goods or estate to be released.
and thereafter the attachment shall be deemed to be reduced

or partially released, according to such order.

DISSOLUTION OF ATTACHMENTS BY GIVING BOND.

SECT. 103. Any person or corporation whose goods or
estate are attached on mesne process in a civil action, may,
at any time before final judgment, dissolve such attachment, by giving bond with sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the plaintifff or his attorney in writing, or by a master in
chancery, with condition to pay to the plaintifff the amount,
if any, that he shall recover within thirty days after the
final judgment in such action. N o sureties shall be deemed
sufficient unless they are satisfactory to the plaintifff, or it
shall be made clearly to appear to the master that each one,
if there are only two, is worth above what will pay his debts, a
sum equal to that for which the attachment is laid ; or, if
there are more than two, that they are together worth twice
such sum.

SECT. 104. Before such bond is approved by a master,
the party whose goods or estate are attached, or some one in
his behalf, shall make application in writing to a master,
specifying therein the names and places of residence of the
persons proposed as sureties. The same notice of the time
and place of the hearing thereon shall be given to the
plaintifff or his attorney, as is required in taking depositions;
but the plaintifff or his attorney, may in writing waive such
notice, or may approve the bond at any time. 0

SECT. 105. The fees of the master for approving a bond
shall be one dollar for the hearing and decision, and fifty
cents for the citation. If the attachment is dissolved, such
fees shall be taxed in the defendant’s costs if he prevails in
the suit.

WHEN OFFICER TO ATTACH OR ARREST.

Saar. 106. When the writ requires the officer to attach
the goods or estate of the defendant and for want thereof
to take his body, the plaintifff or his ‘attorney may by written
or verbal directions require the officer to serve the writ,
either by an attachment of goods or estate or by arresting
the defendant, and the officer shall serve the writ according
to such directions if it is in his power to do so.

ARREST ON MESNE PROCESS AND EXECUTION.

SECTION 1. No person shall be arrested on mesne process
in any action of contract, unless the plaintifff or some person
in his behalf shall make aiiidavit and prove to the satisfaction of some justice of a court of record, police court, judge
of a probate court, master in chancery, or commissioner of
insolvency, or if no such magistrate can be conveniently
found, of any justice of the peace and of the quorum:

First—That he has a good cause of action, and reasonable
expectation of recovering a sum amounting to twenty dollars.

Second—That he believes, and has reason to believe, the
defendant has property not exempt from being taken on
execution, which he does not intend to applyto the payment
of the plaintifffs claim; and

Third-—That he believes, and has reason to believe, that
the defendant intends to leave the state, so that execution
if obtained cannot be served upon him;

Nor until such aiiidavit and the certificate of the magistrate that he is satisfied the same is true, ‘shall be annexed
to the writ.

SE01‘. 2. No person shall be arrested on mesne process in
any action of tort unless the plaintifff or some person in his
behalf shall make oath to the satisfaction of some magistrate
as provided in section one, that he believes and has reason
to believe, that he has a good cause of action against the
defendant, that he has a reasonable expectation of recovering
a sum equal at least to one-third the damages claimed in
the writ, and that he has reason to believe that the defendant is likely to remove beyond the jurisdiction of the court
to which the writ is returnable, so that execution, if obtained,
cannot be served upon him;

Nor until such affidavit with a certificate of the magistrate
that he is satisfied the same is true shall be annexed to the writ.

SECT. 3. No person shall be arrested on mesne process
in a civil action for slander, or libel.

SECT. 4. The officer who serves an original writ shall
not be liable for not having arrested the defendant unless

he has been expressly required by the plaintifff or his attorney to make the arrest.

SE01‘. 5. N 0 person shall be arrested on an execution
issued for debt or damages in a civil action unless the judgment creditor "or some person in his behalf, after execution
is issued amounting to twenty dollars exclusive of costs,
and while so much as that amount remains uncollected, shall
make affidavit and prove to the satisfaction of some magistrate as provided in section one; or if the execution was
issued by a justice of the peace the affidavit may be made
before him:

First-—That the debtor has property not exempt from
being taken on execution, which he does not intend to apply
to the payment of the plaintit}"s claim; or,

Second—That since the debt was contracted, or the cause
of action accrued, the debtor has fraudulently conveyed,
concealed, or otherwise disposed of some part of his estate,
with a design to secure the same to his own use or defraud
his creditors; or,

Third—That since the debt was contracted, or the cause
of action accrued, the debtor has hazarded and paid money
or other property to the value of one hundred dollars or
more in some kind of gaming prohibited by the laws of this
state; or,

Fourth—That since the debt was contracted the debtor
has willfully expended and misused some part of his goods
or estate, or some part thereof, for the purpose of enabling
himself to swear that he has not any estate to the amount
of twenty dollars except such as is exempt from being taken
on execution; or,

Fifth—(If the action was founded on contract)—That
the debtor contracted the debt with an intention not to pay

the same;

Nor until such affidavit and the certificate of the magis-‘

trate, that he is satisfied there is reasonable cause to believe
the charges therein contained, or some one of them, are true,
shall be annexed to the execution. ‘

SECT. 6. N 0 Woman shall be arrested on any civil process <5

except for tort.

SE01‘. 7. No arrest shall be made after sunset, unless

specially authorized by the magistrate making the certificate, 

upon satisfactory cause shown.

HSCHARGE OF PERSONS ARRESTED ON MESNE PROCESS AND

EXECUTION.
'SEC’l‘. 8. When arrested on mesne process the defendant

1

shall be allowed reasonable time to procure bail, and when I

arrested on such process in an action of contract or on execution he shall be allowed reasonable time to procure surcties for his recognizance hereinafter mentioned. When
arrested on mesne process in an action of contract, if he does
not give bail, and when arrested on execution in any case,
he shall be taken before some magistrate as provided in
section one.

SECT. 9. When taken before the magistrate, if the defendant or debtor desires to take an oath as hereinafter
mentioned but does not desire any time fixed for his examination, the magistrate may take his recognizance with surety
or sureties in a sum not less than double the amount of the
execution, or of the ad damnum in the writ, if he is arrested
on mesne process, that within ninety days from the day of
his arrest he will~de1iver himself up, for examination before
some magistrate authorized to act, giving notice of the time
and place thereof as herein provided, and appear at the time
fixed for his examination and from time to time until the
same is concluded, and not depart without leave of the
magistrate, making no default at any time fixed for his
examination, and abide the final order of the magistrate
thereon: provided, that if he is arrested on mesne process
and the writ is returnable within ninety days, the number
of days within which he shall deliver himself up shall be
limited by the magistrate so as not to extend beyond the
return day of the writ.

SE01‘. 10. If the defendant or debtor when taken before
the magistrate or at any time when entitled thereto desires
to take an oath as hereinafter provided and to have a time
fixed therefore, the magistrate shall issue notice thereof to the
plaintifff or creditor, signed by him and designating his official
capacity, which notice shall be substantially in the following
form.

To A B . C D , arrested on mesne process
Ber execution] in your favor, desires to take the oath for the relief of poor
ebtors; or, if arrested on mesne process in an action of contract, the
oath that e does not intend to leave the state ;] at [naming the day and

hour and place.]
E F, [Magistrate]
Notice may be given that the defendant arrested on mense

       

-process as aforesaid desires to take both of said oaths, and

the form of notice be varied accordingly.

SECT. 11. The notice shall be served by any officer
qualified to serve civil process, by giving to the plaintifff or
creditor, his agent or attorney, an attested copy thereof, or
by leaving such copy at the last and usual place of abode of
the plaintifff or creditor, his agent or attorney, allowing not
less than one hour before the time appointed for the

examination, and time for travel at the rate of not less
than one day for every twenty-four miles travel. When
there is more than one person plaintifff or creditor, or
more than one agent or attorney, service on one shall be
sutiicient. When the plaintifff or creditor is dead or not a
resident in the county where the arrest is made, the notice
shall be served upon the agent or attorney if he lives in the
county or has his usual place of business therein; but if no
such agent or attorney is found within the county, the
notice may be served on the officer who made the arrest.
The person who made the writ may always be regarded as
the attorney of the plaintifff or creditor when an arrest is
made on the writ or any execution issued thereon.

SI-:c'I'. 12. When a defendant or debtor shall have given
notice of his desire to take the oath for the relief of poor
debtors, no new notice of the same shall be given until the
expiration of seven days from the service of the former

notice, unless the former notice was insufficient in form or '

service.

SECT. 13.
has been duly served, the magistrate who issued it, or any
other magistrate as provided in section one shall attend at
the time and place therein specified and examine the defendant or debtor as herein provided.

When the notice mentioned in section ten:

SECT. 14. The magistrate may adjourn the case from:

time to time, and shall have the same powers with respect to
all other incidents thereto, as justices of the peace or other

courts have in civil actions ; and witnesses duly summoned
shall attend as required in civil cases.

SECT. 15. Pending the examination and at any time after
the defendant or debtor is carried before a magistrate, the
magistrate may accept his recognizance with surety or

sureties in a sum not less than double the amount of the:

execution, or of the ad dam-num in the writ if he is arrested
on mense process, that he will appear at the time fixed for
his examination, and from time to time until the same is
concluded, and not depart without leave of the magistrate,
making no default at any time fixed for his examination, and
abide the final order of the magistrate thereon. N o recognizance under this chapter, except in case of appeal under
section thirty-one, shall be accepted at any time after the
oath has been once refused to the debtor.

SECT. 16. If the defendant arrested on mesne process in
an action of contract has given notice that he desires to
take an oath that he does not intend to leave the state,

he shall be examined in relation thereto, and any legal
and pertinent evidence may be introduced by either party.
If the magistrate is satisfied that the defendant did not
when arrested, and does not at the time of examination,
intend to leave the state, he shall make certificate thereof,
and the defendant shall be discharged from arrest.

SECT. 17. If the defendant or debtor has given notice
that he desires to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors,
the magistrate shall examine him on oath concerning his
estate and effects, the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay
the debt for which he is arrested; and shall hear any legal
and pertinent evidence that may be introduced by either
party. The plaintifff or creditor may upon such examination
propose-to the defendant or debtor any interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry, and the examination shall, if required
by either party, be in writing, in which case it shall be signed
and sworn to by the defendant or debtor and preserved by
the magistrate.

Sxcr. 18. If any person arrested on execution shall after
such arrest misspend or misuse his goods, effects, or credits,
to the amount of forty dollars, not exempt from being taken
on execution but which cannot be attached by ordinary
process of law, or so much as is equal to the sum for which
he is arrested or committed, without having first offered the
same to the arresting creditor in satisfaction or part satisfaction of his debts, he shall not be entitled to the benefit of
the oath for the relief of poor debtors.

SECT. 19. If upon the examination the magistrate is
satisfied of the truth of the facts set forth in the oath to be
taken by the defendant or debtor, and in the certificate to be
made by the magistrate, and it shall appear to him that
the defendant or debtor is entitled to his discharge under
the provisions of this chapter, the magistrate shall administer
to him the following

OATH FOR THE RELIEF or POOR DEBTOR8.

I, [here repeat the name,] do solemnly swear that I have not any estate,
real or personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except the estate, goods,
and chattels, which are by law exempt from being taken on execution
And that I have not any other estate now conveyed, concealed, or in
any way disposed of, with the design to secure the same to my own use or
to defraud my creditors: So help me, God.

SECT. 20. After administering the oath the magistrate
shall make a certificate thereof under his hand, as follows,
to wit :—

S , ss. I hereby certify, that A B , a poor prisoner,

arrested u on execution [or on mesne process in an action of contract,]
has cause E F , the creditor [or plaintifff] at whose suit he

   

is arrested, to be notified according to law of his desire to take the benefit
of the law for the relief of poor debtors; that in my opinion said A
B:— has not any estate, real or personal, to the amount of twenty
dollars, exce t the estate, goods, and chattels, which are by law exempt
from being ta en in execution; and has not any other estate now conveyed,
concealed, or in any way disposed of, with design to secure the same to

his own use or defraud his creditors. And I have after due examination

 

 
 

   

of said A B————, administered to him the oath for the relief of
poor debtors.
Witness my hand, this day of , in the year .
A B?-, (Magistrate.)

Upon taking the oath, the defendant or debtor shall be
discharged from arrest or imprisonment, and shall be forever
exempt from arrest on the same execution, or any process
founded on the judgment, or on the same cause of action,
unless he shall be convicted of having willfully sworn falsely
on his examination. If he is arrested or committed on execution, the judgment shall remain in full force against his
estate, and the creditor may take out a new execution against
his goods and estate as if he had not been committed; and
if he is committed on mense process, any execution which
may afterwards issue on a judgment for the same cause of
action, shall issue against his goods and estate and not
against his body. —

SECT. 21. When a person has given bail or is imprisoned 
on mesne process in an action of contract, or is arrested or I
imprisoned on any execution, he may be discharged in the 5
same manner, and subject to the same provisions of law,3
so far as applicable, as a person arrested on an execution
mentioned in section five.

SE01‘. 22. No debtor shall be entitled to the benefit of the oath for the relief -of poor debtors after a writ of scire f
fdcias on the bail bond given by him in the original action i
shall have been served upon his bail, unless he pays all
costs which have accrued on such scire facias.

IMPRISONM EN T.

SECT. 23. If the defendant when arrested on mesne pro- «
cess in an action of tort shall not give bail ; or when arrested ?

on mesne process in an action of contract and carried before —
the magistrate shall not desire to take an oath, or shall fail .
to recognize to the satisfaction of the magistrate as before}
provided, and shall 11ot give bail; or if on his examination he ‘

shall not swear to the satisfaction of the magistrate that he
does not intend to leave the state, and the oath for the relief
of poor debtors is refused him, and the magistrate has made
a certificate of such refusal; he shall be conveyed to jail _and
there kept until final judgment in the suit in which he was

arrested. If the final judgment shall be against him, he
shall be held for thirty days thereafter, in order that he may
be taken on execution; unless (if the oath for the relief of
poor debtors has not been refused him) he shall recognize
as aforesaid or give bail, or bond as provided in section thirtyeight, or take the oath for the relief of poor debtors, or an
oath that he does not intend to leave the state, or shall be
discharged by the plaintifff.

SECT. 24. If the debtor arrested on execution and taken
before the magistrate shall not desire to take the oath for
the relief of poor debtors, or shall fail to procure surety or
sureties to the satisfaction of the magistrate as before provided, or if upon his examination said oath shall be refused
to him, of which refusal a certificate shall be annexed to the
execution and signed by the magistrate, he shall be conveyed
to jail, and there kept until he shall have recognized as
herein provided, (if the oath for the relief of poor debtors
has not been refused him) or the execution is satisfied, or
until he is released by the creditor, or has given notice as
before provided and taken the oath for the relief of poor
debtors.

SECT. 25. When a person confined in close prison on
mesne process or execution in any civil action shall claim
support as a pauper, the jailer shall furnish his support at
the rate of one dollar and seventy-five cents a week, to be
paid by the creditor. The plaintifff or creditor in such case
shall, if required by the jailer, either from time to time
advance the money necessary for the support of the prisoner,
or give the jailer satisfactory security therefore. If the plaintifff or creditor shall neglect so to do for twenty-four hours
after demand, the jailer may discharge the prisoner. Such
demand may be made of the officer who made the commitment, or of the plaintifff or creditor or his attorney, at any
time after the prisoner has claimed such support.

SECT. 26. If a debtor committed on execution claims
support as a pauper, the creditor may at any time thereafter
order him to be discharged.

SECT. 27. When a debtor is so discharged by order of the
creditor, or by the jailer for want of security or an advance
of money as before provided, the debt and costs with all
sums paid by the creditor for his support in prison shall
remain a legal claim against his goods and estate, and may
be enforced accordingly in the same manner as if he had
not been committed on the execution; but his body shall
never thereafter be liable to arrest or imprisonment for the
same debt, costs, or charges.

SECT. 28. If the debtor undertakes to satisfy the
execution, he shall not be entitled to his discharge therefrom ‘
until he has paid all charges for his support in prison,
both upon the arrest on the original writ and upon the commitment on execution, in addition to the sum due on the
execution and the costs and charges thereon.

PUNISHMENT OF FRAUDLENT DEHIORS.

SECT. 29. When either of the charges named in section
five, numbered second, third, fourth and fifth, shall be made
as therein provided, or when the plaintifff or creditor or any
one in his behalf shall, at any time pending the examination
of the defendant or debtor who has given notice of his desire
to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors, file such
charges in writing, subscribed and sworn to by the plaintifff
or creditor or some person in his behalf, the charges shall
be considered in the nature of a suit at law, to which the
defendant or debtor may plead that he is guilty or not
guilty, and the magistrate may thereupon l1ear and determine the same. The plaintifff or creditor shall not upon
such hearing give evidence of any charges of fraud not
so made or filed, nor of any fraudulent acts of the debtor
committed more than three years before the commencement
of the original action.

SECT. 30. When the hearing is had on the charges of A
fraud mentioned in the preceding section, and judgment is “
rendered thereon by the magistrate, either party may appeal
to the court of common pleas, or in the county of Suffolk
to the superior court, in like manner as from the judgment
of a justice of the peace in civil actions. And the trial in
the court appealed to shall be by a jury, unless the court
shall with the consent of both parties hear and determine it
without a jury.

SECT. 31. If the plaintifff or creditor appeals, he shall,
before the allowance of the appeal recognize with suHicient ‘
surety or sureties to enter and prosecute his appeal with
effect, produce at the court appealed to a copy of all the
proceedings upon said charges, and pay all costs if judgment
shall not be reversed. ‘ If the defendant or debtor appeals,
he shall recognize in like manner and with the further condition that if final judgment shall be against him he will
within thirty days thereafter surrender himself to be taken
on execution and abide the order of the court, or pay to the
plaintifff or creditor the whole amount of the original judgment against him.

SECT. 32. If the defendant or debtor after either of said
charges shall have been made or filed against him shall voluntarily make default at any time appointed for the hearing,
or if upon a final trial he shall be found guilty of any of
them, he shall have no benefit from the proceedings under
this chapter, and may be sentenced by the magistrate or
court before whom the trial is had, to confinement at hard
labor in the house of correction for a term not exceeding
one year, or to confinement in jail not exceeding six months.

C

ICHARGE OF PERSONS IMPRISONED ON WARRANTS OF DISTRESS
IN FAVOR OF THE STATE.

SE01‘. 33. When a person committed to prison on a warrant of distress in favor of the commonwealth is unable to
pay the debt for which he is imprisoned, he shall be entitled
to his discharge in like manner as poor debtors arrested on
execution ; and all the proceedings shall conform as nearly
as may be to the provisions of law in relation to such
debtors, except as hereinafter provided.

SEC1‘. 34. If he shall represent to the jailer that he is
desirous to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors, the
jailer shall make the same known to some magistrate mentioned in section one. The magistrate shall thereupon
appoint a time and place for the examination of the debtor,
and shall notify the district-attorney for the district by a
notice which shall be served on him by an attested copy
thereof in hand, or by leaving the same at his usual place of
abode, thirty days at least before the time appointed for the

examination.

SE01‘. 35. When the place appointed for the examination
shall be out of the city or town where the district-attorney
resides, or he shall from any cause be unable to attend the
examination, he may appoint counsel in his stead; and for
such attendance either by himself or counsel, suitable allowance shall be made by the superior court or court of common

pleas for the county.

CHARGE OR REMOVAL OF INSANE PERSONS IMPRISONED IN
CIVIL CASES.

SECT. 36. When a person confined in jail on mesne
process or execution is supposed to be insane and thereby
rendered incapable of taking the oath for the relief of poor
debtors, any person interested for his removal from jail
on account of his supposed insanity may apply by petition
to the judge of the probate court for the county. in which
he is imprisoned, setting forth the facts. The judge shall
appoint a time and place for a hearing and examination in
the premises, and shall order notice thereof to be given to

the creditor or his attorney seven days previously to the
time appointed. If satisfied upon the examination that the
person is insane, the judge may order his discharge or
removal to either of the state lunatic hospitals, or to such

other place as is provided by law for insane persons in any
city or town in the state.

SECT. 37. When a person is so discharged or removed*
from jail, the legal rights of the creditor shall not be affected Q

thereby, but shall remain as though no commitment had
taken place.

ECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PERSONS IN PRISON OR ON BAIL IN CIVIL
ACTIONS WHEN JUDGMENT IS RECOVERED AGAINST THEM.

SECT. 38. Every person held in prison in a civil action A
at the time when final judgment in such action is rendered 1
against him, shall be discharged upon giving to the creditor '
a bond with sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by i
some magistrate as provided in section one, in a penalty not P

less than double the amount of the judgment, with condition that he shall surrender himself at the same prison, to
the keeper thereof, between the hours of eight and ten
o’clock of the forenoon of the thirtieth day next after the
rendition of said judgment, or if said thirtieth day shall fall
on Sunday, on the next following day, which day shall be
specified in the bond, and there remain until five o’clock of
the afternoon of the same day, so that he may be taken on
the execution issuing on said judgment.

SECT. 39. If an execution issuing on such judgment
amounting to twenty dollars exclusive of costs, and while so
much as that amount remains uucollected, is delivered to an
officer qualified to serve the same, with the affidavit required
for the arrest of a debtor on execution, he may at any time
within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment on
which the same is issued leave said execution, or a copy
thereof, with the jailer; and in such case the debtor shall
upon the surrender of himself as provided in said bond be
committed and held by the jailer upon the execution in like
manner as if he had been taken and committed thereon by
the oiiicer to whom the execution was delivered. The oiiicer
shall return the taking and commitment in like manner,
and be entitled to the same fees, as if the execution had
been served in the common form.

SECT. 40. The jailer shall immediately after the expiration of said term of thirty days certify under his hand, upon
the execution or copy so left with him, the fact that such
debtor has or has not surrendered himself, according to the

truth of the case, and give a similar certificate to the officer
on request, to be annexed to his return on the execution ;
and such certificate shall be deemed sudicient authority to
the officer to make his return accordingly. Such return
with the certificate annexed shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the fact, as well on the question of breach of
condition of the bond as in other cases. If the jailer gives
a false certificate, it shall be deemed misconduct in office,
for which any party injured shall have a remedy in damages.

SECT. 41. If a person who has given bail on mesne process in a civil action is surrendered by his bail after final
judgment in such action, he shall be enlarged upon giving
to the creditor a bond like that before prescribed in section
thirty-eight, except that the condition thereof shall be for
his surrender at the same prison on the thirtieth day next
after the surrender by his bail. The particular day on which
the same will fall, and where there is more than one prison
in the same county the particular prison at which the surrender is to be made, shall be specified in the condition of

the bond. All the other provisions relating to the bond‘

mentioned in section thirty-eight, shall apply to the bond
prescribed in this section.

SECT. 42. Nothing contained in the three preceding sections shall prevent an officer from taking the debtor and
committing him to prison on such execution at any time
within said thirty days after the rendition of judgment or
surrender by the bail, as he might have done ifsuch bond
had not been given. And the commitment of the debtor
in such case shall be deemed equivalent to his surrender
according to the condition of his bond, and shall discharge
the same.

SURRENDER OF PRINCIPAL ON RECOGNIZANCES.

SECT. 43. Whoever shall recognize as surety for another
as provided in this chapter, may at any time before breach
of recognizance surrender his principal and exonerate himself from all further liability, in the manner provided for the
surrender by bail, and all the proceedings on such surrender
shall be the same as is provided in the case of bail.

REMEDY ON RECOGNIZANCES AND BONDS, AND FOR ESCAPES.

SECT. 44. When any recognizance or bond taken under
this chapter shall be broken, the creditor may have a remedy
thereon by action of contract, to be commenced within one
year after such breach ; and judgment shall be entered for
the amount of the penalty, but execution shall issue for so

much thereof only as may be justly and equitably due: provided, that if the recognizance shall have been taken on an
execution, the execution shall not issue for less than the
amount due on the original judgment, with all the lawful

costs and charges arising after the issuing of the original
execution.

SECT. 45. When an escape is made by aprisoner arrested or committed on execution in a civil action, whether the
escape be negligent or voluntary on the part of the officer,
the creditor may in an action of tort against the officer
recover such damages as he shall have sulfered by the escape,
and he may also have his remedy against the original debtor
by a scire facias, or an action of contract on the judgment.

FEES .

SECT. 46. The fees of the magistrate shall be: for hearing an application for a certificate to arrest, one dollar; for
approving sureties and taking a recognizance after arrest,
one dollar; for an examination, two dollars for each day
spent therein. And the plaintifff or creditor causing an
arrest shall pay these fees in advance. If the oath is not
administered, they shall be allowed as part of the service of
the writ or execution. If the plaintifff or creditor shall at
any time after request, make default in payment of the
fees, the magistrate may discharge the defendant or debtor:
provided, that if after the oath shall have been once refu'sed,
the defendant or debtor shall again apply for the benefit of
the same, the fees for such subsequent application and
examination thereon shall be paid by him. The fee of a
magistrate for approving a bond under the provisions of sections thirty-nine and forty shall be one dollar, to be paid by
the applicant.

SECT. 47. The fee of the judge for receiving a petition,
issuing the order of notice, and for the examination and
adjudication under the provisions of section thirty-six, shall
be five dollars, to be paid by the petitioner.

SECT. 48. The fees of the jailer under the provisions of
section forty shall be as follows: on a surrender of a debtor,
fifty cents; and for a certificate thereof, or of the non-surrender of the debtor, twenty-five cents; to be paid by the
officer and charged with the expenses of serving the execution. In other cases where a certificate is required, the jailer
shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-live cents, to be paid by
the party requiring the same.

1
l
I

A

1
J
1

SECT. 4. The bond may be approved by any justice of a
court of record or police court, judge of a probate court,
master in chancery, commissioner of insolvency, or, if no such
magistrate can conveniently be found, by a justice of the
peace and of the quorum, and when so approved the sureties
shall be deemed suilicient. The magistrate shall be paid by
the applicant one dollar for the examination and approval
or disapproval of the bond.

SE01‘. 5. A bail bond shall bind the persons who execute
it, though it is taken with one surety only, or with two or
more sureties when they or either of them have not sufficient
property within the state, or when it is not approved as
aforesaid.

SECT. 6. The bond shall be returned and filed with the
writ, and the clerk shall note on the writ that a bond is so
filed. Upon an appeal, the bond shall be sent with the
other papers to the court appealed to.

SECT. 7. In case of the avoidance of the principal and a
return on the execution that he is not found, his bail shall
be obliged to satisfy the judgment, with interest thereon
from the time it was rendered, unless he shall discharge
himself by surrendering the principal before final judgment
against him on the writ of scire facias, or by other suilicient
defense in that suit.

SECT. 8. The bail bond shall be considered so far a
matter of record and of the nature of a recognizance, that
the creditor may take out a writ of scire facias thereon in
his own name against the bail,in which it shall be sufficient
to allege, substantially, that the defendants became bail,
without setting forth the bond.

SECT. 9. The scire facias shall be issued from the court
in which the judgment against the principal is rendered, and
may be taken out of the clerk’s oilice in vacation as well as
term time.

SECT. 10. No such action shall be maintained against any
person as bail, unless the writ of scire facias is served on
him within one year after the rendition of final judgment
against the principal.

SECT. 11. The defendants in such action may appear
and answer either jointly or severally to the plaintiH’s
allegations.

sunnnnnna or PRINCIPAL, &c.
SECT. 12. The bail may surrender the principal in the

court where the scire facias is pending at any time before.

final judgment therein against them, and on paying the
costs of the scire facias up to that time they shall be
discharged.

SECT. 13. The principal so surrendered shall be committed to the jail, there to remain thirty days in order to his
being taken on execution, unless he shall be sooner discharged
as provided in chapter one hundred and twenty-four.

SECT. 14. The bail may at any time before iinal judgment against him on a writ of scire facias, exonerate himself
from further responsibility, by surrendering his principal as
provided in the five following sections. '

SECT. 15. Such surrender may be made to the keeper of
the jail, either in the county in which the principal was
arrested or in that to which the original writ against the
principal was returnable, and the jailer shall receive the
prisoner and hold him in custody in like manner as if he

had been committed by the officer who arrested him on the
original writ.

SECT. 16. The jailer shall not be obliged to receive a
person so surrendered, unless the bail shall deliver to him a
copy of the bail bond attested by the officer who took it or
the clerk in whose custody it may be. The delivery of such
copy shall be a sufficient warrant for the jailer, although

the surrender and commitment should prove to be unlawful
on the part of the bail.

SECT. 17. The bail shall within fourteen days after such
surrender deliver to the jailer a copy of the original writ
or process whereby the prisoner was arrested, with a copy of
the return indorsed thereon, attested by the oiiicer who
served the writ or the clerk into whose office it is returned.

SECT. 18. He shall also within the same time give notice
in writing to the plaintifff or his attorney, of the time when
and the place where the prisoner was so committed.

SECT. 19. If the surrender is made after a writ of scire
facias is taken out against the bail, he-shall within fourteen
days after the surrender pay the costs of suit on the scire
facias to the creditor or his attorney, or to the jailer for his
use: provided, that if the writ of scire facias has not been
served on the bail, he shall not be required to pay the costs

thereof until twenty-four hours after he has notice of the

issuing of the writ, and after a demand of the costs made
on him by the'creditor.

SI:c'r. 20. Every person, who is surrendered and com- '
mitted shall be received by the jailer, and held in custody. l
He may be forthwith bailed, whether notice of the surrender j
shall or shall not have been given to the plaintifff, and shall
in all respects have the same rights and privileges as if he
had been committed upon the original arrest.

SECT. 21. Nothing contained in the preceding sections:
shall impair the right of bail, in all cases, to surrender their 1
principal in the court in which the original suit is pending, 3
at any time before final judgment; or, after judgment, to
surrender him to the oliicer who may hold the execution,
at any time before the return of the execution.

BAIL IN muons BEFORE JUSTICES or THE Pmcn, &c.

S1-3c'r. 22. When bail is taken in an action before a justice ;
of the peace, police or justices’ court, the justice or court may ,
issue a scire facias against the bail, although the amount of 3
the debt and costs on the original judgment exceeds the 3
amount to which his jurisdiction is otherwise limited; and
the rights and obligations of the bail, and all proceedings
as to the surrender of the principal and the action against
the bail, shall be substantially the same as are provided
with regard to bail when taken in suits in other courts.

SECT. 23. When the bail in a suit before a justice of the 1
peace, police or justices’ court, proposes to surrender his ;
principal in court, either during the pendency of the original a
suit or the scire facias, he shall procure the attendance of
some oilicer qualified to serve legal process in the case, to
whom the principal may be committed.

SECT. 24. Every such officer who is seasonably notified ;
and requested to attend for the purpose aforesaid, shall :
attend, and receive and take charge of the principal if
committed to his custody by the justice.

Sncr. 25. When the principal is surrendered in such:
suit, an entry thereof shall be made on the record, and he 2
shall be forthwith committed to the officer in attendance, J
to be conveyed to jail or otherwise disposed of according to
law. ‘

SE01‘. 26. If "the principal is surrendered before fmal;
judgment in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the

oliicer a copy of the original writ, with the return indorsed
thereon, attested by the justice. If the surrender is after
final judgment in the original suit, the bail shall deliver
to the oiiicer a copy of the entry of the surrender, attested
in like manner. The oiiicer shall deliver the copy to the
jailer, on committing the prisoner to his custody ; and such
copy shall be a sufficient warrant to the oiiicer and the
jailer, for receiving, committing, and holding, the prisoner,
according to law. .

Snow. 27. The officer shall be allowed the same fees, to
be paid by the bail, as are provided for arresting and
committing a defendant on mesne process.

SUPPORT OF PRINCIPAL.

SECT. 28. When a principal surrendered by his bail and
committed to jail, claims support as a pauper, the jailer may
require the plaintifff, or his attorney in the suit, to give
security or advance the money for the support of the defendant in like manner as if the commitment had been made
by an oliicer. If the plaintifff neglects so to do for twentyfour hours after being so required, the jailer may discharge
the defendant.

SE01‘. 29. The jailer in such case may at the time of
the surrender demand of the hail the advance of money for
the support of the principal or security therefore, instead
of demanding the same of the plaintifff ; and if the bail
neglects, for twenty-four hours after such demand to give
such security or advance the money for the support of
the principal, the jailer may discharge him; and the bail
and the principal shall thereupon continue liable to the

plaintifff in all respects as if the surrender had not been
made.

SECT. 30. The bail, if such demand shall be made of
him, shall be liable for the support of the principaluntil
the expiration of seven days after he shall have given notice
of the surrender to the plaintifff or his attorney in the suit.

SECT. 31. The plaintifff shall be liable for the support of
the defendant after the expiration of said seven days; and
if he shall neglect to advance the money or give security
therefore as before provided at or before the expiration of
said time, the jailer may discharge the defendant.

original writ, except in cases in which it is otherwise
specially provided.

SECT. 2. When an action is brought by a person who
is not an inhabitant of this state or who cannot be found
therein to be served with process, he shall be held to
answer to any action brought against him here by the
defendant in the first action, if the demands in the two cases
are of such a nature that the judgment or execution in the
one case can be set o&' against the judgment or execution in
the other. ’

SE01‘. 3. If there are several defendants in the original
action, each of them may bring such cross action against
the original p1ainti&', and may be allowed to set oil‘ his judgment against that which may be recovered against himself
and his co-defendants in like manner as if the latter
judgment had been against himself alone.

SECT. 4. The writ in such cross action may be served
on the person who appears as the attorney of the plaintifff in
the original suit, and such service shall be as valid and
effectual as if made on the party himself within this state.

SE01‘. 5. The court in which the actions or either of
them are pending, may order continuances as they shall
think necessary or proper. to enable the absent party to
defend the action brought against him, and also to enable
either party to set oil‘ his judgment or execution against that
which shall be recovered against him, but the actions shall
not be unreasonably delayed by the neglect or default of
either party. None of the following rules concerning
actions brought against persons out of the state shall apply
to a cross-action brought under the three preceding sections.

SECT. 6. If a defendant is absent from the'state or his
place of residence is not known to the officer serving a
writ, and no personal service is made on him, or if the service
of a writ is defective or insufficient by reason of mistake on
the part of the plaintifff or officer as to the place where or
the person with whom the summons or copy ought to have
been left, the court upon suggestion thereof by the plaintiff
shall order the action to be continued from term to term
until notice of the suit shall be given in such manner as the
court may direct. In any case in which the defendant does
not appear, the court may in their discretion order the
action to be continued and further notice given to him
in such manner as the court may direct.

Sncr. 7. If after such notice in either case, the defendant does not appear at the term to which the action

may be continued, and within the first ten days of the term
file such aiiidavit as he would have been required to file if
sufficient legal service had been made upon him before the
entry of the action, judgment may be rendered against him
upon default.

SECT. 8. When judgment in a personal action is rendered
as provided in the preceding section upon the default of a
defendant who is out of the state or whose residence is
unknown, the plaintiii‘ shall not take out execution thereon
within one year thereafter, unless he shall first give bond
to the defendant with one or more sutiicient sureties in a
sum equal to double the amount recovered, with condition
to repay the amount so recovered if the judgment shall be
reversed, or so much of the amount as shall be recovered
back upon a review to be brought by the original defendant
at any time within one year after the original judgment.

SECT. 9. The bond shall be deposited with the clerk of
the court for the use of the defendant, and the clerk shall
decide on the sufiiciency of the sureties, saving a right of
appeal from his decision to any justice of the court in which
the judgment is rendered. SEC-T. 10. If the execution in such action shall be levied
on real estate, no alienation thereof by the original plaintifff
shall prevent the defendant from retaking the same, or as
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment
if any that he shall recover on such review: provided, that
the writ of review be sued out within one year after the
original judgment.

SE01‘. 11. If the original judgment be for seizin of the
premises demanded in a real action, the demandant may
take out his writ of seizin without giving bond; and if the
judgment be reversed in whole or in part upon a review,
whether sued out within the year or afterwards, the original
tenant may have restitution of the premises in like manner
as upon a reversal on a writ of error.

S1’-3c'r. 12. In personal actions founded on tort against
several defendants, if any one of them is out of the state
at the time of the service of the writ, the suit shall be conducted with regard to him, in every thing relating to the
service of the writ, judgment, review thereof, and execution,
in like manner as if he had been the only defendant in the

C&S0.

SECT. 13. If an action founded on contract is brought
against several defendants, of whom any one is within the

state and any other is absent, and the plaintifff recovers
judgment, he shall take it without any of the conditions and
regulations above provided as to review, g-wing bond, and
alienating real estate ; but he shall not take judgment against
any such absent defendant, unless under such circumstances
as would have entitled him to judgment against the absen

party if he had been the only defendant in the case. ‘

SECT. 14. If an action founded on contract is brought
against several defendants and the writ is duly served on
one or more of them, but no legal service is made on the
others, either by attachment of property or otherwise, by
reason of their absence from the state, or for other suilicient
cause, the action may proceed against those who are duly
served with process, without further proceedings against the
others.

SECT. 15. If judgment shall be rendered against one or
more of several joint contractors in the manner provided
in the preceding section, and shall remain unsatisfied, an
action on the same contract may be afterwards maintained
against any of the other joint contractors, in like manner as
if the contract had been joint and several.

SI-JCT. 16. In real actions against several tenants, if any
one of them is out of the state the suit shall be conducted
with regard to him in like manner as if he had been the
only person sued.

SECT. 17. In mixed actions, if the defendant or any one
of two or more joint defendants, is out of the state, the
suit shall be conducted with regard to the absent defendant,
in every thing relating to the judgment, review, and bond,
in the manner before provided with respect to personal
actions founded on tort; and in every thing relating to the
service of the writ and the notice of the suit to be given to
the defendant, it shall be considered and conducted as a real
action.

officer, the action shall not be abated by the death of either
party, but may be prosecuted by or against the executor or
administrator of the deceased party.

SECT. 3. If judgment in such case is recovered by the
executor or administrator of the officer, the goods or money
recovered shall be held, appropriated, and disposed of, in
the same manner as they would and ought to have been by
the officer if he had lived and recovered the same himself.

SECT. 4. If judgment is rendered against the executor
or administrator of the officer, the goods and damages
recovered shall be returned, delivered, and paid in full,
by the executor or administrator, if he has sufiicient therefore,
although the estate of the deceased should be insolvent.

SECT. 5. In personal actions the cause of which survives,
if there is only one plaintifff or defendant, and the sole
plaintifff or defendant dies after the commencement of the
action at any time before final judgment, the action may
proceed and be prosecuted by or against the surviving
party, and the executor or administrator of the deceased
party, in the manner provided in this chapter.

SE01‘. 6. The action or an appeal therein may be entered
in such cases, if not already entered, and the death of the
party suggested on the record ; and his executor or administrator may, at the same term or within such further time as
the court shall allow, appear and take upon himself the
prosecution or defense of the suit; and it shall be thenceforth
conducted in the same manner as if it had been originally
commenced by or against the same executor or administrator.

SECT. 7. If the executor or administrator does not voluntarily appear, the surviving party may take out a citation
from the court or justice of the peace before whom the
cause is pending, requiring the executor or administrator to

appear and take upon himself the prosecution or defense of
the action.

SECT. 8. The citation if taken in term time may be made
returnable at the same or the next succeeding term as the
court shall order; if taken in vacation, it shall be returnable
at the next term; and if issued by a justice of the peace,
police or justices’ court, it shall be made returnable at such
time as the justice or court shall direct. In all cases it shall
be served fourteen days at least before the‘ return day.

SECT. 9. If the executor or administrator does not
appear on the return of the citation, or Within such further

time as the court or justice may allow, he shall be nonsuited
or defaulted and judgment shall be rendered against him in
like manner as if the action had been originally commenced
by or against him, in his said capacity, except as provided in
the following section.

SECT. 10. When an executor is nonsuited or defaulted
without having taken upon himself the prosecution or
defense of the action, he shall not be personally liable for

costs in the action; but the estate of the deceased in his,

hands shall be liable for the costs, as well as for the debt or
damages if any are recovered. SECT. 11. When there are several plaintifffs or defendants
in a personal action the cause of which survives, and any of
them die before final judgment, the action shall proceed at
the suit of the surviving plaintifff, or against the surviving
defendant, as the case may be. '

SECT. 12. If in such case all the plaintifffs or all the
defendants shall die, the action may be prosecuted or
defended by or against the executor or administrator of the
last surviving plaintifff or defendant respectively, in like
manner as if the surviipr had been originally the only
plaintifff or defendant.

DEATH OF PARTIES IN _REAL AND MIXED ACTIONS.

SECT. 13. In real and mixed actions, if the demandant
dies defore final judgment, his heir or devisee of the land
demanded or of the right of action may, at the same term
when the death is suggested, or within such further time as
the court shall allow, appear and prosecute the suit in the
same manner as if it had been originally commenced by
him. And in case of a devise, if the first estate in possession under the devise is not a fee simple, the devisee of the
first freehold estate in possession shall have the right to

appear and prosecute, and the judgment if in his favor shall
be conformed to his title.

SECT. 14. If there are several demandants, and any of
them die before final judgment, the heir or devisee of the
deceased party shall be admitted, on motion, to prosecute
the suit jointly with the survivors, in the same manner as if
he had originally joined with them in commencing the suit.

SEcr. 15. If the interest of the deceased party passes to
the surviving demandants, or if there is no motion for the
admission of another person as heir or devisee at the term
when the death of the deceased party is suggested, or within

such further time as the court shall allow, the surviving
demandants may prosecute the suit for so much of the
premises in question as may then be claimed by them.

SECT. 16. If the tenant dies before final judgment, his
heir or devisee of the land demanded, may at the term when
the death is suggested, or within such further time as the
court shall allow, appear and take upon himself the defense
of the suit, which shall thenceforth be conducted in the
same manner as if it had been originally commenced against
him. If the heir or devisee does not voluntarily appear, the
demandant may take out‘ a citation from the court before
whom the cause is pending, requiring him to appear and
take upon himself the defense of the suit.

SECT. 17. When any of several tenants in a real or mixed
action die before 'iinal judgment, the action may be prosecuted against the surviving tenants for so much of the
premises as they hold or claim.

DEATH OF PARTIES, IN PETITIONS FOB PARTITION, &C.

SECT. 18. The same proceedings as are prescribed in the
live preceding sections, shall Ive had in all petitions and
actions for partition of lands, in case of the death of any of
the parties, except as is provided in the two following sections.

SECT. 19. If upon the death of either of several plaintifffs or petitioners in a suit for partition the interest of the
deceased party shall pass to the surviving plaintifffs or
petitioners, or to any person who shall be admitted to join
them in the suit, it shall be prosecuted in the manner before
provided respecting real actions; but if the interest of the
deceased party shall pass to any person who is not so admitted
as a plaintifff or petitioner, such person may by order of the
court he made a defendant or respondent, and the same
proceedings may be had against him as would have been
necessary to make him an original defendant or respondent.

SECT. 20. If upon the death of either of several defendants or respondents the interest of the deceased party
shall pass to the surviving defendants or respondents, the
suitanay proceed against them without any new process;
but if the interest of the deceased party shall pass to any
other person, that person may be made a defendant or
respondent in the manner prescribed in the preceding section.

MARRIAGE.

SECT. 21. If an unmarried woman who is a party to a
suit either alone or with others marries before final judgSECTION 1. All actions which would have survived if
they had been commenced by or against the original party
iii his lifetime, may be commenced and prosecuted by and
against his executors and administrators.

SECT. 2. When an action of tort is commenced or prosecuted against the executor or administrator of the person
originally liable, the plaintifff shall be entitled. to recover
only for the value of the goods taken, or for the damage
actually sustained, without any vindictive or exemplary
damages, or damages for any alleged outrage to the feelings
of the injured party.

Snow. 3. ‘When the executor, or administrator of a trustee,
carrier, depositary, or other person, who claimed only a
special property in goods to hold them for the use and
benefit of another, shall recover such goods or damages for
the taking or detention thereof in an action of replevin or
tort, the goods or money recovered shall not be considered
as assets in his hands, but shall after deducting the costs and
expenses of the suit be paid over and delivered to the
person for whose use and benefit they were so held or
claimed by the deceased person.

SECT. 4. When judgment for a return in an action of
replevin shall be rendered against an executor or administrator, the goods returned by him shall not be considered as
assets in his hands; and if they shall have been included in
the inventory, it shall be a suilicient discharge for the
executor or administrator to show that they have been
returned in pursuance of such judgment.

SECT. 5. Writs of attachment and executions against
executors or administrators for debts due from the deceased
testator or intestate, shall run only against the goods and
estate of the deceased in their hands, and not against their
bodies, goods, or estate.

SECT. 6. When a judgment for costs is rendered against
an executor or administrator in an action commenced by or
against him, or in an action commenced by or against the
testator or intestate, wherein the executor or administrator
has appeared and taken upon himself the prosecution or
defense, he shall be personally liable for the costs.

SECT. 7. When judgment is recovered against an executor or administrator for costs only, the execution shall be

awarded against his body, goods, and estate, as if it were
for his own debt.

SECT. 8. When the judgment is for debt or damages, and
costs, an execution for the debt or damages shall be awarded
against the goods and estate of the deceased in the hands of
the executor or administrator, and another execution for
the costs, against the goods, estate, and body, of the executor
or administrator, as if it were for his own debt.

SECT. 9. Costs paid by executors or administrators, and
for which they are made personally liable, shall be allowed
in their administration accounts, unless the probate court
shall decide that the suit was prosecuted or defended without
reasonable cause. ‘

S1-:c'r. 10. When an execution against an executor or
administrator for a debt due from the estate of the deceased
is returned unsatisfied, the creditor may upon a suggestion
of waste sue out a scire facias against the executor or
administrator If the defendant shall not appear and show
suiiicient cause to the contrary, he shall be deemed guilty
of waste, and shall be personally liable for the amount
thereof, when it can be ascertained, otherwise for the
amount due on the original judgment, with interest from
the time when it was rendered ; and judgment and execution
shall be awarded as for his own debt.

SECT. 11. When an executor or administrator dies or is
removed from oiiice during the pendency of a suit in
which he is a party, the suit may be prosecuted by or against
the administrator de bomls non in like manner as if it had
been originally commenced by or against such last," administrator. SECT. 12. The proceedings in such case, with respect to
the appearance of the administrator de bonis non, whether
voluntarily or upon a citation, and with respect to his
nonsuit or default if he does not appear, shall be conducted
in the manner ' prescribed in chapter one hundred and
twenty-seven upon occasion of the death of either party
during the pendency of a suit.

SECT. 13., If an executor or administrator dies or is

removed after judgment is rendered either for or against,

him, a scire facias may be sued out either by or against the
administrator de bonis non, and a new execution may be
issued in like manner as it may be done by or against
an original executor or administrator, in case of the death
of his testator or intestate after a judgment rendered

First——Actions of contract, which shall include those
heretofore known as actions of assumpsit, covenant, and
debt, except for penalties.

Second—Actions of tort, which shall include those heretofore known as actions of trespass, trespass on the case,
trover, and all actions for penalties.

Third—Actions of replevin.

In Equity.

SE01‘. 2. Suits in equity may be commenced by bill or
petition with a writ of subpoena according to the usual
course of proceedings in equity, or by a declaration in an
action of contract or tort as the case may be, with or without
an order for the attachment of the goods of the defendant.

SE01‘. 3. If a discovery is sought it may be by such bill
or petition, or by being made part of such declaration, or by
interrogatories as prescribed in this chapter. Answers
thereto shall be made without unnecessary delay, and questions arising thereon shall be determined by the rules applicable to bills of discovery.

SE01‘. 4. When relief is sought in equity the material
facts and circumstances relied on shall be stated with brevity,
omitting all immateral and irrelevant matter.

SE01‘. 5. A defense in equity shall be made either by
demurrer or answer. A demurrer shall be accompanied
with a certificate that it is not intended for delay; and an

answer shall be supported by oath unless waived by the
adverse party. ‘ ‘

Declarations, &~c.

SE01‘. 6. The forms of declaring in personal actions shall
be according to the following particulars:

First—The action shall be named in conformity with the
divisions specified in section one.

Second—N o averment need be made which the law does
not require to be proved.
Third—-The substantive facts necessary to constitute the

cause of action may be stated with substantial certainty, and
without unnecessary verbiage.

Fourth—One count only need be inserted for each cause
of action, but any number of breaches may be assigned in
each count, and when the nature of the case requires it
breaches may be assigned in the alternative. Two causes
of action, not arising on the same contract, shall not be
embraced in one count, except the count on an account

1 annexed as hereinafter provided.

Fifth—Any number of counts for different causes of l
action‘ belonging to the same division of actions may be 9
inserted in the same declaration. Actions of contract and
actions of tort shall not be joined; but when it is deemed
doubtful to which of those classes a particular cause of
action belongs, a count in contract may be joined with a
count in tort, averring that both are for one and the same
cause of action. ’

Sixth—The common counts shall not be used unitedly,i
but each one of those counts may be used in the form here- ‘
inafter prescribed when the natural import of its terms correctly describes the cause of action.

Seventh—A count on an account annexed, in the form t
hereinafter prescribed, may be used in an action of contract,
when one or more items are claimed either of which would
be correctly described by any one of the common counts
according to the natural import of its terms.

Eighth—In place of the form of declaration heretofore ;
used in the action of trover, the form hereinafter prescribed ‘
shall be used. '

Ninth—All written instruments except policies of insur- ;
ance shall be declared on by setting out a copy or of such 5
part as is relied on, or the legal effect thereof, with proper ‘
averments to describe the cause of action. If the whole
contract is not set out, a copy or the original, as the court
may direct, shall be filed on motion of the adverse party.
Where it may be necessary, the copy so filed shall, if the court
so order, be part of the record, as if oyer had been granted
of a deed declared on according to the common law. No
profert or excuse therefore need be inserted in a declaration.
If the instrument relied on is lost or destroyed, or is not in
the power of the party who relies on it, he shall state the
substance of it as nearly as he can, and the reason why a
copy is not given. ’

Tenth—When a bond, or other conditional obligation,
contract, or grant, is declared on, the condition shall be
deemed part of the obligation, contract, or grant, and ‘
shall be set forth; breaches relied on shall be assigned; and
conditions precedent to the right of the party relying thereon, shall be averred to have been performed, or his excuse
for the non-performance thereof stated.

SE01‘. 7. In real actions founded on mortgage titles, the
declaration shall allege the seizin to be “ in mortgage.”

SECT. 8. Persons severally liable upon contracts in
writing, including all parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of them be joined in the same
action. The declaration may include one count. only,
describing the several contracts of the defendants when the

same contract was made by each; or different counts,. '

describing the different contracts of the defendants when,
as in the case of maker and indorser, the same contract was
not made by all. The court shall take such order for the
separate trial of the issues as shall be found most convenient,
and shall enter several judgments according to the ‘several
contracts of the defendants, and issue one or more executions, as the case may require.

SE01‘. 9. A general statute maybe referred to in declarations or other pleadings by specifying the chapter containing
the provision referred to, or mentioning in general terms the.
subject of the statute, or referring to it in such manner as
shall indicate with suliicient certainty the statute intended.

SECT. 10. In actions of tort for breaking and entering the
plaintifff’s close, the place of the alleged trespass shall be
designated in the plaintifff’s declaration by name, abuttals,
or other proper description.

SECT. 11. In actions of contract and actions of tort,
unless an arrest of the person is made, the writ need not
contain a declaration, nor any description of the cause of

action in which it is intended to declare, other than the
name of the form thereof.

SECT. 12. The declaration may be filed in the clerk’s
office on or before the day to which the writ is returnable,
unless an arrest of the person is made. If there is an attachment of property, the declaration and bill of particulars,
when necessary, if not inserted in the writ, shall also be furnished to the defendant or his attorney within three days

after he shall have demanded the same in writing of the
plaintifff or his attorney.

SECT. 13. If no declaration shall have been inserted in
the writ or filed in the clerk’s office pursuant to the preceding
section, it shall be a discontinuance of the action, and the
defendant or trustee may have judgment for costs : provided,
that the court may at any time during the return term of
the writ, for good cause shown and upon suitable terms,
allow the plaintifff to file his declaration, and the action
shall not be discontinued if the declaration is filed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.

SECT. 14. In actions of contract, when either of the common counts is used, the plaintifff shall file a bill of particulars with his writ when the action is entered. The items in
such bill shall be numbered consecutively, and it shall be

deemed to be part of the record and be answered or replied
to as such. Demurrers.

SECT. 15. To raise an issue in law, the answer shall contain a statement that the defendant demurs to the declaration or to some one or more counts therein, as the case
may be, and shall assign specially the causes of demurrer.

SECT. 16. Demurrers may be for the following, among
other causes:

First-—That counts in contract and in tort, or either with
replevin, or a count in the plaintiii"s own right and a count
in some representative capacity, are improperly joined in the
declaration.

Second—That the declaration or some count thereof as the
case may be, does not state a legal cause of action substantially in accordance with the rules contained in this chapter.

Third—That the answer does not state a legal defense to
the declaration or some count thereof, as the case may be,
substantially in accordance with such rules.

The particulars in which the alleged defect consists shall
be specially pointed out, and the attorney if any, shall certify
upon the demurrer, that he is of opinion that there is such
probable ground in law therefore as to make it a fit subject for
judicial inquiry and trial, and that it is not intended merely
for delay.

Answers, Replications, &c.

SECT. 17. Any defense to a real, personal, or mixed
action, which might have been made by plea in abatement,
may be made by answer containing such allegations or
denials as may be necessary to constitute such defense.

SECT. 18. When an answer in abatement shall be overruled on demurrer, or an amendment is allowed and made
by the plaintifff in consequence of such answer in abatement,
the defendant shall then answer, or in a real or mixed action
plead, to the merits, within such time as the court shall
order.

SECT. 19. Special pleas in bar as formerly used are
abolished, and the general issue in all except real and mixed
actions, and in place thereof the defendants shall file an
answer to the declaration. In real and mixed actions the
defendant may give in evidence under the general issue all
matters which might formerly have been pleaded in bar.

8 Hot. 287. 12 Met. 164. 7 Cush..508. . 4 Gray, 65.

SECT. 20. Two or more defendants making the same
defense may answer jointly. Different consistent defenses
may be separately stated in the same answer.

SECT. 21. The answer shall deny in clear and precise
terms every substantive fact intended to be denied in each
count of the declaration separately, or shall declare the
defendant’s ignorance of the fact so that he can neither
admit nor deny but leaves the plaintifff to prove the same.

SECT. 22. In answering the common counts and the
count on an account annexed, the defendant shall answer
specifically every item contained in the bill of particulars
or account annexed, but he may make one and the same
allegation or denial concerning any number of items to
which such allegation or denial is applicable, specifying the
number of the items thus answered together when less than
the whole. If the defendant shall deny that any item is
due or payable or that he owes the plaintifff as alleged, he
shall state all the substantive grounds on which he intends
to rest such denial, and shall specify whether some and what
part or the whole of such item or demand is denied.

SECT. 23. In all cases in which a denial is made by
answer, affidavit, or otherwise, concerning a time, sum,
quantity, or place, alleged, the party denying shall declare
whether such denial is applicable to every time, sum, quantity, or place, or not; and if not, what time, sum, quantity,
or place, he admits.

SECT. 24. The answer shall set forth in clear and precise
terms each substantive fact intended to be relied upon in
avoidance of the action; and when the answer sets up the
statute of limitations, the statute of frauds, or any other
legal bar, the defendant shall not be deprived of the benefit
of such defense by reason of his not denying the facts set
forth in the declaration.

SECT. 25. Copies of written instruments when relied on
in an answer or subsequent allegation, shall be set out, or
copies or the originals shall be filed, in the manner prescribed in the ninth clause of section five when they are
declared on. '

SECT. 26. When a conditional obligation, interest, or
grant, is relied on in an answer or subsequent allegation,
the condition shall be deemed a part of the instrument, and
similar averments shall be required in pleading on the same
as are required by the tenth clause of section five.

SECT. 27. No further pleading shall be required after the
answer, except by order of the court as hereinafter mentioned. But the plaintifff may demur to the answer; and if
the answer contains any new matter in avoidance of the

action, such new matter shall be deemed to be denied by the
plaintifff; or the court may on motion of the defendant require
the plaintifff to reply thereto, and state whether he admits or
denies any and if any what part thereof. The plaintifff may
if he pleases without such order, at any time before trial,
file a replication to the answer, clearly and specifically
stating any facts in reply to the new matter therein.

SECT. 28. The replication may raise an issue in law, by
the statement that the plaintifff demurs to the answer or to
so much thereof as applies to one or more counts in the
declaration, as the case may be, assigning specially the
causes of such demurrer; and in like manner either party
may demur to the allegation of the other party. But no
defect of form merely, either in the declaration or subsequent allegation, shall be assigned as a cause of demurrer.
The opposite party shall be deemed to join in demurrer if he
shall not amend, which he may do within such time and
upon such terms as the court may allow.

SECT. 29. An answer or replication may allege facts
which have occurred since the institution of the suit, and the
plaintifff and defendant may be allowed by the court to make
a supplemental declaration, answer, or replication, alleging
material facts which have occurred or come to the knowledge of the party since the former declaration, answer, or
replication.

SECT. 30. Either party may allege any fact or title alternatively, declaring his belief of one alternative or the other
and his ignorance whether it be the one or the other.

SECT. 31. The allegations and denials of each party shall
be so construed by the court as to secure as far as possible
substantial precision and certainty and discourage vagueness and loose generalities. Any substantive fact alleged
with substantial precision and certainty, and not denied in
clear and precise terms, shall be deemed to be admitted.
No party shall be required to state evidence or to disclose
the means by which he intends to prove his case.

SECT. 32. A suit shall be deemed at issue when the allegations are closed, or if it be a real or mixed action, when
the plea is filed.

PRACTICE.

Indorsement of Process after Entry.

SECT. 33. If a plaintifff in any writ or suit at law or in
equity shall after its commencement remove from the state,

the court where the suit is pending, on motion of any other
party shall, and in all cases when it appears reasonable may,
require the plaintifff to procure a sufiicient indorser.

SECT. 34. If an indorser removes from the state or is
insuliicient, the court if it appears reasonable may require
the plaintifff to procure a sufficient indorser.

SECT. 35. The supreme judicial court may require an
indorser or security for the payment of costs in any probate
case or proceeding in that court.

SECT. 36. If the plaintifff shall fail in any case to procure
an indorser according to the order of the court, the suit
shall be dismissed and the defendant recover his costs.

SECT. 37. The court in which any suit is pending may
permit the name of an indorser to be stricken out and a new
and suiiicient indorser to be substituted. Every indorser
shall be liable for costs from the commencement of the suit,
in like manner as indorsers before the entry of an action.

Abatement.

SEc'r. 38. N o writ, process, declaration, or other proceeding, in the courts or course of justice, shall be abated,
arrested, quashed, or reversed, for any circumstantial errors
or mistakes, when the person and case may be rightly understood by the court, nor through defect or want of form only.

SECT. 39. When the defendant in an action of contract
shall answer in abatement, the nonjoinder of any other
person as defendant, the court may at any time before issue
joined on such answer, allow the plaintifff on such terms
as they shall prescribe to amend his declaration by inserting therein the name of any other person as defendant, and
declaring against him jointly with the original defendant.

SECT. 40. The plaintifff may thereupon take out a new
writ in such form as the court shall prescribe, which shall
be in the nature of an original writ of capias and attachment, or of summons, and shall require the new defendant
to appear and answer as a defendant in the original action.
Upon such writ the new°defendant’s body may be arrested,
or his goods or estate may be attached, as upon an original
writ; and the writ shall be returnable at such time as the
court shall order, and be served fourteen days at least before
the return day.

SECT. 41. Upon the return of such new writ, every
defendant named therein upon whom service has been made

shall be bound to appear and answer with the other defendants, in the same manner as if he had been originally made
a party in the first writ. If service cannot be made on a
defendant, the action may proceed against the other defendants, in the manner provided in chapter one hundred and
twenty-six.

SECT. 42. Judgment shall be rendered and execution.

shall issue for either party, in the same manner as if the

original writ had been issued against all the defendants; 1

and the plaintifff shall have the same benefit of any attachment or. bail upon each of said writs, as if the same had
been made or taken in the usual manner upon the original
writ.

SECT. 43. If an issue of fact upon an answer in abatement is found against the defendant, a final judgment shall
be rendered against him in the manner heretofore required
by law in case of a plea in abatement.

Amendments.

SECT. 44. No action shall be defeated by plea or answer
in abatement, if the defect found is capable of amendment,
and is amended on such terms as may be prescribed by the
court. The defendant may have leave to amend an answer
in abatement, or to answer over by special order of the
court, for good cause shown, and not otherwise.

SECT. 45. At any time before final judgment in a civil
suit, amendments may be allowed, on such terms as shall
be just and reasonable, introducing any party necessary to
be joined as plaintifff or defendant, discontinuing as to any
joint plaintifff or defendant, changing the form of the action,
and in any other matter either of form or substance in any
process, pleading, or proceeding, which may enable the
plaintifff to sustain the action for the cause for which it was
intended to be brought, or the defendant to make a legal
defense. ‘

2 Cash. 1, 4%, 3 Cash. 418. 8Cush. 271,355, 8 Gray, 71.
492, 555. 4 Club. 23). 1 Gray, 000. 4 Guy, 488,

SECT. 46. After judgment in any civil action, defects or
imperfections in matter of form found in the record or
proceedings may be rectified and amended by the court in

: which the judgment is rendered, or by the court to which it
i shall be removed by writ of error, if substantial justice
« requires it, and if the amendment is in aliirmance of the

judgment.

Defaults.

SECT. 47. When a defendant being duly served with
process shall fail to appear, his default shall be recorded, the
charge in the declaration taken to be true, and judgment
rendered accordingly.

SECT. 48. If after such default at the first term the
defendant appears before the jury is dismissed, the court
may take off the default and allow the appearance to be
entered upon the defendant’s paying the plaintifffs costs up
to that time, or such part thereof as the court shall think
reasonable.

SECT. 49. In all actions at law in the supreme judicial
court, superior court of the county of Suffolk, or court of
common pleas, the court shall at any time after ten days
from the return day of the writ, or as of course on the last
day of the return term, enter a default as against any
defendant on whom legal service has been made, unless the
defendant or some one in his behalf shall have filed within
said ten days, or on or before the last day of said term when
the same may not exceed ten days, an aliidavit that he verily

believes that the defendant has a substantial defense to the '

action on its merits, and intends to bring the same to trial:
provided, that upon good cause shown the time for filing
such affidavit may be extended for such reasonable time as
the court may order.

Interrogatories.

SECT. 50. In civil actions the plaintifff may at any time
after the entry of the action, and the defendant at any time
after answer, or if it be a real or mixed action after plea,
and before the case is opened to the jury, file in the clerk’s
office interrogatories for the discovery of facts and documents material to the support or defense of the suit, to be
answered on oath by the adverse party.

SECT. 51. To such interrogatories there shall be annexed
an affidavit of the interrogating party or his attorney, to the
effect that he has reason to believe that the party interrogating will derive some material benefit in the action from
the discovery which he seeks, if the same be fairly made,
and that the discovery is not sought for the purpose of delay.

SECT. 52. Such interrogatories shall be answered and
the answers filed in the clerk’s office within ten days after
the same are notified to the party interrogated or his
attorney, unless upon cause shown either before or after
the lapse of ten days further time is allowed by the court.

Sncr. 53. The answers shall be in writing, signed by

the party and upon his oath.

SECT. 54. If the party to a suit is a corporation, the;
opposite party may examine the president, treasurer, clerk, .3

or any director or other oiiicer thereof, in the same manner
as if he were a party to the suit.

Sncr. 55. Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully. The party interrogated may introduce
into his answer any matter relevant to the issue to which the
interrogatory relates.

SECT. 56. When any document, book, voucher, or other
writing, called for by an interrogatory, contains matters not
pertinent to the subject matter of the action, the answer
may so state, and that such part has been scaled up or
otherwise protected from examination; and thereupon such
part shall not be inspected by the party interrogating ; but
such party may apply to the court and obtain an order to
have liberty to inspect the part so protected from examination, or so much thereof as the court shall tind on hearing
the parties, or if necessary by inspecting the part so protected, was improperly withheld and concealed.

SECT. 57. The party interrogated shall not be obliged to
answer a question or produce a document the answering or

producing of which would tend to criminate himself, or disclose his title to any property the title whereof is not material
to the trial of the action in the course of which he is interrogated ; or to disclose the names of the witnesses by whom or
the manner in which he proposes to prove his own case.

SECT. 58. If an answer contains irrelevant matter or
is not full and clear, or if an interrogatory is not answered,
and the party interrogated refuses to expunge or amend,
or to answer a particular interrogatory, the court or any
justice thereof may on motion order such irrelevant matter
to be expunged, or such imperfect answer to be made full
and clear, or such interrogatory to be answered, within
such time as may seem reasonable.

SECT. 59. When an answer is adjudged irrelevant or
insuiiicient, or when a party is ordered to answer an interrogatory, such order may be made respecting costs, either
in the action or otherwise, as the court may direct by
general rules or a special order in each case.

SECT. 60. If a party neglects or refuses to expunge,
amend, or answer, according to the requisition of this chapter, the court may enter a nonsuit or default as the case
may require and proceed thereon according to law.

S1-xrr. 61. During the trial of any action the court may
allow interrogatories to be filed, to be answered forthwith
or with as little delay as practicable, and may suspend the
trial for the purpose of having the same answered; but such
interrogatories must be accompanied by an affidavit stating
the reasons why they were not filed earlier; and unless the
court upon the whole matter shall find that due diligence
has been used, the interrogatories shall not be filed.

Interlocutory Orders.
SECT. 62. The court may in all cases order either party

to file a statement of such particulars as may be necessary a

to give the other party, and the court, reasonable knowledge
of the nature and grounds of the action or defense.

SECT. 63. Orders allowing amendments before trial, or a
supplemental answer or replication, or enlarging time, and
any other interlocutory order necessary to prepare the case
for trial, may be made either by the court while in session,
or any justice thereof, in any county, either in term time or
vacation; but the several courts shall prescribe such fixed
rules respecting notice, the times and places for motions at
chambers, and other matters, as they shall from time to time
deem necessary.

Agreements of Parties.

Snow. 64. Any of the orders mentioned in the preceding
section may be entered by consent in writing signed by the
parties or their attorneys. All agreements of attorneys
touching any suit or proceeding shall be in writing; otherwise they shall be of no validity.

Snow. 65. If the parties agree to continue a case until
the next term it shall be continued accordingly; but the
court may by a general or special order regulate the place
on the docket in which the case shall stand at the next term.
Parties may make agreements respecting amendments and
the time of filing papers, which agreements shall be equivalent to an order of the court to the same effect.

Ofer of Judgment. '

Snow. 66. When a defendant in an action at law or suit
in equity, wherein damages only are sought to be recovered,
shall offer in court and consent in writing to be defaulted,

and that judgment shall be rendered against him, as damages for a sum therein specified, the same shall be entered
of record together with the time when it was tendered;
and the plaintifff may at any time within ten days after he
has received notice of such oifer and consent accept the
offer, and the court shall render judgment accordingly, with
costs to the date of the notice. If after such notice the
court shall for good cause grant the plaintifff a further time
to elect, he may signify his acceptance within the time
allowed, and judgment shall be rendered as if the acceptance
had been within ten days.

SECT. 67. If the plaintifff does not elect to accept such
offer, and shall not recover a greater sum than the sum
so odered, not including interest on the sum recovered in
damages from the date of the offer, the defendant shall
have judgment for his costs after said date, for which execution shall issue, and the plaintifff, if he recovers damages,
shall be allowed his costs only to the date of the offer.

Hearing-, Trial, Evidence.

Sncr. 68. Every demurrer may in the first instance be
heard by a single justice, and if taken in term time during
the same term if practicable; and his decision as to the
misjoinder of counts shall be final, an amendment being
allowed as herein provided. But if the cause of demurrer
shall be that the facts do not in point of law support or
answer the action, and the party against whom the decision
shall be made shall not pray for leave to amend, such decision
shall not be iinal, but the demurrer may be further heard
upon appeal or otherwise as is provided in respect to such
questions of law. When a demurrer is sustained, overruled,
or withdrawn, the court shall make such order as may be fit,
respecting the Iiling of an answer or replication, or a trial of
the facts.

SECT. 69. If a demurrer appears to the judge who first
hears the same, to be frivolous, immaterial, or intended for
delay, he may besides overruling it order the party to
plead, answer, or reply, notwithstanding such party shall
claim the right to be further heard by appeal or otherwise
on his demurrer; and thereupon the case shall proceed
to a Iinal judgment as if no demurrer had been filed, and
execution may be awarded or stayed on such terms as
the court may deem reasonable, as in cases of exceptions
adjudged frivolous.

Seer. 70. In all civil actions trial by jury may be
waived by the consent in writing of the several parties or

their counsel filed with the clerk at any time before the
trial, and the cause shall thereupon be heard and determined
by the court, and judgment entered as in case of verdict by

a jury. SE01‘. 71. Either party may file exceptions to the decisions
and rulings of the court upon matters of law arising upon
such trial, move for a new trial for mistake of law or for
newly discovered evidence, and be entitled to review, in the
same manner and with the same effect as upon trial by jury.

SECT. 72. Atrial shall not be delayed for want of a reply
to the defendant’s answer, unless by special order of the
court; nor shall an agreement of parties respecting nling
amendments of papers operate to postpone the trial of an
action beyond the time at which by the rules of the court it

would be tried. '

S1-301'. 78. A trial shall not be delayed for the reason that
interrogatories have been filed and the time allowed for
answering the same has not elapsed, but the court may
allow an examination during the trial as is herein before
provided.

S1-:c'r. 74. When it shall appear on a trial that a local
action has been brought in an erroneous venue, the court
may of its own motion order a nonsuit to be entered, unless
good cause shall be shown why the trial should be allowed
to proceed.

Swr. 75. If the plaintifff shall fail to give evidence at the
trial in support of any count in the declaration not wholly
or partly confessed by the answer, it shall forthwith be
stricken out. And the court may, either of their own
motion or upon motion of a party, require unnecessary
counts and statements to be stricken out of a declaration or
any subsequnt proceeding, and may impose such terms as
may be deemed reasonable.

SE01‘. 76. Neither the declaration, answer, nor any subsequent allegation, shall be deemed evidence on the trial,
but allegations only whereby the party making them is
bound.

SECT. 77. No offer or consent, made in pursuance of sections sixty-six and sixty-seven, which shall not be accepted,
shall be evidence against the party making the same, either
in any subsequent proceeding in the action or suit in which
such offer is made, or in any other action or suit.

SE01‘. 78. The answer of each party to interrogatories ;
filed, may be read at the trial by the other party as evidence; I
the party interrogated may require that the whole of the 5
answers upon any one subject matter inquired of shall be j
read, if a part of them is read; but if no part is read, the
party interrogated shall in no way avail himself of his examination, or the fact that he has been examined.

SEGT. 79. When a defendant shall answer two or more
matters in his defense, no averment, confession, or acknowledgment, contained in one of them, shall be used or taken as

evidence against him on the trial of any issue joined on any
other of them.

SECT. 80. If the defendant in an action for slander or
publishing a libel, shall justify that the words spoken or
published were true, such allegation though not maintained
by the evidence, shall not be of itself proof of the malice
alleged in the declaration.

Snow. 81. In every prosecution and in every civil action
for writing or for publishing a libel, the defendant may upon

-the trial give in evidence the truth of the matter contained

in the publication charged as libellous; and such evidence

shall be deemed a sufficient justification, unless malicious
intention shall be proved.

Issues of Fact in 

SE01‘. 82. When in a suit in equity it is necessary or
proper to have any fact tried by a jury, it shall be done in
such manner as the court shall direct.

Arrest of Judgment.

Sncr. 83. A judgment shall not be arrested for any cause
existing before the verdict, unless the same affects the jurisdiction of the court. And when the defendant has appeared
and answered to the merits of the action, no defect in the
writ or other process by which he has been brought before

the court, or in the service thereof, shall be deemed to affect
the jurisdiction of the court.

General Provisions.

Sscr. 84. When a change happens in a suit after
its commencement, the court may allow such suggestions to be entered on the record as circumstances may
require.

SECT. 85. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
deemed to change any rule of evidence, the measure of damages, the jurisdiction of any court, or the locality of any

action, except so far as the same is herein specially provided
for.

SECT. 86. The cause of action shall be deemed to be the
same for which the action was brought, when it shall be
made to appear to the court that it is the cause of action
relied on by the plaintifff when the action was commenced,
however the same may be misdescribed; and the adjudication of the court allowing an amendment shall be conclusive
evidence of the identity of the cause of action. But no
subsequent attaching creditor, or purchaser of property
attached in the suit, or bail, or any person other than the
parties to the record, shall be bound by such adjudication,
unless he shall have had due notice of the application for
leave to amend and opportunity to be heard thereon, according to an order of notice to that effect to be issued by the
court upon application of the plaintiii‘, and such third parties
shall have the right to except or appeal.

SECT. 87. When a party to any suit or proceeding undethis chapter is a corporation, all ‘precepts, answers, replications, or other papers, requiring the signature or oath or
the party, may be signed or sworn to in behalf of the corporation by some oilicer or agent thereunto specially authorized.

SECT. 88. None of the foregoing provisions, except those
contained in sections seven, nine, ten, twelve, thirteen, sixteen, eighteen, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirtyIive, thirty-six, thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty,
forty-one, forty-two, forty-three, forty-four, forty-five, fortysix, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty, fifty-one, fiftytwo, fifty-three, fifty-four, Iifty-five, fifty-six, fifty-seven,
fifty-eight, fifty-nine, sixty, sixty-one, sixty-three, sixtyfour, sixty-five, sixty-eight, sixty-nine, seventy, seventy-one,
so much of seventy-two as relates to agreement of parties,
sections seventy-three, seventy-four, seventy-six, seventyseven, seventy—eight, seventy-nine, eighty-two, eighty-three,
eighty-four, eighty-five, eighty-six, and ninety, shall be
deemed applicable to real or mixed actions, unless specially
named.

SECT. 89. Sections one, six, eight, nine, ten, fourteen,
twenty-five, twenty-six, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-six,
thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty, forty-one, fortytwo, forty-five, forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, fifty, fiftyone, fifty-two, fifty-three, fifty-four, lifty-five, fifty-six, fiftyseven, fifty-eight, iifty-nine, sixty, sixty-one, sixty-two,

sixty-six, six -seven, seventy-three, eventy-six, seventyseven, seventy-eight, seventy-nine, eighty, eighty-one, eightythree, eighty-four, eighty-five, eighty-six, and ninety only,
of this chapter shall apply to civil actions before justices’
and police courts and justices of the peace.

SECT. 90. In actions before such justices’ courts, police

courts, or justices of the peace, the interrogatories and.

answers provided for in sections Iifty, fifty-two, and seventythree may be filed before said courts or justices respectively.
They may be filed by either party at any time after the commencement of the action, and the answers shall be filed

within such time as such courts or justices of the peace
shall respectively order.

Forms.

SECT. 91. The forms contained in the schedule annexed
to this chapter may be used in the several courts, subject to
be changed and modified from time to time by the supreme
judicial court, by general rules made for the purpose.

SCHEDULE OF FORMS.
1-‘onus or nncnanxrroxs IN ACTIONS or CONTRACT.

Commencement. To answer to A. B. of , in action an of contract.

If the plaintifff is a minor and sues by prochein ami, as administrator, or
in any special character, it may be stated according to the established form.
As it is not necessary to insert the declaration in the writ, it should be
entitled, when filed separately, in the following form :—

Ajf Middlesex, c. C. P.

C_  Plaintiff's declaration.

Count for mane:/Thad and received.—And the plaintiff says the defendant
owes him one hundred dollars for money received by the defendant to the
plaintilI"s use.

Money lent.—And the plaintifff says the defendant owes him one hundred
dollars for money lent by the plaintifff to the defendant ;—

Goods sold.—Also that the defendant owes him -—— dollars for goods
sold by the laintiff to the defendant ;—

WorIc.— that the defendant owes him -—— dollars for work done by
the laintiff for the defendant;—
or]: and materials.—Also that the defendant owes him -—— dollars for

work done and materials found by the plaintifff for the defendant ;—
Board.—Also that the defendant owes him dollars for board and
lod 'ng furnished by the plaintiff for the defendant. _ .
rezght.—For the carriage of certain goods by the plaintifff for the
defendant.
Warehouse room.—For warehouse room furnished by the plaintiff for the
storage of certain goods of the defendant. _
-Horse and carriage Iu're.—For the use of a certain horse and carnage
hired of the plaintiff by the defendant. _
Use and occupation.—For the use and occupation of a certain tenement
hired of the plaintifff by the defendant. _ _
Insimul computassent.—-For the balance found due to the plamt1E' by the
parties on accounting together. _
Account annexed.—And the plaintifff says the defendant owes him fifty
dollars, according to the account hereto annexed.

PAYEE OF NOTE AGAINST MAKER.

And the laintiff says the defendant made a promissory note tpxoiyable to
the plain ' or order, a copy whereof is hereto annexed. And defendant owes the plaintifff the amount of said note and interest thereon.

ON NOTE PAYABLE TO BEABER.

And the plaintifff says the defendant made a promissory note, a copy of
which is hereto annexed; payable to one G. H. or bearer. And the plaintifff is the bearer of said note, and the defendant owes him the amount of
said note and interest thereon.

Elf payments are indorsed on the note, the declaration should be varied
ollows: “ A co y whereof, with the indorsements thereon, is hereto
dlefendant owes the plaintifff the balance of said note and

as
annexed, and the

interest thereon.”
If payments have been made which are not indorsed on the note, the
allegation should be varied accordingly.]

'BY INDOR8EE' AGAINST IN DOBSEB.

And the plaintifff says that one C. D. made a promissory note, a copy of
which with the indorsements thereon is hereto annexed, pa able to said
E. F., or order; and said E. F. indorsed the same to the p 'ntiil'; and
payment of said note was duly demanded of said O. D., who neglected to
pay the same, and due notice of its non-payment was 'ven to sand E. F. ;

and said E. F. owes the plaintifff the amount of sai note and interest
thereon.

A BOND WITH CONDITION TO PAY CERTAIN DEBTS OF THE PLAINTIFF,
AND TO PROVIDE FOR HIS SUPPORT.

And the laintiif says the defendant executed to him a bond, a copy
whereof is ereto annexed:

And the plaintifff says he owed to one 0. P. the sum of one hundred
dollars on a promissory note [describing it] which the defendant neglects
to ay:

so that he owed to one R. S. one hundred dollars, according to the
account hereto annexed, which the defendant neglects to pay:

Also that the defendant neglects to provide clothing for the laintiif:

And the  has requested the defendant to pay sai debts, and

rovide for ' support as mentioned in said bondTo be inserted, if proof of the request is necessary.]

' GBANTEE AGAINST GBANTOR IN A COMMON DEED OF WARRANTY,

FOB BBEACHE8 OF COVENANT.

And the plaintifff says the defendant delivered to him a deed, a copy
whereof is hereunto annexed:

And the defendant was not seized in fee of a art of the land described
as follows [describing it , but the same was hel adversely by one L. M. ;
and the residue of said (1 was not free from encumbrances, but was subject to a mortgage to one S. T., to secure the payment of six hundred

And ‘the defendant has not warranted and defended the premises ainst
the rightful claims of all persons, but one W. S. had a right of dower erem, and has compelled the plaintifff to assign the same to her.

ON AN AWARD.

And the plaintifff says the arties by their ement in wri ' a copy
whereof is hereto annexed,p referred the mllgttljrs therein mgriltgcined to

arbitrators; and the arbitrators have made an award thereon in writing, a
copy whereof is hereto annexed.

[Aver performance of condition by plaintifff, when necessary to be
proved, and the non-performance by defendant, which is relied on.]

[If it is for the mere payment of mone aver as follows :—]
And the defendant owes the plaintifff e amount of said award.

ON A PROMISE TO PAY THE DEBT OF ANOTHER.

And the plaintifff says that one E. F. owed him the sum of ——for —,
and the plaintifff was about to sue the said E. F. to recover the same:

And in consideration that the plaintifff would forbear to sue said E. F.,
the defendant made an agreement to pay the same to the plaintiff, a copy
whereof is hereto annexed; and the plaintiii‘ did forbear to sue said
E. F., and the defendant owes him said sum.

F AN AGREEMENT TO CONVEY LAND ON A CERTAIN DAY, PLAINTIFF
TO PAY ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS CASH, AND GIVE A NOTE FOR FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS, SECURED BY A MORTGAGE OF‘ THE LAND.

And the plaintifff says the defendant made an agreement with the plaintiff. in writing, a copy whereof is hereto annexed:

And on the day of , the plaintifff tendered to the defendant one hundred dollars, and also a note for four hundred dollars, Sdescribin
it] and a mo of said land, to secure the _pa ent of sai note, an
demanded of e defendant a conveyance of said Kiid [following the terms
of the agreement]

FOR BREACH OF PROMISE OF MARRIAGE.

And the plgilntif says that she and the defendant mutually promised to
each 0 er.
And she has always been ready to many the defendant, but the defendant refuses to perform his promise.

NON-DELIVERY OF GOODS SOLD.

And the plaintifff says he purchased of the defendant the following goods,
viz.: ———— for the sum of one hundred dollars, to be paid therefore on
deli ery thereof; and the defendant promised to deliver the same on the

day of , at the defendant's store in :

And on said day the plaintifff demanded said goods at said store, and
tendered to the defendant said sum of one hundred dollars in payment of
the same:

And the defendant refused to deliver the same to the plaintiff.

ON POLICIES OF INSURANCE.

1. On a ship for a total loss.

And the laintiff says the defendants made to him a policy of insurance,
a co y of w ich is hereunto annexed, for the sum of ten thousand dollars,
on tge shi John, against the rils of the seas, and other perils therein
mention , in a voyage from oston to Cadiz, in Spain, and at and from
Cadiz to her port of discharge in the United States; and while proceeding
on said voyage, the ship was wrecked and totally lost by the rils of the
seas; and the defendants had notice of said loss on the —— ay of -—,
and were bound to pay the amount of said loss to the laintiif within sixty
days after said notice; and the defendants owe the p aintif therefore said
sum of ten thousand dollars.

2. For a partial loss and contribution to a general average.
State, as in the last count to the description of the voyage inclusive.]

(1 in said policy the defendants eed that in case of any loss or misfortune to said ship, it should be la ul for the laintiff and his ents to
labor for, and in the defense and recovery 0 , said ship, and at the
defendants would contribute to the charges thereof in proportion as the
sum assured by them should be to the whole sum at risk:

And while proceeding on said voyage said ship was by the perils of the
seas dismasted, and otherwise damaged in her hull, rifgg-in , and appurtenances, and it was necessary, for the preservation o sai ship and her
cargo, to throw over a part of her cargo, and the same was thrown over
for that u e, and the plaintifff was obliged to expend the sum of two
thousan do ars for re airing said ship at Cadiz, and the sum of live hundred dollars asa contri ution for the loss occasioned by throwing over a
part of said cargo; and the ship suffered much other damage that was not
repaired at Cadiz ;—and the defendants had notice of said loss and ch es,
on the day of , and were bound by the terms of said po 'cy
to pay the same within sixty days after such notice, and the defendants
owe the plaintifff therefore the sum of dollars.

For a total loss of cargo by fire:

And the plaintifff says the defendants made to him a licy of insurance
for the sum of ten thousand dollars, on the cargo of the rigantine William,
against the erils of fire and other perils therein mentioned, at and from
Boston, andp in a voy e from thence to Hamburgh, or any other ort or
ports in the north of urope; and while said brigantine was roce 'ng on
said voyage, the cargo was totally destroyed by fire; and e defendants
had notice of said loss on the day of , and were bound by
the terms of said policy to pay the plaintifff the amount of said loss; and
the defendants owe the plaintifff therefore the sum of ten thousand dollars.

FORMS OF DECLARATIONS IN ACTIONS OF TORT.

Begi'nm'ng.—To answer A. B., of , in an action of tort.

Trove:-.—And the plaintifff says the defendant has converted to his own
use one horse, the property of the plaintifff (or the goods mentioned in the
schedule hereto annexed.)

[The ad damnum is a sutiicient allegation of damage in all cases in which
special damages are not claimed.]

Deceit.—And the plaintifff says the defendant sold to him ten b of
coffee, and to induce the laintiff to buy the same the defendant f§:ely
represented to him that coffee was the property of the defendant; and
the plaintifff believing that said re resentation was true, was thereb induced
to purchase and did (purchase sai coffee, and paid thereforeto the efendant
the sum of one hun red dollars; and said coffee was not the property of
the defendant, which the defendant then knew, but was the property of
one A. S., who has taken the same from the plaintifff.

And the plaintifff says the defendant sold him a horse, for which the
plaintifff paid him one hundred dollars. And to induce the plaintifff to buy
said horse the defendant falsel represented to the plaintifff that said horse
was sound, so far as the defen ant knew; and the plaintifff believing that
said representation was true, was thereby induced to' buy, and did buy,
said horse: and said horse was not sound, but had a certain disease called
, which the defendant then knew:

And the laintiif says the defendant to induce the plaintifff to sell property on cre 't to one b. C., falsely represented to the plaintifff in writing,
that said S. C. was a man possessed of a large property and able to pay his
debts (a co y of which writing is hereto annexed.) And thereupon the
plaintifff, believing said representation to be true, was induced to sell, and
did sell, to said S. C., the goods mentioned in the account hereto annexed,
and gave the said 8. C. credit for the price of said goods, being dollars,
for the term of six months from the —— day of —. And said S. C. was
not a man of property, nor able to pay his debts, but was insolvent, which
the defendant then knew. And the plaintifff has not been paid for said
goods, and is unable to obtain payment therefore of said S. C.

Negligence of Railroad Co1porations.—And the plaintifff says the defendants are a corporation owning a railroad between A. and B.; that plaintifff
was a assenger on said railroad, and, by reason of the insufliciency of an
axle o the car in which he was riding, the plaintifff was hurt; that defendants did not use due care in reference to said axle, but plaintifff did use

us care.

[This form may be varied to adapt it to man cases, simply by changing
the allegation as to the cause of the accident. t is not intended to restrict
a party to the statement of one cause, if there were several concurrent
causes, and if the plaintiff is in doubt which of several different causes
occasioned the accident, he may, under the twenty-fifth section. so declare.]

Negligence of Town.—And the plaintifff says there is inthe town of
a public hi hway leading from to , which said defendants are
bound to eep in repair ;—that the same was negligently suffered by
defendants to be out of repair, whereby the plaintifff, travelling thereon
and using due care, was hurt.

Obstructing Wag,/.—And the plaintifff says he owned a tract of land
[_describin it], and there was a way leadin to the same from [here mention the 0 er terminus,] which the plainti had a rightto use as a foot-way
and carriage-way; and the defendant erected a fence across said way and
placed stones in the same, so that the plaintifff could not use the same.

Immoderale Ria'ing.—And the plaintifff says the defendant hired of him
a horse to ride from Boston to Cambridge, and from thence back to Boston,
in a roper manner; and the defendant rode said horse so immoderately
that e became sick and lame, and was greatly injured in value.

Slander.—-And the plaintifff says that the defendant publicly, falsely,
and maliciously, accused the plaintifff of the crime of perjury, by words
spoken of the plaintiff substantially as follows. [Here set forth the words
—no inuendoes are necessary?‘

[If the natural import of t e words is not intelligible without further
explanation, or reference to facts understood but not mentioned, or parts
of the conversation not stated, in either of those cases after setting forth
the words, the declaration should contain a concise and clear statement of
such things as are necessary to make the words relied on intelligible to
the court and 'ury in the same sense in which they were spoken. This
rule is applica le to actions for written and printed, as wellas oral, slander.]

Libel.—-And the plaintifff says the defendant caused to be published in a
newspaper [describing it] a false and malicious libel concerning the plaintifff, a copy whereof is hereto annexed.

[Or if it be a picture, it may be described]

Trespass to Person.—And the plaintifff says the defendant made an
assault upon him, and struck him on his head, and kept him imprisoned for
the space of one day.

Trespass to Land.—And the plaintifff says the defendant forcibly entered
the plaintifff's close [describing it] and ploughed up the soil, &c., and took
and carried away fifty bushels of the plaintifff ’s corn there being, and converted the same to his own use.

Penaltg/.—And the plaintifffs say they had a turnpike-road, [describing
it,] and the defendant assed on said road with a wagon, on which he
carried a load of more an forty-five hundred pounds, and the felloes of
said wagon were less than three inches and a half wide, whereb the
defendant became liable to pay the plaintiffs three times the leg toll
therefore, and the le al toll therefore is the sum of .

And the plainti says the defendants had a turnpike-road [describing
it], and the plaintifff was passing over the same and thro h a turn ikeate thereon describing it], in a wagon drawn by one orse; an the
efendants’ to -gatherer then demanded and received of the laintiti‘ fifty
cents for toll, for passing through said gate with said horse an wagon, the
legal toll for passing as aforesaid being only ten cents, whereby the defendants have forfeited to the plaintifff asum not exceeding one hundred dollars.

And the plaintiffs. say they had an aqueduct, [describing it,] and the
defendant maliciously injured said aqueduct by cutting off one of the
pipes thereof, whereby the defendant became liable to ay the plaintifffs
treble the amount of the damage thereby sustained by t e plaintifffs; and
the amount of said damage was ten dollars.

And the plaintifffs say that the twentieth day of October last was the
day of their cattle show and exhibition; and that by their officers they

 

D defined and fixed bounds of sufiicient extent for the erection of cattle-pens
. and yards, and for convenient passage-waysto and about the same, within
! which bounds no persons were permitted to enter and ass unless in con1 formity with the regulations of said officers: Of all w 'ch the defendant
: had notice;‘ and after said notice the defendant did enter and pass within
3 said bounds, contrary to said regulations, whereby he has forfeited to the
F plaintifffs a sum not exceeding five dollars.

ANSWERS IN ABATEMENT.

A;sB' Middlesex, c. c. P.
C  Defendanfs Answer.

Coverture of Plainta_?17'Z—And the defendant comes and says that when
the plaintifff's writ was sued out, the plaintifff was a married woman, and
that E. F. her husband was then alive, and thereforee he ought not to be
held to answer to the plaintifff's writ.

Nonjoinder.—And the defendant comes and says that if he is indebted
to the plaintifffs for the goods mentioned in their bill of particulars, he is
indebted to them jointly with one G. H., who is still alive, and ought to be
sued with him in the writ, and thereforee he ought not to be held to answer
to the plaintifff ’s writ.

Misnmner.—And the defendant comes and sa the plaintifff ’s name is
John Sfiles, and not James Sfiles, and thereforee e ought not to be held to
answer to the laintiff’s writ.

Coverture o Defendant.—And the defendant comes and says that when
the plaintifff ’s writ was sued out, she was and still is a married woman, and
that J. H., her husband was then alive, and thereforee she ought not to be
held to answer to the plaintiffI"s writ.

ANSWERS IN ACTIONS OF CONTRACT.

*4: 3° Middlesex, c. c. P.
C_8i)_ Defendant's Answer.

Money had and received.—-And the defendant comes and upon his personal knowledge denies that he received the money mentioned in the
plaintifff's bill of particulars, or any part thereof:

(Or, if the case be so) admits that he received the money mentioned in
the plaintifff's declaration, but denies that he received it to the plaintiff’s
use.

And the defendant comes and says, upon his personal knowledge, that
he received the money mentioned in the plaintifff's bill of articulars, but
upon his information and belief he denies that he reaived e same or any
part thereof to the plaintifff's use.

And the defendant comes and upon his personal knowledge denies that
he has received to the plaintili"s use the money mentioned in the plaintifff's
bill of particulars, except the sum of fifty dollars.

Statute of Limitations.—And the defendant comes and answers that the
cause of action mentioned in the plaintifff's writ did not accrue within six
years before the suing out of the plaintifff ’s writ.

Payment.—And the defendant comes and answers that he has paid the
plaintifff the sum of———dollars, which was the full amount of the account
stated in the plaintifff ’s bill of particulars.

If there are several items, add—And he annexes hereto a bill of particulars of said payment.

Account annexed. Goods sold and delivered.—And the defendant comes
and answers as follows, viz.: as to the first ten items of the plaintifff’s bill
of articulars, upon his personal knowledge he denies that the plaintifff
sold) and delivered the same to the defendant.

As to the eleventh item, upon his personal knowledge he denies that the
price was to be more than ten dollars.

Work.—As to the twelfth item, be is ignorant personally, and by information and belief, whether the plaintifff performed the day's labor there

charged oronot, and also of the rice thereof, if any, so that he can neither

admit nor deny the plaintiti"s a egation, but leaves the plaintifff to prove
the same.

ANSWERS TO A PROMISSORY NOTE.

Promissory Nole.—And the defendant comes and answers as follows :He denies that he made the promissory note mentioned in the plaintifff 's
first count:

Minority.—-And as to the note mentioned in the plaintifff's second count,
he says that at the time of making the same he was a minor under the
age of twenty-one years.

Duress.—And as to the contract mentioned in the plaintifff '3 third count,
he sa s that at the time of its execution he was kept in imprisonment by
the p aintiff, and executed the contract through the force of that imprisonment.

Part Payment.—And the defendant comes and says that he has paid the
note mentioned in the plaintifff's writ, except the sum of fifty dollars, and

Tender.] before the plaintifff sued out his writ he tendered to the plaintifff
said suflm of fifty dollars, and now brings the same into court for the

amti .

P Accord.—And the defendant comes and says he delivered to the laintiti‘
one wagon, which the plaintifff received in full" satisfaction of the note
mentioned in the plaintifff's writ.

Res Judicata.—And the defendant comes and says that at the supreme
judicial court, held, &c., the plaintifff recovered judgment against the
defendant for———dollars and——cents damages, and for costs; and

that said judgment was rendered upon the same cause of action mentioned
in the plainti&"s first count.

Release.—And the defendant comes and says the plaintiff executed to
him a release, a copy whereof is hereto annexed, whereby he discharged
the defendant from the cause of action mentioned in the second count.

TO A POLICY OF INSURANCE.

Insurance.—And the defendants come and say that the deny, upon
information and belief, that said loss was actually total, and ey deny that
any abandonment was made.

And the defendants come and say they deny, upon information and
belief, that said vessel was seaworthy for the voyage in said policy
mentioned, at the inception of said voyage.

And the defendants come, &c. [as above,] but deny, upon information

and belief, that sad vessel was lost while proceeding on the voyage in said
policy described. .

FORMS OF ANSWERS IN ACTIONS OF TORT.

Trove:-.—And the defendant comes and upon his personal knowledge
denies, thatthe horse mentioned in the plaintifff ’s writ was the property of
the plaintifff, and also denies that be converted the same to his own use.

And the defendant comes and says that upon his personal knowled e he
is ignorant, but upon his information and belief he denies, that the orse
mentioned in the plaintitl"s writ was the roperty of the plaintifff.

And the defendant comes and upon ' knowledge and belief admits
that said horse is the general property of the plaintifff, but avers that
the defendant has a s cial property therein by reason of his having
attached the same as e plamti ’s property, by virtue of a writ, [here
describe it,] which writ was delivered to t e plaintifff, who then was _a
deputy-sheriff in the said county of ,for service, and the action 18
now pending: And so the defendant denies upon his personal knowledge
that he has converted said horse to his own use.

Deceit.—And the defendant comes and upon his personal knowledge

denies that he made said representation knowing that the same was not
true.

And the defendant comes and says he has not rsonal knowledge, but
upon his information and belief he denies that sai horse was unsound, as
stated in the plaintiti"s declaration.

And the defendant comes and upon his personal knowledge denies that
he made the representation mentioned in the plaintifff ’s declaration. And
he says said coffee was the defendant’s property, and he had a right to
sell the same.

Obszructing Wag/.—And the defendant comes and says he has not personal knowledge, but, upon his information and belief he denies that the
plaintifff has a right of way as set forth in his declaration.

And, u on his personal knowledge he denies that he obstructed said way
as set fort in said declaration.

Slander.—And the defendant comes and, upon his personal knowledge
denies that be accused the plaintifff of the crime of perjury as set forth in
the plaintifff's first count.

And as to the second count, he says the plaintifff did feloniously steal,
take, and carry away, ten dollars, the property of one S. T., in the possession of said S. T. being found, and converted the same to his own use, and
so the plaintifff was guilty of the crime of theft, ‘and the defendant's accusation was true.
Assault and Batter;/.——And the defendant comes and says the plaintifff

drst assaulted him, and he only defended himself.

And the defendant comes and says the plaintifff was his ap rentice, and
deserted and ran away from him, and he re-took the plainti and forcibly
brought him back, using no more force than was necessary.

And as to the allegation that the defendant hurt and wounded the
plaintifff, the defendant upon his personal knowledge denies the same.

Tr ass uare C'lausum.——And the defendant comes and says that a
part (en? the c ose mentioned in the plaintifff's writ was the soil and freehold
of the defendant, the same being described as follows, &c.:

Upon his own knowledge he denies that he broke or entered any part
of said close, except the part above described.

REPLICATIONS.
A. B.

Cvsl.) g Middlesex, C. C. P., February 1, 1851.

Limitations.——And the plaintifff replies as follows, viz.: He says that
within six years before the suing out of his writ the defendant executed a
writing, a copy whereof is hereto annexed, by which he acknowledged
said debt, and agreed to pay the same.

He further says the defendant has been absent from this Commonwealth
for the space of three years last past.

Minority.—And the plaintifff replies that he is ignorant of the fact, so
that he can neither admit nor den that the defendant was a minor, as
stated in his answer, but leaves the efendant to prove the same.

He further says the articles mentioned in his bill of articulars were
necessaries for the defendant, and suitable to his estate an degree.

SET-OFF.

SECTION 1. When there are mutual debts or demands
between the plaintifff and defendant in an action, one demand
may be set oif against the other as provided in this chapter.

SE01‘. 2. No demand shall be set oil‘ unless it is founded
upon a judgment or upon a contract, but the contract may
be either express or implied, and with or without a seal.

SECT. 3. No demand shall be set off unless it is for the
price of real or personal estate sold, or for money paid,
money had and received, or for services done, or unless it is
for a sum that is liquidated, or one that may be ascertained
by calculation.

SECT. 4. No demand shall be set 011' unless it existed at
the time of the commencement of the suit, and then
belonged to the defendant, nor unless it is due to him in his
own right, except as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 5. Any demand which had been assigned to the
defendant with notice to the plaintifff of the assignment
before the commencement of the action, may be set oil‘ in
like manner as if it had been originally payable to the
defendant.

SI-JCT. 6. If the demand set-off is founded on a bond or
other contract having a penalty, no more shall be set off
than the sum equitably due.

SECT. 7. The set-off shall be allowed in all actions founded
upon demands which could themselves be the subject of
set-off according to law, and in no others.

SE01‘. 8. If there are several plaintifffs, the demand set
off shall be due from all of them jointly; and if there are
several defendants, the demand set off shall be due to all of
them jointly, except as is provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 9. When the person with whom any contract is
made has a dormant partner, and a suit is brought on such
contract by or against the partners jointly, any demand due
to or from the person with whom the contract was made,
may be set off in like manner as if such dormant partner
had not been joined in the suit.

SECT. 10. If the demand on which the action is brought
has been assigned, and the defendant had notice of the
assignment, he shall not set off any demand that he may
acquire against the original creditor after such notice.

SECT. 11. When an action is brought by one person in
trust or for the use or benefit of another, the defendant may
set off any demand against the person for whose use or
benefit the action is brought, in like manner as if that
person were the plaintifff in the suit.

SECT. 12. In actions by executors and administrators,
demands against their testators or intestates which belonged
to the defendant at the time of their death, may be set off
in the same manner as if the action had been brought by
the deceased. I ‘

SECT. 13. When upon such a set-off against an executor
or administrator, a balance shall be found due to the defendant, the judgment therefore against the plaintifff shall be in
the same form and have the same effect as if the suit had
been originally commenced by the defendant.

SECT. 14. In actions against executors and administrators and against trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the defendants may set of!‘ demands
belonging to their testators or intestates or those whom they
represent, in the same manner as the persons represented
would have been entitled to set oil‘ the same in an action
against themselves. SECT. 15. In suits brought by or against executors,
administrators, or trustees, in their representative character,
no demand shall be set off that is due to or from such
executors, administrators, or trustees, in their own right.

SECT. 16. When the defendant relies on a claim by way ;
of set-off, he shall file with his answer a declaration, entitling j
it a declaration in set-off,’ and adapted to the claim in like ;

manner as though an action were brought upon it.

SE01‘. 17. The subsequent allegations and pleadings
respecting the defendant’s demand shall be governed by the
same rules as if an action had been brought thereon; and

the plaintifff shall be entitled to every ground of defense‘

against it of which he might have availed himself by an
answer or otherwise in an action brought against him.

SECT. 18. If any law for the limitation of actions should
be alleged by way of defense to the defendant’s demand,

the limitation shall be applied in the same manner as it

would have been to an action brought on the same demand
if it had been commenced at the time when the plainti&"s
action was commenced. '

SECT. 19. If an amount is proved to be due on the set- 1
off equal to the amount due to the plaintifff, the court may a
award costs to either party or dismiss the action without 1
costs; and if the amount so proved is less than the sum due ‘

to the plaintifff, he shall have judgment for the balance.

SECT. 20. If it shall appear that there is a balance due

from the plaintifff to the defendant, judgment shall be ren- f
dered for the defendant for the amount thereof with his

costs; but no such judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintifff when the demand for which the action is brought
had been assigned before the commencement of the suit,
nor for any balance due from _any other person than the
plaintifff.

SECT. 21. After a declaration in set-off is liled, the
plaintifff shall not be allowed to discontinue his action, unless
by consent of the defendant.

SECT. 22. In actions before a justice of the peace, or
police or justices’ court, the defendant shall file his declaration in set-off at the time when the action is entered, or
within such further time as the justice or court for special
reasons may allow. All the other proceedings shall be the
same as are before prescribed with respect to actions in
other courts: provided, that judgment for the defendant
shall not be entered for more than one hundred dollars
exclusive of costs.

TENDER.

SECT. 23. The payment or tender of payment of the
whole sum due on any contract for the payment of money,
although made after the money has become Clue and payable, may be alleged in an answer to an action subsequently
brought, in like manner and with the like eifect as if such
payment or tender had been made at the time prescribed
in the contract. SECT. 24. A tender may also be made after an action is
brought on such contract, of the whole sum due thereon
with the legal costs of suit incurred up to that time: provided, it be made four days at least before the return day of
the original writ.

SECT. 25. The tender last mentioned may be made either
to the plaintifff or to his attorney in the suit, and if not
accepted the defendant may avail himself of it in defense
in like manner as if it had been made before the commencement of the action, bringing into court the amount
so tendered for costs, as well as for the debt or damages.

SECT. 26. If such tender is accepted, the p1ainti&' or his
attorney shall, at the request of the defendant, sign a certificate or notice thereof to the oHicer who has the writ, and
shall deliver it to the defendant; and if any further costs
shall be incurred for any service made by the officer after
the tender and before he receives notice thereof, the defendant {shall pay the same to the officer, or the tender shall be
inv id.

all civil cases pending before any court, magistrates, auditors,
referees, arbitrators, or other persons authorized to examine
witnesses; and the summons shall be in the form heretofore
adopted and commonly used, but may be altered from time
to time like other writs.

SECT. 2. Such summons may be served by any officer
qualified to serve a civil process or by a disinterested person,
by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him

a copy thereof, or leaving such copy at the place of his .

abode.

SE01‘. 3. No person shall be obliged to attend as a '

witness, unless the fees allowed by law for one day’s attendance, and for travelling to and returning from the place
where he is required to attend, are paid or tendered to him.

SE01‘. 4. If a person duly summoned and obliged to
attend as a witness, fails so to do without a reasonable
excuse, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all
damages occasioned by such failure, to be recovered in an
action of tort.

Sncr. 5. Such failure to attend as a witness before any
court, justice of the peace, master in chancery, or the county
commissioners, or before an auditor appointed by the
supreme judicial court, the court of common pleas, or superior court, shall also be considered a contempt of the court,
and may be punished by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars.

SECT. 6. The court, justice, master in chancery, county
commissioners, or auditor, in such case, may issue a warrant
to bring such witness before them to answer for the contempt,
and also to testify as a witness in the cause in which he was
summoned. SECT. 7. Arbitrators, referees, and auditors, appointed
according to law, may administer oaths or afiirmations to all
persons offered as witnesses before them.

SE01‘. 8. The usual mode of administering oaths now
practised in this state, with the ceremony of holding up the
hand, shall be observed in all cases in which an oath may
be administered by law, except as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 9. When the court or magistrate before whom a
person is to be sworn, is satisfied that such person has any
peculiar mode of swearing which is in his opinion more
solemn or obligatory than holding up the hand, they may
adopt that mode of administering the oath. ‘

Sscr. 10. Every Quaker when called on to take an oath
shall be permitted, instead of swearing, solemnly and sincerely to affirm under the pains and penalties of perjury.

SECT. 11. Every person who declares that he has conscientious scruples against taking any oath, shall when
called upon for that purpose be permitted to afiirm in the
manner prescribed for Quakers, if the court or magistrate on
inquiry is satisfied of the truth of such declaration.

SECT. 12. Every person believing in any other than the
Christian religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar
ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

Sscr. 13,. No person shall be excluded _by reason of crime
or interest from giving evidence as a witness either in person
or by deposition in any proceeding civil or criminal in court
or before a person having authority to receive evidence.
But the conviction of any crime may be shown to affect the
credibility of any person testifying.

Sncr. 14. Parties in civil actions and proceedings, including probate and insolvency proceedings, suits in equity, and «
divorce suits, (except those in which a divorce is sought on
the ground of alleged criminal conduct of either party,)
shall be admitted as competent witnesses for themselves or
any other party; and in any such case in which the wife is
a party or one of the parties, she and her husband shall be
competent witnesses for or against each other, but they shall
not be allowed to testify as to private conversations with
each other: provided, that where one of the original parties
to the contract or cause of action in issue and on trial is
dead, or is shown to the court to be insane, or when an
executor or administrator is a party, the other party shall
not be admitted to testify in his own favor, except in the last
named case as to such acts and contracts as have been done
or made since the probate of the will, or the appointment of

the administrator.

Snow. 15. The provisions of the two preceding sections
shall not apply to the attesting witnesses to a will or oodicil. ;

DEPOSITIONS.

. SECT. 16. Depositions may be taken as provided in this 3
chapter, to be used before magistrates or other persons.

authorized to examine witnesses in any other than criminal 5

(38808 .

S1-zcr. 17. When a witness whose testimony is wanted in ;

a civil cause or proceeding pending in this state, shall live

more than thirty miles from the place of trial, or shall be
about to go out of the state and not to return in time for
the trial, or is so sick, infirm, or aged, as to make it probable
that he will not be able to attend at the trial, his deposition
may be taken as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 18. At any time after the cause is commenced by
the service of process, or after it is submitted to arbitrators
or referees, either party may apply to a justice of the peace,
who shall issue a notice to the adverse party to appear before
said justice or any other justice of the peace, at the time and
place appointed for taking the deposition, and to put such
interrogatories as he may think fit. ‘

SECT. 19. The notice may be served on_ the agent or
attorney of the adverse party with the same effect as if
served on the party himself; and when there are several
plaintifffs, defendants, or parties, on either side, a notice
served on either of them shall be sufficient.

SECT. 20. The notice shall be served by delivering an‘

attested copy thereof to the person to be notified, or by
leaving such copy at his place of abode, not less than twentyfour hours before the time appointed for taking the deposition, and also allowing time for his travel to the place
appointed, not less than at the rate of one day, Sundays
excluded, for every twenty miles travel. .

SECT. 21. Instead of the written notice before prescribed,
the notice may be given verbally by the justice taking the
deposition, or it may be wholly omitted if the adverse party
or his attorney shall in writing waive the right to it.

S1-:01‘. 22. The deponent shall be sworn or affirmed to
testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
relating to the cause for which the deposition is taken.
He shall then be examined by the justice and the parties if
they think fit, and his testimony shall be taken in writing.

SECT. 23. The party producing the deponent shall be
allowed first to examine him, either upon verbal or written
interrogatories, on all the points which he shall deem
material, the adverse party may then examine him in like
manner; after which either party may propose such further
interrogatories as the case may require.

SECT. 24. The deposition shall be written by the justice,
or by the deponent, or by some disinterested person in the
presence and under the direction of the justice, and it shall
be carefully read to or by the deponent, and shall then be
subscribed by him.

SECT. 25. The justice shall annex to the deposition a‘
certificate of the time and manner of taking it, the person
at whose request, the cause or suit for which, it was taken,
and the reason for taking it, and stating also whether the
adverse party attended, and if not, stating the notice, if any,
that was given to him.

SECT. 26. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice
to the court, arbitrators, referees, or other persons, before
whom the cause is pending, or shall be enclosed and sealed

by him, and directed to them, and shall remain sealed until
opened by them.

SECT. 27. No such deposition shall be used if it appears
that the reason for taking it no longer exists; except that if
the party producing it in such case shall show any sufficient
cause then existing for using the deposition, it may be
admitted.

SECT. 28. Every objection to the competency or credibility of the deponent, and to the propriety of any questions
put to him, or of any answers made by him, may be made
when the deposition is produced in the same manner as if
the witness were personally examined on the trial: provided,
that when a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories,
all objections to any interrogatory shall be made before it is
answered, and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn the
objection shall be noted thereon, otherwise the objection
shall not be afterwards allowed.

SECT. 29. When the plaintifff in a suit discontinues it or
becomes nonsuit, and another suit is afterwards commenced
for the same cause between the same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken for the
first suit, may be used in the second in the same manner
and subject- to the same conditions and objections as if
originally taken for the second suit, if the deposition shall
have been duly filed in the court where the first suit is
pending, and shall have remained in the custody of the
court from the termination of the first suit until the
commencement of the second.

SECT. 30. The courts may from time to time make such
rules as they shall find proper and convenient, as to the
time and manner of opening, tiling, and safe keeping of
depositions, and other regulations concerning the taking
and using thereof, which may not be inconsistent with the
provisions of law.

SECT. 3]. A witness may be summoned and compelledl
to give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of ‘;

his ‘place of abode, in like manner and under the same
penalties as he may be summoned and compelled to attend
as a witness before a court.

Sncr. 32. A witness not having his place of abode in
this state, but being at the time herein, may be summoned
and compelled to give his deposition at any place within ten
miles of the place at which the summons is served upon
him, in like manner and under the same penalties as he
may be summoned and compelled to attend as a witness
before a court.

SECT. 33. The deposition of a witness without this state
may be taken under a commission issued to one or more
competent persons in any other state or country, by the
court in which the cause is pending; or it may be taken
before a commissioner appointed by the governor for that
purpose in any part of the United States or in any foreign
country; and in either case the deposition may be used in
the same manner and subject to the same conditions and
objections as if it had been taken in this state. ‘

SECT. 34. Every deposition taken before commissioners
shall be taken upon written interrogatories, to be exhibited
to the adverse party or his attorney, and cross-interrogatories, to be filed by him if he shall think fit.

SECT. 35. The courts may make rules not inconsistent
with the provisions of law as to the issuing of commissions,
either in vacation or term time, the filing of interrogatories,

and all other matters relating to depositions taken out of the

state.

SECT. 36. Depositions and affidavits taken out of the
state in any other manner than is prescribed in the three
preceding sections, if taken before a notarypublic or other
person authorized by the laws of any other state or country
to take depositions, may be admitted or rejected at the
discretion of the court: provided, that no such deposition
or affidavit shall be admitted unless it appears that the
adverse party had suilicient notice of the taking thereof, and
opportunity to cross-examine the witness, or that from the
circumstances of the case it was impossible to give him such
notice.

SECT. 37. A witness may be summoned and compelled
in like manner and under the same penalties as are prescribed in this chapter, to give his deposition in a cause
pending in a court in any other state or government; which
deposition may be taken before a justice of the peace in

this state, or before commissioners appointed under the
authority of the state or government in which the suit is
pending; and if the deposition is taken before such commissioners, the witness may be summoned and compelled to
appear before them by process from a justice of the peace
in this state. '

DEPOSITION TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

S1-:c'r. 38. When a person is desirous to perpetuate the
testimony of a witness, he shall make a statement in writing
setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim, or
interest, in or to the subject concerning which he desires to
perpetuate the evidence, and the_ names of all other persons
interested or supposed to be interested therein, and also the
name of the witness proposed to be examined ; and shall
deliver said statement to two justices of the peace, one of
whom shall be either a judge or register of probate and
insolvency, a clerk of the supreme judicial court, a master
in chancery, or a counsellor at law, requesting them to take
the deposition of said witness.

SECT. 39. The justices shall thereupon cause notice to be
given of the time and place appointed for taking the
deposition, to all persons mentioned in said statement as
interested in the case. The notice shall be given in the
manner prescribed in this chapter respecting notice upon
taking a deposition in this state to be used in a cause
here pending; and when in the opinion of the justices. no
sufficient provision is made by law for giving notice to
parties adversely interested, they shall cause such reasonable
notice to be given as they shall deem proper.

Sscr. 40. If at the time and place appointed for taking
the deposition the witness or any person interested shall
appear and object, the justices shall not proceed to take the
same unless on hearing the parties it shall be made satisfactorily to appear that such testimony may be material to the
petitioner, and is not sought for the purpose of discovery, or
of using the same in any suit then pending, or thereafter to
be brought against said witness; and that the petitioner is
in danger of losing the same before it can be taken in any
suit wherein his right, title, interest, or claim, can be tried.
In all cases the petitioner, his agent, or attorney, shall at the
request of such witness, or any person interested in the
deposition, be examined on oath in relation to the reasons
for taking the same.

S1-301‘. 41. The deponent shall be sworn and examined,
and his deposition shall be written, read, and subscribed, in

the same manner as is prescribed respecting other depositions before mentioned; and the justices shall annex thereto
a certificate under their hands of the time and manner of
taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance
of the thing; and they shall also insert in the certificate the
names of the person at whose request it was taken, and of
all those who were notified to attend, and of all who did
attend the taking thereof.

SECT. 42. The deposition, with the certificate, and also
the written statement of the party at whose request it was
taken, shall within ninety days after the taking thereof be
recorded in the registry of deeds in the county or district
where the land lies, if the deposition relates to real estate,
otherwise in the county or district where the parties or some
of them reside.

SECT. 43. If a suit shall, either at the time of taking such
deposition or at any time afterwards, he pending between
the person at whose request it was taken, and the persons
named in said written statement, or any of them who were
notified as aforesaid, or any persons claiming under either
of said parties, concerning the title, claim, or interest, set
forth in the statement, the deposition so taken, or a certified
copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in such
suit in the same manner and subject to the same conditions
and objections as if it had been originally taken therefore.

SECT. 44. Any witness may be summoned and compelled
to give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of the
thing as before prescribed, in like manner and under the
same penalties as are provided in this chapter respecting
other depositions taken in this state.

SECT. 45. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses living without the state, may be taken in any
other state, or in any foreign country, upon a commission
to be issued by the supreme judicial court, court of common pleas, or superior court of the county of Suffolk, in
the manner hereinafter provided.

S1301‘. '46. The person who proposes to take the deposition
shall a ply to either of said courts, and file therein a statement ’ e that before prescribed’ to be delivered to the
justices of the peace upon taking such a deposition within
this state; and if the subject of the proposed deposition
relates to real estate within this state, the statement shall
be filed in the county where the land or any part thereof
lies, otherwise in the county where the parties or some of
them reside.

SECT. 47. The court shall order notice of such applica-f

tion and statement to be served on all the persons mentioned
therein as adversely interested in the case, and living within
the state, which notice shall be served fourteen days at least
before the time therein appointed for hearing the parties.

Snow. 48. If upon hearing the parties who appear, the
court shall be satisfied that there is suilicient cause for
taking the deposition, they shall issue a commission therefore
in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used in any
cause pending in the same court.

SECT. 49. .The deposition shall be taken upon written
interrogatories filed by the applicant, and cross-interrogatories filed by any party adversely interested, if he shall
think lit, and it shall be taken and returned substantially in
the same manner as if taken to be used in a cause pending
in the same court.

SECT. 50. The person who proposes to take the deposition
may, at his election, file his statement in the clerk’s oiiice
in vacation, and’ may cause notice thereof to be given to

the persons therein named as adversely interested, by serving

them with an attested copy of the statement, fourteen days
at least before the next term of the court; and the court
may thereupon proceed to hear the parties and to issue the
commission as before provided.

SE01‘. 51. The supreme judicial court may from time

A to time make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of

law as to taking depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses without the-state, whether taken under a commission from the supreme judicial court, the court of
common pleas, or the superior court of the county of
Suffolk, and as to the filing or recording of such depositions.

Sncr. 52. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of

: witnesses, taken at any place without this state according

to the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner
as if taken within the state.

SECT. 53. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses within or without the state, so that the same may be
evidence against all persons, may be taken upon a commission to be issued after public notice by the supreme judicial
court, court of common pleas, or superior court of the
county of Su&'o1k.

SE01‘. 54. The person who desires to have such deposition

s taken, may apply to either of said courts in the manner

before prescribed in the case of taking a deposition to perpetuate the testimony of a witness living without the state,
and all the proceedings thereon shall be the same as are
prescribed in the case last mentioned.

w SECT. 55. The court shall,in addition to the proceedings
before prescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant
or otherwise,.at their discretion’, as to all persons known or
supposed to be interested in the case, and shall in the commission direct the commissioner or commissioners to publish
in such newspaper or newspapers within or without the
state, or both, or in such other manner as the court shall
consider most effectual, such notice of the time and place of
taking such deposition, and of the subject matter thereof, as
the court shall think proper ; which notice shall be addressed
specially by name to all persons who are known or supposed
to be interested in the case, and generally to all others, that
they may attend and propose cross-interrogatories to the
witness. The court may also require personal notice of the
time and place of taking, and of the subject matter of such
deposition, to be given to such persons and in such manner
as under all the circumstances shall seem proper.

SECT. 56. Such deposition having been taken and returned
to the court by whose order the commission issued, and
being found to have been taken according to law and the
directions contained in the commission, the court shall order
it to be recorded within thirty days in the registry of deeds,
in the manner prescribed in section forty-two.

Snow. 57. A deposition taken and recorded under the
provisions of the four preceding-sections, or a certified copy
thereof from the registry, may be used by the person at
whose request it was taken, or by any person claiming under
him, against any person whatever, in any suit or process,
wherein shall be brought in question the title, claim, or
interest, set forth in the statement upon which the commission was founded, in the same manner, and subject to the

. same conditions and objections, as if it had been originally

taken for said suit or process.

DEPOSITIONS OF PARTIES.

SECT. 58. The testimony of persons made competent
witnesses by section fourteen, may be "taken or given by
depositions, for the causes and in the manner provided for
other witnesses, and the expenses of such depositions shall
be taxed in the bill of costs as in other cases.

EVIDENCE IN PROCEEDINGS IN EQUITY.

SECT. 59. In proceedings in equity the evidence shall be
taken in the same manner as in suits at law, unless the
court for special reasons shall otherwise direct; but this
shall not prevent the use of affidavits where they have heretofore been allowed.

PROOF OF STATUTES AND LAWS.

S1-nor. 60. The records and judicial proceedings of any
court of another state or of the United States, shall be
admissible in evidence in all cases in this state, when
authenticated by the attestation of the clerk, prothonotary,
or other oilicer, having charge of the records of such court,
with the seal of such court annexed.

SECT. 61. The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and
resolves, of the commonwealth, whether of a public or private
nature, published under the authority of the government,
shall be admitted as sufficient evidence thereof in all courts
of law, and on all occasions whatsoever.

SECT. 62. Printed copies of the statute laws of any other
state and of the United States, or of the territories thereof,
it‘ purporting to be published under the authority of the
respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read
as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts
of law, and on all other occasions, in this state, as prima
facie evidence of such laws.

SECT. 63. The unwritten or-common law of any other of
the United States, or of the territories thereof, may be proved
as facts by parol evidence ; and the books of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts may also be admitted as evidence
of such law.

SECT. 64. The existence, tenor, or effect, of all foreign
laws, may be proved as facts, by parol evidence; but if it
shall appear that the law in question is contained in a
written statute or code, the court may in their discretion
reject any evidence of such law that is not accompanied by
a copy thereof. ‘

220

15. Jurors to be selected by drawing their

16. Names, when and how to be drawn.

CHAP. 132. [Paar III.

seem doubtful whether a party could be admitted for a co-defendant. But the

‘act of 1851, ch. 255, § 3, allows a defendant who is defaulted, to be called “ by
the party defending.” The section as here drawn makes parties “ competent
witnesses for themselves or any other party,” which would seem to cover all
the cases intended by the legislature, by both acts. The provision in 1857,
ch. 305, § 1, that “ no person so testifying shall be compelled to criminate
himself,” is omitted as useless, the twelfth article of the declaration of rights
having made sumcient provision on that subject without legislative enactments.
The act of 1857 appears to supersede section 2 of chap. 107 of statutes of
1839, and it is omitted.

Sect. 62. In line 2, the words “ state and” are added as an amendment.

CHAPTER 132.

OF JURIES.

SIOIIOI ‘ Sscrxox

19. Meetings for drawing jurors; when to be
Quumcarrol an nnlrnox. h,m_

1. Qualiiications of Jurors. N. Summoning jurors and returning centre.
2. Persons absolutely exempt.

8. No person liable to serve more than once in "mu "‘°"“°" ’°" “"33three years. 21. Lists. how made, &c., in cities.
4. —-except in Nantucket and Dukes county. 22. Drawing jurors, &c., in cities.

6.Jurors beforejusticesofpeeoe and police
mm“, ‘ha, mtmod to gnmpuon, to. nIrum.I.nIs an orna raovmors alsrlcruls

JUIOII.

-W“""'“"”°1- 28.hia.nnes-ofempanellingjurisshrcivil
6. Selectmentopreparelistsof persons quali- causes.
tied. ’ 24. Buperuumeraries, to.
7. List to be posted up and to be approved or 26. Foreman to be chosen by the jury.

altered by town. N. Impanelling juries in criminal cases.
8. Names to be put into a box. 27. Talesmen, when and how returned.
9. Name of person convicted, &o., to be with- 28. —who to be and by whom to be returned.
drawn. 29. Jurors maybe examined, &o., as to thdr
W, &0"'““"°""'°”- 80.Interestnottodisquali.fyincertaincasas.
10. Clerks to issue writs of ocairejiscias. 3],, Objection; to jam“, whgn 1'‘) be made,
11- Jurors to be equally apport1oned- 82. Certain irregularities not material.
12. Van‘:-es, how distributed and served. 88. Gratuities to jurors mrbidden.
18. Additional vcaim my be issued in term 84. Jury not to be sent out morethantwice,
time. unless, &c. .
14- 31306131 P1'°Vl81°nl 701' Duke‘ 003110! when 85. Court may direct a view by the jury.

jurors are dlsqualfiled, ac.
- rnutrns.

Fines on jurors neglecting to attend.

. Fines on oiiloers and others for neglect.

. Bame, in cases of highways, mills, ac.

. Punishment for fraud in drawing jurors.

DRAWING AND SUIIOIIIIIG JUIOII.

8838

17. Date ofeaoh draft tobeindorsed on the
bmog xxoarrrons or s1-sour. walls.

18. May be drawn in town meeting.

.3

The power to summon Jurors in other cases
not affected.

QUALIFICATION AND EXEMPTION.

. SECTION 1. All persons who are qualified to vote in the
choice of representatives in the general court, shall be liable '

to be drawn and serve as jurors, except as is hereinafter
provided.

S1-10-1‘. 2. The following persons shall be exempt from
serving as jurors, to wit :—

The governor, lieutenant-governor, members of the council, secretary and treasurer of the commonwealth, members
and oiiicers of the senate and house of representatives
during the session of the general court, judges and justices
of any court, (except justices of the peace,) county and
special commissioners, clerks of courts, registers of probate
and insolvency, registers of deeds, sheriffs and their deputies, coroners, constables, criers of the courts, marshals of
the United States and their deputies, and all other officers
of the United States, counsellors and attorneys at law, settled
ministers of the gospel, officers of colleges, preceptors and
teachers of incorporated academies, practising physicians
and surgeons regularly licensed, cashiers of incorporated
banks, constant ferrymen, persons who are more than sixtylive years old, members of the volunteer militia, members
of the ancient and honorable artillery company, and enginemen and members of the fire department of the city
of Boston; and enginemen and members of the fire department of other places may be exempt by the vote of the city
council of the city or the inhabitants of the town.

Saar. 3. No person shall be liable to be drawn and serve
as a juror in any court oftener than once in three years,
except as provided in the two following sections, but he shall
not be so exempt unless he shall actually attend and serve
as a juror in pursuance of the draft.

SE01‘. 4. The inhabitants of the counties of Nantucket
and Dukes county__shall be liable to be drawn_and serve as
jurors once in every two years.

Sncr. 5. No person shall be exempt from serving on a
jury in any other court, in consequence of his having served
before a justice of the peace, or justices’ or police court.
No person shall be compelled to serve as a juror before any
justice of the peace, or justices’ or police court, more than
twenty-four days in any one year, nor more than fourteen
days at anyone time, except to finish a case commenced
within that time.

JURY LIST AND BOX.

SECT. 6. The selectmen of each town shall once in
every year prepare a list of such inhabitants of the town
not absolutely exempt, as they shall think well qualilied
to serve as jurors, being persons of good moral character,
of sound judgment, and free from all legal exceptions;
which list shall include not less than one for every one
hundred inhabitants of the town, and not more than one
for every sixty inhabitants, computing by the then last
census, except that in the county of Dukes county it may
include one for every thirty inhabitants.

SE01‘. 7. The list when so prepared shall be posted up
by the selectmen in public places in the town, ten days at
least before it is submitted for revision and acceptance, and
shall then be laid before the town; and the town may alter
it by adding the names of any persons liable to serve, or
striking any names therefrom.

SECT. 8. The selectmen shall cause the names borne
on the list to be written, each on a separate paper or
ballot, and shall roll up or fold the ballots so as to resemble
each other as much as possible, and so that the name written
thereon shall not be visible on the outside; and they shall
place the ballots in a box to be kept by the town clerk for
that purpose.

SE01‘. 9. If any person whose name is so placed in the
jury box shall be convicted of any scandalous crime, or be
guilty of any gross immorality, his name shall be withdrawn
therefrom by the selectmen, and he shall not be returned
to serve as a juror.

VENIRES FOR JURORS.

SE01‘. 10. The clerks of the supreme judicial court, the
court of common pleas, and superior court of the county of
Suffolk, in due season before every term, and the clerk of
the municipal court of the city of Boston, in due season
before the terms to be held in January, April, July, and
October, or at such other times as the respective courts
shall order, shall issue writs of venire facias for jurors, and
shall therein require the attendance of the jurors on such
day of the term as the court shall order. The jurors
returned for the municipal court shall serve for three
succeeding terms.

SECT. 11. The clerks in issuing the venires shall require
from each town and city a number of jurors as nearly as

may be in proportion to their respective number of inhab- 1
itants, so as to equalize as far as possible the duty of serving
as jurors.

SECT. 12. The venires shall be delivered to the sheriff of p
the county, and by him transmitted to a constable in each 5
of the towns and cities to which they are respectively issued, *
and they shall be served by the constable, without delay, on
the selectmen and town clerk.

SECT. 13. Nothing contained in the preceding sections
shall prevent any court from issuing venires for additional
jurors in term time whenever it shall be found necessary
for the convenient dispatch of their business; in which
case the vemlres shall be served and returned, and the

jurors shall be required to attend, on such days as the court
shall direct.

SECT. 14. When a suit is pending in the court of common pleas for the county of Dukes county, wherein the
inhabitants of any town in said county are disqualilied
from acting as jurors, any justice of the court, in term
time or in vacation, may order the clerk of the court to
issue writs of venire facias for a sufficient number of jurors
to try such cause, from any town whose inhabitants are not

so disqualified; and the clerk shall issue a venire facias
accordingly.

DRAWING AND SUMMONING JURORS.

SECT. 15. All jurors, whether required to serve on a
grand or traverse jury, by force of the laws relating to
highways or mills, or on any other occasion, (except inquests
and proceedings relating to the commitment of insane persons,) shall be selected by drawing ballots from the jury
box, and the persons whose names are borne on the ballots
so drawn shall be returned to serve as jurors.

SECT. 16. When jurors are to be so drawn, the town clerk
and selectmen shall attend at the clerk’s office or some
other public place appointed for the purpose, and if the
clerk is absent, the selectmen may proceed without him.
The ballots in the jury box shall be shaken and mixed
together, and one of the selectmen without seeing the names
written thereon shall openly draw therefrom as many
ballots as shall be equal to the number of jurors required.
If a person so drawn is exempt by law, or is unable by reason of sickness or absence from home to attend as a juror,
or if he shall have served as a juror in any court within

three years then next preceding, his name shall be returned
into the box and another drawn in his stead.

SECT. 17. When a person is drawn and returned to serve
as a juror in any court, the selectmen shall indorse on the

‘ballot the date of the draft and return it into the box, and

whenever there is a revision and renewal of the ballots in
the box, the selectmen shall transfer to the new ballots the
date of all the drafts made within three years then next

preceding.

SECT. 18. Any town may at a legal meeting order that
all drafts for jurors therein shall be made in open town

meeting, in which case the draft shall be made by the.

selectmen in the manner prescribed in the two preceding
sections, except that it shall be done in a town meeting. In
such town when a venire is served upon the selectmen they
shall cause a town meeting to be notified and warned for
that purpose in such manner as shall be ordered by the
town or otherwise prescribed by law.

SECT. 19. The meeting for drawing jurors, whether the
draft be made in town meeting or before the selectmen and
town clerk only, shall _be held not less than seven nor more
than twenty-one days, before the day when the jurors are
required to attend.

SECT. 20. The constable shall four days at least before
the time when the jurors are required to attend, summon
each person who is drawn, by reading to him the venire
with the indorsement thereon of his having been drawn, or
by leaving at his place of abode a written notification of his
having been drawn and of the time and place of the
sitting of the court, at which he is to attend, and shall make
a return of the venire with his doings thereon to the clerk,
before the opening of the court from which it was issued.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CITIE.

SECT. 21. The list of jurors in cities shall be prepared
and posted therein by the mayor and aldermen in like manner as required of selectmen, and when posted for ten days
shall be submitted to the common council, which shall have
like power as towns to revise and accept the same.

SE01‘. 22. The mayor and aldermen and the clerks of
each city shall severally have and exercise all the powers
and duties with regard to drawing and all other matters
relating to jurors therein, which are in this chapter required
to be performed by the selectmen and town clerks in their

respective towns, and all venires for jurors to be returned
from cities, shall be served on the mayor and aldermen.

IMPANELLING AND OTHER PBOVISI(5NS RESPECTING JURIES.

SECT. 23. On the day when the jurors are summoned to 2
attend at any court, the clerk shall prepare a list of their ;
names arranged in alphabetical order. The first twelve on 2

the list who are not excused shall be sworn and empaneled
as a jury for the trial of civil causes and shall be called the
first jury. The next twelve on the list shall then be sworn
and empaneled in like manner, and shall be called the
second jury. ‘

SE01‘. 24. If there are any supernumerary jurors, they
may be excused from time to time until wanted, and may
be put on either of the juries as occasion shall require, in
the place of any who are absent. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the transferring of jurors from one jury to the
other, when the convenience of the court or of the jurors
may require it.

star. 25. Each jury after being thus empaneled shall i
retire and choose their foreman by ballot, or shall make such ,

choice upon retiring with the first cause with which they
shall be charged; and whenever the foreman is absent or
excused from further shrvice, a new foreman shall be chosen
in like manner.

SECT. 26. Nothing contained in the preceding sections
shall apply to the empanelling of juries in criminal cases,
but the jurors shall be called, sworn, and empaneled anew,
for the trial of each case according to the established
practice; and their foreman shall be appointed either by

the court or by the jury when they retire to consider of
their verdict.

SECT. 27. When by reason of challenge or otherwise a
sufficient number of jurors duly drawn and summoned
cannot be obtained for the trial of any cause, civil or
criminal, the court shall cause jurors to be returned from
the by-standers, or from the county at large, to complete the
panel: provided, that there be on the‘ jury not less than
seven of the jurors who were originally drawn and summoned as before provided.

sscr. 28. The jurors so returned from the by-standers
shall be returned by the sheriff or his deputy, or by a
coroner, or by any disinterested person appointed therefore

by the court, and shall be such as are qualified and liable to
be drawn as jurors according to the provisions of law.

SECT. 29. The court shall, on the motion of either party
in a suit, examine on oath any person who is called as a
juror therein, to know whether he is related to either party,
or has any interest in the cause, or has expressed or formed
any opinion, or is sensible of any bias or prejudice therein;
and the party objecting to the juror may introduce any other
competent evidence in support of the objection. If it
appears to the court that the juror does not stand indifferent
in the cause, another shall be called and placed in his stead
for the trial of that cause. .

SECT. 30. In indictments and penal actions for the
recovery of any sum of money or other thing forefeited, it
shall not be a cause of challenge to a juror that he is liable
to pay taxes in any county, city or town, which may be
benefited by such recovery.

SEc'r. 31. If a party knows of any objection to a juror
in season to propose it before the trial, and omits to do so,
he shall not afterwards be allowed to make the same

objection, unless by leave of the court. .

SECT. 32. No irregularity in any writ of venire facias,
or in the drawing, summoning, returning, or empanelling,
of jurors, shall be sufficient to set aside a verdict, unless the
party making the objection was injured by the irregularity,
or unless the objection was made before the returning of the

verdict.

SECT. 33. If either party in a case in which a verdict is
returned, shall during the same term of the court, either
before or after the trial, give to any of the jurors who shall
try the cause, any thing by way of treat or gratuity, the
court may on the motion of the adverse party set aside the
verdict and award a new trial of the cause.

SECT. 34. When a jury after due and thorough deliberation upon any cause shall return into court without
having agreed on a verdict, the court may state anew the
evidence or any part of it, and explain to them anew the
law applicable to the case, and may send them out for further deliberation; but if they shall return a second time
without having agreed on a verdict, they shall not be sent
out again without their own consent, unless they shall ask
from the court some further explanation of the law.

SECT. 35. The jury in any case may at the request of
either party be taken to view the premises or place in

question, or any property, matter, or thing, relating to the
controversy between the parties, when it appears to the court
that such view is necessary to a just decision: provided, the
party making the motion shall advance a sum sufficient to
defray the expenses of the jury and the officers who attend
them, in taking the view; which expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other legal costs, if the party who advanced
them shall prevail in the suit.

PENALTIES.

SECT. 36. If a person duly drawn and summoned to?

attend as a juror in any court shall neglect to attend

without sufiicient excuse, he shall pay a fine not exceeding a

forty dollars, which shall be imposed by the court to which
the juror was summoned, and shall be paid into the county
treasury.

SECT. 37. When by neglect of any of the duties required
in this chapter to be performed by any of the officers or
persons herein mentioned, the jurors to be returned from
any place shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend
the court, every person guilty of such neglect shall pay a
fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to be imposed by the same
court to the use of the county in which the offense is
committed.

SECT. 38. If such neglect occurs with regard to jurors
who may be required to serve on any other occasion than as
jurors in the supreme judicial court, the court of common
pleas, the superior court of the .county of Suffolk or the
municipal court of the city’ of Boston, or before any justice
of the peace or justices’ or police court, the sheriff or other
officer before whom the jurors were required to appear, shall
make known the fact to the court of common pleas, superior
court, or municipal court, then next to be held in the same
county, and the court after due examination and a hearing
of the parties who are charged shall impose the fine.

SECT. 39. If any city or town clerk, selectman, mayor, or
alderman, shall be guilty of fraud, either by practising on
the jury box previously to a draft, or in drawing a juror, or
in returning into the box the name of any juror which had
been lawfully drawn out and drawing or substituting another
in his stead, or in any other way in the drawing of jurors,
ldieushall be punished by a line not exceeding five hundred

o ars.

SECT. 4. In actions upon promissory notes and other
contracts where the amount due appears to be undisputed,
the debt or damages may be assessed and ascertained by the
clerk, either under a general order of the court or by a
special reference of the case to him. The judgment in
either case shall be entered in the same form as if it had
been awarded by the court on an assessment or computation
made by themselves.

Sscr. 5. In any action founded on a contract express or
implied in which there is more than one defendant, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment against such defendants as are defaulted, and against those who shall upon trial
be found liable on the contract declared on, notwithstanding
it shall be found that all the defendants are not jointly
liable thereon.

SECT. 6. In such action when any defendants are

defaulted, and upon trial any of the others are found liable,

the court shall render judgment both against those defendants defaulted and those found liable, for the debt or damages
with costs to the time of the default, and against those who
defend, for all costs accruing after the default; and shall
issue separate executions on such judgment.

SE01‘. 7. When a motion for a new trial is overruled, the
court shall enter judgment as of the term when the verdict
was rendered, if necessary or expedient to secure the rights
of the prevailing party, or prevent loss by reason of the
death of either party or otherwise.

SE01‘. 8. When judgment is made up upon an award of
county commissioners, a committee, or referees, or on the
report of an auditor or master in chancery, or on a verdict
of a jury, interest shall be computed upon the amount of
the award, report, or verdict, from the time when made
to the time of making up the judgment. Every judgment for the payment of money rendered subsequently to
the sixth day of May in the year eighteen hundred and
forty-seven, shall bear interest from the day of the rendition
thereof. The warrant or execution issued on a judgment
for the payment of money, shall specify the day upon which
judgment is rendered, and shall require the collection or
satisfaction thereof with interest from the day of its rendition.

Sscr. 9. In actions forabreach of the condition of a bond
or to recover a penalty for the non-performance of a covenant, contract, or agreement, when it appears by verdict,
default, confession, or otherwise, that the condition is

broken or the penalty forfeited, judgment shall be entered
for the penal sum, but no execution shall issue thereon
except as is provided in the following sections.

SECT. 10. The court shall award an execution for so
much of the penal sum as shall then be due and payable?
in equity and good conscience for the breach of the con-§
dition, or other non-performance of the contract. The sum
shall be ascertained and determined by the court, unless
either party shall move to have it assessed by a jury, or
the court shall think proper to have the question so decided,
in which cases it shall be assessed by a jury.

Snow. 11. If any further sum afterwards becomes due
on such bond or other contract, the plaintifff, his executors,
or administrators, may have a scire facias on the judgment,
from the court in which it was rendered, against the original defendant, his executors, administrators, heirs, devisees,
or assigns, as the case may be, suggesting such further
breaches of the contract as shall have occurred, and summoning the adverse party to show cause why execution
should not be awarded upon the judgment for the damages
caused by such further breaches.

S1-:c'r. 12. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed :
and determined in the same manner as in the original suit, 1
and execution shall be awarded accordingly; and like proceedings may be repeated upon occasion of further breaches
of the same contract, as often as they shall occur until the
whole of the penalty is exhausted.

SE01‘. 13. Nothing herein contained shall prevent any
person from bringing an action for the breach of any covenant or other contract, instead of suing for the penalty by
which the performance of the covenant or contract may
have been secured.

SECT. 14. When judgment is rendered in a local action
brought in an erroneous venue, the court shall cause its
writ of possession or other needful writ of execution to be
directed to the sheriff of the proper county, so that the
judgment may be duly executed.

SECT. 15. No execution shall be issued within twentyfour hours after the entry of judgment.

SECT. 16. No original execution shall be issued, unless
within one year after the party shall be entitled to sue out
the same; and no alias or other successive execution shall
be issued afterwards, unless each one be sued out within

one year after the return day of that which preceded it,
except as provided in the following section.

SECT. 17. When a judgment debtor is surrendered by
his bail, the creditor may sue out a new execution within
thirty days after the surrender, although more than one
year should have elapsed after the return day of the next
preceding execution.

SECT. 18. If a judgment remains unsatisfied after the
expiration of the time for taking out execution thereon, the
creditor may have a scire facias to obtain a new execution,
or he may at any time after the judgment have an action
of contract thereon.

SECT. 19. If an execution is returned satisfied in whole
or in part by the sale of property which shall afterwards
appear not to have belonged to the judgment debtor, or not
to have been liable to such execution, and if damages are
recovered against the judgment creditor or the officer who
served the execution on account of the seizure andsale of
the property, the creditor may have a writ of scire facias on
his judgment, and shall thereupon be entitled to a new
execution for the sum then remaining justly and equitably
due to him.

SECT. 20. If an execution against a corporation is satisfied in whole or in part by service or levy on the person or
property of any member thereof, and the property levied
on, or damages for service or levy, shall have been subsequently recovered by such member from the oiiicer or judgment creditor, the creditor may have a writ of scire facias
on his judgment, and shall thereupon be entitled to a new
execution for the sum remaining justly and equitably due
to him.

SECT. 21. The forms of executions shall be the same as
heretofore established by law and the usage and practice
of the courts. Executions issued upon judgments in civil
actions in favor of the commonwealth shall be in form like
those in favor of citizens. Executions issued by a justice
of the peace, or police or justices’ court, for a sum as damages
exceeding twenty dollars, shall be so framed as to direct a
levy upon the lands and tenements of the debtor. Alterations
in the forms may from time to time be made, or allowed by
the courts, when necessary to adapt them to changes in the
law, or for other suiiicient reasons.

SECT. 22. All changes in the forms of executions shall be
subject to the final control of the supreme judicial court,

and said court may bygeneral rules regulate such changes
in all courts of the state.

SECT. 23. All executions shall be made returnable in
sixty days from their date.

SET-OFF OF EXECUTIONS.

SECT. 24. Executions between the same parties may be
set off one against another, .if required by either party, as
prescribed in the following sections.

SECT. 25. When one of the executions is delivered to an
oiiicer to be served, the debtor therein may deliver his
execution to the same officer, whether the second execution
is directed to the same or to any other officer, and the oilicer
shall apply it as far as it will extend to the satisfaction of
the first execution; and the balance due on the larger
execution may be collected and paid in the same manner
as if there had been no set-off.

SECT. 26. Such set-oil‘ shall not be allowed in the following cases:

First—When the creditor in one of the executions is not,
in the same capacity and trust, the debtor in the other;

Second—When the sum due on the first execution shall
have been lawfully and in good faith assigned to another
person before the creditor in the second execution became
entitled to the sum due thereon;

Third—When there‘ are several creditors in one execution
and the sum due on the other is due from a part of them
only ;

Fourth—When there are several debtors in one execution
and the sum due on the other is due to a part of them only;

Fifth—N or shall it be allowed as to so much of the first
execution as may be due to the attorney in that suit for his
fees and disbursements therein.

VY OF EXECUTIONS, AND PERSONAL PROPERTY EXEMPT THEREFROM.

SECT. 27. When an execution is in the alternative, so
that it may be lawfully served in either of two or more
ways, the creditor or his attorney may require the officer to
serve it in either way; and the oiiicer shall conform to such
directions if in his power.

SECT. 28. If the creditor directs an oiiicer to levy his
execution on real estate, the officer shall serve it as prescribed in chapter one hundred and three. If he directs

the oiiicer to levy it on the goods of the debtor, the officer
shall serve it as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 29. Executions against corporations, when levied
upon any corporate property, shall be levied in the same
manner as other executions are levied, except in the cases
provided for in chapters fifty-seven and sixty-eight.

SECT. 30._ All chattels real or personal, and all other
goods which by the common law are liable to be taken on

execution, may be taken and sold thereon, except as is .

otherwise provided in this chapter.

SE01‘. 31. Current gold or silver coin may be taken on
execution, and may be paid to the creditor as money collected.

SECT. 32. Bank notes and all other bills or evidences of
debt, issued by a moneyed corporation and circulated as
money, may be taken on execution and paid to the creditor
at their par value as money collected if he will accept them,

otherwise they shall be sold like other chattels.

SE01‘. 33. The following articles of the debtor shall be
exempt from execution, viz. :

First—'l‘l1e necessary wearing apparel of himself and of
his wife and children; one bedstead, bed, and the necessary
bedding for every two persons of the family; one iron stove
used for warming the dwelling-house, and fuel not exceeding the value of twenty dollars procured and designed for
the use of the family;

Second—Other household furniture necessary for him
and his family, not exceeding one hundred dollars in value ;

Third—'1‘he bibles, school books, and library, used by
him or his family, not exceeding fifty dollars in value;

Fourth—One cow, six sheep, one swine, and two tons of
hay;

Fifth—The tools, implements, and fixtures, necessary for
carrying on his trade or business, not exceeding one hundred
dollars in value;

Sixth—Materials and stock designed and procured by
him for carrying on his trade or business, and necessary
therefore, and intended to be used or wrought therein, not
exceeding one hundred dollars in value;

Seventh—Provisions necessary and procured and intended
for the use of the family, not exceeding fifty dollars in
value ;

Eighth--One pew occupied by him or his family in a
house of public worship: provided, that nothing herein
contained shall prevent the sale of any pew for the nonpayment of any tax legally laid thereon ;

N inth—The uniform of an officer or soldier in the militia,
and the arms and accoutrements required by law to be kept
by him; '

Tenth—Rights of burial and tombs while in use as
repositories for the dead.

SECT. 34. If there is reasonable doubt as to the ownership of the goods, or as to their liability to be taken on
the execution, the officer may require sufficient security to
indemnify him for taking them.

SALE, &c., or GOODS TAKEN ON EXECUTION.

SECT. 35. When goods are seized on execution, they
shall be safely kept by the officer, at the expense of the
debtor, for four days at least; and shall be sold by public
auction within fourteen days next after the seizure, except
as hereinafter provided, unless the debtor shall before such
sale redeem them by otherwise satisfying the execution.

S1-:c'r. 36. The officer shall give public notice of the time
and place of the sale, by causing notifications thereof to be
posted up forty-eight hours at least before the time of sale
in some public place in the city or town where the sale is to
be made, or by causing an advertisement of the time and
place of sale to be published in some newspaper printed in
the county, if there is any such paper.

SECT. 37. If the value of the goods to be sold exceeds,
three hundred dol1ars,the officer, if requested by either party,’ i
shall give notice of the sale by advertisement in a newspaper ‘
as provided in the preceding section; and the sale may be
made at any time after the expiration of four days, and
within thirty days after the seizure on execution.

SEc'r. 38. If at the time appointed for the sale theg
officer shall deem it expedient and for the interest of allf
persons concerned therein to postpone the sale for want of ’
purchasers or other sufiicient cause, he may postpone it
for any time not exceeding seven days, and so from time to
time, for like good cause, until the sale is completed;
giving notice of every such adjournment by a public declaration thereof at the time and place previously appointed
for the sale. _

SECT. 39. If the highest bidder for any article at such
sale refuses to take and pay for it, the officer shall sell it
again by auction, at the same time or within ten days thereafter, giving notice of the second sale; and he shall account
for what he shall receive on the second sale, and for any

i damages that may be recovered of the first bidder for a loss
A on the resale, as for so much received on the execution.

SECT. 40. The officer making such sale shall in his
return of the execution particularly describe the goods
sold, and the sum for which each article was sold; and if he
shall be guilty of fraud in the sale or return, he shall be
liable in an action of tort at the suit of the party injured,
for five times the amount of the actual damage sustained
by reason of such fraud.

SECT. 41. The money arising from the sale shall be
applied to paying the charges and satisfying the execution,
and the oiiicer shall return the residue if any to the debtor
on demand, or shall apply and pay over the same as provided in the following sections.

SEGI. 42. If the goods sold on execution shall have
been attached by another creditor, or seized on another
execution, either by the same \or any other officer, or if
before the payment of such residue to the debtor another
writ of attachment or execution against him shall be delivered to the oiiicer who made the sale, the proceeds of the
sale shall be applied to the discharge of the several judgments in the order in which the respective writs of attachment or execution shall have been served, and the residue

if any shall be returned to the debtor.

SECT. 43. If an attachment or seizure on execution is
made of a share in any incorporated company, or of any
other property which may be attached without taking and
keeping the exclusive possession thereof, and if the same
property shall be subsequently attached or taken in execution by another officer, he shall give notice thereof to the
oiiicer who makes the sale under the first attachment or
seizure; and if the latter shall without such notice pay to
the debtor the balance of the proceeds of the sale, he shall
not be liable therefore to the person claiming under such
subsequent attachment or seizure.

LEVY, 820., ON SHARES IN conponxrrons.

SEGI. 44. The share or interest of a stockholder in any
corporation established under the authority of this state,
may be taken on execution and sold as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 45. If the property has not been attached in the
same suit, the oiiicer shall leave an attested copy of the
execution with the clerk, treasurer, or cashier, of the
company, if there be any such officer, otherwise with any

officer or person who has at the time the custody of the
books and papers of the corporation; and the property shall
be considered as seized on execution when the copy is so
left, and shall be sold in like manner as goods and chattels.

SECT. 46. If the share-is already attached in the same %
suit, the oilicer shall proceed in seizing and selling it on the '

execution, in the same manner as  selling goods and
chattels.

SECT. 47. The officer of the company who is appointed;
to keep a record or account of the shares or interest of the 5
stockholders therein, shall, upon the exhibiting to him of]
the execution, be bound to give a certificate of the number
of shares or amount of the interest held by the judgment
debtor, in like manner and upon the like penalty as is
prescribed in chapter one hundred and twenty-three upon
the exhibiting to him of a writ of attachment.

Sncr. 48. An attested copy of the execution and of the .
return thereon shall within fourteen days after the sale be ‘;
left with the officer of the company whose duty it may be i
to record transfers of shares; and the purchaser shall
thereupon be entitled to a certificate or certificates of the
shares bought by him, upon paying the fees therefore and for
recording the transfer.

SECT. 49. If the shares or interest of the judgment
debtor had been attached in the suit in which the execution w
issued, the purchaser shall ‘be entitled to all the dividends A
which shall have accrued after the attachment.

LEVY, &c., ON mums FOR YEARS.

SECT. 50. Terms for years, when the original lease was
for one hundred years or more and so long as fifty years or
more thereof remain unexpired, shall be regarded as real
estate so far as concerns the levying of an execution thereon. Other terms for years shall be seized and sold on execution in like manner as personal chattels, except that
the oiiicer before selling the same shall give fourteen days
notice of the time and place of sale, by leaving notice thereof
in writing with the debtor personally or at his last and
usual place of abode, and by posting notice on the demised
premises.

SUSPENSION OF LEVY.

SECT. 51. When any estate, either real "or personal, is
seized on execution, and the further service of the execution
is suspended by reason of any prior attachment on the same

estate, the estate shall remain bound by such seizure until
it is set off or sold, in whole or in part, under the prior
attachment, or until that attachment is dissolved.

SECT. 52. If the estate is set off or sold in part under
the prior attachment, or if that attachment is dissolved, the
estate, or such part thereof as remains undisposed of, shall
continue bound for thirty days thereafter‘, by the seizure on
the execution; and the service of the execution may be
completed in like manner as if the estate had been lirst
seized thereon at any time within said thirty days, although
the return day of the execution may have passed.

ATH, &C., OF OFFICER OR PARTY AFTER COMMENCEMENT OF
LEVY.

SECT. 53. When an oiiicer has begun to serve an execution and dies, or is incapable of completing the service and
return thereof, the same may be completed by any other
oliicer who might by law have served the execution if
originally delivered to him. If the first oilicer shall not
have made a certificate of his doings, the second officer
shall certify whatever he finds to have been done by the
first, and shall add thereto a certificate of his own doings in
completing the service.

SECT. 54. When an oliicer has begun to serve an execution, he may complete the service and return thereof
although he is removed from office, or the service cannot be
completed until after the return day.'

SECT. 55. If either party dies after any real estate,
goods, or chattels, have been seized on execution, the service
thereof may be completed in like manner and with the
same effect as if both parties were still living, and the oilicer,
when necessary, may appoint an appraiser for the deceased
party. '

RECORDING OF CERTAIN EXECUTIONS.

SECT. 56. When an execution issuing upon a judgment
in a writ of entry for the possession of real estate is served
by an officer, he shall within three months after the service
and before the return thereof into the clerk’s office, cause
the execution with his doings thereon to be recorded in the
registry of deeds for the county or district in which the
estate is situated, the expense of which shall be added to the
charge for service.

SECT. 4. No descent or discontinuance shall take away
or defeat any right of entry or of action for the recovery of
real estate.

SE01‘. 5. Every person who is in possession of the premises demanded in such writ of entry, claiming any estate of
freehold therein, may be considered as a disseizor for the
purpose of trying the right, whatever may have been the
manner of his original entry on the premises.

SE01‘. 6. If the person in possession shall have actually
ousted the demandant or withheld from him the possession
of the premises, he may, at the election of the demandant,
be considered as a disseizor for the purpose of trying the
right, although he should claim therein an estate less than

a freehold.

SE01‘. 7. Every suit upon such writ of entry shall be
prosecuted and conducted- in the same manner as if the
demandant had at the time of commencing the action
made an actual entry on the demanded premises, and had
been immediately ousted by the tenant; so that on a trial
upon the general issue, if the demandant proves that
he is entitled to such estate in the premises as is set forth
in the declaration, and that he had a right of entry on the
day when the action was commenced, he shall recover the
premises, unless the tenant proves a better title in himself.

Seer. 8. The law and practice relating to the pleadings
and evidence in the action or writ of entry on dis-seizin,
as now recognized and established, shall continue in force,
except so far as they are altered by the provisions of this
chapter, and chapter one hundred and twenty-nine.

SECT. 9. Any two or more persons claiming the same
premises as joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners, may join in a suit for the recovery thereof,*or any one
may sue alone for his share.

SECT. 10. The demandant may recover any specific part
of the premises or any undivided portion thereof to which
he shall prove a sufficient title, though such part or portion
is less than is demanded in the writ.

SECT. 11. Upon the death of either demandant or tenant, the action may proceed by or against the survivors
and the heirs or devisees of the deceased party, in the
manner prescribed in chapter one hundred and twentyseven.

SECT. 12. Nontenure, disclaimer, several tenancy, and
sole tenancy, may be pleaded in abatement or given in
evidence under the general issue, but the party shall be
allowed such costs only as accrue after the filing of the plea.

SECT. 13. If the demandant recovers judgment _ in a
writ of entry, he shall be entitled to recover in the same
action damages for the rents and profits of the premises,
from the time when his title accrued, subject to the limitations hereinafter contained; and he shall also recover damages for any destruction or waste of the buildings or other
property, for which the tenant is by law chargeable.

SECT. 14. If an issue of fact is found for the demandant,
the jury shall at the same time assess his damages, unless it
shall be otherwise ordered by the court as hereinafter
provided.

SECT. 15. The rents and profits for which the tenant
shall be liable, shall be the clear annual value of the premises for the time during which he was in possession thereof,
after deducting all lawful taxes and assessments on the
premises that shall have been paid by him, and all the necessary and ordinary expenses of cultivating the land, or of
otherwise collecting the rents, profits, or income, of the
premises.

SECT. 16. In estimating the rents and profits, the value
of the use by the tenant of any improvements, whether
made by himself or those under whom he claims, shall not
be computed nor allowed to the demandant.

SECT. 17. The tenant shall not be liable for the rents
and profits for a longer term than six years, nor for any
waste or other damage committed before that time, unless

"when the rents and profits are allowed by way of set-off to

his claim for improvements, as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 18. If the demanded premises have been actually
held and possessed by the tenant in the action and by those
under whom he claims, for six years next be ore the commencement of the action, he shall, if judgment is against
him, be entitled to compensation in the manner hereinafter provided for the value of any buildings or improvements made or erected on the premises by himself, or by
any person under whom he claims.

SE01‘. 19. The tenant shall also be entitled to the like
compensation although the premises should not have been
so held six years, if he holds them under a title which
he had reason to believe good.

SECT. 20. When the tenant in the action claims allowance for such improvements, he shall enter on the record a
suggestion of his claim, with a request that the value of
the improvements may be ascertained and allowed to him,
if judgment shall be rendered for the demandant.

SECT. 21. The suggestion shall be entered at the same
term with the plea, if any, unless the court shall for suliicient
reason allow it to be made afterwards; and if judgment
is rendered for the demandant without a plea, the suggestion shall be entered at such stage of the proceedings as
the court shall prescribe or allow. SECT. 22. If any issue of fact is tried in the case and
found for the demandant, the jury shall at the same time
ascertain and determine the sum to be allowed to the tenant
for such improvements, unless it appears to the court, on
the motion of either party, that it would be more convenient
to postpone the assessment of the sums due to the demandant for the rents and profits or other damages, or to the
tenant for improvements, until after the trial of the title
and a verdict thereon; in which case the court may make an
order for that purpose, at any time before the verdict on
the title is recorded.

SECT. 23. If the assessment of the sums due to either
party is so postponed, or if there is no issue of fact tried in
the cause, and judgment is to be rendered for the demandant, said sums shall be assessed by the court, unless either
party shall move to have them assessed by a jury, or unless
the court shall think proper to have them so assessed, in
which cases a jury shall be empaneled to assess the same.

SECT. 24. The sums due for rents and profits, or other
damages, and for improvements, mayin all cases be assessed
by arbitrators or assessors appointed by the court with the
consent of the parties.

SECT. 25. The sum to be allowed for improvements shall
never exceed the amount actually expended by the tenant
and those under whom he claims, nor shall it exceed the
amount to which the value of the premises is actually
increased thereby at the time of the assessment.

SECT. 26. When any sum is allowed to the tenant for
improvements, it shall be set off against the sum found due
from him for rents and profits and other damages; and if
there is a balance due from him, the demandant shall have

judgment and execution therefore, as well as for his seizin of

the demanded premises.

SECT. '27. If there is any sum due to the tenant for
improvements after deducting the rents and profits and
other damages for which he may be found chargeable, the
demandant shall before taking out his execution for seizin
of the premises,’ pay the same to the tenant, or to the
clerk of the court for his use; and the demandant shall not
be entitled to recover against the tenant or person claiming
under him, any rents and profits that shall accrue after the
judgment and before he shall have paid the sum so due.

SECT. 28. If the sum found due to the tenant for
improvements exceeds the sum due from him for the rents
and profits accrued within the six years, he shall be chargeable with the rents and profits accrued before that time, so
far as may be necessary to balance his claim for improvements; but in such case he shall not be liable to repay any
excess of the rents and profits beyond the value of the
improvements. r

SECT. 29. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent
the demandant from maintaining an action» of trespass for
mesne profits, or for damage done to the premises, against
any person, except the tenant in the writ of entry, who may
have had possession of the premises or may be otherwise
liable to such action.

SECT. 30. When the tenant in the action claims allowance for improvements as before provided, the demandant
may by a like entry on the record, require that the value
of his estate in the demanded premises without the improvements shall also be ascertained and determined.

S1:-3c'r. 31. The value of the premises in such case shall
be estimated as it would have been at the time of the inquiry
if no such buildings or improvements had been made or
erected on the premises by the tenant or by any person
under whom he claims; and this sum shall be ascertained
and determined, either by the court or jury, or by arbitrators
or assessors, in the same manner as is provided for assessing
the sums due for rents and profits, and for improvements.

SECT. 32. The demandant in such case, if judgment is
rendered for him, may at any time during the same term
by himself or his attorney enter on the record his election to
relinquish his estate in the premises to the tenant, at the
price or value thereof so ascertained and determined.

SE01‘. 33. If he shall require further time to make his ‘
election, the court may, on his motion, suspend the entry of
the judgment and continue the cause, but without further

costs for him.

SECT. 34. If he shall relinquish the premises as before

provided, the tenant shall thenceforth hold all the estate that
the demandant had therein at the commencement of the
action : provided, he shall pay therefore the estimated price or
value thereof, in the manner following.
. SECT. 35. The price shall be paid in three equal instalments, with interest annually ; the first instalment to be paid
on or before the expiration of one year from the time when the
‘demandant’s election to relinquish the premises is entered
on the record, the second on or before the expiration of two
years from the time before mentioned, and the third on or
before the expiration of three years from the same time.

SECT. 36. The sums shall be paid to the demandant or to .
the clerk of the court for his use, and if the tenant shall fail a
to make either of the payments within the times before
limited therefore, respectively, the demandant shall be entitled forthwith to take out his writ of ‘seizin on the judgment
recovered by him, and shall —take and hold the premises
without allowance for any improvements that may have been
made thereon.

81-3011. 37. The expiration of a year after the judgment
shall not prevent the issuing of the execution or writ of
seizin in the case mentioned in the preceding section, but
it may be taken out at any time within three months after
such default of payment on the part of the tenant.

SECT. 38. If the tenant or his heirs or assigns after the T
premises are so relinquished to him shall be evicted thereof
by force of any better title than that of the original
demandant, the person so evicted may recover from such
demandant or his executors, administrators, heirs, or devisees,
as the case may be, the amount so paid for the premises,
as so much money had and received by such demandant
in his life time for the use of the plaintifff, with lawful
interest therefore from the time of such payment.

SECT. 39. If the tenant, or person holding under him
when impleaded in such second action for the recovery of
the premises, shall give notice thereof to the person who is
so liable to refund the purchase money, and shall permit
him to defend the action, the judgment, if rendered against
the tenant in the action, shall be conclusive as to his right to
recover the amount so paid for the premises.

GECT. 40. If the person impleaded does not give such
notice to the other party and permit him to defend the suit,
the latter shall be permitted in the suit afterwards brought

against him for the price ' paid for the premises, to deny the
title upon which the second recovery was had; and the party
so evicted sha.ll not recover said price unless he shall prove
that he was evicted by force of a better title than that of the

original demandant. '

SECT. 41. If after judgment is rendered for the demandant in a writ of entry, either party dies before the writ of .

seizin is executed, or before the case is otherwise settled
according to the foregoing provisions, any money payable
by the tenant may be paid by him or his executors or
administrators, or by any person who is entitled to the
estate under him, to the demandant or his executors or
administrators, in like manner and with the like effect as
if both parties were living; and any money payable by the
demandant may be paid by him, his executors, administrators, or any person who is entitled to the estate under him,
to the tenant or his executors or administrators, in like
manner and with the like effect as if both parties were living.

SECT. 42. When the writ of seizin is issued in such case, it
shall be in the name of the original demandant against the
original tenant, although either or both of thembe dead;
and when executed, it shall inure to the benefit of the
demandant or whoever is then entitled to the premises
under him, in like manner as if it had been executed on the
day when the judgment was rendered.

SECT. 43. If the demandant in a writ of entry shall claiman estate for life only in the premises, and if he shall pay
any sum allowed to the tenant for improvements, he or his
executors or administrators at the determination of his
estate shall be entitled to receive of the remainder-man or
reversioner the value of the improvements, as they then
exist ; and shall have a lien on the premises in like manner
as if they had ‘been mortgaged for the payment, and may
keep possession until the sum is paid.

SECT. 44. If the amount so due from the remainderman or reversioner shall not be agreed on by the parties, it
may be ascertained and determined as is provided for the
redemption of a mortgage upon a suit in equity, to be brought
by the remainder-man or reversioner as mortgagor; and the
like proceedings shall be had as are prescribed in that case
for ascertaining the sum due for redemption of the premises,
and for the recovery thereof -by the remainder-man or
reversioner.

SECT. 45. The remainder-man or reversioner or those
claiming under him, shall not in such case be limited to the

three years prescribed for the redemption of a mortgage;
but they shall not, in any case be entitled to recover from
the adverse party any balance in money, although the rents
and profits of the premises which accrued after the determination of the estate for life exceed the amount due for the
improvements.

SECT. 46. Such remainder-man or reversioner and those 1
claiming under him shall be considered as disseized at the 3
time_of the determination of the life estate, so far as to
bar their suit in equity, and all other remedy by action or
by entry, for the recovery of the premises after the expiration of the time prescribed for the limitation of the right of
entry and of action in cases of disseizin.

S1-301'. 47. Nothing contained in this chapter concerning I
the rents and profits to be recovered in a writ of entry, or ;
the allowance for improvements made on the demanded 3
premises, or concerning the estimated value of the premises
without the improvements, shall extend or apply to an
action brought by a mortgagee, his heirs or assigns, against
a mortgagor or his heirs or assigns, for the recovery of the
mortgaged premises.

SECT. 48. Writs of right, and of formedon, and all writs
of entry except that which is allowed in this chapter, are
abolished: provided, that any person who on the thirty-first a
day of December in the year one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-nine was entitled to maintain any of said actions,
and was then within the age of twenty-one y.ears, a married
woman, insane, imprisoned, or without the limits of the
United States, may -bring such action at any time within five
years after the disability shall cease, or _after the death of the
person so disabled; but no such action shall be maintained
after it would have been barred by the statutes of limitation
in force at and immediately before the time “when the
Revised Statutes took effect.

SECT. 49. Any person in possession of real property
claiming an estatehof freehold or an unexpired term of not
less than ten years, may file a petition in the supreme
judicial court setting forth his estate whether of inheritance
for life or years, describing the premises, averring that he is
credibly informed and believes that the respondent makes
some claim adverse to the estate of the petitioner, and
praying that he may be summoned to show cause why he
should not bring an action to try the alleged title if any.
Thereupon the court shall order notice to be given to the
respondent, and upon return of the order of notice, duly
executed, if the respondent so summoned shall make default,

or, having appeared, shall disobey the lawful order of the
court to bring an action and try the title, the court shall
enter a decree, that he be forever debarred and estopped
from having or claiming any right or title adverse to the
petitioner, to the premises described. If the petitioner prefers, such a petition may be inserted like a declaration in a
writ, and served by copy like a writ of original summons.

SECT. 50. If the respondent appears and disclaims all
right and title adverse to the petitioner, he shall recover his
costs. If he claims title, he shall by answer show cause
why he should not be required to bring an action and try
such title; and the court shall make such decree respecting
the bringing and prosecuting of such action as may seem
equitable and just.

§lo'rr:.——Section 11 is amended by the insertion of “ devisees.”

CHAPTER 135.

OF THE WRIT OF DOWER.

.'I0li Ssorrox

Dower may be recovered by action. 6. Damages may be recovered against a prior
—must be previously demanded. tenant, in case, &c.

What shall be a sumcient demand. _ 7. Writ of seixin, how to be executed.
Damages may be  8. now, when the tenement cannot be divided
Action to be brought against the tenant of 9. Divorce, in what cases it entities a woman

the freehold. Damages. to dower.

10. General provisions.

SECTION 1. When a woman is entitled to dower and it
is not set out to her by the heir or other tenant of the
freehold to her satisfaction according to the true intendment
of law, nor assigned to her by the probate court, she may
recover the same by a writ of dower in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 2. She shall demand hertdower of the person
who is seized of the freehold at the-time of making the
demand, and shall not commence her action therefore before
the expiration of one month, nor after the expiration of one
year, from such demand; but this shall not preclude her
from making a new demand and commencing an action
thereon.

SECT. 3. A demand of dower in writing, signed by the
widow or by her agent or attorney, containing a general
description of the premises in which the dower is claimed,

and given to the tenant of the freehold or left at his last
and usual place of abode, shall be a sufficient demand of
dower. '

SECT. 4. ' If the demandant recovers judgment for her.
dower, she shall in the same suit recover damages for its?
detention.

SE01‘. 5. The action shall be brought against the tenant l
of the freehold at the time when it is commenced; but if
the demand was not made on him, he shall be liable for
damages only for the time during which he held the
premises.

SE01‘. 6. In such case if the demandant recovers her
dower and damages in the writ of dower, she may afterwards maintain an action of tort against the prior tenant of
the freehold of whom her demand was made, for the rents
and profits for the time during which he held the premises
after the demand.

SECT. 7. If the demandant recovers her dower, a writ
of seizin shall be issued, requiring the officer to cause it to
be set out by three disinterested persons appointed by the
court; and they shall be sworn before a justice of the peace
or the oiiicer who serves the writ, to set out the same
equally and impartially, and as conveniently as may be,
according to their best skill and judgment.

SECT. 8. When the estate consists of a mill or other
tenement which cannot be divided without damage to the
whole, the dower may be assigned of the rents, issues, or
profits, to be had and received by the demandant as tenant
in common with the other owners.

SECT. 9. A woman who is divorced from her husband
for the cause of adultery committed by him, or on account
of his being sentenced to confinement to hard labor, may
recover her dower in the manner provided in this chapter
against whoever is the tenant of the freehold.

SECT. 10. The provisions contained in chapter ninety as
to the lands out of which dower may be claimed, the manner
in which it may be barred, and the liability of the tenant
for waste, shall be applied and enforced when dower is
demanded or recovered by force of this chapter.

250

' CIIAP. 136.

[PART III.

CHAPTER1ec

OF THE PARTITION OF LANDS.

Sacrxox

cc-133.9-aeegegd

IR 000378 OP GOIION LAW.

Partition, when and how made.

—upon petition by one or more.

. —by one who has an estate in possession.
. —by a tenant for years, in what cases.
Duration thereof.

. Substance of the petition.

. Petition to be indorsed.

. Filing and notice thereof.

9. Notice, how to be served.

10
11

12.
18.
14.
15.

I‘
I-0

&;tg"5§

{$8 5388?? $33?-°8 8 S3 8 §§‘§§’E3§8‘&':‘a"335

. Notice to persons absent or unknown.

. Proceedings in such case.

Defects in service, how supplied.

Time to be allowed for absent parties.
Removal of petitions to supreme court.
Guardian to be appointed foa infant or insane persons.

. Pleadings.

. Replication by petitioner, in case, Etc.

. Proceedings thereon.

. Costs of the trial of an issue.

. Interlocutory judgment.

. Partition to be made by commissioners.

. Commissioners to be sworn.

. To give notice to all parties.

. Acts of majority valid.

How, among several petitioners.

. When money may be awarded to equalize
partition.

. Liability of occupant to his co-tenants in
such case.

. Remedy of co-tenants for trcspam by a

stranger.

. Return of the commissioners, and judgment thereon.

. Appeal on petition ibr partition.

—-on writ of partition.

Final judgment, how &r conclusive.

. Absent part owner may apply for a new
partition.

. New partition, how to be made.

Case of a stranger claiming in severalty.
Of a stranger claiming one of the shares.
Same subject.

Case of two respondents claiming the same

share.
Same subject.
Stranger claiming an additional share may
sue.
. Case of a share left for, or assigned to, a
part owner who is dead.

. —of a party evicted of his share.
Mortgages, &c., bound by the partition.
Costs, by whom to be paid.

. Petitioner may recover costs in case, to.

Stories

46.
47.

_8$8$

73.
74.
75.

Defendant, &c., entitled tobetterments, Ste.
Petitioner to pay for betterments before
judgment.

IN THE PBOBATI COURT.

. Partition may be made in the probate court.
. Commissioners to be appointed and sworn,

&c.
Partition of lands in diderent counties.

. Proceedings for partition in probate court.

Agents to be appointed and to act for absent heirs, &c.

. Guardian to be appointed for a minor or

insane person.

. Partition to be made of the whole, &c.

And a share to be assigned to each owner,
unless, &c.

. When money may be awarded to equalise

partition.

. Preference of males and of elder children.
. Whole or part may be set oi! to one party,

and money ordered to be paid.

. Costs to be paid by all the parties. .
. No partition in the probate court when th

shares are disputable.

. Estate of deceasedtobe severed from that

of others.

. Notice to be given to such co-tenants.
. If they are absent, proceedings to be staid.

On whom partition is binding.
On whom, not.

anvaucaxssrs.
Questions of advancement, how determined.

GINIIAL PROVISIONS.

. Leases not to prevent or invalidate partition.
. Party being guardian, &c., of co-tenant,

not to prevent or invalidate.

. Case of remainders, &c_., to persons not in

being at time of application for partition.

. Jurisdiction of the respective courts.
. Moneys awarded to be paid before partition

established.

. Improvements after partition, compensation

for.

—party holding under partition entitled to.

Return may be set aside.

Returns of partitions, &¢:., to remain in
oilice of clerk, &c., and certified copies,
&c., recorded.

. Registries heretofore made, to be valid.

DIVISION OF WATER RIGHTI.

. Division of water rights.

IN COURTS OF COMMON LAW.

SECTION 1. Persons holding lands as joint tenants, coparceners, or tenants in common, may be compelled to divide
the same, either by writ of partition at the common law or
in the manner provided in this chapter.

13 Hot. 452, 485. 6 cm. 472. 9 Cash. 405. 3 Gray, n1.

SECT. 2. One or more of the persons so holding lands
may apply by petition to the court of common pleas, superior court of the county of Suffolk, or supreme judicial court,
held within or for the county in which the lands lie, for a
partition of the same ; and said courts may cause partition
to be made, and the share or shares of the petitioners to be
set off and assigned; and the residue of the premises shall
remain for the person or persons entitled thereto, and if
more than one person is so entitled, subject to a future
partition.

SECT. 3. Such petition, except as provided in section
sixty-seven, may be maintained by any person who has an
estate in possession, but not by one who has only a remainder or reversion. ‘

SI-:c'r. 4. No tenant _for a term of years, unless at least
twenty years thereof remain unexpired, shall maintain such ;
petition against a tenant of the freehold; but when two or
more persons hold jointly or in common as tenants for a term ~
of years, either of them may have his share set off and divided
from the others.

SECT. 5. Such partition between tenants for years shall
continue in force only so long as their estates endure, and
shall not affect the premises when they revert to the respective landlords or reversioners.

SECT. 6. The petition shall set forth the rights and
titles, so far as known to the petitioner, of all persons
interested in the premises who would be bound by the partition, whether they have an estate of inheritance, for life
or years, in possession, remainder, or reversion, and whether
vested or contingent; and if the petitioner holds an estate
for life or years, the person entitled to the remainder or
reversion shall be considered one of the persons so interested,
and entitled to notice.

SECT. 7. Every petition for partition filed originally either
in the supreme judicial court, superior court, or court of ”
common pleas, shall be indorsed in the same manner as is ‘
prescribed with respect to original writs, and all regulations

concerning the indorsement of original writs, shall apply in
like manner to the indorsement of such petitions.

SECT. 9. The petition may be filed in vacation_or term
time in the oiiice of the clerk of the court in which the suit
is brought; and a summons to appear and answer thereto
shall be signed by the clerk, and served upon each of the
parties named in the petition as interested in the premises,
if found in this state, by delivering to him or leaving at the
place of his abode a copy of the petition and of the summons,
attested by the clerk or officer who serves the process, fourteen days at least before the sitting of the court to which he
intends to present the same.

SECT. 9. The petitioner may fourteen days at least before
the sitting of the court to which he intends to present his
petition, without filing the same in the clerk’s office, cause
the parties interested to be served with a copy thereof
attested by the officer, by delivering or leaving the same in
the manner aforesaid fourteen days at least before the sitting
of the court to which he intends to present it.

SECT. 10. If any of the persons so named are absent
from the state, or if there are any persons interested in
the premises who would be bound by the partition and
whose names are unknown to’ the petitioner, the court
shall order notice to be given to all such persons by a publication of the petition or substance thereof, with the order of
the court thereon, in one or more newspapers, to be designated in the order, or by delivering to any absent party who is
known an attested copy of the petition and order,or in such
other manner as the court shall consider to be most proper
and effectual.

S1-:c'r. 11. The petition in the case last mentioned may
be presented to the court when sitting in any county, without bcing previously filed in the clerk’s office: but the cause
shall be heard and determined by the court when held within
or for the county in which the lands lie, and the summons
or notice shall be made returnable to that court.

SECT. 12. If any person entitled to notice fails to appear,
and if the service of the summons, or other notice to him,
shall appear to the court to be in any way defective or

insullicient, the court may order such further notice as they
shall deem proper.

SECT. 13. If in any stage of the proceedings it shall
appear to the court that any person interested, whether
named in the petition or not, is out of the state, and has

not had opportunity to appear and answer to the suit, it
shall be continued from term to term until he has had time
to appear and answer thereto.

SEc'1'. 14. When commenced in the court of. common

pleas or superior court, any respondent may at the first‘

term of his appearance remove such petition to the supreme
judicial court, by making affidavit substantially as required
for the removal of actions at law.

SECT. 15. The court may assign a guardian for any
infant or insane person who is interested in the premises,
in the same manner as a guardian is admitted for an infant
defendant in actions at the common law.

SECT. 16. Any person interested in the premises may
appear and answer to the petition, and may plead or
answer either separately or jointly with any other respondents, any matter tending to show that the petitioner ought
not to have partition as prayed for, either in whole or in.
part; and the further pleadings shall be conducted as in
actions at the common law.

SECT. 17. If a person who is not named in the petition
appears and pleads or answers, the petitioner may reply that
such person has no estate or interest in the lands, and may
pray judgment, if he shall be admitted to object; and the
petitioner may in the same replication answer to such plea
any other matter as he might have done if he had not
disputed the respondent’s right to appear.

SECT. 18. If upon such replication it appears that the
respondent has no estate or interest in the lands, the matter

of his plea or objection to the partition shall be no further
inquired of.

SECT. 19. If upon the trial of an issue it appears that
the petitioner is entitled to have partition as prayed for,
he shall recover his costs of such trial against the party
who objected thereto, and shall have execution therefore.

‘If such issue is found or decided against him, in whole or

in part, the adverse party shall recover against him the
costs of the trial, and shall have execution therefore; but
judgment may notwithstanding be rendered for the petitioner to have partition, and to have assigned to him such

part of the premises if any as he shall appear to be
entitled to.

S1-.:c'r. 20. If it appears that the petitioner is entitled to
have partition, whether for the share or proportion claimed

in his petition or any less share, the court shall award the
interlocutory judgment, that partition shall be made.

SECT. 21. When partition is to be made, the court shall
appoint three or l'lV6 disinterested persons as commissioners
to make the partition, and set off to the petitioner the share
or shares belonging to him, which shall be expressed in the
warrant. _ '

SECT. 22. The commissioners before proceeding to the
execution of their duties shall be sworn faithfully and
impartially to execute the same, a certificate of which oath
shall be made on the warrant by the person who administered it.

SECT. 23. The commissioners shall give sufficient notice
of the time and place appointed for making the partition,
to all persons interested therein who are known and within
the state, that they may be present at the making thereof.

SECT. 24. All the commissioners shall meet for the performance of any of their duties, but the acts of a majority
shall be valid.

SECT. 25. If there are several petitioners they may at
their election have their shares set off together or in severalty.

SECT. 26. When the premises consist of a mill or other
tenement which cannot be divided without damage to the
owners, or when any specific part of the estate is of greater
value than either party’s share and cannot be divided without damage to the owners, the whole estate, or the part
thereof so incapable of division, may be set off to any one of
the parties who will accept it, he paying to any one or more
of the others such sums of money as the commissioners shall
award to make the partition just and equal ; or the commissioners may assign the exclusive occupancy and enjoyment
of the whole, or the part, to each of the parties alternately
for certain specified times, in proportion to their respective
interests.

SECT. 27. When the whole or any specific part of the
premises is thus assigned, the person entitled for the time
being to the exclusive occupancy shall be liable to his
co—tenants for any injury to the premises occasioned by his
misconduct, as a tenant for years under a common lease
without express covenants would be liable to his landlord ;
and the other tenants in common may have their remedy
therefore against him by an action of tort, jointly or severally at their election.

SECT. 28. Whilst an estate is in the exclusive occupancy ;
of a co-tenant under such an assignment, he shall be entitled 1
to the same remedy against any person who shall trespass ?
upon or otherwise injure the premises, as if he held the
same under a lease for the term for which they were so
assigned to him; and he and all the other tenants in common shall be entitled to recover such other and further
damages as they shall have sustained by the same trespass
or injury, in like manner as if the premises had been leased
by them. Joint damages recovered by such tenants in common by force of this or the preceding section, shall be
apportioned and divided among them according to their
respective rights, by the court in which the judgment is
recovered.

S1-:c'r. 29. The commissioners shall make a return of ‘
their doings under their hands, together with their warrant. .
If their report is confirmed, judgment shall be rendered}
that the partition be firm and effectual forever.

S1-:c'r. 30. Any party aggrieved by any judgment rendered in the court of common pleas or superior court under a
section twenty, or upon a report of commissioners under?
this chapter, may appeal therefrom in any matter of law‘
apparent upon the record, to the supreme judicial court,
but upon an appeal from the judgment upon the report of
commissioners, the interlocutory judgment awarding that
partition be made shall not be drawn in question.

SECT. 31. The regulations herein prescribed as to appeals
from the first and second judgment on a petition for partition, shall be enforced in like manner, in a writ of partition.

SECT. 32. The final judgment shall, except as hereinafter provided, be conclusive as to the rights of property.
and possssion of parties and privies to the judgment, includ- :
ing all persons who might by law have appeared and,
answered. a

SECT. 33. If any person who was a part owner with the ,
petitioner, and for whom a share is left upon the partition, =
should be out of the state when the summons or notice to .
him is served, and should not return in time to appear and
answer, he may within three years after the final judgment
apply to the same court for a new partition; and if upon
a hearing of all parties interested, it appears that the share
left for the applicant was less than he was entitled to,
or that the part left for him was not at the time equal in
value to his share of the premises, they may order a new
partition, which shall be made in the manner before provided.

SECT. 34. In such new partition the commissioners shall
not be required to make a new division of the whole
premises, but may take from any one share or shares and
add to any other or others so much as shall be necessary
to make the partition just and equal, estimating the whole
as in the state in which it was when first divided; or if
an equal partition cannot be made without inconvenience
to the owners, the commissioners may award money to be

paid by one party to another as before provided,‘ to equalize
the shares.

Sscr. 35. If any person who has not appeared and
answered to the petition shall claim to hold in severalty
any part of the premises, he shall not be concluded by the
judgment, but may bring his action for the land claimed
by him, against any or all of the petitioners or respondents,
or of the persons holding under them, within the time
in which he might have brought it if no such judgment for
partition had been rendered.

SECT. 36. When a person who has not appeared and
answered shall claim the share that was assigned to or left
for any of the supposed part owners in the judgment for partition, he shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it
respects the partition and the assignment of the shares, in
like manner as if he had been a party to that suit, but
may bring his action for the share claimed by him, against
the person to whom it was assigned or for whom it was left.

Sncr. 37. The action shall be brought against the tenant
in possession as if the demandant had originally claimed
the specific piece demanded instead of an undivided part
of the land; and it may be brought within the time in
which it might have been brought if no such judgment for
partition had been rendered.

SECT. 38. If two or more persons appear as respondents,
claiming the same share of the premises to be divided, it
shall not be necessary to decide on their respective claims,
except for the purpose of determining which shall be admitted to appear in the suit; and if partition is made, the
share so claimed shall be left for whichever of the parties
shall prove to be entitled to it, in a suit to be thereafter
brought between themselves.

SECT. 39. If in such case it is decided in the suit for
partition that either of the respondents is not entitled to
the share that he claims, he shall be concluded by the
judgment, so far as it respects the partition and assignment
of the shares; but may bring an action against the other

claimant in the manner provided in the three preceding
sections.

SECT. 40. If any person who has not appeared and j
answered shall claim part of the premises as a part owner =
with any of those who were parties to the suit, and if the :
part or share so claimed was not known, or not allowed and ‘
left for him, in the process for partition, he shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition,
but may bring an action for the share or proportion claimed
by him, against each of the persons holding any part of the
premises under the judgment for partition, and if he prevails, shall recover against each the same proportion or
share of the part held by him, that he was entitled to claim
out of the whole premises before the partition.

SECT. 41. If after partition it appears that any person
for whom a share was left or assigned, had died before
the partition, his heir or devisee shall not by reason of his
having been a party to the suit, be barred from claiming
the share that belonged to him; but shall have the same
rights and remedies as if he had not been such party,
and had not had notice of the pendency thereof.

.SECT. 42. If a person to or for whom any share shall
have been so assigned or left is evicted by a person who at
the time of the partition had a title older and better than
the title of those who were parties to the suit, the person so

evicted may have a new partition of the residue, as if partition had not been made.

SECT. 43. A person having a mortgage, attachment, or
other lien, on the share of a part owner, shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition
and the assignment of the shares; but his lien shall remain

in full force upon the part assigned to or left for such part
owner.

Sncr. 44. The expenses and charges of the commissioners shall be ascertained and allowed by the court; the
other costs shall be taxed in the usual manner; and the
whole shall be paid by the petitioner, except the costs of a
trial of issues. When there is more than one petitioner
the whole costs and charges payable by them, shall be paid

in proportion to the shares or interests they respectively
hold in the premises.

SECT. 45. When a petition is opposed by any respondent
therein named, and it appears that the petitioner is entitled

to have partition as prayed for, he shall recover costs

against the party opposing, from and after the filing of the
plea. or answer, to be taxed as in other civil cases. ~

SECT. 46. If the plaintifff or petitioner recovers judgment
in any writ or other process of partition in which it appears
by the pleadings that the defendant or respondent denies
the right and title of the plaintifff or petitioner to any part
of the premises, and claims the same as his own estate in
fee ; and it is proved that the defendant or respondent held
the same under a title which he believed to be good, he
shall be entitled to compensation for the value of any
buildings or improvements on the premises made or erected
by himself or any other person under whom he claims;
such value to be ascertained as provided for tenants in real
actions, by chapter one hundred and thirty-four; and in like
manner he shall be liable for the plaintifff or petitioner’s
share of the rents, profits, and other damages, mentioned in
said chapter.

SECT. 47. If any sum remains due to the defendant or
respondent for improvements, after deducting the rents,
profits, or other damages, for which he is found chargeable,
the plaintifff or petitioner shall not have judgment for
partition until he has paid the same to the defendant or
respondent, or for his use to the clerk of the court ; and he
shall not be entitled to any rents or profits which may
accrue after verdict, and before he makes such payment.

IN THE PROBATE COURT.

SECT. 48. ‘The probate court in which the estate of any
deceased person is settled or in a course of settlement, may
make partition of all his real estate lying within the state,
among his heirs or devisees and all persons holding under
them, in the manner and under the restrictions hereinafter
provided.

SE01‘. 49. The partition shall be made by three or five
disinterested persons to be appointed as commissioners for
that purpose by the court. They shall before proceeding to
the execution of their duties be sworn faithfully and impartially to execute the same, and shall proceed therein in the
manner before prescribed with regard to commissioners
appointed by the courts of law, except as hereinafter otherwise provided.

Sscfr. 50. If there is estate to be divided lying in different counties, the judge may if he thinks [it issue a
separate warrant and appoint different commissioners for
each county; and the partition shall be made of the estate

in each county in like manner as if there were no other
estate.

SECT. 51. Such partition may be ordered on the petition
of any of said parties interested, after due notice to all the
others to appear and show cause against it. The notice
shall be served fourteen days at least before the time
appointed for the hearing, on the parties personally if they
can be found within the state, and if not, it shall be published
once in each week for three weeks at least -before such
hearing, in such newspapers as the court shall order.

SECT. 52. After the commissioners are appointed, some
disinterested person shall be appointed agent by the court
for any heir at law or devisee who may be absent from the
state; and he shall act for such absent heir or devisee in
all things relating to the partition.

SECT. 53. If it appears that any infant or insane person
is interested in the premises, and has no guardian within

a the state, the court shall assign him a guardian for the suit,

to appear for him and defend his interests therein.

SECT. 54. The partition when made on the application

of an heir, shall be made of all the estate that descended.

from the ancestor, and which any party interested, whether
the applicant or others, shall require to have included in
the partition; and when made on the application of a
devisee, it shall be made of all the estate held by the
applicant jointly or in common with others holding under
the testator, which he or any other devisee shall require
to have included. The same rule shall apply when the
application is made by any person holding under an heir
or devisee.

SECT. 55. Upon every such partition the court shall not
only assign and set 011‘ to the applicant his share in the
premises, but shall cause the residue to be divided among
the parties interested and the share of each one to be
assigned to him, unless two or more of the parties consent
to hold their shares together and undivided.

SECT. 56. When a messuage, piece of land, or other
part of the premises, is of greater value than either party’s
share, and cannot be divided without great inconvenience
to the owners, it may be set oil‘ to any one of the parties
who will accept it, he paying to any one or more of the
others such sums of money as the commissioners shall
award to make the partition just and equal.

SECT. 57. In the assignment of part of the premises
under the preceding section, males shall be preferred to
females, and among the children of the deceased, elder
shall be preferred to younger sons.

SECT. 58. When such real estate cannot be divided
without damage to the owners, the whole or any part thereof
may be set off to one or more of the parties among whom
partition is ordered to be made, he or they paying to the
other parties such sums of money as the commissioners
shall award.

SECT. 59. The expenses and charges incurred shall be
ascertained and allowed by the court, and paid by all the
parties interested in the partition in proportion to their
respective shares or interests in the premises. If any one
shall neglect to pay his part, an execution therefore in
common form may be issued against him.

S1-:c'r. 60. No partition shall be made by the probate
court when the shares or proportions of the respective parties
are in dispute between them, or shall appear to the judge
to be uncertain depending upon the construction or effect
of any devise or other conveyance, or upon other questions
that he shall deem proper for the consideration of a jury
and a court of common law.

SECT. 61. When any part of the real estate of the deceased
lies in common and undivided with that of another person,
the probate court may cause it to be divided and set 011'
from the part held by such co-tenant, before making partition among the heirs or others claiming under the deceased.

SECT. 62. The court in such case shall order a notice of
the intended partition to be given to the co-tenant, containing a description of the premises to be divided, with a statement of the share or proportion claimed as belonging to
the estate of the deceased, and of the time and place
appointed for hearing the case. It shall be served on the
co-tenant by delivering to him an attested copy, or by
leaving such copy at the place of his abode in this state,
fourteen days at least before the time appointed for the
hearing.

SECT. 63. If it appears in any stage of the proceedings
that any person interested in the premises, other than
the heirs and devisees of the deceased and those claiming
under them, was absent from the state at the time when the
notice was served, and has not returned, the probate court
shall either dismiss the application for partition, or stay all

further proceedings until such absent party appears and.
answers thereto, or signifies in writing to the court his
consent that partition be made as proposed.

SECT. 64. The partition when finally confirmed and 1
established shall be conclusive on all the heirs and devisees :
of the deceased, and all persons claiming under them: on
all other persons interested in the premises who appeared
and answered in the case, or assented to the proposed partition as before provided, and on every person so interested,
on whom notice was served by delivering to him a copy
thereof, or by leaving it at the place of his abode at a time
when he was within the state.

SECT. 65. Such partition shall not be conclusive upon
any persons other than those mentioned in the preceding
section. All other persons may pursue their legal remedies for recovering the premises, or as much thereof as may
belong to them, and also for obtaining partition thereof,

in like manner as if the proceedings in the probate court
had not been had.

0

ADVANCEMENTS.

SECT. 66. Questions concerning advancements of either
party may be heard and determined upon a petition for
partition, or the court may suspend proceedings until that
question is decided in the probate court in which the estate
of the deceased is settled ; which court may hear and determine all such questions, saving an appeal as in other cases
to the supreme judicial court. The final decree or sentence
thereon shall be binding on all parties interested, whether
the partition is made by the probate court or in the courts

‘of common law. .

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SECT. 67. Partitions may be made under this chapter
notwithstanding the existence of any lease of the whole or a
part of the estate to be divided; and no partition heretofore made by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be
rendered invalid by reason of the existence of such lease:
provided, that such partition shall not prejudice the right
of a lessee.

SECT. 68. Such partitions may be made notwithstanding
any of the tenants in common may be, alone or jointly with
others, trustee, attorney, or guardian, of any other tenant;
and no partitions of real estate heretofore made by a court
of competent jurisdiction, shall be rendered invalid by

reason that such trustee, attorney, or guardian, was a
party.

SECT. 69. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
cases in which remainders or estates are devised or limited
to, or in trust for, persons not in being at the time of
application for partition, upon notice to the persons who
may be parents. of such persons, in the manner herein prescribed, setting forth the origin and nature of the remainder
or interest so devised or limited. The court in such case
shall appoint a suitable and competent person to appear
and act as the next friend of such persons, in all proceedings touching the partition; the cost of whose appearance
and services, including compensation of counsel, to be
determined by the court, shall be paid by the persons applying for partition, and execution may be issued therefore in
the name of the person appointed. The partition made in
such case shall be conclusive upon all persons to whom
such estate or remainder is devised or limited, in the same
manner as if they had been in being and appeared and
answered in the case, or assented to the partition.

SECT. 70. When proceedings for obtaining partition shall
have been lawfully commenced in either of the courts
mentioned in this chapter, that court shall retain_ jurisdiction
of the case, saving the right of appeal in all cases where an
appeal is allowed by law.

SECT. 71. Where sums of money are awarded by the
commissioners to make the partition just and equal, the
partition shall not be established by the court until all such
sums are paid to the parties entitled thereto, or secured to
their satisfaction, or that of the court before which the
matter is pending.

SECT. 72. If after a first partition under this chapter any
improvements shall have been made on any part of the
premises which by the new partition shall be taken from the
share of the party who made the improvements, he shall be
entitled to compensation therefore, to be estimated and
awarded by the commissioners, and paid by the party \to
whom such part of the premises shall be assigned on t e
new partition, and the court may issue an execution theref r
in the common form.

SEGT. 73. Every person holding lands under a partition
made under this chapter, shall in case of an eviction be
entitled to compensation for improvements made thereon,
in the manner prescribed in chapter one hundred and
thirty-four. ,

SECT. 74. In all cases of partition the court may for any

sufficient reason set aside the return and commit the case ‘
anew to the same or to other commissioners, whereupon)

the same proceedings shall be had as are before directed.

SECT. 75. The return of the commissioners when ac-I
cepted, shall remain in the office of the clerk of the courts, ;
or in the registry of probate, as the case may be; and al

copy thereof, certified by the clerk, or register, shall be
recorded in the registry of deeds for the county or district
where the land lies.

SECT. 76. All records in the registry of deeds of parti-A
tions heretofore made, if no other objection exists thereto,

shall be deemed valid and sufficient whether recorded from
the original return or from a copy thereof certified by the
clerk or register of the court in which the partition was
made.

DIVISION OF WATER RIGHTS.

SECT. 77. All persons who are interested as joint tenants, .
tenants in common or otherwise, in any mill privilege;
water right, or other incorporeal hereditament may be‘

compelled to divide the same, either by suit in equity, in the
supreme judicial court, or in the manner herein before provided for the division of land. In the latter case, the
commissioners appointed to make partition shall set forth in
their return the best method of setting off to the several
parties their respective shares or interests, and thereupon
the court may require the parties interested, to perform
such acts as justice and equity may require, and may make
all such orders and decrees in the premises, according to the
course of proceedings in equity, as may be necessary to do
justice between the parties.

SECTION 1. No person shall make an entry into lands or
tenements, except in cases wherehis entry is allowed by

law; and in such cases he shall not enter with force, but
in a peaceable manner.

SECT. 2. When a forcible entry is made, or when a
peaceable entry is made and the possession unlawfully held
by force, or when the lessee of land or tenements, or a person
holding under such lessee, holds possession without right
after the determination of the lease by its own limitation,
the person entitled to the premises may be restored to the
possession in the manner hereinafter provided.

1 Ouch. 481. 8 Cash. 29, 83, 11 Cush. 227. 1 Gray, 571.
6 Oman. 563. 121, 409. ° 4 Gray, 432.

SECT. 3. When a lease in writing is determined in the
manner provided in section twenty-eight of chapter ninety,
the lessor and his assigns may be restored to the possession
of the premises in like manner: provided, that when a
suit is brought under this chapter to recover the possession
by reason of such termination, if the tenant shall four days
at least before the return day-of the writ pay or tender to
the landlord or his attorney the rent due, with interest
thereon and all costs of suit, the lease shall be in force.
Nothing contained in this section or said section twentyeight shall affect any other rights or remedies on the part
of the lessor provided in the lease.

SECT. 4. No restitution shall be made under the provisions of this chapter of any lands or tenements of which
the defendant, or his ancestors, or those under whom he
holds the premises, have been in the quiet possession for

three years next before the commencement of the suit,
unless his estate therein is ended.

SECT. 5. The person entitled to the possession of the
premises may take from a justice of the peace, or police or
justices’ court, a writ in the form used for an original summons in common civil actions before such justices or courts,
in which the defendant shall be summoned to answer to the
complaint of the plaintifff, for that the defendant is in possession of the lands or tenements in question, describing
them, which he holds unlawfully and against the right of

the plaintifff, as it is said; and no other declaration shall
be required.

SECT. 6. The writ shall be served seven days at least
before the return day, and the suit shall be conducted like
other civil actions before such justices o'r courts.

SECT. 7.

shall have judgment and execution for the possession and
for his costs.

sm. 8. If the plaintifff becomes nonsuit, or fails to
prove his right to the possession, the defendant shall have
judgment and execution for his costs.

SE01‘. 9. When judgment is rendered for the plaintifff for
restitution, and the defendant appeals therefrom, or when
the defendant removes the case as provided in section
thirteen of chapter one hundred and twenty, he shall before
such appeal or removal is allowed, recognize to the plaintifff
with sufficient surety or sureties, to enter the action, to pay
all rent then due, all intervening rent, and all damages
and loss which the plaintifff may sustain by reason of the
withholding of the possession of the demanded premises,
and by reason of any injury done thereto during such withholding, together with all costs, until the restitution of the
possession thereof to the plaintifff, in case the judgment from
which the appeal is made shall be affirmed. Upon final
judgment for the plaintifff, all sums of money then due to
him may be recovered by writ of scire facias or action of
contract upon the recognizance.

SECT. 10. If the case is transferred at the request of the
defendant upon any plea or suggestion by him that brings
in question the title to the freehold, and if it appears to
the court in which the action is determined, that the
defendant originally entered on the premises under a lease
from the plaintifff, or from any person under whom the
plaintifff claims, or that he held them under any such lease,
and that his said plea or suggestion was frivolous and
intended for delay, the court shall cause a certificate thereof
to be entered on the record, and the defendant shall thereupon be liable to pay double the yearly value of the demised

: premises from the time of the notice to quit the same, which
« may be recovered by writ of scire facias or action of. con: tract on the recognizance.

SECT. 11. The judgment in such action shall not be a
bar to any action thereafter to be brought by either party

V to recover the premises in question, or damages for any

- trespass thereon; but the sum recovered for rent according

to the provisions of the two preceding sections, shall be
allowed and deducted in any assessment of damages in such

' subsequent action by the original plaintifff.

If it appears by default or on trial that thee
plaintifff is entitled to the possession of the premises, he

SECTION 1. If a tenant in dower, by the curtesy, or for
life or years, commits or suffers waste on the premises, the
person having the next immediate estate of inheritance may
have an action of waste against such tenant, wherein he
shall recover the place wasted, and the amount of the
damage.

SECT. 2. An heir may bring an action for waste done in
the time of his ancestor.

SECT. 3. If an issue of fact is joined in the cause, it
shall be tried by a jury in the usual manner, either with or
without a view of the premises, as the court shall order;
and the jury that inquire of the waste shall assess the
damages.

SECT. 4. A person entitled to such action of waste, may
instead thereof bring an action of tort in the nature of
waste, in which he shall recover such damages as he has
suffered by reason of the waste.

SE01‘. 5. Such action of tort may be maintained by one
who has the remainder or reversion, in fee simple or fee
tail, after an intervening estate for life, and also by one
who has a remainder or reversion for life or years only,
and each shall recover such damages as he has suffered
by the waste.

SECT. 6. An action of tort for waste, if commenced
in the lifetime of the tenant, may be prosecuted against his
executors or administrators ; and such action may be originally brought against the executors or administrators of the
tenant, for waste committed or suffered in his lifetime.

SECT. 7. If a joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in

common, of undivided lands, shall cut down, destroy, or.

carry away, any trees, timber, wood, or underwood, standing
or lying on such lands, or shall dig up or carry away any
stone, ore, or other valuable thing, found there, or shall
commit any other strip or waste, without first giving thirty
days’ notice in writing under his hand to all the other
persons interested therein, or to their respective agents or
attorneys, of his intention to enter upon and improve the
land; or if he shall do any of said acts during the pendency of a petition or other suit for the partition of the
premises; he shall forfeit three times the amount of the
damages that shall be assessed therefore, to be recovered and
appropriated as provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 8. Such damages may be recovered in an action
of tort by any one or more of the other co-tenants,
without naming any one except the plaintifff, and the
damages shall be appropriated, one-half to the persons who
shall sue, and the other half to the same persons with all
the other co-tenants except the defendant, to be divided
among them in proportion to their respective interests in
the land.

SECT. 9. If during the pendency of an action for the
recovery of lands, the tenant or person in possession shall
with knowledge of such pendency commit strip or waste,

the demandant, if he recovers judgment, may afterwards

recover, in an action of tort, three times the amount of the
damages that shall be assessed therefore.

SECT. 10. If any person shall without license willfully
cut down, carry away, girdle, or otherwise destroy, any
trees, timber, wood, or underwood, on the land of another,
the owner may recover, in an action of tort, three times the
amount of the damages that shall be assessed therefore,
unless it appears that the defendant had good reason to
believe that the land on which the trespass was committed
was his own, or that he was otherwise lawfully authorized
to do the acts complained of, in which case he shall be
liable only for single damages. ~

SECT. 11. When a trespass on lands has been casual and A

involuntary, the trespasser may tender sufficient amends
before an action is brought; and if afterwards sued, he may
in his answer disclaim all title to the land, allege that the
trespass was casual and involuntary, and set forth the tender,
bringing the money into court. If upon the trial the allegations appear to be true, and the damages assessed do
not exceed the amount so tendered, the defendant shall
recover his costs.

SECT. 12. If a tender was not made before the commencement of the action, the defendant may disclaim title,
allege that the trespass was casual and involuntary, and
bring into court sutiicient amends, with the costs of suit up
to that time. If the plaintifff does not accept the same in
satisfaction, and if upon trial the allegations appear to be
true, and the damages assessed do not exceed the amount
so brought into court, the defendant shall recover his costs.

SECT. 13. The supreme judicial court, or one of the justices thereof, may either in term time or vacation, after the
filing of the bill or other commencement of a suit concerning waste, issue a writ of injunction to stay waste, and
issue such other Writs and processes, and make such orders
and decrees, according to the course of proceedings in equity,
as justice and equity may require.

SECT. 14. Every such injunction to stay waste may be
dissolved, either in term time or vacation, by the supreme
judicial court, or any one of the justices thereof.

SE01‘. 15. When a person whose real estate is attached
commits Waste thereon, or threatens or makes preparations
so to do, or when a real action is brought to foreclose a
mortgage, or for possession under the same, or for the
recovery of land, and any waste on the land has been committed or threatened by the defendant, or any one claiming
under him or acting by his permission, the court in which
the suit is pending or any one of the justices may on the
application of the plaintifff, either in term time or vacation,
issue a Writ of injunction to stay such waste.

SECT. 16. In all cases under the preceding section, the
court or justice may in their discretion require that the
applicant shall before the issuing of the writ give bond with
sufficient sureties to the adverse party, conditioned that
the applicant shall pay all damages which may arise from
the issuing of the injunction, if it should be dissolved.

SECT. 17. The court may arrest and commit the defendant for a violation of such injunction, and issue such other
process as may be necessary or proper to enforce obedience
thereto, in like manner as the supreme judicial court may
do upon a suit in equity pending before them ; and the
injunction may be dissolved, either in term time or vacation,
by the court in which the suit is pending, or by any one of
the justices.

SECTION 1. When the plaintiffi" prevails in an action oftort for a nuisance, the court may, in addition to the usual 
judgment for damages and costs, enter judgment that the ,
nuisance be abated and removed, and may award an exe-Z
cution in common form for the damages and costs, and a.
separate warrant to the proper officer; requiring him to
abate and remove the nuisance at the expense of the
defendant, in like manner as public and common nuisances
are abated and removed.

SECT. 2. The court may on motion of the defendant
order a stay of such warrant for ,a time not exceeding six
months, to give him opportunity to remove the nuisance,
upon his undertaking to do so within the time ordered.

SECT. 3. If the plaintiffi" recovers judgment in a second
suit for the continuance or repetition of the same nuisance,
Whether there has been in the first suit a judgment for
abatement and removal or not, he shall be entitled as of
right to a judgment for abatement and removal, and to
a warrant to be issued as before provided.

SECT. 4. The expense of abatement and removal shall
be collected by the officer in the manner damages and costs
are collected upon execution; except that the materials of
buildings, fences, or other things, removed as a nuisance,
may be sold by the officer as goods are sold on execution
for the payment of debts. The oilicer shall apply the proceeds of the sale to defray the expenses of the removal, and
pay over any balance to the defendant upon demand. If
the proceeds are not sufficient to defray the expenses, he
shall collect the residue.

SECT. 5. After the commencement of a suit in equity
concerning a nuisance, the supreme judicial court or any
one of the justices, either in term time or vacation, may
issue an injunction to stay or prevent any nuisance on the
premises in question.

POSSESSION AND FORECLOSURE.
SECTION 1. After the breach of condition of a mortgage

of real estate, the mortgagee may recover possession of the A

mortgaged premises by action in the manner hereinafter
provided; or he may make an open and peaceable entry
thereon, if not opposed by the mortgagor or other person
claiming the premises; and such possession, obtained in
either mode, being continued peaceably for three years, shall
forever foreclose the right of redemption.

SE61‘. 2. When an entry for breach of the condition is
made without a judgment, a memorandum or certincate
thereof shall be made on the mortgage deed and signed by
the mortgagor or the person claiming under him, or a certificate of two competent witnesses to prove the entry shall
be made and sworn to before a justice of the peace; and
the same shall within thirty days after the entry be recorded
in the registry of deeds for the county or district where the
land lies, with a note of reference from each record to the
other, if the mortgage is recorded in the same registry. N 0
such entry shall be effectual for the purposes mentioned in
the preceding section, unless a certificate or a deposition in
proof thereof is thus made and recorded.

SECT. 3. The mortgagee in an action for possession may
declare on his own seizin, stating that it is in mortgage; and
if it shall appear to the court, upon default, demurrer,
verdict, or otherwise, that the plaintifff is entitled to the
possession of the premises for breach of the condition of the
mortgage, the court shall, on motion of either party, award
the conditional judgment hereinafter mentioned, except as
is provided in the following section.

SECT. 4. Unless the defendant is the mortgagor or his
assignee, or entitled to hold or claim the premises under
him, he shall not redeem the premises, nor have a conditional judgment rendered, unless with the consent of the
plaintifff ; but the suit shall be conducted in all respects like
a writ of entry; and in all cases the judgment for the plaintifff may be entered for possession as at common law, unless_

one or the other of the parties shall move for the conditional judgment.

SECT. 5. When the conditional judgment is to be entered,
the court shall inquire and determine how much is due to

the plaintifff on the mortgage, and shall then enter judgment,
that if the defendant shall, within two months after the
judgment, pay to the plaintifff the sum so found due on the
mortgage, with interest and the costs of the suit, the mort~
gage shall be void and the defendant shall hold the premises
discharged thereof; otherwise, that the plaintifff shall have
his execution for possession, and for costs of suit.

SECT. 6. If the condition of the mortgage is for the
doing of something other than the payment of money, or if
but part of the mortgage money is due, the court shall vary

the terms of the judgment as the case may require; but shall '

award execution as before provided, unless the defendant
shall within two months after the judgment perform what
shall be therein prescribed.

SE01‘. 7. An entry for breach of the condition may be
made, and an action for possession may be brought, by an
assignee of the mortgagee, whether the assignment be by
deed or by operation of law, and the action shall be conducted in like manner as if brought by the original mortgagee.

SECT. 8. The action may be brought like a writ of entry,
against whoever is tenant of the freehold, and the mortgagor
may in all cases be joined as a defendant, whether he then
has any estate in the premises or not; but he shall not be
liable for costs when he has no estate and makes no defense
to the suit.

SE01‘. 9. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent
a mortgagee or any person claiming under him from entering on the premises, or recovering possession thereof, before
breach of the condition of the mortgage, when there is no
agreement to the contrary; but, in such case, if the debt
is afterwards paid, or the mortgage redeemed, the amount
of the clear rents and profits from the time of the entry
shall be accounted for, and deducted from the sum due on
the mortgage.

SE01‘. 10. If such entry is before a breach of the condition, the three years limited for the redemption shall
not begin to run until after the condition is broken, nor
until after a notice in writing given by the mortgagee or
the person claiming under him, to the mortgagor or the
person claiming under him, that the former will thenceforward hold the premises for the breach of the condition, or
for the purpose of foreclosing the mortgage.

SECT. 11. The person thus entitled to hold the premises
for breach of the condition,may instead of such notice in

writing make a new formal entry for the breach of the condition, or may bring an action therefore in the manner
herein before provided; and such action, if brought against
the mortgagor or any person claiming under him, may be
maintained notwithstanding the premises are at that time
in the possession of the plaintifff.

SECT. 12. Such notice of intention and such new entry
shall not be effectual for the purposes aforesaid, unless a
certificate or deposition to prove the same, is made and
recorded as before provided in the case of an original entry
for breach of the condition.

REDEMPTION.

SECT. 13. When the condition of a mortgage has been
broken, the mortgagor or any person lawfully claiming or
holding under him, may redeem the same unless the mortgagee, or some person lawfully holding or claiming under
him, has obtained possession of the premises for the breach
of the condition, and has continued that possession for three
years.

SECT. 14. The person entitled to redeem shall pay or
tender to the mortgagee, or person lawfully claiming or
holding under him, the whole sum then due and payable on
the mortgage, and shall perform or tender performance of
every other condition contained therein; and if there has
been a suit for recovering the premises, he shall pay or
tender the costs if not before paid.

SECT. 15. If the mortgagee or any person under him

has had possession of the premises, he shall account for the i
rents and profits, and shall be allowed for all sums expended 1
in reasonable repairs and improvements, all sums paid for ;
lawful taxes and assessments, and all other necessary expenses T
in the care and management of the premises. If on such?

account there is a balance due from him, it shall be considered as so much paid towards the debt due on the mortgage. If there is a balance due him, it shall be added to
the debt, and be paid or tendered as such.

SECT. 16. The tender may be made at any time within .
the three years limited for redemption, before as well;
as after an entry for breach of the condition; and if the‘

mortgagee or person claiming or holding under him shall
not accept the same and discharge the mortgage in the
manner prescribed by law, the mortgagor or person claiming
or holding under him may recover the premises by a suit
in equity for redemption.

SECT. 17. The tender, if not accepted, shall not prevent
the foreclosure of the right of redemption, unless a suit
is commenced within one year after the tender is made.

SECT. 18. If in such suit the plaintifff alleges that he
has tendered or offered to pay the sum due on the mortgage,
he shall when he commences his suit pay the sum thus
alleged to the clerk of the court for the use of the party
entitled thereto.

SECT. 19. The person entitled to redeem may at any
time within the three years limited for the redemption,
and either before or after an entry for breach of the condition, bring a suit for redemption without a previous
tender, and may therein offer to pay such sum as shall
be found due from him, or to perform such other condition as the case may require.

SE01‘. 20. The court in which a suit to redeem is pending, or any justice thereof, may at any time after the
commencement of the suit, in term time or vacation,
ascertain and determine by reference to a master or otherwise, whether any and what sum not in dispute is due on
the mortgage; and by an interlocutory order direct the
same to be paid to the mortgagee, or for his use to the
clerk of the court. ‘

SECT. 21. If suit is brought without a previous tender
and it appears that anything is due on the mortgage, the
plaintifff shall pay the costs of suit, unless it appears that
the defendant has unreasonably refused or neglected, when
requested, to render a just and true account of the money
due on the mortgage, and of the rents and profits, and
sums paid for taxes, repairs, improvements, and other
necessary expenses; or that he has otherwise by his default
prevented the plaintifff from performing or tendering performance of the condition before the commencement of
the suit. In all other cases of a suit for redemption, the
court may in their discretion award costs to either party as
equity shall require.

SECT. 22. When such suit is founded on a previous tender, and it appears that the tender was insufficient, the
plaintifff shall nevertheless be entitled to a decree for redemption, according to the provisions of sections nineteen and
twenty-one, in the same manner as if no tender had been
set forth in the suit: provided, that the suit be commenced
within the three years limited for the redemption.

SECT. 23. A suit foriredemption may be brought in the
court of common pleas, superior court, or the supreme

judicial court, held for the county where the land lies, and
if brought in the court of common pleas or superior court
an appeal may be had tothc supreme judicial court as in
other civil actions.

SECT. 24. When a bill in equity for redemption -_i_s
inserted in a writ, the service shall be deemed the commencement of the suit, if the writ or a copy thereof, with
or without the bill, but with a description of the premises
sought to be redeemed, attested by the officer, shall be
deposited within three days after the day on which the service
is made, in the office of the clerk of the court to which the
writ is returnable; otherwise the depositing of such copy or
writ shall be deemed the commencement of the suit.

S1-:c'r. 25. If it appears that the plaintill" is entitled to
redeem, the court shall inquire and determine what sum is
due on the mortgage, or what other act the plaintifff is
bound to perform for the redemption of the premises, and
shall enter a decree, that upon the payment of such sum,
or the performance of such other thing, within such time as
the court shall order, the plaintifff shall have possession of
the premises, to hold discharged of the mortgage.

SECT. 26. When it appears to the court that the mortgagee has not unreasonably neglected or refused to render
a true account of the rents and profits of the mortgaged
estate, the court may award to him the balance found due
on the mortgage with interest thereon from the expiration
of three years after such entry to the time of rendering
judgment in the suit, at a rate not exceeding twelve per
cent. a year.

SE01‘. 27. The court may at the same time order or
decree, that if the defendant neglects or refuses to accept
the money or other thing required by the decree to be paid
or performed, the money shall be left for his use with the
clerk of the court, or that such other thing shall be done as
the case may require; and the plaintifff, after having performed every thing required of him by the decree of the
court, may have an execution in common form for possession

of the mortgaged premises.

SECT. 28. If upon a suit for redemption it appears that .
the defendant has received from the rents and profits of the ?
estate or otherwise more than is due on the mortgage, the ,3
court shall award judgment and execution against him in 1
the common form for such sum as shall be due to the
plaintifff; and if there are several defendants, such judgment’
and execution may be awarded against them, either jointly

I or severally as the case may require, for the sums received

by them or either of them respectively.

SECT. 29. When the money tendered and brought into

9 court exceeds the sum found due on the mortgage, and
when any sum is awarded to the plaintifff on account of

the rents and profits received by the defendant, or for costs
of suit, the court may order the whole amount so due to
the plaintifff to be deducted from the money brought into
court, and the same shall be restored to the plaintifff, and
the residue shall be paid to the defendant.

SECT. 30. If the mortgagee or person claiming or
holding under him receives from the rents and profits of
the premises, or upon a tender made to him, or in any
other manner, more than is due on the mortgage, and if no
suit for redemption is brought against him, the mortgagor
or other person entitled to such excess may recover it in
an action of contract for money had and received to his
use.

SECT. 31. If during the pendency of a suit for redemption it appears that any other person is interested therein,
the court may cause him to be made a party thereto upon
such terms as they shall think proper; and may order a
summons or a subpoena to be issued and served on him in
such manner as they shall direct; and he shall thereupon
be allowed and required to appear and answer to the suit.

SECT. 32. If any person entitled to redeem a mortgaged estate dies without having made a tender for that
purpose, a tender may be made, and a suit for redemption
commenced and prosecuted, as well by the executors or
administrators as by the heirs or devisees of the deceased
person. SE01‘. 33. If a tender has been made by such deceased
person in his lifetime, a suit for redemption founded thereon
may be commenced and prosecuted by his heirs, devisees,
executors, or administrators, in like manner as it might
have been by the party himself; and if the plaintifff in a
suit dies, the suit whether founded ona previous tender or
not, may be prosecuted to final judgment by his heirs,
devisees, executors, or administrators.

S1-:01‘. 34. When the mortgagee or the person claiming
or holding under him is under guardianship as an infant or
otherwise, the tender may be made to the guardian, and he
may, upon satisfaction execute a release of the mortgage.

SECT. 35. When execution has issued on a judgment;
for possession and has been levied, if it shall be after:
wards satisfied by payment of the amount due on the mort- E
gage and costs, the mortgagee, his executors, administra-5
tors, or assigns, shall at the expense of the mortgagor enter
on the margin of the record of the execution an acknowledgment of satisfaction, or make to the mortgagor a deed
of release which shall be recorded, with proper notes of
reference to the execution discharged thereby.

OPENING OF FORECLOSURE.

SECT. 36. If after the foreclosure of a mortgage the:
person entitled to the debt recovers judgment for anypartf
of it, on the ground that the value of the mortgaged prem- 
ises at the time of the foreclosure was less than the sum}
due, such recovery shall open the foreclosure; and the
person entitled may redeem the premises, notwithstanding
the three years limited in that behalf have expired: provided, that his suit for redemption is brought within one
year after the recovery of such judgment.

MORTGAGES BY DEFEASANCE.

SECT. 37. The mortgages mentioned in this chapter shall i
include not only those made by a common deed of mortgage, }
but also such as are made by a conveyance with a separate 4
deed of defeasance. ‘

MORTGAGES WITH POWER OF SALE.

SECT. 38. When a power of sale is contained in a mort- 1
gage, and a conditional judgment has been entered, the”
demandant may, instead of a writ of possession, have a1
decree entered that the property be sold pursuant to such.
power of sale; and thereupon the demandant shall give
such notices and do all such acts as are authorized and
required by the power, or the court passing the decree.

SECT. 39. The party selling shall within ten days thereafter make a report thereof and of his doings, to the court,
under his oath, and file the same in the clerk’s office, and
the same may be confirmed and allowed, or set aside and a
resale ordered, as to the court shall seem just and lawful.
Any person interested may intervene or be summoned and
heard on such proceedings; and the order of the court
confirming the sale shall be conclusive evidence as against
all persons, that the power of sale was duly executed.

SECT. 40. If the tenant in the action in which such
decree of sale is to be made, shall not be seized in fee simple

in possession of the whole equity of redemption of the land
demanded, no decree for a sale shall be made until all
parties interested in the equity of redemption-, and whose
estate or interest therein would be affected by such sale,
including any married woman having right or possibility of
dower, shall have been summoned to appear and had due
opportunity to be heard according to the order of court.

SECT. 41. Instead of such suit and decree of sale, the
mortgagee, or any person having his estate therein, or
authorized by such power to act in the premises, may upon
a breach of the condition give such notices and do all such
acts as are authorized or required by the power; and he
shall, within thirty days after selling the property in pursuance of the power, file a copy of the notice, and his affidavit
setting forth his acts in the premises fully and particularly,
in the office of the registry of deeds in the county or district
where the property is situated. The affidavit and copy of
notice shall be recorded by the register, with a note of reference thereto on the margin of the record of the mortgage
deed if recorded in his office.

SECT. 42. If it appears by such affidavit that he has in
all respects complied with the requisitions of the power
of sale, in relation to all things to be done by him before
selling the property, and has sold the same in the manner
required by such power, the affidavit, or a duly certified
office copy of the record thereof, shall be admitted as evidence that the power of sale was duly executed.

SECT. 43. If the mortgage was executed by a man having at that time no lawful wife, or.if being married, the
wife of the mortgagor joined in the deed in token of her
release of dower, the sale of the property in either of the
modes aforesaid shall be effectual to bar all claim and possibility of dower in the property.

MORTGAGES TO THE COMMONWEALTH.

SECT. 44. When a mortgage is made or assigned to the
commonwealth, the treasurer may demand and receive the
money due, and upon payment shall make and acknowledge
a discharge of the mortgage.

SECT. 45. If the condition of such mortgage is not duly
performed, the treasurer may cause an entry for the breach
of the condition to be made by himself, or by any person
whom he shall appoint for the purpose, in the name and
behalf of the commonwealth, or he may bring an action in
the name of the commonwealth to recover possession of the

SECTION 1. When any person shall unlawfully enter and
intrude upon or hold any lands belonging to the commonwealth, the same may be recovered upon an information
filed and prosecuted by the attorney-general or any districtattorney, in the supreme judicial court in any county,
describing the premises and setting forth the title and claim
of the commonwealth thereto; and a summons shall thereupon issue to the persons therein named as intruders or
trespassers, returnable in the county where the lands lie.

SECT. 2. The service of the summons and all other
proceedings in the suit shall be conducted in the same manner substantially as in real actions between private persons,
unless where a different course is prescribed.

SECT. 3. When the title of the commonwealth is founded
on a forfeiture for the breach of a condition in any grant or
conveyance made by the commonwealth, or by the province
or colony of Massachusetts Bay, no suit therefore shall be
commenced unless by an order of the legislature.

SE01‘. 4. If the claim of the commonwealth is founded
on an escheat for want of heirs of the last owner of the
premises, or on any other title except that of the forfeiture
mentioned in the preceding section, the attorney-general or
district-attorney may commence and prosecute a suit therefore whenever he shall have good reason to believe that the
claim of the commonwealth can be established by proof.

SECT. 5. In case of any supposed escheat, when no person
appears as the heir of the person last seized, and in all cases
when there is reason to suppose that there is any person
claiming any estate or interest in the premises Whose name
is unknown, or who is absent from the state, or cannot be
found therein to be served with process, the court shall, in
addition to any other service, order notice to be given to all
persons interested to appear and answer to the information,
by causing the substance thereof with the order of the court
to be published three weeks successively in such newspaper as the court shall direct, the frrst publication to be
ninety days at least before the time appointed for the
appearance of the parties.

SE01‘. 6. Any person who claims an estate or interest‘
in the premises, though he is not named in the information i
nor served with process, may appear and answer thereto ; but
a defendant who is not named shall not recover costs against
the commonwealth, unless it appears that he has some
estate or interest in the premises, although the common-,
wealth should fail to establish their claim thereto.

SECT. 7. When there are several defendants, the court‘
may award costs for or against any one of them, as the jus- E
tice of the case may require, in like manner as if he were
the sole defendant.

SECT. 8. If the commonwealth prevails in the suit, the
defendant shall be chargeable for the rents and profits,
and be entitled to an allowance for all improvements, in like
manner as is provided in the case of a writ of entry between
private persons.

SECT. 9. The commonwealth shall be deemed and taken
to be actually seized and possessed of the premises as soon
as judgment is rendered in their favor, without a writ of
possession.

SECT. 10. The judgment shall be conclusive between the
commonwealth and the defendants who appear and answer,
and against every person named as a defendant upon whom
the summons has been duly served within the state, and
all persons claiming under such defendants.

SECT. 11_. Any person who is not concluded by a judgment for the commonwealth according to the provisions of
the preceding section, may until his claim is barred by
the law for the limitation of real actions or otherwise,
bring a writ of entry to recover the premises from the
commonwealth or any person who may then hold under
the commonwealth; may deny and disprove any facts
alleged and proved in the first suit, and allege and prove
any other facts in support of his claim; and if it appears
that he is entitled to the premises, shall have judgment
and execution therefore in common form.

S1-:c'r. 12. If the commonwealth continues seized of
the premises at the time when such new action is commenced, it shall be brought against the tenant or occupant
of the premises, and in addition to the service on him a
copy of the original writ or summons shall be left with the
attorney-general or districteattorney fourteen days at least
before the return day, that he may appear and defend the
suit. If the commonwealth has granted away the premises,

the action shall be brought against the tenant of the freehold. In either case it shall be conducted and disposed of
as if no such information had been filed. ~

SECT. 13. The demandant if he recovers, shall be entitled
to the rents and profits, and shall be chargeable for all
improvements, in like manner as is provided in chapter one
hundred and thirty-four, although the premises should not
have been held and possessed under the adverse title as
much as six years. '

SECT. 14. Costs shall be awarded and taxed for the party
prevailing. If the judgment is in favor of the common
wealth, an execution for the costs shall issue in common
form; if it is in favor of the defendant, the costs shall be
paid out of the treasury, by warrant of the governor and
council.

SECT. 15. When any person unlawfully enters into,
intrudes upon, or holds, any land the title to which is in the
commonwealth for the use and benefit of any tribe or body
of Indians, or in trustees, guardians, treasurers, or agents,
appointed by or under the authority of the commonwealth
for the use and benefit of such tribe or body, or of any
individuals thereof or their descendants, the same may be
recovered upon an information filed and prosecuted by the
attorney-general or district-attorney in the court of common
pleas for the county where the land is situated.

SECT. 16. The district-attorney for such district shall file
and prosecute such information whenever he has good reason
to believe that the land can be recovered.

SECT. 17. The trial of such information in the common
pleas shall be final, saving to each party the right of exception in matter of law, according to the provisions of chapter
one hundred and thirteen.

SECT. 18. The proceedings in the information and the
effects thereof shall in all respects be conformable to the
preceding provisions of this chapter; but if the final judgment is in favor of the commonwealth a writ of possession
may be sued out and served like a similar writ in other civil
process.

SECT. 19. If in any such proceeding the commonwealth
recovers possession of land to or in which such trustees,
guardians, treasurers, or agents, have title or interest, such
possession shall be deemed to be the possession of such
trustees, guardians, treasurers, or agents, if any are living,

or the supreme judicial court, may be commenced by trustee g
process; except actions of replevin, actions of tort for:
malicious prosecution, for slander either by writing or?
speaking, and for assault and battery; and any person orf

corporation may be summoned as trustee of the defendant 
therein. 1

SECT. 2. The writ shall be signed, sealed, bear teste, and 3
be issued, like other original writs in civil actions.

SECT. 3. It shall be in the form heretofore estab-:
lished, authorizing an attachment of the goods and estate of E
the defendant in his own hands, and also in the hands of
the trustee, and shall be subject to alteration as is provided in chapter one hundred and twenty-three.

SECT. 4. If all the persons named in the writ as trustees
dwell or have usual places of business in one county, the
writ shall be returnable in such county, otherwise it may be
returnable in any county in which either of them dwells

or has his usual place of business, without regard to the
domicil of the other parties.

SE01‘. 5. The attachment of the goods and estate of the
defendant in his own hands and possession, if any, shall be
made in the usual manner, and the Writ shall be further
served on the defendant and each of the trustees in the

manner prescribed for the service of an original summons
without an attachment.

SECT. 6. At any time before the writ is served on
the defendant, the plaintifff may insert the names of
any other trustees, and may cause the writ to be served
on them. After a service on any trustee, the writ may be
served again on the same trustee in like manner and with
the same effect as if he had not been previously served

therewith, if such second service is made before the writ is
served on the defendant.

SECT. 7. If all the trustees are discharged, the plaintifff
shall not proceed in the suit against the defendant unless
there has been legal service of the writ on him, or notice of
the suit, or unless he actually appears and answers thereto.

APPEARANCE AND ANSWER OF TRUSTEE.

SECT. 8. Every person summoned as trustee shall appear

A and file his answer, in the county of Suffolk within the first

ten days, and in any other county within the first four days,

; of the return term of the writ, unless the court for good

cause shown allow further time therefore. The answer shall
be sworn to by the trustee, and shall disclose as plainly, fully,
and particularly as is practicable, what goods, effects, or
credits, of the defendant, if any, were in his hands or possession at the time of the service of the writ upon him.

SE01‘. 9. The plaintifff may from time to time examine the supposed trustee upon written interrogatories filed in
the clerk’s office. The answers thereto shall be swo1§ to
and filed in the clerk’s oiiice within seven days after notice
to the trustee or his attorney of the filing of the interrogatories, unless the court shall otherwise order. If answers
are not so filed, the court may pass such order as the case

may require.

SECT. 10. Corporations summoned as trustees may appear
and answer by their cashier, treasurer, secretary, or such
other officer as they shall appoint or as the court shall
require to attend for that purpose. The answer and examination on oath of such officers or persons shall be received
as the answer and examination of the corporation.

SECT. 11. The answers and statements sworn to by a
trustee shall be considered as true, in deciding how far he is
chargeable, but either party may allege and prove any other
facts not stated nor denied by him, that may be material in
deciding that question.

SECT. 12. Any question of fact arising upon such additional allegations may be tried and determined by the court,
or may be submitted to a jury in such manner as the court
shall direct.

SECT. 13. When a person duly summoned as a trustee
neglects to appear and answer to the suit as herein provided,
he shall be defaulted and adjudged a trustee.

SECT. 14. If a person summoned as trustee, or the executor or administrator of such person, or if an officer, agent,
or other person, who appears and answers for a corporation
so summoned, shall, upon his examination on oath, knowingly and willfully answer falsely, he shall, out of his own
goods and estate, pay to the plaintiii‘ in the trustee process,
or to his executors or administrators, the full amount due
on the judgment recovered therein, with interest therefore,
to be recovered in an action of tort; and he shall moreover on conviction thereof upon indictment, be adjudged

guilty of perjury.

PROCEEDINGS IN RELATION TO ADVERSE CLAIMANTS.

SECT. 15. If it appears that any goods, effects, or credits,
in the hands of a supposed trustee, are claimed by another
person by force of an assignment from the defendant
or otherwise, the court may permit such claimant to appear
and maintain his right. If he does not voluntarily appear,
notice for that purpose may be issued and served on him
in such manner as the court shall direct.

SECT. 16. If such claimant appears, he may be admitted
as a party to the suit so far as respects his title to the
goods, effects, or credits, in question, and may allege and
prove any facts not stated nor denied by the supposed
trustee; and such allegations shall be tried and determined
in the manner before provided.

SECT. 17. Upon the trial of any question arising upon
the additional allegations of a party, any part of the testimony may be given by depositions taken and reduced to
writing in the usual form, and filed in the case, or orally, as
the court shall direct.

PROCEEDINGS WHEN SUIT IS PENDING AGAINST TRUSTEE.

SECT. 18. If during the pendency of an action the
defendant is summoned as the trustee of the plaintifff,
the first suit may nevertheless proceed so far as to
ascertain by a verdict, award, or otherwise, what sum is
due from the defendant. The suit shall not be delayed
on account of the trustee process, unless the court for
good cause shown shall see fit to continue it for judgment until the termination of the trustee suit, or until
the attachment therein shall be dissolved by the discharge
of the trustee, or by the satisfaction of the judgment, or
otherwise.

SECT. 19. ' The court may, on application of the plaintifff
in the trustee process, continue the other suit, on such terms
as they shall deem just and reasonable. If it is not so continued, and judgment is rendered against the defendant,
he shall not_ afterwards be adjudged a trustee on account
of the demand so recovered against him, so long as he is
liable to an execution on the judgment.

SECT. 20. If before final judgment is rendered in the
first suit, the defendant in that suit is adjudged a trustee in
the other, and shall pay thereon the money demanded in
the first suit, or any part thereof, the fact shall be stated on
the record of the first suit, and judgment therein shall be

rendered for the costs due to the plaintifff, and for such part
of the debt or damages as shall remain due and unpaid.

WHEN AND FOR WHAT TRUSTEES ARE CHARGEABLE, &C.

SECT. 21. When a person is summoned as trustee having
goods, effects, or credits, of the defendant intrusted or
deposited in his hands or possession; such goods, effects, and
credits, shall be thereby attached and held to respond the
final judgment in the suit, in like manner as goods or estate
when attached by the ordinary process, except as hereinafter
provided.

SECT. 22. Debts, legacies, goods, effects, or credits, due
from, or in the hands of, an executor or administrator

as such, may be so attached in his hands.

19 Pick. 354. 8 Met. 507. 7 Cush. 406.
20 Pick. 563. 2 Cush. 111. 2 Gray, 251.

SECT. 23. Any dividend of an estate of an insolvent
debtor, if it is not upon a claim for wages which would not
have been attachable in the hands of the original debtor,
may after the dividend is declared be so attached in the
hands of the assignee.

SECT. 24. Any money or other thing due to the defendant may be attached as herein mentioned before it has
become payable, if it is due absolutely and without any contingency; but the trustee «shall not be compelled to pay or
deliver it before the time appointed by the contract.

SECT. 25. If a person summoned as trustee has in his
possession goods, effects, or credits, of the defendant, which
he holds by a conveyance or title that is void as to the
creditors of the defendant, he may be adjudged a trustee,
although the defendant could not have maintained an action
therefore against him.

SECT. 26. ’Every trustee shall be allowed to retain or
deduct out of the goods, effects, and credits, in his hands,
all demands against the defendant of which he could have
availed himself if he had not been summoned as a trustee,
whether by way of set-off on a trial, or by the set-oil" of judgments or executions between himself and the principal ;
and he shall be liable for the balance only, after all mutual
demands between him and the principal are adjusted.

SECT. 27. In the demands mentioned in the preceding
section to be adjusted between the trustee and the defendant,
there shall not be included on either side any claim for
unliquidated damages for Wrongs or injuries.

SECT. 28. If after the service of process on the trustee, but '
before he has knowledge thereof, he shall in good faith make i
any payment, or become liable to a third person, for or on i
account of the goods, effects, or credits, in his hands, or]
shall have delivered the same to the defendant, or to any 5
other person entitled thereto, he shall be allowed therefore in I
the same manner as if the payment or delivery had been
made, or the liability incurred, before the service of the
writ.

SECT. 29. When the wages for the personal labor and;
services of a defendant are attached for a debt or demand :
other than for necessaries furnished him or his family, and i
when a debt due for the services of the wife or minor children of the defendant is attached, there shall be reserved in
the hands of the trustee a sum notexceeding twenty dollars,
which shall be exempt from such attachment.

SECT. 30. When a savings bank or an institution for;
savings is charged as trustee, and in the opinion of the court 1
there arises upon the answer a doubt as to the identity of j
the defendant, the court may in its discretion require the :
plaintifff to give bond with surety or sureties to be approved :
by the court, conditioned to save such bank or institution
harmless therefrom.

SECT. 31. No person shall be adjudged a trustee in either
of the cases following, viz :—

First—-By reason of having drawn, accepted, made, or
indorsed, any negotiable bill, draft, note, or other security:

Second—By reason of ‘any money or other thing received
or collected by him as a sheriff or other oilicer by force of
an execution or other legal process in favor of the defendant
in the trustee process, although the same should have been
previously demanded of him by the defendant:

Third—By reason of any money in his hands as a public
oiiicer, and for which he is accountable to the defendant
merely as such oilicer:

Fourth—By reason of any money or other thing due from
him to the defendant, unless it is at the time of the service
of the writ on him due absolutely and without depending
on any contingency: nor

Fifth—By reason of a debt due from him on a judgment,
so long as he is liable to an execution thereon.

JUDGMENT, EXECUTION, AND SCIRE FACIAS.

SECT. 32. When a person is adjudged trustee in the
original suit, it shall not be necessary to specify in the
judgment the sum for which he is chargeable; but if upon

a writ of scire facias against him, it appears that he is
chargeable as trustee, the sum shall be expressed in the
judgment.

SECT. 33. If after a person is adjudged trustee, the
goods, effects, and credits, in his hands, shall not be demanded of him, by force of the execution, within thirty days after
final judgment, they shall be liable to another attachment,
whether made before or after the judgment, in like manner
as if such prior attachment had not been made.

SECT. 34. If there is no such second attachment, the
defendant in the suit may recover them, if not demanded
as aforesaid within said thirty days, in like manner as if they
had not been attached. , '

SECT. 35. If no such second attachment is made of the
same goods, effects, and credits, and no action is brought
therefore by the defendant, and if they shall not have been
paid or delivered to him before they are demanded of the
trustee by the officer, the trustee shall be liable to pay and
deliver the same, when so demanded, although it should be
after the expiration of said thirty days.

S1-:c'r. 36. If‘ the trustee cannot be found in the state by
the officer to whom the execution is committed for service,
a copy of the execution may be left at his dwelling-house
or last and usual place of abode, with a notice to him
indorsed thereon and signed by the officer, signifying that
he is required to pay and deliver, towards satisfying the
execution, the goods, effects, and credits, for which he is
liable; and this shall be deemed a sufficient demand, for all
the purposes expressed in the three preceding sections.

SECT. 37. The judgment, against a trustee shall acquit
and discharge him from all demands by the defendant, or
his executors or administrators, for all goods, effects, and
credits, paid, delivered, or accounted for, by the trustee, by
force of such judgment.

SECT. 38. If a person summoned as trustee is discharged,
the judgment shall be no bar to an action brought against
him by the defendant for the same demand.

SECT. 39. If a person wh'o is adjudged a trustee in the
original suit shall not pay over to the officer, upon demand,
goods, effects, or credits, sufficient to satisfy the execution,
and if the execution is not otherwise satisfied, the plaintifff
may sue out a writ of so-ire facias against all or a separate
writ against each of the trustees, from the court in

which the judgment was rendered, to show cause why
judgment and execution should not be awarded against him
and his own goods and estate, for the sum remaining
unsatisfied on the judgment against the defendant.

SECT. 40. If a trustee duly served with the scire facias
neglects to appear and answer, he shall be defaulted; and
if he shall not have been examined in the original suit,
judgment shall be rendered against him upon such default,
for the whole sum remaining unsatisfied on the judgment
against the defendant.

SECT. 41. If a trustee who is defaulted on the scire
facias has been examined in the original suit, judgment in the scire facias shall be rendered upon the facts
stated in that examination, or proved in the trial that
may have been had thereon, for such part, if any, as shall
remain in his hands, of the goods, effects, or credits, for
which he was originally chargeable as a trustee, or for so
much thereof as shall be then remaining unsatisfied on the
judgment against the defendant.

SECT. 42. If the trustee appears and answers to the
scire facias, and if he had not been examined in the original
suit, he shall be liable to be examined in the same manner
as he might have been in that suit; and if he had been
examined in the original suit, the court may require or
permit him to be examined anew in the suit on the scire
facias. In either case he shall be permitted to answer and
prove any matter that may be necessary or proper for his
defense in the suit on the scire facias. Upon the whole
matter appearing upon such examination and trial the court
shall render such judgment as law and justice require.

SECT. 43. No writ of scire facias shall be maintained
against a person adjudged trustee unless served upon him
within two years after the rendition of judgment in the
original suit; except that if the money or other thing is
not payable when the judgment is rendered, said writ may
be maintained if served within one year after payment
becomes due.

DEATH OF PARTIES.

SECT. 44. If a person summoned as trustee in his own
right dies before the judgment recovered by the plaintifff is
fully satisfied, the goods, effects, and credits, in his hands at
the time of the attachment, shall remain bound thereby, and
his executors or administrators shall be liable therefore in

like manner as if the writ had been originally served on
them.

SECT. 45. If he dies before judgment in the original suit,
his executor or administrator may appear voluntarily, or
may be cited to appear, as in other cases. The further
proceedings shall then be conducted in the same manner
as if the executor or administrator had been originally summoned as trustee, except that the examination of the deceased,
if any is filed, shall have the same effectas if he were living.

SECT. 46. If the executor or administrator does not
appear, the plaintifff, instead of suggesting the death of the
trustee, may take judgment against him by default or otherwise as if, he were living, and the executor or administrator
shall pay on the execu'tion the amount which he would have
been liable to pay to the defendant, and shall be thereby
discharged for the amount so paid, in like manner as if
the executor or administrator had been himself adjudged
trustee.

SECT. 47. If in the case last mentioned the executor or
administrator does not voluntarily pay the amount in his
hands, the plaintifff may proceed against him by a writ of
scirefacias, as if the judgment in the first suit had been
against him as trustee.

SECT. 48. If the person originally summoned as trustee
dies after judgment in the original action, the executor or
administrator may pay on the execution the amount which
the deceased would have been liable to pay if living, and
he shall be discharged from all further demands on account
thereof, in the manner before mentioned. If he refuses so
to do, the plaintifff may proceed against him by a writ of
sci-re facias, in the manner provided in the preceding
section. ‘

SECT. 49. If a person against whom execution issues as
trustee is not living at the expiration of thirty days after
final judgment in the trustee suit, the demand to be made
for the purpose of holding the attachment, may be made
of the executor or administrator of the deceased person, at
any time within thirty days after his appointment; and
shall have the same effect as if made within thirty days
after the judgment.

SECT. 50. When an executor or administrator is adjudged
trustee for or on account of goods, effects, or credits, in his
hands or possession merely as such executor or administrator, whether in a suit originally commenced against him
as trustee, or against the deceased testator or intestate,
and whether the judgment be in the original suit or on ‘a
writ of scire facias, the execution shall not be served on his

own goods or estate, nor on his person, but he shall be
liable for the amount in his hands, in like manner and to
the same extent only as he would have been’ to the defendant, if there had been no trustee process. °

S1-:c'r. 51. If after final judgment against an executorl
or administrator for a certain sum due from him as trustee, he neglects to pay the same, the original plaintifff in
the trustee process shall have the same remedy for recovering the amount, either upon a suggestion of waste or
by a suit on the administration bond, as the defendant in
the trustee process would have had upon a judgment recovered by himself for the same demand against the executor
or administrator. r

PROCEEDINGS WHEN TRUSTEE HAS SPECIFIC GOODS.

SECT. 52. When a person is charged as trustee by reason
of goods or chattels, other than money, which he holds or y
is bound to deliver to the defendant, he shall deliver the
same, or as much thereof as may be necessary, to the officer
who holds the execution ; and the goods shall be sold by the
officer, and the proceeds applied and accounted for in the
> same manner as if they had been taken on an execution in
common form.

SECT. 53. The value of any goods so delivered, shall be
ascertained and fixed, as between the trustee and defendant,
in like manner and upon the same principles as if they had
been delivered to the defendant. Upon the application of
either party the court may, either pending the original suit
or upon the scire facias, determine the value, and make any
other order in relation to such goods and the delivery
thereof that may be necessary or proper to protect the rights
of the trustee and defendant.

SE01‘. 54. When a person summoned as trustee is bound
by contract to deliver specific goods to the defendant at
a certain time and place, he shall not be compelled by
reason of the trustee process to deliver them at any other
time or place; and he may notwithstanding such process
tender or deliver them to the person entitled under the contract, at the time and place therein mentioned, unless he
shall have been previously adjudged a trustee on account
thereof.

SECT. 55. When it appears that such goods in the hands
of a person summoned as trustee are mortgaged or pledged,
or in any way liable for the payment of a debt to him, the
attaching creditor may be allowed, under an order of the

court for that purpose, to pay or tender the amount due to
the trustee; and he shall thereupon deliver the goods in
the manner before provided to the officer who holds the
execution.

SECT. 56. If the goods in such case are held for any
purpose other than to secure the payment of money, and
if the contract, condition, or other thing, to be performed, is
such as can be performed’ by the attaching creditor without
damage to the other parties, the court may make an order
for the performance thereof by him. Upon such performance, or a tender, the trustee shall deliver the goods in the
manner before provided to the officer who holds the
execution.

SECT. 57. All goods received by the officer under the
two preceding sections, shall be sold and disposed of in
the same manner as if they had been taken on an execution
in common form; except that from the proceeds of the sale
the officer shall repay to the attaching creditor the amount
paid by him to the trustee for the redemption of the goods,
with interest thereon, or shall indemnify the creditor for
such other act or thing as he shall have done or performed
pursuant to the order of the court for the redemption of
the goods.

SECT. 58. Nothing contained in the preceding sections
shall prevent the trustee from selling the goods in his hands
for the payment of the demand for which they are mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise liable, at any time before the
amount due to him shall be paid or tendered as before
mentioned; if such sale would be authorized as between
him and the defendant.

SECT. 59. If a trustee refuses or neglects to deliver any
goods in his hands when thereunto lawfully required by the
officer who serves the execution, he shall, after deducting
the amount of any lien he may have thereon, be liable to the
plaintifff in the action for the value thereof, to be recovered
as money is recovered when not paid on the first execution
pursuant to the judgment against a trustee.

COSTS .

SECT. 60. If a person summoned as trustee appears and
answers upon oath as herein provided, he shall be allowed
his costs for travel and term fees, and such further sum for
counsel fees and other necessary expenses as the court
shall deem reasonable.

S1-3c'r. 61. If he is adjudged trustee, his costs and
charges shall be deducted and retained out of the goods,
effects, and credits, in his hands, and he shall be chargeable
for the balance only to be paid on the execution. If such
goods, effects, and credits, are not of sufficient value to discharge the cost taxed in his favor, he shall_ have judgment
and execution against the plaintifff for the balance of such
costs, after deducting the sum disclosed, in the same manner
as if he had been discharged.

SECT. 62. If he is discharged for any cause, his costs
and charges shall be paid by the plaintifff, and he shall
have judgment and execution therefore.

SECT. 63. If the person summoned as trustee is out of
the state at the time of the service of the original writ on
him, and appears and answers at the first term after his
return, he shall be allowed for his costs and charges in the
same manner as if he had appeared at the term when the
action was entered.

SECT. 64. If the person so summoned does not dwell or
have a usual place of business in the county in which the
writ is returnable, he shall in all cases be allowed his costs
and charges, which shall be retained or recovered as before
provided, whether he appears at the first or at any other
term, and whether in the original suit or upon a scire
facias against him.

‘ SECT. 65. If a person summoned as trustee who dwells
or has his usual place of business in the county in which
the writ is returnable, shall without any reason which the
court shall deem sufficient, neglect to appear and answer
within the time herein provided, he shall be liable if‘ the
plaintifff recovers judgment in the suit, and his costs are
not otherwise recovered and received by him, for all costs
for the plaintiffI"s travel and term fees, until he appears.

SECT. 66. If he does not voluntarily pay the amount
when demanded by the officer who serves the execution, the
officer shall state the fact in his return, and if it also appears
by the return that the costs have not been paid, the court
shall award a new execution against him for the costs.

SECT. 67. If there are several persons summoned as
trustees and liable for costs under the provisions of the two
preceding sections, the second execution shall be awarded
against them all jointly, and if any one shall pay more
than his proportion, the others shall be bound to contribute
equally to indemnify him for the excess.

SECT. 68. If a person summoned as trustee, who dwells
or has his usual place of business in the county in which
the writ is returnable, is defaulted in the original suit, and
a writ of scire facias issues against him, he shall be liable
for all costs on the scirefacias, to be paid out of his own
goods and estate, whether he is finally adjudged a trustee
or not, except as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 69. If it appears that the person so defaulted had
in his hands goods, effects, or credits, liable to the attachment, and that he has paid and delivered the whole amount
thereof on the execution issued on the original judgment,
he shall not be liable for costs on the scire facias, nor shall
he be entitled to recover costs.

SECT. 70. If the person so defaulted was prevented from
appearing in the original suit by his absence from the state,
or for any other reason which the court shall deem sufficient,
he shall not be liable for costs on the scire facias, but the
court may, if it appears to them reasonable, allow him his
costs and charges for travel and term fees, counsel fees and
other necessary expenses, to be retained or recovered in
like manner as if he had appeared in the original suit.

SECT. 71. If a person summoned as trustee is held liable
to pay from his own estate the costs on the scire facias as
before provided, and if he is ‘at the same time liable for the
costs for the plaintiff’s travel and term fees in the original
suit, one execution shall be issued against him for both
sums.

SECT. 72. When there are several trustees liable to the
writ of some facias, if the plaintifff without reasons which
the court shall deem sufficient, sues out two or more writs,
when he might have joined all the trustees in one writ,
he shall recover no more costs than if he had sued out only
one writ, and the court may apportion the costs equally
and proportionally among all the trustees liable therefore.

SECT. 73. When an adverse claimant is admitted as a
party, the court may award costs between him and the
attaching creditor and supposed trustee, or either of them,
as justice and equity require.

SECT. 74. If the wages for the personal labor and services
of a person are attached by the trustee process, and the
plaintifff does not recover a sum amounting to five dollars
as debt, he shall recover no costs of suit.

TRUSTEE PROCESS BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, &c.

SECT. 75. All personal actions but those excepted in
section one, which are within the jurisdiction of, and which
may be brought by the ordinary process before, a justice of
the peace, or police or justices’ court, may be so brought
by the trustee process. '

SECT. 76. The form of the writ and all the proceedings
shall be substantially the same as in a like suit in the court
of common pleas, except as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 77. When a person is summoned as trustee who is
liable to be charged as such, and the defendant resides in
this state but in a county other than that in which the

writ is returnable, the writ may run into any county and E

be served on the defendant fourteen days at least before
its return day, in like manner as if issued from the court
of common pleas.

SECT. 78. N 0 person shall be held to answer as a trustee
in an action before a justice of the peace, or police or justices’ court, in any other county than that in which he
dwells or has his usual place of business. If he is out of
the county at the time of the service of the original writ
on him and does not return before the final judgment in
the suit, he shall not be chargeable as trustee.

SECT. 79. If the person summoned as trustee appears
either in person or by attorney and declares in writing that

1
4

I
I

he had not in his hands or possession at the time when the ,

writ was served on him, any goods, effects, or credits, of the
defendant, and submits himself thereupon to examination

I

upon his oath, and if the plaintifff declines to examine him, .

or if upon such examination his declaration appears to be
true, he shall be discharged.

SE01‘. 80. Every such declaration may be signed by
attorney, and if the plaintifff proceeds to examine the supposed trustee thereupon, he shall propose interrogatories in
writing, which shall be answered in writing and signed and
sworn to by the supposed trustee.

SECT. 81. If a person so summoned admits that he has
in his hands any goods, effects, or credits, of the defendant,
or wishes to refer that question to the justice or court upon
the facts, he may instead of the declaration before mentioned, make a declaration setting forth such facts as he
shall deem material, and submit himself thereupon to a
further examination on oath; and such declaration, with

i

1
I
4

REPLEVIN OF CATTLE DISTRAINED.

SECTION 1. Any person whose beasts are distrained or
impounded in order to recover a penalty or forfeiture
supposed to have been incurred by their going at large, or
to obtain satisfaction for damages alleged to have been
done by them, may maintain a writ of replevin therefore, to
be sued out and prosecuted before a justice of the peace,
or police or justices’ court, for the county, in the same
form substantially that has been heretofore established and
used in such cases.

SECT. 2. The writ shall be sued out, served, returned,
and the cause shall be heard and determined, in like manner
as is provided in other civil actions before a justice of the
peace, or police or justices’ court, in all particulars in
which a different course is not prescribed.

SECT. 3. The writ shall not be served,unless the plaintifff
or some one in his behalf executes and delivers to the
officer a bond to the defendant with sufflcient sureties to be
approved by the officer, in a penalty double the value of the
property to be replevied, with condition to prosecute the
replevin to final judgment and to pay such damages and
costs as the defendant shall recover against him, and also
to return the property in case such shall be the final
judgment.

SE01‘. 4. The writ shall require that the bond shall be
given in double the value of the property to be replevied,
but shall not express the sum or amount for which it shall
be given. When the parties do not agree as to the value of
the property, it shall be ascertained by three disinterested
and discreet persons appointed and sworn by the officer,
and the penalty of the bond shall be double the value ascertained by such persons, or any two of them.

SE01‘. 5. The othcer shall return such bond with the
writ, to be left with the justice or court for the use of the
defendant ; he shall also include in his return, indorsed on
the writ, a certificate of the appointment of the three appraisers, the appraisal and the expenses thereof.

SE01‘. 6. If it appears upon the nonsuit of the plaintifff,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the beasts were lawfully ‘

taken or distrained, the defendant shall have judgment for
such sum as shall be found to be due from the plaintifff for
the penalty or forfeiture, or for the damages for which the
beasts were impounded, together with all the legal fees,
costs, charges, and expenses, incurred by reason of the

distress, and also the costs of the action of replevin; or
instead thereof a judgment, for a return of the beasts to
be held by the defendant irrepleviable by the plaintifff, and
for his damages for the taking thereof by the replevin, and
for his costs.

SECT. 7. Whenlthe beasts are returned to the defendant
pursuant to such judgment, they‘ shall be held and disposed
of in like manner as if they had not been replevied.

SECT. 8.‘ If it appears upon the default of the defendant,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the beasts were taken or
distrained without any sufficient or justifiable cause, the
plaintifff shall have judgment for his damages caused by the
unjust taking and detaining of the beasts, and for his costs
of the suit.

SE01‘. 9. When it appears that the sum demanded for the
penalty, forfeiture, or damages, exceeds the sum of one
hundred dollars, or that the property of the beasts is in
question and that their value exceeds. one hundred dollars,
or that the title to real estate is concerned or brought in
question, the case shall at the request of either party he
transferred to the court of common pleas, or in the county
of Suffolk to the superior court, and be there disposed of in
like manner as is provided in chapter one hundred and
twenty, with respect to actions brought before a justice of
the peace, in which the title to real estate is concerned or
brought in question.

REPLEVIN OF OTHER PROPERTY.

SECT. 10. When any goods of the value of more than
twenty dollars, are unlawfully taken or detained from the
owner or person entitled to the possession, or when any
goods of that value which are attached on mesne process or
taken on execution are claimed by any person other than
the-defendant in the suit in which they are so attached or
taken, such owner or other person may cause them to be
replevied.

SECT. 11. When the property alleged to be detained
does not exceed in value one hundred dollars, the writ
may be sued out from, and returnable to, a justice of the
peace, or police or justices’ court, for the county in which the
goods are detained ; and in all cases the writ may be sued
out of the court of common pleas, or in the county of Suffolk the superior court, and shall in such case be returnable to the same court for the county in which the goods
are detained. It shall be in the form substantially heretofore established and used, and in all particulars in which
a different course is not prescribed, shall be sued out,
served, and returned, like other writs in civil actions.

SECT. 12. The officer before serving the writ, shall take 3
from the plaintifff or some one in his behalf, a bond to;
the defendant, with sufficient sureties in double the value;
of the goods to be replevied, conditioned like that of the i
bond herein before prescribed to be taken upon a writ of «
replevin for beasts distrained or impounded; and the officer .
shall proceed with regard to the appraisal'of the goods
and the return of the writ, in the manner provided with
respect to such action for beasts distrained or impounded;
except that when the writ is returnable to the court of
common pleas or superior court of the county of Suffolk,
the bond shall be left with the clerk bf the court for the
use of the defendant.

SECT. 13. If it appears upon the nonsuit of the plaintifff,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the defendant is entitled
to a return of the goods, he shall have judgment therefore
with damages for the taking by the replevin, and his costs.

SECT. 14. If the goods when replevied were taken on exe- l
cution, or if they were then attached, and judgment is
afterwards rendered for the attaching creditor, and if in,
either case the service of the execution is delayed by
means of the replevin, the damages to be assessed for the
defendant, in case of judgment for a return, shall not be
less than at the rate of twelve per cent. a year, on the
value of the goods, for so long as the service of the execution is so delayed.

SECT. 15. All sums recovered in an action of replevin
by an oilicer for or on account of goods attached or taken
on execution by him, or recovered -in an action upon the
bond given upon the replevin of such goods, shall be applied
and disposed of, as far as they will go, in the following
manner :—

First——To pay the lawful fees and charges of the officer,
the reasonable expenses of the action of replevin, and the
action on the bond, so far as they are not reimbursed by
the costs that may be recovered :

Second—To pay to the creditor at whose suit the goods
were attached or taken on execution, the sum recovered by
him in that suit, or as much thereof as shall remain unpaid,
with interest therefore at the rate of twelve per cent. a year,
for such time as the money shall have been withheld from
the creditor, or the service of his execution delayed, by
reason of the replevin: and

Third-If the attaching creditor in such case shall not
recover judgment in the suit in which the attachment was
made, or if any balance shall remain of the monies so
recovered by the officer after paying what is due to the
creditor, the same shall be applied and disposed of in the
same manner as would and ought to have been done with
the surplus, if any, of the proceeds of sale, in case the
same goods had been sold on execution. _

SECT. 16. All sums received by such creditor from the
proceeds of the sale of goods that had been attached or
taken on execution, and which are afterwards returned, or
received for the value of any such goods that are not
returned, or recovered from the officer for the insufficiency
of the sureties in the bond, shall be applied towards the
discharge of the judgment recovered by the creditor; and
all sums received as interest or damages for the delay of
his execution, shall be retained to his own use, and shall
not go in discharge of the judgment.

SE01‘. 17. If it appears upon default or otherwise that
the goods were unlawfully taken or attached, or unlawfully detained, by the defendant, the plaintifff shall have
judgment for his damages caused thereby, and for his costs
of the suit.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SECT. 18. If the goods which are replevied had been
attached, they shall, in case of judgment for a return, he
held liable to the attachment until final judgment in the
suit in which they were attached, and for thirty days thereafter, in order to their being taken on execution. If such
final judgment shall be rendered before the return of the
goods, or if the goods when replevied were seized and held
on execution, they shall be held subject to the same attachment or seizure for thirty days after the return, in order
that the execution may be served thereon, or the service
thereof completed, in like manner as it might have been if
the goods had not been replevied.

SECT. 19. The damages in replevin, whether for the
plaintifff or for the defendant, shall be assessed by the jury
by which the cause is tried, if there is a trial by jury:
otherwise they shall be assessed upon an inquiry by the
court or justice, or by a jury empaneled for that purpose,
as damages are assessed in other civil actions.

SECT. 20. The writ of return in all actions of replevin
shall be substantially in the same form that has been heretofore established and used in like cases, and the writ of

reprisal shall be substantially in the same form with the
writ heretofore called a writ of withernam.

SECT. 21. The foregoing provisions shall not preclude
the defendant from resorting to his remedy on the replevin
bond, or to his remedy against the officer for the insufliciency of the sureties in the bond, to recover the value of
the goods together with the loss or damage caused by the
replevin, notwithstanding he may have endeavored to recover
the same by the writs of return and of reprisal, as before
provided.

S1'~:c'r. 22. If the oliicer to whom the writ of return is
committed shall not be able to find the beasts or other
goods that were replevied, so as to deliver them to the
defendant, he shall make a return of that fact upon the
writ of return; and the defendant shall upon motion be
entitled to a writ of reprisal, to take the beasts or goods of
the plaintifff and deliver them to the defendant, to be held
and disposed of according to law.

SECT. 23. No action shall be maintained against any

‘ person as surety in a replevin bond, unless the writ is

served on him within one year after the final judgment in
the action of replevin; or if the action is not entered,
within one year after the end of the term at which the
action of replevin ought to have been entered, and not
afterwards.

Second—Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal;
process, civil or criminal: '
Third—Persons committed on mesne process in any civil
action on which they were liable to be arrested and imprisoned, unless when excessive and unreasonable bail is

required.

SECT. 3. The writ may be issued by any court of record, probate court, justices’ or police court, or by a judge of 1
either of said courts, and by any justice of the peace if no :
magistrate above named is known to him to be within
five miles of the place where the party is imprisoned or
restrained. It may be issued by either of said judges or
justices, whether the place of imprisonment is within or
without the county for which he is appointed.

SE01‘. 4. Application for the writ shall be made to the
court or magistrate authorized to issue the same, by complaint in writing, signed by the party for whose relief it is
intended, or by some person in his behalf, setting forth ;

First—the person by whom, and the place where, the party
is imprisoned or restrained, naming the prisoner and the
person detaining him if their names are known, and
describing them if they are not known:

Second—The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or
restraint, according to the knowledge and belief of the
person applying: and

Third—If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of
a -warrant or other process, a copy thereof shall be annexed,
unless it is made to appear that such copy has been
demanded and refused, or that for some sufficient reason a
demand therefore could not be made.

The facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified by
the oath of the person making the application, or some other
credible witness.

SECT. 5. The court or magistrate to whom the complaint is made, shall without delay award and issue a writ
of habeas corpus, substantially in the form heretofore established and used in this state, returnable forthwith, either
before the supreme judicial court or one of the justices
thereof, in term time or vacation, and whether the court
is in session or not, and at such place as shall be designated
in the writ.

SECT. 6. In cases of imprisonment or restraint by a
person not a sheriff, deputy-sheriff, coroner, or jailer, of this
state, nor a marshal, deputy-marshal, or other like officer, of
the courts of the United States, the writ shall be in the
following form :—

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.

[SEAL] To the sheriffs of our several counties, and their respective

de uties, Greeting.
e command you, that the body of ‘of by of ,
im risoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, you take and have
be ore a justice of our supreme judicial court, at , immediately after receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said justice
shall then and there consider concerning him in this behalf; and summon

said , then and there to appear before our said justice, to show
the cause of the taking and detaining of said , and have you there
this writ with your doings thereon. Witness at , this

day of in the year

SE01‘. 7. When the writ is issued by the court in session,
it shall be signed by the clerk, otherwise by the magistrate
issuing the same, and it may in either case be served in any
county, by a sheriff or deputy-sheriff of the same or any
other county.

SECT. 8. The person having the custody of the prisoner
may be designated by his name of office, or his own name,
or if such names are unknown or uncertain, he may be
described by an assumed appellation, and any one upon
whom the writ is served shall be deemed the person intended.

SE01‘. 9. The person to be produced shall be designated
by his name, if known, and if that is unknown or uncertain,
he may be described in any other way so as to make known
who is intended.

SECT. 10. If the party is confined in a common jail, or in
the custody of a civil officer, the court or judge who grants
the writ shall certify thereon the sum to be paid for the
expense of bringing him from the place. of imprisonment,
and the officer shall not be bound to obey it unless that sum
is paid or tendered to him. ‘

SECT. 11. Any person to whom the writ is directed shall
receive it, and upon payment or tender of the charges, if
any, demandable for the execution of it, shall make due
return thereof, within three days after receiving it, if the
place of return is within twenty miles from the place of
imprisonment; if it is more than twenty and within one
hundred miles, within seven days; and if it is more than one
hundred miles, within fourteen days. ’

SECT. 12. In cases other than those provided for in
section six, the person who makes the return shall state
therein, and in the cases provided for in said section, the

: person in whose custody the prisoner is found shall state in
~ writing to the court or justice before whom the writ is
'» returnable, plainly and unequivocally,

First——Whether he has or has not the party in his custody
or power, or under restraint:

Second—If he has the party in his custody or power, or
under restraint, the authority at large, and the true and
whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, with a copy
of the writ, warrant, or other process, if any, upon which
the party is detained: and

Third—If he has had the party in his custody or power or
under restraint and has transferred such custody or restraint
to another, particularly to whom, at wha.t time, for what
cause, and by what authority, such transfer was made.

SECT. 13. The return or statement shall he signed by the 1
person making it, and shall be sworn to by him, unless}
he is a sworn public officer and makes the return in hisf
otiicial capacity.

SECT. 14. The person making the return or statement‘
shall at the same time bring the body of the party, if in‘
his custody or power, or under his restraint, according to i
the command of the writ, unless prevented by the sickness
or infirmity of the party.

' SECT. 15. When from the sickness or infirmity of the:
party he cannot without danger be brought to the place;
appointed for the return of the writ, that fact shall be stated a
in the return; and if it is proved to the satisfaction of

the judge, he may proceed to the jail or other place

where the party is confined and there make his examination ;

or he may adjourn the same to another time, or make such

other order in the case as law and justice require.

SECT. 16. If the court to which the writ is returnable is
adjourned before it is returned, the return shall be made
before any one of the justices of the court; and if the writ
is in any case returned before one judge at a time when the
court is in session, he may adjourn the case into the court,
to be there heard and determined in like manner as if the
writ had been returned into court.

SECT. 17. When the writ is returned, the court or judge
shall without delay proceed to examine the causes of the
imprisonment or restraint; but the examination may be
adjourned from time to time as circumstances require.

S1-:01‘. 18. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny
any of the facts set forth in the return or statement, and
may allege any other facts that may be material in the case ;
and the court or judge shall, except as provided in the
following section, proceed in a summary way to examine

the causes of the imprisonment or restraint, hear the evidence that may be produced by any person interested or
authorized to appear, both in support of such imprisonment
or restraint and against it, and "thereupon to dispose of the
party as law and justice require.

SECT. 19. When it appears by the return of the officer
or otherwise that the person whose restraint or imprisonment is in question is claimed to be held to service or
labor in another state, and to have escaped from such service or labor, the court or justice shall on the application of
any party to the proceeding, order a trial by jury as to any
facts stated in the return of the officer, or alleged, and may
admit said person to bail in a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars. In such case, issue may be joined by a general
denial of the facts alleged, the plea may be not guilty, and
the jury shall have the right to return a general verdict, and
the same discretion as juries have in the trial of criminal
cases; and the finding of a verdict of not guilty shall be
final and conclusive.

SECT. 20. When a trial by jury is ordered, the court or
justice, unless a jury is already in attendance, shall by
warrant command the sheriff or his deputy to summon a
jury, in the manner provided in chapter one hundred and
thirty-two, to attend at the time and place stated in the
warrant; at which time and place they shall be impauelled,
and having elected a foreman by ballot, the issue so framed
shall be submitted to them for their determination. If one
jury disagrees, the issue may be submitted to another
jury, or continued to the next term, at the discretion of the
court. In every case of disagreement another jury may
be summoned and qualified as above provided, forthwith or
at a future day, in the discretion of the court or justice,
until a verdict shall finally be rendered. If a person summoned as a juror fails to attend without sufficient cause,
he shall'pay a fine of fifty dollars. .And if, by reason of
challenges or otherwise, there shall not be a full jury of the
persons summoned, the officer attending the hearing shall
return some suitable person or persons to supply the deficiency.

SECT. 21. If a claimant appears to demand the custody
or possession of the person for whose benefit the writ is sued
out, he shall state in writing the facts on which he relies,
with precision and certainty. Neither the claimant, nor
the alleged fugitive, nor any person interested in his
alleged obligation to service or labor, shall be permitted
to testify at the trial of the issue; and no confessions,
admissions, or declarations, of the alleged fugitive against

himself shall be given in evidence. Upon every question of fact involved in the issue, the burden of proof shall
be on the claimant; and the facts alleged and necessary
to be established must be proved by the testimony of at
least two credible witnesses, or other legal evidence equivalent thereto, and by the rules of evidence known and secured
by the common law. No ea: parts deposition or affidavit
shall be received in proof in behalf of the claimant, and no'
presumption shall arise in his favor from proof that the
alleged fugitive or any of his ancestors had been actually held as a slave, without proof that such holding was
legal.

SECT. 22. When it appears from the return of the writ or
otherwise, that the party is detained on any process under
which another person has an interest in continuing his
imprisonment or restraint, the party shall not be discharged
untilsufficient notice shall have been given to such other
person or his attorney, if within the state, or within thirty
miles of the place of examination, to appear and object to
such discharge if he thinks fit.

SECT. 23. When it appears from the return of the writ or
otherwise, that the party is imprisoned on a criminal accusation, he shall not be discharged until sufficient notice

has been given to the attorney-general or other attorney
for the commonwealth, that he may appear and object to
such discharge if he thinks (it. SECT. 24. Until judgment is given, the court or judge
may remand the party, or-may bail him to appear from day
to day, or may commit him to the sheriff of the county, or
place him under such other care and custody as the circumstances of the case may require.

SECT. 25. If the party is detained for a cause or offense
for which he is bailable, he shall be admitted to bail if
sufficient bail is offered, and if not he shall be remanded
with an order of the court or judge expressing the sum in
which he shall be held, to bail, and the court at which he
shall be required to appear; and any justice of the peace
may, at any time before the sitting of said court, bail the
party pursuant to such order.

SECT. 26. If the party is committed on mesne process in
a civil action for want of bail, and if it appears that the sum
for which bail is required is excessive and unreasonable, the
court or judge shall decide what bail is reasonable, and shall
order that on giving such hail the party shall be discharged.

SECT. 27. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained, and is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail,
he shall be remanded to the person from whose custody he
was taken, or to such other person or oiiicer as by law is
authorized to detain him.

0 Q

SECT. 28. If no legal cause is shown for the imprisonmentor restraint, the court or judge shall discharge the
party therefrom.

SECT. 29. No person who has been discharged upon a
lzabeas corpus, shall be again imprisoned or restrained for
the same cause, unless he shall be indicted therefore, convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail by some court
of record having jurisdiction of the cause; or unless after a
discharge for defect of proof, or for some material defect in
the commitment in a criminal case, he shall be again arrested
on suliicient proof, and committed by legal process.

SECT. 30. When a person is committed to jail on a criminal accusation for want of bail, any justice of the court of
common pleas, superior court of the county of Suffolk, or of
a police court, or any two justices of the peace and of the
quorum, may admit him to bail in like manner as might
have been done by the court or magistrate who committed

him; and said justices, respectively, may issue a writ of ‘

lzabeas corpus and cause such prisoner to be brought before
them when it is necessary for the purpose expressed in this
section.

SECT. 31. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to restrain the power of the supreme judicial court
or any justice thereof, to issue a writ of habeas corpus at
discretion, and thereupon to bail a person for whatever cause
he may be committed or restrained, or to discharge him, as
law and justice shall require; except only persons committed
by the governor and council, the senate, or the house of
representatives, in the manner and for the causes mentioned
in the constitution.

. SECT. 32. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ
of habeas corpus, when necessary to bring before them a
prisoner for trial in any criminal case lawfully pending in
the same court; or to bring in a prisoner to be examined as
a witness in a suit or proceeding civil or criminal pending
in such court, when they shall deem the personal attendance
and examination of the Witness necessary for the attainment
of justice.

recovered in an action of tort.

SECT. 33. An officer, who refuses or neglects for six
hours, to deliver a true. copy of the warrant or process by

which he detains a prisoner, to any person who shall demand a

such copy and tender the fees therefore, shall forfeit and pay
to such prisoner the sum of two hundred dollars to be

0'

SI-JCT. 34. If a person to whom such writ of habeas
corpus is directed shall refuse to receive the same, or shall
neglect to obey and execute it according to the provisions
of this chapter, and no sufficient excuse shall be shown for
such refusal or neglect, the court or judge before whom the
writ was returnable shall proceed forthwith by process of
attachment, as for a contempt, to compel obedience to the
writ and to punish the person guilty of the contempt.

SECT. 35. If such attachment is issued against a sheriff
or his deputy, it maybe directed to a coroner, or other
person to be designated therein, who shall have full power
to execute the same; and if the sheriff or his deputy is to
be committed upon such process, he may be committed to
the jail of any county other than his own.

SECT. 36. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person to
whom the writ of lzabeas corpus is directed, the court or
judge may also issue a precept to any officer or other person
to be designated therein, commanding him to bring forthwith, before such court or judge, the person for whose
benefit the writ of habeas corpus was issued, and the prisoner
shall be thereupon discharged, bailed, or remanded, in like
manner as if he had been brought in upon the writ of lzabeas
corpus.

SECT. 37. Every person guilty of such refusal or neglect
to receive and execute a writ of habeas corpus, shall moreover forfeit to the party aggrieved thereby the sum of four
hundred dollars, to be recovered in an action of tort.

SECT. 38. Whoever resists the service of the writ of
habeas corpus, or disobeys the same when served, shall be
liable to attachment, as for a. contempt of the court or
judge before whom the writ is returnable.

SECT. 39. If any one whohas in his custody or under his
power, a person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether
a writ has been issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the
service of such writ or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer
such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power
or control, of another person, OI‘/00110681 him, or change the
place of his confinement, the person so offending shall forfeit to the party aggrieved thereby the sum of four hundred
dollars, to be recovered in an action of tort. .

SECT. 40. The recovery of any penalty imposed by the
foregoing provisions of this chapter shall not bar an action
at common law for false imprisonment, or for a false return
to the writ of habeas corpus, or for any other injury or
damage sustained by the aggrieved party.

PERSONAL REPLEVIN.

SECT. 41. If a person is imprisoned, restrained of his
liberty, or held in duress, unless in the custody of some
public officer of the law by force of a lawful warrant or
process civil or criminal issued by competent authority, he
shall be entitled, as of right, to the writ of personal
replevin, and to be thereby delivered in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 42._ The writ shall be issued from and returnable
to the court of common pleas,,or superior court of the
county of Suffolk, in the county in which the plaintifff is
confined, and shall be issued fourteen days at least before
the return day.

SECT. 43. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county,
or his deputy, or to any of the coroners thereof, and shall
be served without delay by either to whom it is delivered.

SECT. 44. It shall be in the following form, viz. :—

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.

ss. To the sheriff of our county of or his deputy, or either

L. s.] of the coroners thereof, Greeting.

V e command you, that justly and without delay, you cause to be
replevied C. D. who (as it is said) is taken and detained at ,within
our said county, by the duress of G. H., that said C. D. may appear at
our court of common pleas, (or. superior court for the county of Suffolk),
next to be holden at , within our county aforesaid, then and there
in our said court to demand right and justice against said G. H., for the

duress and imprisonment aforesaid, and to prosecute his replevin as the
law directs:

Provided, said C. D. shall before his deliverance give bond to said
G. H. in such sum as you shall judge reasonable, and with two sureties at
least having sufficient within your county, with condition to appear at our
said court to prosecute his replevin against said G. H., and to have his
body there ready to be redelivered, if thereto ordered by the court; and
to pay all such damages and costs as shall be then and there awarded
against him. Then, and not otherwise, are you to deliver him. And if
said C. D. be by you delivered at any day before the sitting of our said
court, you are to summon said G. H. by serving him with an attested

copy of this writ, that he may appear at our said court to answer to said

C. D.
Witness, L. S., Esq., at B , the day of , in the
year . A. B., Clerk,

SECT. 45. N 0 person shall be delivered from his imprisonment or restraint by force‘ of such writ, until he gives
bond in the manner expressed in the preceding section.
The bond shall be returned with the writ like a bail bond,
and left in the clerk’s office, to be delivered to the defendant
upon demand.

SECT. 46. The officer who serves the writ shall be
answerable for the insufficiency of the sureties in the bond,
in like manner as he is answerable for. taking insufiicient
bail in a civil action, and the bond may be approved in the
same manner as a bail bond.

SECT. 47. If it appears that the plaintifff was unlawfully
imprisoned or restrained, he shall be discharged, and recover
costs as well as damages for the imprisonment and detention.

SECT. 48. If the plaintifff does not maintain his action,
the defendant shall have judgment for costs and for any
damages he has sustained by reason of the replevin.

S1-:c'r. 49. If it appears that the defendant is bail for the
plaintifff, or is entitled to the custody of the plaintifff, as his
child, ward, servant, apprentice, or otherwise, he shall have
judgment for a redelivery of the body, to be held and disposed of according to law.

SECT. 50. If it appears from the return of the writ that
the defendant has secreted or conveyed away the plaintilT’s
body, so that the officer cannot deliver him, the court shall
on motion issue a capias to take the defendant’s body, and
him safely keep so that he may be had at the then next
term of the court, to traverse the return of the writ; but
the defendant may give bail for his appearance as in a
civil case, in such sum as the officer may judge reasonable.

SECT. 51. At the term at which the capias is returned,
the defendant may deny by answer the return on the writ,
and if it appears on the trial that he is not guilty of
secreting or conveying away the plaintifff as set forth in
the return, he shall be discharged and recover his costs.

SECT. 52. If the defendant does not traverse the return,
or if upon a traverse the issue is found against him, an
alias writ of capias shall be issued, and he shall thereupon
be committed to the jail, there to remain in close custody
until he produces the body of the plaintifff, or proves him to
be dead. If the defendant suggests such death at any time
after committal as aforesaid, the court shall at his expense

empanel a jury to try the fact; and if the death is proved
the defendant shall be dis'charged. SECT. 53. If at any time after such return of secretion
and conveying away, the defendant produces the body of
the plaintifff in the court to which the writ of personal
replevin was returned, or in which the suit is pending, the
court shall deliver the plaintifff from restraint, upon his
giving bond agreeably to the condition of the writ; and for
want of such bond the plaintifff shall be committed to abide
the judgment on the replevin; and in either case the suit
shall he proceeded in as if the plaintifff had been delivered
on the writ of personal replevin.

SECT. 54. Either party may appeal from any judgment
of the court founded upon matter of law apparent upon
the record, to the supreme judicial court, as in civil actions ;
and upon such appeal the whole case shall be carried up,
and be disposed of as it ought to have been if there had
been no. appeal.

SECT. 55. The writ may be sued out by any person for
and in behalf of the plaintifff, and may be prosecuted to
final judgment without any express power for that purpose :
provided, that the person so appearing shall when required
during the pendency of the suit, give security in such manner as the court shall direct, for the payment of all damages
and costs awarded against the plaintiffi".

SECT. 56. If the name of the defendant or person to be
delivered is unknown or uncertain, he may be described
and proceeded with in the writ of personal replevin or any
process under the same, as is prescribed in relation to the
writ of habeas corpus by sections eight and nine.

PERSONAL LIBERTY.

SECT. 57. The governor, by and with the advice and
consent of the council, shall appoint in every county one or
more commissioners learned in the law, who shall in their
respective counties, when any person is arrested or seized,
or in danger of being arrested or seized, as a fugitive from
service or labor, on being informed thereof, diligently and
faithfully use all lawful means to protect and defend such
alleged fugitive, and secure to him a fair and impartial trial
by jury, and the benefits of the provisions of this chapter;
and any attorney whose services are desired by the alleged
fugitive may also act as counsel.

SECT. 58. The commissioners shall defray all expenses
of witnesses, clerks’ fees, a.nd officers’ fees, and other expenses which may be incurred in the protection and defense
of any person so seized or arrested; and the same, together
with the reasonable charges of the commissioners for their
services as attorneys and counsel, shall be paid from the
treasury of the commonwealth on a Warrant to be issued by
the governor. '

SECT. 59. No person while holding any office of honor,
trust, or emolument, under the laws of this state, shall in
any capacity, take cognizance of any case, issue any warrant
or other process, or grant any certificate, under or by virtue
of an act of congress approved the twelfth day of February
in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three,
entitled “ An Act respecting fugitives from justice and persons escaping from the service of their masters,” or under
or by virtue of an act of congress, approved the eighteenth
day of September in the year one thousand eight hundred
and fifty, entitled “An Act to amend, and supplementary
to, ‘An Act respecting fugitives from justice and persons
escaping from the service of their masters,’ ” or shall, in
any capacity, serve such warrant or other process. Any
justice of the peace who shall offend against the provisions
of this section, by directly or indirectly acting in such
cases, shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or be imprisoned in jail not exceeding one year for
each offense.

SECT. 60. No jail, prison, or other place of confinement,
belonging to or used by the state or any county therein,
shall be used for the detention or imprisonment of any
person accused or convicted of an offense created by either
of the acts of congress mentioned in the preceding section,
or accused or convicted of obstructing or resisting any
process, warrant, or order, issued under either of said acts,
or of rescuing, or attempting to rescue, any person arrested
or detained under any of the provisions of either of said
acts, nor for the imprisonment of a person arrested on
mesne process or execution in a suit for damages or penalties accruing, or claimed to accrue, in consequence of aid
rendered to any fugitive escaping from service or labor.

SECT. 61. Whoever shall remove from the limits of
this state, or assist in removing therefrom, or come into the «
state with the intention of removing or assisting in the§
removing therefrom, or procure or assist in procuring to be 3
so removed, any person being in the peace thereof, who is a
not “held to service or labor ” by the “party” making
“ claim,” or who has not “ escaped” from the “party”

making “ claim,” or whose “service or labor” is not
“ due ” to the “ party ” making “ claim,” within the meaning of those words in the constitution of the United States,
on the pretense that such person is so held or has so escaped,
or that his “ service or labor” is so “due,” or with the
intent to subject him to such “ service or labor,” shall be
punished by fine not less than one thousand nor more than
live thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the state
prison not less than one nor more than five years. And
any person sustaining wrong or injury by any proceeding
punishable as aforesaid, may also maintain an action and
recover damages therefore.

SECT. 62. Any sheriff, deputy-sherif1“, jailer, coroner, constable, or other officer, of this state, or of the police of any city
or town, or any district, county, city, or town officer, or any
officer or other member of the volunteer militia of this
state, who shall hereafter arrest, imprison, detain, or return,
or aid in arresting, imprisoning, detaining, or returning,
any person for the reason that he is claimed or adjudged to
be a fugitive from service or labor, shall be punished by
fine not less than one thousand and not exceeding two
thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the state prison
for not less than one nor more than two years.

SECT. 63. The volunteer militia shall not act in any
manner in the seizure, detention, or rendition, of a person
for the reason that he is claimed or adjudged to be a fugitive
from service or labor. Any member thereof who shall
offend against the provisions of this section shall be punished by fine not less than one thousand and not exceeding
two thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the state
prison for not less than one nor more than two years.

SECT. 6-1. The penalties prescribed by the two preceding
sections shall not apply to any act of military obedience
and subordination performed by an officer or private of the
militia.

SECT. 65. Nothing in the eight preceding sections nor
in sections nineteen, twenty, and twenty-one, shall be construed to apply to so much of the act of congress of the
twelfth day of February in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-three, as relates to fugitives from justice.

SECT. 66. No person holding a judicial oiiice under the
laws of the United States, or the oiiice of commissioner of
the circuit court of the United States, shall hold any
judicial oiiice under the constitution and laws of this state,
except that of justice of the peace. No justice of the peace

shall be sued out of and returnable to the court in which
the judgment was rendered. In other cases it may be
brought in the county in which any personal action might
be brought between the same parties, and shall be sued
out of and returnable to the court of common pleas, or in
the county of Suffolk the superior court.

SECT. 3. The proceedings in relation to pleas, answer,
appeal, and other matters, shall be the same as in other civil
actions, so far as they are applicable.

SECT. 4. The court shall hear and determine the cause
upon any issue of law or fact, or upon the nonsuit or default
of either party, and shall render judgment as law and justice

shall require.

SE01‘. 5. When the writ is brought to set aside or annul
any proceedings under an execution, the plaintifff if he prevails, shall recover recompense for the damages suffered by
said proceedings, and the judgment on the audita querela,
shall be a bar to any other action thereafter brought for the

same damages.

SE01‘. 6. If the plaintifff is imprisoned on the execution
or other process complained of, the court in which the suit
is pending may enlarge him upon‘l1is giving bond to the
defendant in such sum as the court shall order, with two
or more sureties having sufficient within the county and
approved by the court, conditioned that if final judgment
on the audita querela is rendered for the defendant, the
plaintifff shall within thirty days thereafter surrender himself to the jailer or other officer by whom he was imprisoned,
to be detained in custody under the former execution or
process, or shall within that time pay the sum due on the
former execution or process, together with such costs as
may be recovered by the defendant.

SE01‘. 7. If the plaintifff thus surrenders himself, he shall
be in custody under the execution or other process on
which he was imprisoned, in like manner as if the Writ of
audita querela had not been brought.

CERTIORARI.

SECT. 8. Writs of certiorari to correct errors in proceedings that are not according to the course of the common
law, shall be issued from and returnable to the supreme
judicial court according to the practice heretofore established, and subject to such further regulations as shall be
made from time to time by the general rules of the court.

S1301‘. 9. When the proceedings of any tribunal are i
brought up by a writ of certiorari, the court may quash or \
affirm such proceedings, or enter such judgment as the court T

below should have rendered, or-make such order, judgment,
or decree, in the premises, as law and justice require.

SECT. 10. Upon application for a certiorari, and also on ;
the final adjudication when a cerliorari is granted, the court

may, in their discretion, award costs against any party who
appears to maintain or object to the proceeding in question.

SECT. 11. No writ of certiorari shall be issued, unless
application is made therefore within six years next after the
proceeding complained of.

MANDAMUS.

SECT. 12. When a writ of mandamus issues, the person
required to make return thereto shall make his return to
the first writ, and the person suing the writ may by an
answer traverse any material facts contained in such return,
or demur thereto. If the party suing the writ ma‘intains
the issue on his part, his damages shall be assessed, and
a judgment rendered, that he recover the same with costs,
and that a peremptory writ of mandamus be granted;
otherwise, the party making the return shall recover his
costs. N 0 action shall be maintained for a false return to a
writ of mandamus.

SECT. 13. The court may make rules, not only on a
petition for the writ but upon and after the issuing of the
first writ, calling upon any person other than the party to
whom the writ is prayed to be or has been directed, having
or claiming any right or interest in the subject matter, to
show cause against the issuing of the writ. If such person
appears he shall be heard in such manner as the court may
direct, and in proper cases may be allowed to frame and
sign the return to the first writ, and to stand as the real
party in the proceedings.

SECT. 14. If a third person is admitted as is provided in
the preceding section, the proceedings shall not abate or be
discontinued by the death, resignation, or removal from
office by lapse of time or otherwise, of ‘the person to whom
the writ was directed, and any peremptory writ shall be
directed to his successor.

QUO WARRANTO .

SECT. 15. Any person whose private right or interest has
been injured, or is put in hazard by the exercise by any

private corporation, or persons claiming to be a private
corporation, of a franchise or privilege not conferred by law,
whether such person be a member of such corporation or
not, may apply to the supreme judicial court for leave to file
an information in the nature of a quo warranto.

SECT. 16. The application may be made and heard in
any county where the court is in session either as a court of
law or a court of trials.

SECT. 17. The court shall take order for a summary
hearing of the parties, and if there appears probable cause
to believe that the party complained of has exercised a
franchise or privilege not conferred by law, and that thereby
the private right or interest of the complainant has been
injured, or is put in hazard, leave shall be granted to file the
information.

SECT. 18. The information shall be filed in the county
where the defendant has its principal place of business. A
copy of the information, with an order of notice returnable
and to be served when and as the court may direct, shall
be served on the defendant and on the attorney-general.

SECT. 19. The court when leave is given to file such
information, or at any time before final judgment, may issue
a writ of injunction restraining the defendant, and its
managers, servants, and agents, from exercising the franchise or privilege in question, until the further order of the
court. '

SECT. 20. The attorney-general when he has good reason
to believe there has been a usurpation of a franchise or
privilege not conferred by law, may intervene and demand
a judgment of fine and forfeiture. In such case he shall
have the control of all future proceedings, and the court
shall enter such judgment as the principles of the common
law may require, but the complainant shall no longer be
responsible for costs.

SECT. 21. If the attorney-general has not intervened, and
it shall be determined that the defendant has exercised a
franchise or privilege not conferred by law, no judgment of
forfeiture shall be entered ; but the judgment shall be, that
the corporation, or the persons claiming to be a corporation,
be perpetually excluded from such franchise or privilege,
and that the directors, managers, or agents, by whom the
usurpation was made, pay the costs, to be recovered by the
complainant.

SE01‘. 2. Questions of law, (except upon pleas in abate
ment,) and final judgments in civil actions in the court of
common pleas and superior court of the county of Suffolk,
may be re-examined upon a writ of error, and reversed or
affirmed, in the supreme judicial court held for the same
county, for any error in law or in fact, except as hereinafter
provided. When the judgment is reversed, the court shall
render such judgment as the court of common pleas or
superior court should have rendered.

SE01‘. 8. A judgment in a civil action shall not be reversed for any defect or imperfection in matter of form
which might by law have been amended ; nor because it is
not in conformity with the allegations of the parties, if it is
in conformity with the verdict; nor shall any error in law
in a civil action in which the defendant appeared and a
verdict was rendered, except such as may have occurred
after verdict, be assigned in a writ of error. But nothing
herein contained shall prevent either party from assigning
any error affecting the jurisdiction of the court.

SECT. 4. Judgment shall not be arrested or reversed on
a writ of error in a civil action, by reason of any mistake
respecting the venue of the action, whether it is local on
account of its subject matter or any or all of its parties.

SECT. 5. Judgment in a civil case shall not be reversed
or avoided for any error or defect, unless the writ of error
is sued out within six years after the entering of the judgment, except as provided in the following section.

SECT. 6. If an action of contract or writ of scire facias
is brought on a judgment, a writ of error to reverse the
judgment may be sued out at any time within six years
after the bringing of such action or writ.

SE01‘. 7. A writ of error shall not operate to stay or
supersede the execution in a civil action, unless the plaintifff
in error or some person in his behalf gives bond to the
defendant, with one or more sufficient sureties, conditioned
that the plaintifff shall prosecute his suit to effect, and pay
and satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered thereon.

SE01‘. 8. The sufficiency of the sureties and the amount
of the bond shall be determined by any justice of the
supreme judicial court or the clerk from whose office the
writ is issued, according to such general rules as the court
may from time to time establish.

SE01‘. 9. Such bond shall be filed in the clerk’s oilice
for the use of the defendant, and no execution shall be

thereafter issued upon the judgment during the pendency
of the writ of error. If execution has been already issued,
the clerk shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of
the writ of error and the filing of the bond, and after notice
of such certificate to the officer holding the execution, all
further proceedings thereon shall be stayed.

SECT. 10. The party prevailing on a writ of error in a
civil action shall be entitled to his costs against the adverse 1

party, and if the judgment is affirmed, the court shall
adjudge to the defendant in error damages for his delay,
not less than at the rate of six per cent. and not exceeding
twelve per cent. a year, on the amount recovered by the
former judgment; and may in their discretion award to the
defendant double costs.

SECT. 11. Questions of law, (except upon pleas in abatement,) and final judgments in all criminal cases in the court
of common pleas, and municipal court of the city of Boston,
may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed upon a writ of
error in the supreme judicial court, for any error in law or
in fact.

Ch

SECT. 12. Writs of error upon judgments in criminal
cases may be brought at any time after judgment is rendered, and may be entered in any county. When the writ
is returned, the court shall without delay proceed to examine the case ; but the examination may be adjourned from
time to time as circumstances may require.

SECT. 13. A writ of error upon a judgment for a
capital offense, shall not issue, unless allowed by one of the
justices of the supreme judicial court after notice given to
the attorney-general or other attorney for the commonwealth.

SECT. 14. Writs of error upon judgments in all other
criminal cases shall issue of course, but they shall not stay
or delay the execution of the judgment or sentence, unless
they are allowed by one of the justices of the supreme
judicial court, with an express order thereon for a stay of
proceedings on the judgment or sentence.

SECT. 15. When a stay of proceedings is ordered as
provided in the preceding section, the judge may at the
same time make such order as the case ~may require, for
the custody of the plaintifff in error, or for letting him to
bail; or the party may upon a writ of habeas corpus procure his enlargement upon giving bail, if entitled thereto.

SECT. 16. When a linal judgment in a criminal case is
reversed by the supreme judicial court on account of error
in the sentence, the court may render such judgment
therein as should have been rendered, or may remand the
case for that purpose to the court before which the conviction was had.

SECT. 17. If the defendant in a criminal case is discharged on a writ of error, the legal costs shall be borne by
the commonwealth.

SECT. 18. The proceedings upon writs of error, as to the
assignment of errors, the sr.-ire facias, pleadings, judgment,
and all other matters not herein provided for, shall be
according to the course of the common law, as modified by
the practice and usage in this state and general rules made
by the supreme judicial court.

WRITS OF REVIEW.

SECT. 19. Final judgments in civil actions may be reexamined and tried anew upon writs of review, as provided

_in this chapter, and not otherwise.

SECT. 20. When judgment is rendered as provided in
chapter one hundred and twenty-six, upon the default of a
defendant upon whom service has not been made by reason of his being out of the state or his residence being
unknown, he may at any time within one year after the
judgment as of right, without ‘any petition therefore, sue out
of the court in which the judgment was rendered a writ
of review.

SECT. 21. When judgment is rendered, either by the
supreme judicial court, court of common pleas, or superior
court of the county of Suffolk, in a civil action in any
manner, the supreme judicial court, if a review is not prosecuted as of right, may on the petition of the defendant
grant a review on such terms as they shall deem reasonable :
provided, that if the judgment complained of was rendered
in the absence of the petitioner, and without his knowledge,
the petition for review shall be filed within one year after he
first has notice of the judgment, otherwise within one year
after the judgment was rendered.

SEC-T. 22. The petition may be liled before the court
when sitting in any county, and the order of notice issued
thereon may be made returnable in such county as the
court shall in the same order direct; but the review, if
granted, shall be had in the county in which the former

judgment was rendered, or in the county in which the
original action would have been tried if it had been carried
to the supreme judicial court by appeal or otherwise. If
the review is not granted, the court may award to the
respondent his reasonable costs.

S1-:C'r. 23. When a review is granted by the supreme f
judicial court, the trial thereon shall be had in the same court, §

as if the action had been carried there by appeal or otherwise, in the usual course.

SECT. 24. The court of common pleas and the superior
court of the county of Suffolk, within their respective jurisdictions, may concurrently with the supreme judicial court
grant reviews of judgments rendered in those courts respectively, in all cases in which a review can be granted according
to the provisions of this chapter; and may grant reviews of
judgments rendered before a justice of the peace, or police
or justices’ court, in any cases in which a review might be
granted if the judgment had been rendered in those courts.
The proceedings on the petitions for such reviews, and upon
the trial thereof, if granted, shall be conducted in the same

manner as is prescribed in like cases in the supreme judicial
court

SECT. 25., The writ shall be sued out of the clerk’s office
of the court in which the action is to be tried, and shall be
in the form heretofore used, except as is hereinafter provided.

SI-JCT. 26. It shall not be necessary to recite at length the
declaration and other proceedings in the original suit, but
the writ of review may ‘be substantially as follows, viz.:
summon A. to answer to B. “ in the review of an action of
contract [or tort] brought by said A. against said B.,” “in
which action said A. by the _consideration of the justices of
our court, begun and held at 0. within and for our said
county of M. on the day of , recovered judgment
against said B. for the sum of one hundred dollars debt,”
or “ damages, and ten dollars costs, which judgment said B.
says is wrong and erroneous ; ” or the former judgment may
be briefly described in any manner deemed suiliciently certain according to such rules as the courts shall prescribe.

SECT. 27. The plaintifff in review shall produce and file
in court certified copies of the writ, judgment, and all proceedings in the former suit, and the originals or copies of all
depositions and other papers used and filed therein.

SECT. 28. The writ shall be served in the same manner
as an original writ, except that when the defendant 1s not

an inhabitant of the state, or not found therein, the writ
may be served on the person who appeared as his attorney
in the original suit, and the court may continue the cause,
to enable the absent party to appear and answer.

SECT. 29. If the writ is sued out by the original plaintifff,
he may cause the defendant’s goods and estate to be attached
in the same manner as might have been done in the original
action, and for this purpose the writ of review may be so
framed as to require an attachment in the common form and
that the defendant be summoned. N o attachment made, or
bail taken, in the original suit, shall be liable to satisfy the
judgment rendered on the review.

SECT. 30. If an issue of fact was joined in the original
suit, the cause shall be tried on the review upon the same
issue, except that the court may allow amendments of the
original declaration and other pleadings, as might have been
done in the original suit; and if a different issue is joined in
consequence of such amendment, the cause shall be tried
upon such new issue.

SECT. 31. If the former judgment was rendered without
an issue, the parties shall plead or answer upon the review
in like manner as they might have done in the original suit,
and the cause shall be tried upon any issue of fact or law
joined upon such pleadings, or answer; and each party

may produce any legal evidence, whether produced in the
former suit or not.

SECT. 32. Judgment shall be given in like manner as if
the parties had brought their several writs of review.

SECT. 33. The prevailing party shall recover costs, unless

the court in granting the review imposed on the petitioner
terms respecting costs.

SECT. 34. If the sum recovered by the plaintifff in the
original suit for debt or damages, is reduced on the review,
the original defendant shall have judgment and execution
for the difference with costs, or if the former judgment is
not satisfied, one judgment may be set off against the other,
and an execution issue for the balance. If the original
plaintifff recovers a greater sum for debt or damages than
was awarded to him in the original suit, he shall have
judgment and execution for the excess.

SECT. 35. In actions of replevin and in actions in which
a set-off is filed, the original defendant shall be considered,
as to every thing contained in this chapter, like a plain tiff

in other actions, so far as it respects any damages awarded
to him, either in the original suit or upon the review.

SECT. 36. If judgment is recovered against several :
defendants in the original action, any one or more of them i
may review in like manner as if he or they had been the
only defendants; and if the sum recovered in the original
suit for debt or damages is increased or reduced, the court
shall take such order respecting the further proceedings, as
shall be necessary to carry into effect the two judgments,
according to the rights of all parties.

SECT. 37. Writs and petitions for reviews shall be‘
indorsed in the same manner as original writs; and all
regulations concerning the indorsement of original writs?
shall apply to writs and petitions for review.

SECT. 38. After the rendition of judgment in a civil ;
action, if the execution has not been satisfied, the court.
upon the petition of the defendant may order a stay or super- 1
sedeas of it, if the petitioner gives to the adverse party 1
security to the satisfaction of the court, with condition that ;
he will forthwith prosecute a review to final judgment and
satisfy such execution as shall be issued against him on the
review. The execution shall not otherwise ‘be stayed or
superseded by the writ of review.

CHAPTER 147.

REFERENCE TO ARBITRATION BY AGREEMENT BEFORE
A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.

nos sscrxox
Controversies may be submitted. 8. —to be delivered or sent to the court.
Form of submission. . —at what term to be returned.
Construction of submission of all demands. . Jurisdiction of the court.

—may be varied according to the agreement.

Time within which award shall be made.

Neither party may revoke the submission.

Award by a majority, in what cases valid.

. Power of arbitrators as to costs.

. No appeal allowed. Writ of error may be
brought. . Fees of the justice, &c.

5 33":-"<‘5eo

SECTION 1. All controversies which might be the subject
of a personal action at law or suit in equity, may be
submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators, in the
manner provided in this chapter.

SECT. 2. The parties shall appear in person, or by their
lawful agents or attorneys, before a justice of the peace,

and there sign and acknowledge an agreement in substance
as follows :

Know all men, that , of , and , of , have
agreed to submit the demand, a statement whereof is hereto annexed,
[and all other demands between them, as the case may be] to the determination of , , and , the award of whom, or the greater
part of whom, being made and reported within one year from this day to
the court of common pleas, for the county of , [or in Suffolk county,
to the su erior court of the county of Sufl'olk,] the judgment thereon
shall be nal; and if either of the parties shall neglect to appear before
the arbitrators, after due notice given them of the time and place
appointed for hearing the (parties, the arbitrators may proceed in his
a ence. Dated this ay of , in the year

 

The justice shall subjoin to the agreement his certificate,
in substance as follows :—

 
 

     
 

, ss. , . Then the above named , and
, personally appeared [or, the above named , parsonally,
and said , y said , his attorney, appeared, as the case may

be,] and acknowledged the above instrument by them signed to be their
free act. Before me, , justice of the peace.

 

SE01‘. 3. An agreement to submit all demands shall
include only such asrmight be the subject of a personal
action at law or of a suit in equity.

SECT. 4. If a specific demand is submitted to the exclusion of others, it shall be set forth in the statement annexed
to the agreement; otherwise it shall not be necessary to
annex any statement of a demand, and the submission may
be of all demands between the parties, or of all demands
which either has against the other. The submission may
be varied in this respect in any other manner, according to
the agreement of the parties.

SECT. 5. The time within which the award shall be
made and reported, may be varied according to the agreement of the parties, but no award made after that time
shall have any legal effect or operation, unless. made upon a
recommitment by the court to which it is reported.

SECT. 6. Neither party shall have power to revoke the
submission without the consent of the other; and if either
neglects to appear after due notice, the arbitrators may
proceed to hear and determine the cause.

SECT. 7. All the arbitrators shall meet and hear the
parties, but an award by a majority of them shall be valid,
unless the concurrence of the whole is expressly required in
the submission.

SECT. 8. The award shall be delivered by one of the
arbitrators to the court designated in the agreement, or
shall be inclosed and sealed by them, and transmitted to
the court, and shall remain sealed until opened by the clerk.

SECT. 9. It may be returned at any term or session of
the court held within the time limited in the submission, and the parties shall attend without any express
notice for that purpose; but the court may require actual
notice to be given to either party, before they proceed to act
upon the award. '

SECT. 10. The court shall have cognizance of it in the
same manner, and may proceed thereon, as if it had been
made by referees appointed by a rule of court; and may
accept or reject it, or recommit it to the same arbitrators
for a rehearing. When accepted and confirmed by the
court, judgment shall be rendered thereon as upon a like
award by referees.

SECT. 11. If there is no provision in the submission concerning costs, the arbitrators may make such award respecting them, as they shall judge reasonable, including a compensation for their own services ; but the court may reduce
the sum charged for compensation, if it appears unreasonable.

SECT. 12. An appeal shall be allowed from any order or
judgment of the court of common pleas, or superior court of
the county of Suffolk, founded on matter of law apparent
upon the record, on any award made under this chapter; or a
party aggrieved may bring a writ of error for any error in
law or fact as in other cases. The supreme judicial court
shall thereupon render such judgment as the court below
ought to have rendered.

SECT. 13. The fees of the justice for the agreement of
submission and acknowledgment, shall be forty cents; and
the fees in court, the same as for like services with respect
to an award made under a rule of court.

SE01‘. 4. They shall according to the tenor of the petition and the order of court, cause dams or dikes to be
erected on the premises at such places and in such manner
as they shall direct; may order the land to be flowed thereby
for such periods of each year as they shall deem most
beneficial ; and cause ditches to be opened on the premises,
and obstructions in any rivers or streams leading therefrom
to be removed; and they shall meet from ‘time to time as
may be necessary to cause the work to be completed according to their directions.

SECT. 5. They may employ suitable persons to erect the
dams or dikes, or perform the other work, under their direction, for such reasonable wages as they shall agree upon ;
unless the proprietors themselves shall do the same in such
time and manner as the commissioners shall direct.

SE01‘. 6. They shall apportion the whole charge and expense of the improvements, and of executing the commission, among the proprietors of the lands, having regard to
the quantity, quality, and situation, of each person’s part
thereof, and to the benefit that he will derive from the
improvements; and shall assess the same upon the proprietors.

SECT. 7. They may appoint a collector of the monies
assessed, and shall give him a warrant to collect, pay over,
and account for, the same, to such person as they shall
appoint. The collector shall have the same power and shall
proceed in like manner in collecting the assessments, as
may be provided for collecting town taxes.

SECT. 8. If the collector neglects for twenty days after
being thereto required by the commissioners, to account for
and pay over the monies he has collected, he shall be liable
to pay to the commissioners the whole amount committed
to him to collect, to be recovered by them in an action of
contract; and the money so recovered, after deducting the
expenses of recovery, shall be applied and accounted for by
the commissioners as if it had been collected and paid over
by the collector pursuant to his warrant.

SECT. 9. . The collector shall be allowed such compensation for his services as shall be agreed upon between him
and the commissioners; and the commissioners shall be
allowed such compensation for their services as shall be
ordered by the court by which they were appointed.

SECT. 10. The commissioners shall as soon as may be
after the completion of the business, make a return to the

court by which they were appointed, of their doings under
the commission, including an account of all monies assessed and collected by their order, and of the disbursement
thereof.

SECT. 11. When it appears to the commissioners that
part of the land is held by a tenant for life or years, they
shall determine how much of the sum apportioned on that
part of the premises shall be paid by such tenant, and how
much by the landlord or reversioner; and shall assess the
same accordingly, unless the parties concerned shall agree
on an apportionment; and every such tenant, landlord, and
reversioner, shall be considered a proprietor.

SECT. 12. If any part of the land is mortgaged, the
mortgagor or mortgagee, in possession, shall be considered
as the proprietor; and all sums paid by the mortgagee by.
order of the commissioners, shall be allowed to him as sums
paid by him for improvements are bylaw to be allowed.

SECT. 13. When the commissioners find it necessary
or expedient to reduce or raise the waters for the purpose
of obtaining a view of the premises, or for the more convenient or expeditious removal of obstructions, they may
open the floodgates of any mill, or make other needful
passages through or around the dam thereof, or erect a temporary dam, on the land of any person not a party to the
proceedings; and may maintain such dam or passages for the
water as long as shall be necessary for the purposes aforesaid.

SECT. 14. All damages thus occasioned shall be estimated and determined by the commissioners, unless agreed
on between them and the parties concerned; and shall be
paid by the commissioners out of the monies to be assessed
and collected by them as before provided.

SECT. 15. If a person, whether a party to the proceedings or otherwise interested therein or affected thereby,
is aggrieved by any doings of the commissioners, he may
appeal to the court which appointed them, at any time,
either before or after the return of their doings : provided,
that it be not after the term next following that at which
the return is made. ,

SECT. 16. The court upon such appeal may affirm,
reverse, or alter, any adjudication or order of the commissioners, and make such order therein as law and justice
require. All questions of fact arising upon the hearing of
the appeal, shall on motion of either party he tried by a jury
in such manner as the court shall direct.

SECT. 17. The commissioners before proceeding to open i
flood-gates or make other passages for water, through or
around any dam, or to erect a dam on the land of any person not a party to the proceedings, shall give him seasonable
notice in writing of their intention, to enable him to appear
before them and object thereto; and if he shall appeal from
their determination, and-give notice in writing of his appeal
to the commissioners or any of them, they shall suspend all
proceedings upon his land until the appeal is determined:
provided, that the appeal be entered at the court which shall
be held next after the expiration of seven days from the time
of claiming the same.

SECT. 18. An appeal shall be allowed from any order or
judgment of the court of common pleas or superior court,
founded on matter of law apparent on the record, in any
proceedings under this chapter; and any person aggrieved
by any opinion, direction, or judgment, of the court, in any
matter of law, may allege exceptions thereto, which shall be
reduced to writing and allowed and signed by the presiding
judge, and thereupon the case shall be removed into the
supreme judicial court as provided in chapter one hundred
and thirteen.

CONSTRUCTION or ROADS, &c., TO swamps, &c.

SI-JCT. 19. Any town, city, person, company, or body
corporate, having the ownership of low lands, lakes,
swamps, quarries, mines, or mineral deposits, that on account of adjacent lands belonging to other persons or occupied as a highway, cannot be approached, worked, drained,
or used, in the ordinary manner, Without crossing such
lands or highway, may be authorized to establish roads,
drains, ditches, tunnels, and railways, to such places, in the
manner hereinafter provided.

SECT. 20. The party desiring to make such improvements shall file a petition therefore with the county commissioners within whose jurisdiction the premises are situated,
setting forth the names of the persons interested, if known to
the petitioner, and also, in detail, the nature of the proposed
improvement and the situation of the adjoining lands ; which
petition shall be accompanied with a bond, satisfactory to
said commissioners, for the payment of such expenses as
may be incurred in the prosecution of the application.

SECT. 21. The commissioners at their first meeting after
the filing of the petition and bond, shall give at least three
weeks’ public notice of the time and place of meeting to
consider the petition, in some newspaper printed in the

county; and if there is no such paper, they shall give notice
in such a manner as will cause the same to be known to
the parties interested ; they shall further give notice to the
mayor of any city and the clerk of any town in which the
premises are situated.

SECT. 22. They shall meet at the time and place
appointed, and after examination, inspection, and the hearing of evidence, shall determine whether the improvement
prayed for is necessary, and if so, shall proceed to lay out
and establish the same in such manner as shall do as little
injury as practicable; and shall assess the amount of damages which in their opinion the proprietor of the adjacent
lands will sustain. They shall apportion the damages
equitably among all parties to be benefited, having regard
to the benefits each will receive; and such award shall be
deemed conclusive upon each of the parties charged with
such payment, unless an appeal is taken within the period of
one year.

SECT. 23. Any party aggrieved by the award may appeal
therefrom, and thereupon like proceedings shall be had as
are provided in chapter forty-three, for persons aggrieved in
the laying out of highways.

SECT. 24. When it is necessary to repair any improvement thus constructed, a majority of the persons benefited by
it may cause such repairs to be made, and compel contributions from each person benefited, on the basis of the award.

SECT. 25. When the premises mentioned in section
nineteen are situated entirely in one town or city, the
petition may be made to the selectmen or mayor and aldermen thereof, who shall proceed thereon in all respects as
above provided for county commissioners upon such petitions,
except that they need not give notice to their town or city.

SECT. 26. The petition under the preceding section shall
be filed in the office of the town or city clerk before proceedings shall be had thereon; and together with the order
or award thereon shall be recorded in said office within two
months after the same is made.

SECT. 27. The selectmen or mayor and aldermen shall
each receive for services upon such petitions two dollars a
day, and the clerk shall receive for recording petitions and
orders the same fees as for mortgages of personal property.

SECT. 28. A party aggrieved by any order, award, or
refusal, of the selectmen or mayor and aldermen, herein,

ERECTION AND REGULATION OF MILLS.

SECTION 1. Any person may erect and maintain a water
mill, and a dam to raise water for working it, upon and
across any stream that is not navigable, upon the terms and
conditions, and subject to the regulations, hereinafter

expressed.
6 Cush. $5. 8 (lush. 116, 658. 2 Gray, 407.

SE01‘. 2. No such dam shall be erected to the injury of
any mill lawfully existing, either above or below it, on the
same stream, nor to the injury of any mill site on the same
stream, on which a mill or mill-dam shall have been lawfully
erected and used, unless the right to maintain a mill on
such last mentioned site shall have been lost or defeated by
abandonment or otherwise; nor shall any mill-dam be hereafter erected or raised to the injury of any such mill-site
which shall have been occupied as such by the owner
thereof: provided, that such owner shall within a reasonable
time after commencing such occupation complete and put
in operation a mill for the working of which the water of
such stream shall be applied; nor shall any mill or dam be
placed on the land of any person, without such grant, conveyance, or authority, from the owner, as would be necessary by the common law if no provision relating to mills
had been made by statute.

SE01‘. 3. The height to which the water may be raised,
and the length of time, or period, for which it may be kept
up in each year, shall be liable to be restricted and regulated
by the verdict of a jury.

SECT. 4. A person whose land is overflowed or otherwise injured by such dam, may obtain compensation therefore
upon his complaint before the court of common pleas for
the county where the land or any part thereof lies, or in
the county of Suffolk before the superior court: provided,
that no compensation shall be awarded for damage sustained

more than three years before the institution of the complaint.

12 Met. 182, 188. 4C'ush. 152,161. 6 Cash. 170, 803.
2 Cum. 341. 5 Cash. 637. 4 Gray, 58].

SECT. 5. The complaint shall contain such description of
the land alleged to be flowed or injured, and such statement
of the damage, that the record of the case shall show
with sufiicient certainty the matter heard and determined
therein.

SECT. 6. The complaint may be filed in the court in term
time, or in the clerk’s office in vacation, and in either case
notice thereof shall be given to the owner or occupant of

the mill, by delivering to him, or leaving at his dwellinghouse, an attested copy of the complaint; or if he is not

found within the state and has no dwelling-house therein, i

by leaving such copy at the mill in question fourteen days
at least before the complaint is to be heard; or the
complainant may fourteen days at least before the sitting
of the court to which his complaint may be brought, cause
the owner or occupant of such mill or dam to be served
with an attested copy of the complaint, by delivering or
leaving such copy in like manner as when the complaint is
filed as aforesaid.

SECT. 7. The notice shall be served by any officer who is r

authorized to serve any other civil process between the same
parties.

SE01‘. 8. The respondent may answer in bar, that the
complainant has no estate or interest in the land alleged to

be flowed or injured, or that the respondent has a right to .
maintain his dam for an agreed price, or without any;

compensation, or any other matter which may show that the
complainant cannot maintain the suit; but he shall not
answer that the land described is not injured by the dam.

SECT. 9. If any plea or answer is filed by the respondent,
the replication and other pleadings, and the trial of the issue,
whether of law or of fact, shall be conducted in like manner
as in actions at the common law.

SECT. 10. If an issue is decided in favor of the respondent,
or if the complainant becomes nonsuit or discontinues, the
respondent shall be entitled to his costs, to be taxed as in
civil actions.

S1-:C'r. 11. If the owner or occupant of the mill or dam
after due notice is defaulted, or offers no legal objection, or
an issue is decided in favor of the complainant, the court
shall issue a warrant for a jury to hear and determine the
matter of the complaint.

SECT. 12. Either party may appeal as in other civil actions,
but if the judgment of the supreme judicial court is in favor of
the complainant, the cause shall be remitted and the court
shall proceed therein in like manner as if the judgment had
been rendered in that court.

SECT. 13. The warrant shall be directed and served, and
the jurors shall be drawn, summoned, and returned, in the
manner provided in chapter forty-three with respect to a
jury returned on the complaint of a person aggrieved by the

laying out of a highway, and the jurors shall be required to
attend under a like penalty.

SECT. 14. All the proceedings for supplying a deficiency
of jurors, and all other proceedings in the case, shall be
substantially the same as are provided in said chapter fortythree.

SECT. 15. The jury in estimating the damage to the land
of the complainant, shall take into consideration any damage
occasioned to his other land by the dam, as well as the damage occasioned to the land overflowed; and they shall also
allow by way of set-oil‘ the benefit if any occasioned by such
dam to the complainant, in relation to his lands.

SECT. 16. If the jury find by their verdict that the complainant is not entitled to recover any damages, and it is
allowed and recorded, judgment shall be rendered for the
respondent. '

SECT. 17. If they find that the complainant is entitled to
recover damages, they shall assess the amount of damages
sustained within three years next preceding the institution
of the complaint, and to the time of rendering the verdict;
and if the verdict is allowed and recorded, the complainant
shall have judgment and execution.

SECT. 18. If it is alleged in the complaint, that the
dam is raised to an unreasonable height, or that it ought not
to be kept up and closed during the whole year, the jury
shall decide how much if any the dam shall be lowered, and
also Whether it shall be left open any part of the year, and if
any, what part, and shall state such decision as a part of
their verdict. .

SECT. 19. They shall also ascertain and determine by
their verdict, what sum, if any, to be paid annually to the
complainant, would be a just and reasonable compensation
for the damages that shall be therafter occasioned by the
dam, so long as it is used in conformity with the verdict; and
also what sum in gross would be a just and reasonable compensation for all the damages to be thereafter occasioned by
such use of the dam, and for the right of maintaining and
using the same forever in manner aforesaid.

SECT. 20. The complainant in such case, at any time
within three months after the verdict is allowed and recorded,
may elect to take the sum so awarded in gross for the right
to maintain and use the dam forever, instead of receiving
the annual compensation therefore; and if he makes such

election, he shall within said three months cause the same
to be entered on the record of the case in the clerk’s office.

SECT. 21. The owner or occupant of the mill or dam:
shall within three months after such election is thus entered, 3
pay to the complainant, or secure to his satisfaction, said a
sum with interest from the time of the verdict. After the ;
expiration of said three months, such owner or occupant
shall lose all benefit of the provisions contained in this
chapter, until payment of said damages and interest.

SECT. 22. If the complainant does not within said S
three months cause such entry of his election to be made
on the record, he and all persons claiming under him shall
be entitled to demand and receive from whoever shall be
the owner or occupant of the mill, the annual compensation
so established by the jury, so long as the dam shall be kept
up and maintained; unless the sum shall ‘be increased or
diminished upon a new complaint as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 23. The person entitled to receive said annual ,
compensation or gross damages, shall have a lien therefore ;
from the time of the institution of the original complaint, f
on the mill and mill-dam with their appurtenances, and the
land under and adjoining the same and used therewith:
provided, that such lien shall not extend to any sum due
more than three years before the commencement of an action
therefore. ’

SECT. 24. Such person may maintain an action of con- .
tract therefore in the court of common pleas, or in the county 1
of Suffolk in the superior court, against the person who owns 
or occupies the mill when the action is brought; and shall 3
therein recover the whole sum due and unpaid for the three §
years then last past, whoever may have owned or occupied J
the mill during that time ; and he shall be entitled to full 

costs, although the sum recovered shall not amount to
twenty dollars.

SECT. 25. The execution issued on such judgment may 1
at any time within thirty days after judgment be levied on 1
the premises so subject to the lien ; and the officer may there- 1
upon proceed to sell the same, or so much thereof as is
necessary to satisfy the execution and all charges of levying
it ; and he shall proceed in making such sale in like manner
in all respects as is provided with regard to the sale on
execution of a right to redeem real estate mortgaged.

SECT. 26. Such sale shall be valid and effectual against 5
all persons claiming the premises by any title that has i
accrued within the time covered by the lien.

SECT. 27. Any person entitled to the premises so sold,
may redeem the same at any time within one year after the
sale, upon paying to the purchaser or the person holding
under him the sum paid therefore, with interest at the rate
of twelve per cent. a year.

SECT. 28. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect
the right to keep up, maintain, and use, any water-mill and
mill-dam now lawfully existing, except as is herein expressly
provided.

SEOT. 29. The court to which a verdict is returned, may
set it aside for any sufficient cause; and grant a new trial
to be had upon a new warrant or otherwise as the case may
require.

SECT. 30. No action shall be sustained at common law
for the recovery of damages for the erecting, maintaining, or
using, any mill or mill-dam, except as is provided in this
chapter.

SECT. 31. The party prevailing in any suit under this
chapter, shall be entitled to his full costs, unless where it is
otherwise expressly provided.

SECT. 32. The court shall award a reasonable compensation to the person who presides at the trial, and to the
officer who executes the warrant; which with the pay of the
jurors and other like charges shall be advanced by the complainant, and taxed and allowed in the bill of costs.

SI-JCT. 33. When either party is dissatisfied with the
annual compensation established by a jury, either under the
provisions of this chapter or those of the laws heretofore in
force, a new complaint may be brought for the increase or
diminution thereof, or for ascertaining the gross amount of
the damages; and all the proceedings shall be conducted
substantially in the manner before provided in the case of an
original complaint: provided, that when a complainant shall
have declined to accept gross damages awarded him, no jury
shall again determine the amount of gross damages, until
the expiration of ten years thereafter.

SECT. 34. Such new complaint may be maintained by
and against either of the parties to the original suit, or by
and against any person lawfully holding under either of
them.

SECT. 35. No such new complaint shall be brought until
the expiration of one month after the payment of the then

last year shall have fallen due; and either party may within 3
the said month make an offer or tender to the other as;
hereinafter provided. ‘

SECT. 36. The owner of the mill or dam may within said 1
month olfer in writing to the owner of the land any increase ¢
of said annual compensation; and if the owner of the land 1
does not agree to accept the same, but brings a new com- ‘
plaint to obtain an increase thereof, he shall pay the costs,
unless he obtains a verdict for a greater annual compensation than was so offered to him.

SECT. 37. The owner of the land may within said month 1
offer in writing to the owner of the mill or dam, to accept 3
any smaller sum than that which is established as said annual 
compensation ; and if the owner of the mill or dam does not
agree to pay such reduced compensation, but brings a new
complaint to obtain a diminution thereof, he shall pay the
costs, unless the annual compensation is reduced by the
verdict to a sum less than that so offered to him.

SECT. 38. Such offer may be made by or to the respective 1
tenants or occupants of the land, and of the mill or dam in 1
like manner and with like effect as if made by or to the]
respective owners; except that no agreement founded
thereon shall bind said owners unless made with their consent.

SECT. 39. If the offer so made by either party is agreed I
to and accepted by the other, it shall establish the annual 
compensation to be thereafter paid, in like manner as if it ‘
had been established by a verdict and judgment upon a new
complaint: provided, that a memorandum of such offer and
acceptance, and of the agreement, is made and signed by the
respective parties, or by persons duly authorized by them, and
filed and recorded in the clerk’s office of the court in which
the former judgment was rendered, with a note of reference
on the record of the former judgment to the book where the

agreement is recorded.

SECT. 40. If upon a complaint by the owner of the land ;
the jury decide that he is not entitled to any annual com- _.
pensation, the judgment thereon shall be no bar to a new 5
complaint for damages alleged to have arisen after the
former verdict, and for compensation for damages thereafter
sustained.

SECT. 41. In every original complaint brought by the.
owner of land alleged to be injured by a mill-dam, the.
respondent may bring into court and there tender_ any
sum that he shall deem proper to be paid to the complamant

for the damages incurred up to the time of such tender; and
may also offer to pay any certain annual compensation for
the damage that may be thereafter occasioned by the dam in
question ; and if the complainant does not accept the same,
with his costs up to that time, but proceeds in the suit
to recover greater damages or compensation, he shall unless
the complainant shall recover greater damages or greater
annual compensation than was so offered, be entitled to his
costs up to the time of the tender, and the respondent shall
be entitled to recover his costs afterwards.

SECT. 42. If the complainant in the case mentioned in
the preceding section consents to accept the amount so
offered for the past damage and future annual compensation,
he shall have judgment accordingly, and also for his costs
up to that time, and the judgment shall have the same
effect as if it had been rendered upon the verdict of a jury ; or
the complainant may accept either the sum tendered for past
damages, or the offer for future annual compensation, and
proceed to trial on the residue of the complaint under the
same liability for costs.

SECT. 43. Two or more persons suffering damage from a
mill-dam, whether jointly or separately interested in the
lands injured, may join in a complaint under this chapter;
and their cases may be heard before the same jury; which
may assess joint or several damages as the interest and title
of the complainants may require ; and judgment and execution for costs and damages shall be had in conformity
thereto.

SECT. 44. The provisions of chapter one hundred and
twenty-nine in respect to pleas in abatement, shall be applicable to complaints under this chapter; and when new defendants are summoned in pursuance of said provisions, the
plaintifff may have a verdict against such of the defendants

as he shall prove to be liable, although he fails as to the
rest.

SECT. 45. No complaint for flowing shall be abated by
reason of the death of any party, but the same may be
prosecuted or defended by the surviving complainants or
respondents, or the executors or administrators of the
deceased; and if any such complaint is abated or otherwise defeated for any matter of form, or if after verdict
for the complainant the judgment is reversed for error,
upon a certiorari or otherwise, the complainant or any
person claiming from, by, or under, him, may bring a new
complaint for the same cause, at any time within one year
after the abatement or other determination of the original

complaint, or after the reversal of the judgment; and may
upon the new complaint recover such damages as have been
sustained during the three years before the institution of
the first complaint, or at any time afterwards.

REGULATION OF DAMS.

SECT. 46. The county commissioners on application made

to them in writing by any persons owning mill or other‘

property liable to destruction or damage by the breaking
of a mill or reservoir dam, or on application of the mayor
and aldermen or selectmen of any city or town on account
of the liability of damage to any roads or bridges therein
from the same cause, shall after notice to the adverse party
of the time and place, view and thoroughly examine such
dam.

SECT. -17. If in the judgment of the commissioners the
dam is not sufficiently strong and substantial to resist the
action of the water under any circumstances which may
reasonably be supposed to exist, they shall determine and
direct what alterations or additions are required to make it
permanent and secure ; and shall give a written direction to
the owner thereof to make such alterations or repairs within
a reasonable time ; and they shall record the result of such
examination, Which, if the owner of the dam had an opportunity to be heard before them, shall be admissible evidence
in the trial of any issue involving his liability.

SECT. 48. If the owner of a dam thus examined and
adjudged to be unsafe, refuses or neglects to make such
alterations, additions, or repairs,as the commissioners order,
they shall, on being notified of such neglect or refusal by
the party making application, cause such dam, or such parts
thereof as they may deem necessary for the safety of property, roads, or bridges, on the stream below, to be removed ;
and after such removal no structure shall be erected except
in compliance with the requirements of the commissioners.

, SECT. 49. If when a dam is adjudged to be unsafe under
the provisions of the three preceding sections, the pond
caused by the dam should be so filled with Water that the
dam cannot be removed without danger to mill and other
property, if upon notice, the owner neglects to raise or
otherwise alter and make it safe, the commissioners shall
cause it to be forthwith raised, or otherwise altered and
made safe, at his expense.

SECT. 50. If the commissioners shall order no alteration
or addition to a dam, the cost or expense of an examination

under section forty-six, shall be paid by the party making
the application; otherwise the expense shall be paid by the
owner; but in all cases where the party making application
is the owner of the dam, the expense shall be paid by him.

SECT. 51. The supreme judicial court shall have jurisdiction in equity, and may compel the owner of any dam to
make all alterations, additions, and repairs, ordered under
the five preceding sections, and may make all judgments
and decrees necessary to carry such orders into effect.

REPAIRING AND REBUILDING MILLS.

SECT. 52. When a mill owned by several persons as
joint tenants or tenants in common, or the dam or appurtenances of such mill, shall need to be repaired or rebuilt in
whole or in part, and the proprietors do not all agree to
join in repairing or rebuilding the same, the greater part in
interest of the proprietors may cause the work to be done
at the expense of the whole, in proportion to their respective
interests.

SECT. 53. One or more of the proprietors may call a
meeting of the whole of them, to be held at the mill, to consult and agree upon the measures to be taken for repairing
or rebuilding the same, by a written notice signed by the
persons who call it and addressed to each of the other
proprietors, expressing that the mill in question needs to be
repaired or rebuilt, and that a meeting of the proprietors
thereof will be held at the mill on a certain day and hour
mentioned in the notice, to consult and agree upon the
measures to be taken for that purpose, and requesting the
attendance of the proprietor at such meeting.

SE01‘. 54. The notice shall be served by any officer
authorized to serve civil process between the same parties,
by delivering an attested copy thereof to the person to whom
it is addressed, or by leaving such copy at his dwelling-house
or last and usual place of abode, not more than thirty nor
less than seven days before the day appointed for the meeting, and his return, specifying the persons on whom he
served it and the time and manner of the service on each,
shall be deemed suliicient evidence thereof.

SE01‘. 55. At the meeting so called, or any adjournment
thereof, the greater part in interest of all the proprietors of
the mill may take measures-to cause the mill, or the dam
or appurtenances thereof, to be repaired or rebuilt, as they
shall judge most for the interest of all concerned therein.

SECT. 56. Each proprietor shall upon demand after the i
work is completed, pay to the proprietors by whom it has .
been advanced, with interest from the time of the advance, 1
his just and equal part of the charge and expense of such
repair or rebuilding, in proportion to his share or interest
in the mill.

SECT. 57. The proprietors who advance the money so ;
expended, shall have a lien therefore on the rents and profits .
of the mill, and may retain so much thereof as belongs to ‘
any proprietor who is indebted to them for such advance, to
be applied to the payment of his debt; or they may maintain
a suit for the debt, or for as much of it as shall not be paid
out of the rents and profits.

SE01‘. 58. When a proprietor is under guardianship as a
minor or otherwise, his guardian may act for him in calling
and attending a meeting of the proprietors, and may there
vote and do all such other acts in the premises as the ward
could do if competent to act for himself ; all which shall be
binding on the ward and his estate.

SECT. 59. When part of the mill is held by one person
as tenant for life or years, with remainder or reversion
to another, the sum due for the repairs and other
expenses on that part of the mill, shall be apportioned on
the tenant for life or years and the remainder-man or reversioner, in proportion to the value of their respective interests
in the premises; and the party to whom the money is due
from such remainder-man or reversioner, shall have a lien
on the rents and prolits belonging to him after his estate
comes ‘ into possession, if not sooner paid, notwithstanding
any limitation by lapse of time.

S1-zcr. 60. Every mortgagee in possession shall be considered as a proprietor for all the purposes of this chapter,
but the mortgagor, if the action is brought against him
before his right of redemption is foreclosed, shall also be
liable for all sums so due on account of his share of the
mill, so far as the same’ are not recovered from the mortgagee. All sums paid on this account by the mortgagee,
shall be considered and allowed, between him and the
mortgagor, as so much paid for repairs or improvements of
the mortgaged premises.

SECT. 61. Every tenant in tail of any part of a mill
shall for all the purposes of this chapter be considered as
the proprietor thereof in fee simple.

SECT. 62. All sums due from one proprietor to another
for monies advanced by force of this chapter, may be recovered in an action of contract; and when two or more proprietors are so indebted, the creditor or creditors may
maintain a suit in equity against any two or more of them,
in which suit the court shall determine what amount is due
from each of the debtors severally, and shall award judgment and execution against each of them accordingly ; and
shall apportion the amount so recovered among the plaintifffs
in the suit, if more than one, according to their respective
rights.

SECT. 63. Such suit in equity may be brought in the
court of common pleas, superior court of the county of
Suffolk, or supreme judicial court, and the court shall proceed thereon according to the course of proceedings in
equity, with or without a trial by jury as the case may
require, to make all such orders, decrees, and judgments,
and to issue such process, as may be necessary and proper
to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter. Either
party may appeal to the supreme judicial court from the
final judgment or decree of the court of common pleas or
superior court as in other civil actions.

SECT. 64. Nothing contained in this chapter shall. in any
way affect, any contract or agreement by or between the
proprietors of any mill as to the repair or rebuilding thereof.

DUTIES AND COMPENSATION OF MILLERS.

SECT. 65. Every miller occupying and using a grist mill
shall be provided with scales and weights, or a vibrating
steelyard, to weigh corn, grain, and meal, to and from the
mill, if required; and if he neglects to keep himself so
provided, or refuses so to weigh corn, grain, ,or meal,
when required, he shall for every such neglect or refusal
forfeit and pay to any person who shall sue therefore, a sum
not exceeding five dollars, to be recovered in an action of
tort.

SECT. 66. The toll for grinding any sort of grain shall
not exceed one-sixteenth part thereof.

payment of the debt so due to him, and the costs which may
arise in enforcing such lien under this chapter; except as is
provided in the following sections.

SECT. 2. Such lien for materials furnished shall not
attach unless the person furnishing the same shall before so
doing give notice to the owner of the property to be affected
by the lien, if such owner is not the purchaser, that he
intends to claim such lien.

SECT. 3. Such lien shall not avail or be of force against
any mortgage actually existing and duly recorded prior to
the date of the contract under which the lien is claimed.

SECT. 4. The owner of any such building or structure
in process of erection or being altered or repaired, other
than the party by whom or in whose behalf a contract for
labor and materials shall have been made, may prevent the
attaching of any lien for labor thereon not at the time performed, or materials not then furnished, by giving notice in
writing to the person performing or furnishing such labor,
or furnishing such materials, that he will not be responsible
therefore.

SECT. 5. Such lien shall be dissolved unless the person
who may desire to avail himself thereof shall within thirty
days after he ceases to labor on or furnish labor or materials
for such building or structure, file in the office of the clerk
of the city or town in which the same is situated, a statement of a just and true account of the amount due him,
with all just credits given, together with a description of
the property intended to be covered‘ by the lien, sufficiently
accurate for identification, with-the name of the owner or
owners of the property, if known; which certificate shall be
subscribed and sworn to by the person claiming the lien, or
by some one in his behalf, and shall be recorded in a book
kept for the purpose by the clerk of such city or town, who
shall be entitled to the same fees therefore as for recording
mortgages of equal length.

SECT. 6. No inaccuracy in such statement relating to the
property to be covered by the lien, if the property can be
reasonably recognized, or in stating the amount due for
labor, or materials shall invalidate the proceedings, unless
it appears that the person filing the certificate has willfully
and knowingly claimed more than is his due.

SECT. 7.. Unless a suit for enforcing the lien is commenced Within ninety days after the person who may desire
to avail himself thereof ceases to labor on, or furnish labor

or materials for, such building or structure, the lien shall
be dissolved.

SECT. 8. The lien may be enforced by petition to the court of common pleas in the county where the building or i
structure is situated, or in the county of Suffolk to the}
superior court. The petition may be filed in term, or in the }

clerk’s office in vacation, and the date of the filing shall be 1
deemed the commencement of the suit.

SECT. 9. When the amount of the claim does not exceed ;
one hundred dollars, the lien may be enforced by petition to 1
a justice of the peace, or police or justices’ court ; and I
such justices and courts shall have like power and authority 3
within their jurisdiction as are herein conferred upon the

court of common pleas, with like rights of appeal to the
parties as exist in other civil cases.

SECT. 10. The petition may be inserted in a writ of

original summons, and be served, returned, and entered, as 5
other civil cases. - T

SECT. 11. Whether filed as a petition, or inserted in such :
summons, the petition shall contain a brief statement of the .
contract on which it is founded, and of the amount due
thereon, with a description of the premises subject to the
lien, and all other material facts and circumstances; and
shall pray that the premises may be sold, and the proceeds
of the sale be applied to the discharge of the demand.

SECT. 12. The court may at any time allow either party
to amend his pleadings as in actions at common law.

SECT. 13. Any number of persons who have actually
performed labor or furnished labor or materials on one or
more buildings or structures upon different lots of land,
where the labor- was performed for the same owner, contractor, or other person, may join in the same petition for
their respective liens; and the same proceedings shall be
had in regard to the rights of each petitioner, and the
respondent may defend as to each petitioner in the same

manner, as if he had severally petitioned for his individual
lien.

SECT. 14. The court in which the petition is entered
; shall order notice to be given to the owner of the building
- or structure, that he may appear and answer thereto at a
; certain day in the same term, or at the next term, by
» serving him with an attested copy of the petition with the
'» order of the court thereon, fourteen days at least before

the time assigned for the hearing; and the court shall also
order notice of the filing of the petition to be given to all
other creditors who have a lien of the same kind upon the
same estate, by serving them with a copy of the last mentioned order in like manner.

SECT. 15. If it appears to the court that any of the
parties entitled to notice are absent, or that they cannot
probably be found to be served with the notice, the court
may. instead of the personal notice before mentioned, or in
addition thereto, order notice to all persons interested, by
publishing in some newspaper the substance of the petition,
with the order of the court thereon, assigning the time and
place for a hearing, or may order such other notice to be
given, as shall under the circumstances of the case be
considered most proper and elfectual.

SECT. 16. If at the time assigned for the hearing it
appears to the court that any of the persons interested have
not had sufficient notice of the suit, the court may order
further notice to them, in such manner as shall be considered
most proper and effectual.

SE01‘. 17. At the time assigned for the hearing, or within
such further time as the court shall allow for that purpose,
every creditor having a lien of the kind before mentioned
upon the same property, may appear and prove his claim, and
the owner and each of the creditors may contest the several
claims of every other creditor, and the court shall hear and
determine them in a summary manner, either with or without a jury, as the case may require.

SECT. 18. Every material question of fact arising in the
case, shall be submitted to a jury, if required by either
party or thought proper by the court; and the trial shall
be had upon a question stated, or an issue framed, or otherwise, as the court shall order. A jury shall be had before
a justice of the peace, or police or justices’ court, only as
in other civil cases.

SECT. 19. The court shall ascertain and determine the
amount due to each creditor who has alien of the kind
before mentioned upon the property in question ; and every
such claim due absolutely and without any condition, although not then payable, shall be allowed, with a rebate
of interest to the time when it would become payable.

SECT. 20. When the owner fails to perform his part of
the contract, and by reason thereof the other party without
his own default is prevented from completely performing

his part, he shall be entitled to a reasonable ‘compensation
for as much as he has performed, in proportion to the price
stipulated for the Whole, and the court shall adjust his claim
accordingly.

SECT. 2l. If the lien is established in favor of any of
the creditors whose claims are presented, the court shall
order a sale of the property to be made by any officer
authorized to serve civil process between the same parties.

SECT. 22. If part of the property can be separated from
the residue and sold without damage to the whole, and
if the value thereof should be sufficient to satisfy all debts
proved in the case, the court may order a sale of that part,

if it appears to be most for the interest of all parties concerned.

SECT. 23. The officer who makes the sale shall give notice
of the time and place.in the manner prescribed in relation
to the sale on execution of a right of redeeming mortgaged
lands, unless the court orders a different notice to be given.

SECT. 24. Any interest in real estate so sold may be
redeemed in the manner provided in the case of a sale on
execution of the right of redeeming mortgaged lands.

SECT. 25. If all the claims against the property covered
by the lien are ascertained at the time of ordering the sale,
the court may order the officer to pay over and distribute
the proceeds of the sale, after deducting all lawful charges
and expenses, to and among the several creditors, to the
amount of their respective debts if there is sufficient therefore; and if there is not sufficient, then to divide and distribute the same among the creditors in proportion to the
amount due to each of them.

SECT. 26. If all the claims are not ascertained when
the sale is ordered, or if for any other reason the court
finds it necessary or proper to postpone the order of distribution, they may direct the officer to bring the proceeds of
the sale into court, there to be disposed of according to the
decree of the court; and if by reason of the claims of
attaching creditors or for any other cause the whole cannot
be conveniently distributed at once, the court may make

two or more successive orders of distribution as the circumstances may require.

SECT. 27. If there is any surplus of the proceeds of the
sale after making all the payments before mentioned, it
shall be forthwith paid over to the owner of the property;

but such surplus before it is so paid over shall be liable to be
attached or taken on execution, in like manner as if it proceeded from a sale made by the officer on an execution.

SECT. 28. If the interest of the owner in‘ the building,
structure, or land, is under attachment at the time of filing
and recording the statement of the account, the attaching
creditor shall be preferred to the extent of the value of the
buildings and land as they were when the statement was
recorded ; and the court shall ascertain by a jury or otherwise as the case may require, what proportion of the proceeds of the sale shall be held subject to the attachment, as
derived from the value of the property when the statement
was recorded. SE01‘. 29. If the attaching creditor recovers judgment
he shall be entitled to receive on his execution the proportion of the proceeds held subject to his attachment, or as
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy his execution,
and the residue of the proceeds shall be applied in the same
manner as if there had been no such attachment.

SECT. 30. If the interest of the owner of the property
is attached after the recording of the statement, the proceeds,
after discharging all prior liens and claims, shall be applied
to satisfy the execution of such attaching creditor, in like
manner as is provided in chapter one hundred and thirtythree, in the case of two or more successive attachments
or seizures in execution of a right of redemption.

SECT. 31. If an attachment is made after the recording
of such statement, and if after the attachment another like
statement is recorded, the creditor in the latter statement
shall be entitled to be paid only out of the residue of the
proceeds remaining after paying all that is due on the
demands, a statement of which is recorded before the attachment, and satisfying the attaching creditor.

SECT. 32. When there are several attaching creditors,
they shall as between themselves be entitled to be paid
according to the order of their attachments, but when several
creditors who are entitled to the lien provided for in this
chapter have equal rights as between themselves, and the
fund is insuiiicient to pay the whole, they shall share it
equally in proportion to their respective debts.

S1301‘. 33. If the person for whom the work is done, or materials are furnished, has an estate for life, or any other estate
less than a fee simple, in the land, or if the property at the time
of recording the statement is mortgaged, or under any other

encumbrance, the lien before provided for shall bind his
whole estate and interest therein, in like manner as a mortgage would have done; and the creditor may cause the
right of redemption, or whatever other right or estate the
owner had in the property, to be sold and applied to the discharge of his debt according to the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 34. If the person indebted dies or conveys away
his estate or interest before the commencement of a suit on
the contract, the suit may be commenced and prosecuted
against his heirs, or Whoever holds the estate or interest
which he had in the premises at the time the labor or
materials were performed or furnished ; or if a suit is commenced in his lifetime, it may be prosecuted against his
executors, administrators, heirs, or assigns, in like manner
as if the estate or interest had been mortgaged to secure

the debt.

SECT. 35. If the creditor dies before the commencement
of a suit, the suit may be commenced and prosecuted by his
executors or administrators; or if commenced in his lifetime, it may be prosecuted by them as it might have been
by the deceased if living.

SECT. 36. Any party interested in a suit brought under
this chapter may appeal to the supreme judicial court,
from the final decree or judgment of the court of common
pleas or superior court, as is prescribed in relation to other
civil cases, and the cause shall be thereupon heard and
determined in the supreme judicial court, according to the
provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 37. If it appears in any stage of the proceedings
that the suit was commenced by the petitioning creditor
before his right of action accrued or after it was barred, or
if he becomes nonsuit, or fails to establish his claim,'the
suit may be prosecuted by any other creditor having such
lien, in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced by him, if the circumstances of the case are such
that he might then, or at any time after the commencement
of the original suit, have commenced a like suit on his own
claim.

SECT. 38. If the suit is commenced by the petitioning
creditor before his right of action accrues, his claim may
nevertheless be allowed, if the suit is carried on by any
other creditor as provided in the preceding section ; but he
shall not in such case be entitled to costs, and he may be
required to pay the costs incurred by the debtor, or a part
thereof, as the court shall deem reasonable.

SECTION 1. N 0 mortgage of personal property shall be
valid against any other person than the parties thereto, unless
possession of the property is delivered to and retained by
the mortgagee, or the mortgage is recorded by the clerk of
the city or town where the mortgagor resides, and by the
clerk of the city or town in which he principally transacts
his business or follows his trade or calling; except as is
provided in the following section.

SE01‘. 2. It shall not be necessary to the validity of a
mortgage, contract of bottomry, or respondentia, or any
transfer, assignment, or hypothecation, of a ship or vessel,
that it be thus recorded. Nor shall a record be necessary
to the validity of any transfer in mortgage of goods at sea
or abroad, if the mortgagee shall take possession of such
goods as soon as may be after their arrival in this state.

SECT. 3. City and town clerks upon payment of their
fees, shall record all mortgages of personal property delivered to them, in books kept for the purpose, noting therein
and on each mortgage, the time it is received; and such
mortgages shall be considered as recorded at the time when
left for the purpose in the clerk’s office. The fees for
recording, and all other services relating thereto, shall be
the same as are allowed to registers of deeds for like services.

SECT. 4. When the condition of a mortgage of personal
property is broken, the mortgagor, or any person lawfully
claiming or holding under him, may redeem the same at
any time before the right of redemption is foreclosed, in the
manner hereinafter provided, or the same is sold in pursuance of the contract between the parties.

SECT. 5. The person entitled to redeem shall pay or
tender to the mortgagee or person holding under him the

sum due on the mortgage, or perform or offer performance 1
of the thing to be done, and shall pay all reasonable and‘
lawful charges and expenses incurred in the care and custody
of the property, or otherwise arising from the mortgage ; and
if upon such payment or performance or tender thereof the
property is not forthwith restored, the person entitled to
redeem may recover it in an action of replevin, or may
recover such damages as he may have sustained by the withholding thereof, in any action adapted to the circumstances
of the case.

SECT. 6. If the _property is not sold in pursuance of a
contract between the parties, the right of the mortgagor or .
his assigns to the same shall not be forfeited until sixty days .
after the mortgagee or his assigns shall have given written
notice to the mortgagor, or the person in possession of the
property claiming the same, of his or their intention to
foreclose the mortgage for a breach of the condition, and
caused a copy of the notice to be recorded in the town
clerk’s office, where the mortgage is recorded. If the
money to be paid or other thing to be done is not paid or

performed, or tender thereof made, within said sixty days,
the right to redeem shall be foreclosed.

SECT. 7. When the mortgagor has removed beyond the
limits of the state, and there is no attorney, assignee, or
other legal representative, of the mortgagor, and no person
in possession of the mortgaged property, claiming the same,
known to the mortgagee, upon whom notice of intention to
foreclose can be served under the provisions of the preceding section, the notice of foreclosure may be given by
publishing the same at least once a week for three several
weeks in one of the principal newspapers in the city. or town
where the mortgage is recorded ; the first publication to be
not less than sixty days previous to the foreclosure, and the
last within one Week of the time appointed therefore ; and if
there is no newspaper there published, then in one of the

principal newspapers in the county where the property is
situated.

SE01‘. 8. When a mortgagee or his assigns shall have
given notice of an intention to foreclose a mortgage in the
manner required in the preceding sections, he or they may
make affidavit thereof, and cause the same with the notice
to be recorded any time before the foreclosure, in the clerk’s
office where the mortgage is recorded ; and when so
recorded the same or a copy of the record shall be admitted
as evidence of the service of the notice.

PLEDGES.

SECT. 9. The holder of personal property in pledge for
the payment of money or the performance of any other
thing may, after failure of performance, notify the pledger
in the manner herein provided, that he intends to enforce
payment or performance by a sale of the pledge. If the
pledger shall not within sixty days thereafter pay, or perform, or tender payment or performance of the money to
be paid or thing to be done, the pledgee may sell the pledge
at public auction, and apply the proceeds to the satisfaction
of the debt or demand and the expenses of the notice and
sale; paying the overplus, if any, to the party entitled
thereto, upon demand.

SECT. 10. The notice may be served on the pledger in
the manner provided in section six, or if he is not within
the state, or not living, notice of such intention may be
published in the manner provided in section seven.

SECT. 11. The notice and an affidavit of its service or
publication may be recorded in the office of the city or
town clerk where the pledgee resides, and the same or a
copy of the record shall be admitted as evidence.

SECT. 12. The preceding sections shall not authorize
the pledgee to dispose of the pledge contrary to the terms
of the contract under which it is held, nor limit his right
to dispose of it in any other manner allowed by the contract or the rules of law.

LIENS ON SHIPS AND VESSELS.

SECT. 13. When, by virtue of a contract, expressed or
implied, with the owners of a ship or vessel, or with the
agents, contractors, or sub-contractors, of such owners, or
any of them, or with any person having been employed to
construct, repair, or launch, such ship or vessel, or to assist
them, money is due to any person for labor performed,
materials used, or labor and materials furnished, in the construction, launching, or repairs of, or for constructing the
launching ways for, or for provisions, stores, or other articles, furnished for or on account of such ship or vessel, in
this state, such person shall have a lien upon the ship or
vessel, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, to secure the
payment of such debt; which lien shall be preferred to all

others thereon except mariners’ wages, and shall continue
until the debt is satisfied.

SECT. 14. _Such lien shall be dissolved unless the person
claiming the same files, within four days from the time the

ship or vessel departs from the port at which she was when 3
the debt was contracted, in the office of the clerk of the city :

or town within which the ship or vessel was at the time the
debt was contracted, a statement, subscribed and sworn to
by himself or some person in his behalf, giving a just and
true account of the demand claimed to be due to him, with
all just credits, and also the name of the person with whom
the contract was made, the name of the owner of the ship
or vessel, if known, and the name of the ship or vessel, or
such description thereof as shall be sufiicient for identification; which statement shall be recorded by the clerk of
such city or town in a hook kept by him for that purpose,
for which he shall receive the same fees as for recording
mortgages of equal length.

SECT. 15. Such lien may be enforced by petition to the
court of common pleas for the county where the ship or
vessel was at the time the debt was contracted or in which
she may be at the time of filing the petition, or in the
county of Suffolk to the superior court, in the manner
provided in chapter one hundred and fifty for enforcing the
lien for labor and materials. At the time of commencing
the process, or of entering or filing the petition, a process of
attachment against such ship or vessel, her tackle, apparel,
and furniture, shall issue and continue in force, or may be
dissolved by bond like attachments in civil cases, but such
dissolution shall not dissolve the lien.

SECT. 16. Any number of ‘persons having such liens upon
the same ship or vessel, may join in the same petition or
libel to enforce the same; and the same proceedings shall
be had in regard to the respective rights of each petitioner
or libellant, and the respondent may defend as to each
petitioner or libellant, in the same manner as if they had
severally petitioned or libelled for their individual liens.

SECT. 17. When there is money due to more than one
person holding alien upon a ship or vessel under the provisions of this chapter, all parties interested having been
cited to appear and answer, the claims of all shall be
marshalled, and the court shall make such order or decree
as shall be necessary to prevent the enforcement of a
double lien for the same labor, materials, stores, provisions,
or other articles, and to secure the just rights of all. And
the proceeds arising from the sale of such ship or vessel,
after deducting all proper costs and expenses, shall be distributed among the several claimants to the amount of
their respective debts: provided, that when such proceeds
are insufficient to satisfy the liens of all, those having liens
for labor shall receive a percentage on their respective

claims one-third greater, as near as may be, than those
having liens for materials, stores, or other articles.

SECT. 18. The five preceding sections shall not affect the
lien as now existing on foreign ships and vessels ; nor shall
they be construed to give the courts of this state exclusive
jurisdiction of the liens created hereby; but the same may
be enforced in the courts of the United States, according to
the course of proceedings in such courts.

OTHER LIENS.

SECT. 19. Whoever has a lien other than those described
in chapter one hundred and fifty and in the six preceding
sections, for money due to him on account of work and
labor, care and diligence, or for money expended, on or
about personal property, by reason of any contract express
or implied ; if the money is not paid within sixty days after
a demand in writing delivered to the debtor or left at his
usual place of abode if within this state, or made by letter
addressed to him at his usual place of abode without the
state and deposited in the post office to be sent to him;
may apply by petition to a justice of the peace, or police or
justices’ court, in the county where the petitioner resides,
for an order for the sale of the property in satisfaction of

the debt.

SECT. 20. The justice or court shall thereupon issue a
notice to the owner of the property to appear at a time and
place designated, to show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be granted; which notice shall be served by
delivering to the owner, or ‘leaving at his usual place of
abode if within the state, a copy thereof, fourteen days
before the day of hearing; and a return of the service shall
be made by some officer authorized to serve civil process,
or by some other person with an allidavit to the truth of

the return.

SECT. 21. If the owner is unknown, the application may
be made sixty days after the money becomes due, and a
notice may issue “ to the unknown owner ” describing the

property.

SECT. 22. If the owner resides out of the state, or is
unknown, notice may be given by a publication of the order
in the manner prescribed for the publication of notices

under section seven.

SECT. 23. If the owner makes default at the time
appointed, or if upon a hearing of the parties it shall

appear that a lien exists upon the property, and that the
same ought to be sold for the satisfaction of the debt, the
justice or court may make an order for that purpose, and if
no appeal is taken, the property may be sold in conformity
therewith. Any surplus of the proceeds of sale, after

satisfying the debt and all costs and charges, shall be paid
to the owner upon demand.

SECT. 24. The justice or court may ascertain the amount

due up to the time of the entering of the order, and make
a record thereof.

SECT. 25. Either party may appeal from the final order
of the justice or court in the same manner as in other civil
cases, and the case shall be heard and determined in the
court above, and such order made as justice shall require.
If the respondent appeals, he shall recognize for the prosecution of his appeal and the payment of any balance of the
debt with costs which may remain unsatisfied after a sale
of the property, if judgment shall be rendered against him.

SECT. 26. The prevailing party shall recover his costs,
and the justice or court may issue execution therefore.

SECT. 27. The preceding sections shall not limit or
restrict the right of any party having a lien upon property,

to hold and dispose of the same in any other manner
authorized by law.

SECTION 1. Any person by law capable of binding himself by a common bond, may enter into a recognizance in
the manner hereinafter mentioned, for the payment of a
debt ; and may thereby subject his person, goods, and estate,
to be taken on execution.

SECT. 2. The recognizance may be taken before the
court of common pleas in any county, or in the county of
Suffolk before the superior court, in term time, or before
the clerk of the court in vacation, and shall be substantially as follows :—

Be it remembered, that on this day of
personally appeared before the court of
within and for the county of [or, before

, of
, now held at
the clerk of the

     
 

 
   
   

     
 

court of for the county of ] and acknowledged himself to
be indebted to of in the sum of to be paid to
said on the day of [or, in years or

in months, from this day] with interest from this day; and if not
then aid, to be levied upon his gooods and chattels, lands and tenements,
and or want thereof, upon l1lS dy In witness whereof said

hath hereto set his hand.
clerk of the court of

for the county of

   

SECT. 3. The clause as to the payment of interest maybe altered or wholly omitted according to the agreement of
the parties; but interest shall always be allowed for any
delay after the time of payment, unless the recognizance
contains an express agreement to the contrary.

SECT. 4. The recognizance shall be attested by the clerk,
whether taken in term time or vacation, and shall be recorded at length by him among the records of the court,
and the original shall then be delivered to the conusee. It
shall not be taken unless the judge or clerk who takes it
knows, or has satisfactory evidence, that the person who
offers to enter into it as the conusor is the person he represents himself to be and is described.

SECT. 5. If the debt is not paid ‘at the time appointed
in the recognizance, the conusee shall be entitled to an
execution for the sum due, to be sued out of the clerk’s
office in which the recognizance is recorded, and to be
directed, served, and‘ returned, in like manner as an execution issued upon a judgment of the same court.

SEC'r.- 6. Before such execution issues, the original recognizance shall be filed with the clerk, who shall compute the
amount, deducting any payments indorsed; he shall then
issue execution, which shall recite the recognizance, state
the amount then due, and otherwise be in the usual form
of an execution on a judgment for debt. It may be issued
by the clerk without any special order of the court.

SECT. 7. A recognizance for debt may be taken before
a justice of the peace, or police or justices’ court, in any
case where it might be taken before the clerk of the court.
It shall be substantially in the same form, recorded in a
book kept for the purpose, and delivered to the conusee; and
execution may be issued thereon by the justice or court.
Such executions shall have the same effect as executions
issued by the clerk, except that where the recognizance is
for twenty dollars or less, the execution shall not run
against the lands of the conusee.

SE01‘. 8. Executions issued under this chapter may be
executed and shall be obeyed in every county to which
they are directed.

SE01‘. 9. If the conusee dies before the debt is paid,
his executor or administrator may sue out execution in
the same manner as the conusee might have done, upon
exhibiting to the clerk or justice his letters testamentary or
of administration; and the form of the execution shall be
altered accordingly.

SECT. 10. If the conusor dies before the debt is fully
paid, no execution therefore shall be issued as of course,
but the estate of the conusor in the hands of his executors,
administrators, heirs, or devisees, shall be liable for the
debt in like manner as if judgment therefore had been
recovered against him in his lifetime; and the conusee,
his executors, or administrators, may have a scire facias, or
an action of contract, to recover the same against the executors, administrators, heirs, or devisces, of the conusor, in
like manner as they might have had upon such a judgment.

SECT.11. No original execution shall be issued as of
course upon such a recognizance after the expiration of
three years from the time therein set for payment of the
debt, or three years from the time of the last payment
indorsed thereon; but the conusee or his executors or
administrators may after that time have a scire facias, or
an action of contract on it against the party liable, in like
manner and with the same effect as upon a judgment.

SECT. 12. The creditor shall be entitled to an -alias, and
other successive executions, in like manner as is allowed
with regard to executions on a judgment in civil actions.

SECT. 13. If there are several conusors or conusees, and
one or more of them dies before the debt is fully satisiied,
the right and interest of the surviving conusees, and the
obligation of the surviving conusors, and all the proceedings
for the recovery of the debt, shall be substantially the same
as in the case of the death of one or more joint creditors or
debtors in a judgment at common law.

SECT. 14. If a person is injured by the wrongful suing
out or executing of any execution under the provisions of
this chapter, he shall have his remedy by a writ of audita
querela, or otherwise, in like manner as if the execution
had been issued upon a judgment; and in all cases not
otherwise specially provided for, the parties to such recognizance, and their respective representatives, shall be entitled
and liable to the like remedy, as is or may be provided for
creditors and debtors by a judgment.

SECT. 15. The fee for taking and recording a recognizauce shall be fifty cents; and for all other services under
the provisions of this chapter, the same fees shall be paid
as for like services in other cases.

CHAPTER 153.’

OF SEIZING Al"ID LIBELLING FORFEITED GOODS.

more , Sacriox
Goods forfeited, to be seized. 11. Executions and other processes.
Libel, when to be filed, and form thereof. 12. Either party may appeal to S. J. C.

—before whom to be filed. 13. Proceedings on a libel before a justice, &.c.
Proceedings in C. C. P., &c. Notice to be 14. Notice, trial, and adjudication.

published. 16. Either party may appeal to C. C. P., &.c.
Proceedings where there is no claimant. 16. Depositions may be taken, &c.
—when a claimant appears. ' 17. Goods to be delivered to claimant, on bond.
Decree of forfeiture, or restitution. 18. Goods to be appraised.
Disposition of the proceeds on sale under a 19. Same subject.

decree. 20. Appraisement conclusive as to jurisdiction.
Damages for seizure without reasonable 21. Goods may be sold, if perishable.

cause. 22. —for other sumcient cause.
Costs.

SECTION 1. When goods are forfeited for any offense
and no special provision is made for the mode of their
recovery, any person entitled to recover them, and when

provision is not otherwise made, any police officer or constable of the city or town where the goods so forfeited are

found, may seize and keep them safely until they are disposed of as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 2. The person making the seizure shall within}
fourteen days thereafter file a libel in the clerk’s office of }
the court of common pleas for the county where the offense :
was committed, or if in the county of Suffolk in the superior court, or before any justice of the peace, or police or
justices’ court, as the case may require, stating briefly the
cause of the seizure, without setting forth all the special
matter, and praying for a decree of forfeiture according to
the provisions of the statute on which the seizure is founded,
referring to it in the following form: “according to the
provisions of the law concerning the packing and stamping
of paper,” or, “ the inspection of lime,” (as the case may
require,) and mentioning the number of the chapter of the

statute referred to, or referring thereto in some other
general terms.

SE01‘. 3. If the value of the goods seized exceeds twenty
dollars, the libel may, and if such value exceeds one
hundred dollars, shall, be filed in the clerk’s office, otherwise it shall be filed before a justice of the peace, or police
or justices’ court, in the county where the offense is committed, and the value for this purpose shall be ascertained
by an appraisal as hereinafter provided for.

SECT. 4. Upon filing the libel in the clerk’s office, he
shall make out an advertisement setting forth briefly the
substance of the libel, and giving notice to all persons
interested to appear at the term of the court to be held
next after the expiration of twenty-one days from the time
of filing the libel, and show cause why the goods should
not be decreed forfeited; which notice the libellant shall
cause to be published twice at least in some newspaper
printed in the county, if there be any, otherwise in a newspaper printed in the nearest county, the first publication to

be not less than fourteen days before the beginning of the
term.

SE01‘. 5. The libel shall be entered like civil actions;
and if after proclamation made no claimant appears, the
court shall hear and determine the cause, and decree a
forfeiture, restoration, or other disposition, of the goods, as

« law and justice require.

SECT. 6. If a claimant appears, he may allege and answer

. any matter that may be necessary or proper for his defense ;

and the further proceedings shall be conducted in the mode
usual in courts that proceed according to the course of the
civil law, except that all questions of fact shall be tried and
determined by a jury.

SECT. 7. If upon the trial the libellant maintains his suit,
the court shall decree a forfeiture and sale of the goods,
and a distribution of the proceeds, or such other disposition
thereof as law and justice require. If he fails to maintain
it, the court shall decree a restitution of the goods to the

claimant.

SECT. 8. When goods are sold under such decree, the
proceeds shall be applied, under the direction of the court,
to the payment of the expenses of the seizure, prosecution,
and sale; and in default of any other provision for the disposition of the residue, it shall be paid to the party who
made the seizure.

SE01‘. 9. If the jury find that the seizure was groundless
and without probable cause, they shall assess reasonable
damages for the claimant, and the court shall render judgment for such damages with costs.

SECT. 10. In all other cases the court shall award costs
to the prevailing party, or may order the costs and charges
of keeping and selling the goods, or any part thereof, to be
paid out of the proceeds of the goods.

SECT. 11. They may issue execution in common form
for all costs and damages awarded to either party, and such
warrants and other processes as may be necessary or proper to
carry into effect any other parts of their decree or judgment.

SECT. 12. Either party aggrieved by a decree of the
court founded upon matter of law apparent on the record,
may appeal therefrom to the supreme judicial court, and
such appeal shall be claimed, prosecuted, and determined,
as provided for appeals in other civil cases.

SECT. 13. If the libel is filed before a justice of the
peace, or a police or justices’ court, the justice or court shall
make out an advertisement or notice like that before required
to be made by the clerk, mentioning the time and place
appointed for hearing the cause.

Snow. 14. The libellant shall cause the notice to be
posted up in some public place in the county not less than
seven days before the time appointed for hearing the cause,
when any claimant may appear and answer to the suit; and

it shall be heard and determined in all respects as herein prescribed for a trial in the court of common pleas ; but a jury
shall be allowed only upon the same terms as in other civil
cases.

SECT. 15. Either party aggrieved by any decree of such
justice or court, may appeal therefrom to the court of common pleas or in the county of Suffolk to the superior court,
and the appeal shall be conducted in all respects like appeals
in other civil cases, and the cause shall be heard and determined in the court appealed to, according to the provisions
of this chapter.

SECT. 16. Depositions may be taken and used in like
manner as in trials of actions at the common law.

SECT. 17. At any time after the seizure of goods alleged
to be forfeited, the owner, or any person entitled or authorized to claim the same, may have them delivered to him,
upon giving bond to the person who made the seizure, with
sufficient surety in double the value of the goods, conditioned to restore them or pay the appraised value thereof
if they are decreed forfeited, and to abide by and perform the
final order, decree, or judgment, of the court relating thereto.

SECT. 18. The value of the goods in such case shall be
appraised and determined by three disinterested men to be
agreed on by the parties or appointed by any justice of the
peace to Whom the claimant shall apply for that purpose,
and to be sworn to the faithful performance of the duty;
or if the appraisement is made after the libel is filed, the
appraisers shall be appointed by the court or justice before

Whom the suit is pending.

SECT.19. The person making the seizure, as soon as
may be thereafter, unless an application for an appraisement is in the meantime made by a claimant, shall apply
to a justice of the peace, who shall appoint three disinterested men to make an inventory and appraisement of the
goods seized. Such appraisers shall be sworn to the faithful
performance of the duty, and shall return their inventory
and appraisement to the court or justice before whom the

suit is brought.

SECT. 20. The appraisement thus made on the applica- |‘
tion of the person who made the seizure, shall be conclusive .1
as to the jurisdiction of the court before which the suit is to T

be brought, unless before filing the libel adifferent appraisement is made upon the application of a claimant in the manner .before provided; in which case such last mentioned
appraisement shall be conclusive in that respect.

SECTION 1. No person shall commence an action for the

recovery of lands, nor make an entry thereon, unless within ,

twenty years after the right to bring such action or make

such entry first accrued, or within twenty years after he, or A

those from, by, or under, whom he claims, have been seized
or possessed of the premises, except as is hereinafter provided.

SECT. 2. If such right or title first accrued to an ancestor
or predecessor of the person who brings the action or makes
the entry, or to any other person from, by, or under, whom
he claimsuthe twenty years shall be computed from the time
when the right or title so first accrued.

SECT. 3. In the construction of this chapter, the right to
make an entry or bring an action to recover land, shall be
deemed to have first accrued at the times respectively
hereinafter mentioned, that is to say :—

First—When any person shall be disseized, his right of
entry or of action shall be deemed to have accrued at the
time of such disseizin:

Second—When he claims as heir or devisee of one who
died seized, his right shall be deemed to have accrued at the
time of such death, unless there is a tenancy by the curtesy
or other estate intervening after the death of such ancestor
or devisor, in which case his right shall be deemed to accrue
when such intermediate estate shall expire, or when it would
have expired by its own limitation:

Third—When there is such an intermediate estate, and in
all other cases when the party claims by- force of any
remainder or reversion, his right, so far as it is affected by
the limitation herein prescribed, shall be deemed to accrue
when the intermediate or precedent estate would have
expired by its own limitation, notwithstanding any forfeiture
thereof for which he might have entered at an earlier time:

Fourth—The preceding clause shall not prevent a person
from entering when entitled to do so by reason of any
forfeiture or breach of condition, but if he claims under
such a title, his right shall be deemed to have accrued when
the forfeiture was incurred or the condition was broken:

Fifth—In all cases not otherwise specially provided for,
the right shall be deemed to have accrued when the claimant
or the person under whom he claims, first became entitled
to the possession of the premises under the title upon which
the entry or the action is founded.

SECT. 4. If any minister or other sole corporation shall
be disseized, any of his successors may enter upon the
premises, or bring an action for the recovery thereof, at
any time within five years after the death, resignation, or

removal, of the person so disseized, notwithstanding the
twenty years after such disseizin has expired.

SECT. 5. If at the time when such right of entry or of
action upon or for lands shall so first accrue, the person
entitled to such entry or action is within the age of twentyone years, or disabled by marriage, insane, imprisoned, or
absent from the United States, such person, or any one
claiming from, by, or under, him, may make the entry or
bring the action at any time within ten years after such disability is removed, notwithstanding the twenty years before
limited in that behalf have expired.

SE01‘. 6. If the person first entitled to make such entry
or bring such action, dies during the continuance of any
of the disabilities mentioned in the preceding section, and
no determination or judgment has been had of or upon
‘the title, right, or action, which accrued to him, the entry
may be made or the action brought by his heirs, or any
other person claiming from, by, or under, him, at any time
within ten years after his death, notwithstanding said twenty
years have expired.

SECT. 7. If at the time when such right of entry or
action first accrues, the person entitled thereto is under any
of the disabilities before mentioned and dies without having
recovered the premises, no further time for making such
entry or bringing such action, beyond what is herein before
prescribed, shall be allowed by reason of the disability of
any other person.

SECT. 8. No person shall be deemed to have been in
possession of any lands within the meaning of this chapter
merely by reason of having made an entry thereon, unless
he has continued in open and peaceable possession of the
premises for one year next after such entry, or unless an
action is commenced upon such entry and seizin within one
year after he is ousted or dispossessed.

SECT. 9. When the right of entry or action of a tenant
in tail, or person entitled to a remainder in tail, is barred
by force of this chapter, the estate tail, and all remainders
and reversions expectant thereon, shall be also barred, as
fully as they might have been by _a conveyance made by

the tenant in tail in the manner provided in chapter eightynine.

SECT. 10. When a person entitled to recover land as a
tenant in tail, or a remainder-man in tail, dies before the
expiration of the period herein before limited for making

an entry or bringing an action therefore, no person claiming
any estate which the tenant in tail or remainder-man might
have barred, shall make an entry or bring an action to
recover such land, except within the period during which the
tenant in tail or remainder-man, if he had so long lived,
might have made such entry or brought such action.

S1-:c'r. 11. The limitations herein before prescribed as to j
the time within which an action may be brought to recover
land, take effect from and after the thirty-first day of
December in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and
thirty-nine ; and if any person then entitled to bring any
real action abolished after that day, was then within the
age of twenty-one years, a married woman, insane, imprisoned, or without the limits of the United States, the action
may be brought at any time within five years after the
disability ceased, or after the death of the person so disabled:
provided, that no such action shall be maintained after it
would have been barred by the statutes of limitation in force
under the Revised Statutes and this chapter.

SECT. 12. No suit for the recovery of lands shall be
commenced by or in behalf of the commonwealth, unless;
within twenty years after the right or title of the common— %
wealth thereto first accrued, or within twenty years after the ;
commonwealth or those from or through whom they claim *
shall have been seized or possessed of the premises ; but the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the
Province lands in the town of Provincetown, nor to the
lands owned by the state in the basins of Back Bay mentioned in section one, chapter two hundred and fifty-three, of
the statutes of eighteen hundred and fifty-two.

SECT. 13. No descent or discontinuance which may
hereafter occur, shall take away or defeat any right of entry
or action for the recovery of real estate.

SECT. 14. When notice is given to prevent the acquisition of a right or privilege of way, air, or light, as provided

in chapter ninety, such notice shall be considered so far a
disturbance of the right in question, as to enable the party
claiming such right to bring an action of tort as for a
nuisance or disturbance, for the purpose of tr ing the right ;
and if the plaintifff in such action prevails,-he s all be entitled
to full costs, although he recovers only nominal damages.

SECT. 15. If an action of which the commencement is
limited by this chapter, is abated by the death of any party
thereto, or if after verdict for the demandant or plaintiff
the judgment is arrested, or if judgment in any such action

libels, shall be commenced within two years next after the
cause of action accrues, and not afterwards.

SE01‘. 3. Actions against sheriffs for the misconduct or 5
negligence of their deputies, shall be commenced within:
four years next after the cause of action accrues, and not
afterwards.

SECT. 4. None of the foregoing provisions shall apply to
any action brought upon a promissory note signed in the
presence of an attesting witness, if the action is brought
by the original payee or his executor or administrator; nor
to an action brought upon bills, notes, or other evidences of

debt, issued by a bank.

1 Oman. 276. 5 Cash. 442. . 1 Gray, 261.
4 Cash. 178. 8 Cush. 139, 172. 13 Met. 1%.

SECT. 5. In actions of contract brought to recover the
balance due upon a mutual and open account current, the
cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued at the time
of the last item proved in the account.

6 Pick. 862. ' 8 Pick. 187. 8 Met. 216. 11 Cash. 268.

SE01‘. 6. If a person entitled to bring any of the actions
before mentioned in this chapter is at the time the cause of
action accrues within the age of twenty-one years, disabled
by marriage, insane, imprisoned, or absent from the United
States, he may bring the action within the times in this chapter respectively limited, after the disability is removed.

SECT. 7. Personal actions on contracts not limited by
the foregoing sections, or by any other law of this state,
shall be brought within twenty years after the cause of
action accrues.

SECT. 8. When a person is disabled to prosecute an
action, by reason of his being an alien subject or citizen of
any country at war with the United States, the time of the
continuance of such war shall not be deemed part of the
respective periods herein limited for the commencement of
any of the actions before mentioned.

SE01‘. 9. If at the time when any cause of action mentioned in this chapter accrues against a person, he is out of
the state, the action may be commenced within the time
herein limited therefore, after he comes into the state ; and
if after a cause of action has accrued, the person against
whom it has accrued is absent from and resides out of the
state, the time of his absence shall not be taken as part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action.

SECT. 10. If a person entitled to bring or liable to any
action before mentioned, dies before the expiration of the
time herein limited, or within thirty days after the expiration of said time, and the cause of action by law survives,
the action may be commenced by or against the executor
or administrator of the deceased person, at any time within
two years after the grant of letters testamentary or of administration, and not afterwards if otherwise barred by the
provisions of this chapter.

SE01‘. 1]. If in any action duly commenced within the
time limited and allowed in this chapter, the writ fails of
a suliicient service or return by any unavoidable accident,
or by any default or neglect of the officer to whom it is
committed, or if the writ is abated, or the action otherwise avoided or defeated, by the death of any party thereto,
or for any matter of form, or if after a verdict for the
plaintiii‘ the judgment is arrested, or if a judgment for the
plaintifff is reversed on a writ of error, the plaintifff may
commence a new action for the same cause at any time
within one year after the abatement or other determination
of the original suit, or after the reversal of the judgment;
and if the cause of action by law survives, his executor
or administrator may commence such new action within
said one year.

SECT. 12. If a person liable to any of the actions
mentioned in this chapter, shall fraudulently conceal the
cause of such action from the knowledge of the person
entitled thereto, the action may be commenced at any time
within six years after the person entitled to bring the

same discovers that he has such cause of action, and not
afterwards.

SECT. 13. In actions of contract, no acknowledgment or
promise shall be evidence of a new or continuing contract
whereby to take a case out of the operation of the provisions
of this chapter, or to deprive a party of the benefit thereof,
unless such acknowledgment or promise is made or contained by or in some writing signed by the party chargeable
thereby.

SECT. 14. If there are two or more joint contractors, or
joint executors or administrators of a contractor, no one of
them shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter
so as to be chargeable by reason only of an acknowledgment or promise made or signed or by a payment made by
any other or others of them.

SECT. 15. In actions commenced against two or more
jomt contractors, or joint executors or administrators of a

contractor, if it appears on the trial or otherwise that the
plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this chapter, as to
one or more of the defendants, but is entitled to recover
against any other or others of them by virtue of a new
acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise, judgment shall
be given for the plaintifff as to the defendants against whom
he is entitled to recover, and for the other defendant or
defendants against the plaintifff.

SECT. 16. If in an action of contract the defendant pleads :
or answers in abatement, that any other person ought to‘
have been jointly sued, and issue is joined thereon, and if
it appears that the action was by reason of the provisions
of this chapter barred against the person so named, the
issue shall be found for the plaintiii‘.

SECT. 17. Nothing contained in the four preceding sec- 3
tions shall alter, take away, or lessen, the effect of a pay- 
ment of any principal or interest made by any person; but i
no indorsement or memorandum of any such payment 1
written or made upon a promissory note, bill of exchange, ‘
or other writing, by or on behalt‘of the party to whom such
payment is made, or purports to be made, shall be deemed
sullicient proof of the payment so as to take the case out
of the provisions of this chapter.

SECT. 18. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to f
the case of any debt founded on contract, alleged by way of A
set-oil‘ on the part of a defendant; and the time of limitation of such debt shall be computed in like manner as if an
action had been commenced therefore at the time when the
plaintiii"s action was commenced.

SECT. 19. The limitations hereinbefore prescribed for
the commencement of actions, shall apply to the same
actions when brought in the name of the commonwealth, or
in the name of any oliicer, or otherwise, for the benefit of
the commonwealth, in the same manner as to actions brought
by citizens.

SECT. 20. All actions and suits for a penalty or forfeiture
on a penal statute, brought by any person to whom the
penalty or forfeiture is given in whole or in part, shall be
commenced within one year next after the offense is committed, and not afterwards. 1

SECT. 21. If the penalty or forfeiture is given in whole
or in part to the commonwealth, a suit therefore may be
commenced by or in behalf of the commonwealth at any
time within two years after the offense is committed, and
not afterwards.

SECTION 1. In all civil actions, the prevailing party shall

recover his costs except in those cases in which a different
provision is made by law.

S1-zcr. 2. If the defendant answers in defense that he is
discharged in bankruptcy or insolvency, and the action is
discontinued or the plaintifff nonsuited solely in consequence
of such answer, the defendant shall recover no costs.

SECT. 3. If a defense is made to rest upon a discharge in
bankruptcy or insolvency alone, and an issue is so made up
in writing and found for the defendant, he shall recover his
costs after, but not before, the joinder of such issue.

SECT. 4. In civil actions before a justice of the peace, or
a police or justices’ court, if the plaintiffi‘ appeals from a
judgment in his favor, and does not recover in the court
above a greater sum for debt or damages than he recovered
by the first judgment, he shall not be entitled for his costs
of the whole suit to more than one—quarter part of the sum
finally recovered for debt or damages.

SE01‘. 5. In personal actions brought originally in the
supreme judicial court, the court of common pleas or superior
court of the county of Suffolk, except actions of replevin,
if the plaintifff finally recovers a sum not exceeding twenty
dollars for debt or damages, he shall be entitled for his costs
to no more than one-quarter part of the debt or damages
so recovered, except as is provided in the following section.

SECT. 6. If the plaintifff’s claim as established on the trial
exceeds twenty dollars and is reduced to that amount or less,
or overbalanced, by set-offs which could not have been
proved in payment, it shall nevertheless be considered for
the purposes of the preceding section as having exceeded

twenty dollars, and the party who finally recovers judgment
in the suit, shall be entitled to his full costs.

SECT. 7. When a defendant brings money into court and
offers the same in satisfaction of the damages, the plaintifff
shall be entitled to the costs which had previously accrued,

though he may not recover a larger sum than is so brought
into court.

SECT. 8. In real actions and actions of replevin, the party
finally prevailing shall recover his full costs without regard
to the amount of damages recovered in the action.

SE01‘. 9. When a plaintifff at the same court brings
several actions against the same defendant, upon demands
which might have been joined in one, he shall recover costs
in one action only, unless it appears to the court that the
actions affect different rights or interests, or that for other
suflieient reasons they ought not to have been joined.

S1-:c'r. 10. When there are two or more counts on several
and distinct causes of action, and a verdict is rendered for
the plaintifff on one or more of them, and for the defendant
on any other or others, each party shall recover his costs
paid for the travel and attendance of witnesses, and for
depositions and other evidence produced, examined, or used,
on the trial of the counts upon which the verdict is in his
favor, and shall recover nothing for the like charges incurred
on the trial of the other counts.

SECT. 11. When after a judgment for costs upon a
nonsuit or discontinuance, a second suit for the same cause

is brought by the original plaintifff‘, his executor, or adminis-’

trator, before the costs of the former suit are paid, the court
in which the second suit is pending may order proceedings
therein to be stayed until such costs are paid, and may
further order that the suit be dismissed unless the costs
are paid within the time expressed in the order.

SECT. 12. In cases in which a party is entitled to recover double costs, the sums paid as fees to witnesses, and
for the costs of taking depositions and procuring evidence,
and for copies, and all court dues, shall be taxed and recovered singly, and the remainder only of the taxable costs
shall be doubled. The same rule shall apply when treble
costs are recovered.

SE01‘. 13. In cases Where application is made at the
suit or in behalf of a private person for a writ of certiorari, mandamus, quo warranto, or other like process, the
court may in their discretion allow costs to any person who
appears and objects thereto, and may award judgment and
execution against the person by whom, or in whose behalf,
the application is made.

SEc'r.14. In suits in equity in which as to one or
more of the defendants the plaintifff‘ seeks merely for a
discovery of facts material to his rights and interests in a
pending or anticipated suit, and not for a decree against
them, the court shall allow such defendants all reasonable
costs, expenditures, and charges, by them made or sustained,
according to the usual course of proceeding in equity in
like cases.~ Such allowance shall be made notwithstanding

any prayer in the plaintifff ’s suit for a decree against the
defendants, if the court are satisfied that such prayer is
either frivolous, a mere pretense, or not essentially connected with the subject matter of the discovery.

SECT. 15. In suits in equity and in other civil suits and
proceedings in which no provision is expressly made by law,
the costs shall be wholly in the discretion of the court, but
no greater sum shall be taxed than is allowed for similar
charges in suits at common law.

SECT. 16. In civil suits and proceedings duly instituted
by or in the name of the commonwealth, and not on the
relation, or in behalf, or for the use, of a private person, the
commonwealth shall be liable for costs in like manner and
to the same extent as a citizen would be.

SECT. 17. When a suit or proceeding is instituted in
the name of the commonwealth, on the relation, or in behalf, or for the use, of a private person, such person shall
be liable for the costs in like manner and to the same
extent, as if the suit or proceeding had been instituted in
his own name, and judgment may be rendered and execution issued therefore.

SECT. 18.. When a judgment for costs is rendered against
the commonwealth, the treasurer of the county where the
court is held shall pay the same upon the production of an
attested copy of the judgment, and the sum so paid shall
be allowed to him in his account with the treasury of the
commonwealth.

SECT. 19. When costs are taxed for the commonwealth
as a party in a civil suit or proceeding, no fees shall be
taxed or allowed for the travel of the attorney-general or
any other attorney for the commonwealth.

SECT. 20. Nothing contained in this chapter shall take
away or control the power of arbitrators or referees to
make such award concerning costs as justice and equity
require; nor the power of any court to require costs to be
paid by either party, as the condition of an amendment,
continuance, or other order, passed at his motion, or to
withhold and refuse costs, on like occasions.

SECT. 21. Bills of costs shall be taxed by the clerk of
the court, or in suits before justices of the peace, or courts
having no clerk, by the justice. N 0 costs shall be taxed without notice to the adverse party, if he has given seasonable
notice in writing to the clerk or justice of his desire to

be present at the taxation, or has caused such notice to
be entered on the docket; and notice given by or to the
attorney in the suit, shall be equivalent to notice by or to
the party himself.

SECT. 22. Either party may appeal from the taxation by
the clerk, to the court in which the suit is pending, or
any one of the justices thereof.

SECT. 23. The appeal shall be heard and determined at
the next term or session, unless the party who recovers
costs electsto have it determined before one of the justices
in vacation, and gives seasonable notice thereof to the adverse

party; in which case it shall be thus determined. In either,

case the judgment shall be considered as rendered on the
day when the costs are finally taxed and allowed, except as
is provided in the following section.

SECT. 24. If the appeal is made by the party who is to
pay the costs, the other party may take out his execution
and cause it to be satisfied, if he first gives bond to the
adverse party with sufiicient surety or sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in a sum equal to the whole amount of
the costs, conditioned to repay such part of the costs as
shall be disallowed on the appeal, and to perform such other
order as the court or judge shall make thereon.

SECT. 25. The court or judge before whom such appeal
is heard, may allow to either party, as justice may require,
the costs incurred by the appeal ; and the same may be
added to or deducted from the costs awarded in the principal suit, or a separate execution may be issued therefore,
as the case may require.

SECT. 26. Parties recovering costs in civil causes shall
be allowed as follows :—

For an attorney’s fee in the supreme judicial court, when
an issue in law or fact is joined, two dollars and fifty cents;
and in all other cases, one dollar and twenty-five cents:

For an attorney’s fee in the court of common pleas or
superior court of the county of Suffolk, when an issue in
law or fact is joined, one dollar and fifty cents; and in all
other cases, one dollar:

For the declaration in each writ in any justice’s, or other
court, fifty cents:

For a term fee in the supreme judicial court, the court of
common pleas, or superior court of the county of Suffolk,
five dollars for each term while the action is on the trial
list, and four dollars while it is not on said list; but the

plaintifff shall be allowed only one term fee if the defendant
is defaulted without having appeared:

For attendance before a justice of the peace, or police or
justices’ court, thirty-three cents for each day’s actual
attendance by the party or his attorney ; but for not more
than three days when the defendant is defaulted without
having appeared ; nor shall attendance be allowed after the
day on which the action is nonsuited, defaulted, continued,
or otherwise finally disposed of for the term, which day shall
be entered on the docket:

For travel in either of the courts before mentioned, or
before ajustice of the peace, thirty-three cents for every ten
miles’ travel ; but no allowance shall be made for travel to
or from the clerk’s office to take out or to carry thereto any
writ or process, nor for more than eighty miles out and
home, unless the party or some agent or attorney for him
shall actually travel more than forty miles for the special
purpose of attending the court in such cause ; in which case
allowance may be made, in the discretion of the court,
according to the distance that is actually travelled.

SECT. 27. When a corporation is entitled to costs, an
allowance shall be made for travel as in other cases, and
the travel shall be computed from the place where the corporation is situated, if it is in its nature local, otherwise

from the place in which its business is chiefly or commonly
transacted.

SECTION 1. The fees of the several officers hereinafter
mentioned, for the services specified with respect to each
of them, shall be as follows, viz. :

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

SECT. 2. For a blank writ of original summons, or attachment and summons, seventeen cents:

For a subpoena for one or more witnesses, ten cents:

For the entry of an action, or filing a complaint in civil
causes, including filing of papers, examining, allowing, and
taxing, the bill of costs, and entering up the judgment and
recording the same, sixty-one cents:

For the copy of a record or other paper, if less than one
page, ten cents ; if more than one page, at the rate of
twelve cents a page :

For a writ of execution, twenty-five cents:

Taking a recognizance to prosecute an appeal, including
principal and surety, twenty cents: ‘

Taking a deposition, fifty cents; for writing the deposition and caption, at the rate of twelve cents a page; and for
the notice to the adverse party, twenty cents; the justice
shall certify on the deposition his own fees, and those of the
deponent:

For administering an oath required by law, except on a
trial or examination before himself, whether to one or more
persons at the same‘time, twenty cents:

Taking the acknowledgment of a deed, by one or more
grantors, if done at the same time, seventeen cents:

Granting a warrant of appraisement of the estates of deceased persons, of strays, forfeited goods, and in all other
cases, twenty cents:

Receiving a complaint and issuing a warrant in criminal
cases, fifty cents:

Entering a complaint in criminal prosecutions, rendering
judgment and recording the same, examining, allowing, and
taxing, the costs, and filing the papers, seventy-five cents :

For a mittimus for’ the commitment hf any person on a
criminal accusation, twenty-live cents :

For the trial of an issue with a jury, one dollar and fifty

.cents; without a jury, fifty cents:

And for travel in the performance of any official duty, at
the rate of fifty cents for every ten miles in going and
returning, but only one travel shall be allowed for returning
papers to any court.

In all cases where the attendance of two or more justices
is required, each of them shall be entitled to the fees prescribed, for all services rendered by him personally.

CLERKS OF THE COURTS.

SE01‘. 3. For the entry of an action, complaint, or petition, in a civil suit or proceeding in court, one dollar; and
before the county commissioners, one dollar and twentyfive cents :

For each term during which an action, complaint, or petition, is pending, forty cents :

For a writ of execution, whether in real or personal
suits or proceedings, twenty-five cents :

For the entry of an indictment, presentment, complaint,
or information, in a criminal case, including the recording
of judgment, taxing costs, and filing papers, sixty-five cents:

For entry of an appearance in a criminal case, ten cents:

For the continuance of a criminal case, twelve cents:

For entering and recording a verdict in a criminal case,
twenty cents :

For taking a recognizance, twenty cents :

For a warrant in any criminal suit or proceeding,
twenty cents :

For a blank writ of attachment and summons, or an
original summons, five cents :

For a writ of review, or other special writ, forty cents:

For a subpoena for one or more witnesses, ten cents:

For a venirefacias for jurors, six cents:

For any writ not before mentioned, forty cents :

For examining and casting the grand jurors’ accounts,
and order thereon, thirty cents: °

For examining any other account, eight cents :

For the certificate of the proof of a deed in court, twenty
cents :

For copies of records and papers containing less than
one page, ten cents; one page or more, at the.rate of twelve
cents a page:

For the warrant for a county tax, twenty cents :

For a warrant to lay out or alter a road, twenty cents:

For all other services as clerks of the county commissioners, the same fees as are allowed in like cases in court.

CRIERS OF THE COURTS.

SE01‘. 4. For each day’s attendance two dollars, to.be
paid out of the county treasury, but if he is a deputy-sheriff,

he shall not receive pay for his attendance in that capacity
also.

SHERI FFS.

SECT. 5. For the service of an original summons or
scire facias, either by reading the same or leaving a copy,
thirty cents for each defendant on whom service is made.

For the service of a capias, or of an attachment with
summons, thirty cents for each defendant on whom it is
served, and if the officer by the direction of the plaintifff or
his attorney, makes a special service of such writ, either
by attaching property or arresting the body, he shall be
entitled to lifty cents for each defendant on whom the writ
is so served:

For a copy of any precept, when required by law or
furnished to any party at his request, at the rate of twelve
cents a page:

For taking bail, and furnishing and writing the bail bond,
twenty cents, to be paid by the defendant, and taxed in his
bill of costs, if he prevails:

For serving a warrant, thirty cents for each person on
wl1om it is served:

For summoning witnesses in civil or criminal cases, ten
cents for each witness; and in criminal cases, the court
may under special circumstances allow such further sum as
they shall judge reasonable:

For dispersing venires for jurors, treasurers’ warrants, and
proclamations of all kinds, eight cents each, without allowance for travel :

For serving executions in personal actions, and collecting
damages or costs on any execution, warrant of distress, or
other like process, for any sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars, four cents for every dollar; all above one hundred
dollars and not exceeding two hundred dollars, two cents
for every dollar; and for all above two hundred dollars, one
cent for every dollar:

For serving a writ of seizin or possession in real actions,
one dollar and ten cents, and if served on more than one
piece of land, seventy-tive cents for each piece after the first:

For serving an execution upon a judgment for partition,
or for assignment of dower, one dollar a day:

For travel in the service of all original writs, executions,
warrants, subpoenas, and other like processes, four cents a
mile, to be computed from the place of service to the court,
or place of return; only one travel to be allowed for the
service of any one precept, and if the same precept is
served on more than one person, the travel shall be computed
from the most remote place of service, .with such further
travel as may have been necessary in serving it; if the
distance from the place of service to the place of return
exceeds fifty miles, only one cent a mile shall be allowed
for all travel exceeding that distance:

For attending a court of record, or a meeting of the county
commissioners, by their order three dollars a day, and for
travel out and home once a week during the attendance,
four cents a mile, to he paid out of the county treasury;
but not more than five dollars a day for attending all courts
in session at the same time: _

For the attendance of a deputy—sheriff upon said courts or
meetings, by order of the sheriff, two dollars a day to be paid
in the manner aforesaid.

For returning to the office of the secretary of the commonwealth, the votes for state, county, and district officers, one
travel for the whole, at the rate of twelve cents a mile, to be
computed from the place of his abode to the secretary’s
oiiice ; for serving precepts for the election of representatives
in congress, fifty cents each, and for returning the votes at
such elections, seventeen cents a mile, to be computed as
aforesaid; for the service of subpoenas issued by order of
the legislature or either branch thereof, the same fees
allowed for the service of subpoenas issued by a court; to
be paid out of the treasury of the commonwealth.

And no sheriff, deputy-sheriff, coroner, or constable, shall
be entitled to any fees for attendance as a witness in a
criminal case, whilst he is paid for attending as an oliicer of
the same court, or on the same examination or trial.

J AILERS.

SECT. 6. For every prisoner commited or discharged,
twenty cents:

For the board of each prisoner confined in the house of
correction or jail in a criminal case, one dollar and seventyfive cents a week, except in cases otherwise provided for; to
be paid out of the county treasury:

CORONERS.

SECT. 7. For granting a warrant andtaking an inquisition on a dead body, three dollars, and if his attendance is
required more than one day, two dollars for each day after
the first, to be paid out of the county treasury; but if the
inquisition is upon more than ’ one body at the same time,
no additional fees shall be allowed :

For other services, the same fees as are allowed to sheriffs
for like services.

CONSTABLES.

SECT. 8. For serving a venire, twenty-five cents, and
four cents a mile for travel to the place of return; and for
summoning jurors upon a coroner’s inquest and attendance
thereon, at the rate of ninety cents a day; to be paid out
of the county treasury.

For attending a court of record by order of the court, and
for services performed there, the same fees as are allowed
to deputy-sheriffs in like cases.

For other services, the same fees as are allowed to sheriffs
for like services, unless other provision is expressly made.

JURORS, WITNESSES, APPRAIS_ERS, COMMISSIONERS, &c.

SECT. 9. For attending as a grand juror or traverse
juror in any court, except before a justice of the peace, or
police or justices’ court, two dollars a day for attendance,
and eight cents a mile for travel out and home; for attending as a juror before a sheriff, one dollar and seventy-five
cents a day, and before a police or justices’ court, justice
of the peace, or coroner, or on any other occasion prescribed
by 1aw,'one dollar and twenty-five cents a day for attendance, and six cents a mile for travel out and home.

For attending as a witness in a civil or criminal cause
in the supreme judicial court, court of common pleas, superior court of the county of Suffolk, or municipal court of the
city of Boston, or before county commissioners, or juries
summoned to assess damages under chapters forty-three,
sixty-three, and one hundred and forty-nine, one dollar
and twenty-five cents a day ; for attendance before a justice
of the peace, referees, arbitrators, or justices’ or .police
court, or on any other occasion, iifty cents a day, and in all
cases, four cents a mile for travel out and home ; and each
witness shall certify in writing the amount of his travel
and attendance:

For attending as a witness in any case pending before
the legislature, one dollar and twenty-five cents a day, and
if the witness lives out of Boston, four cents a mile for

travel to and from his place of abode, to be paid out of the
treasury of the commonwealth if he is summoned by the
legislature or either branch thereof; but in contested elections of members of the house of representatives no party
shall be so paid for witnesses, unless the committee by which
the case is heard shall certify that there was reasonable
cause for the attendance of such Witnesses.

For the services of appraisers of the estate of deceased
persons ; appraisers of real estate taken on execution ; persons appointed under legal process for assigning dower or
making partition of real estate; sheriffs’ aid in criminal
cases; and of all other private persons performing like
service required by law, or in the execution of legal process,
when no express provision is made for the compensation

therefore ; one dollar a day each, and four cents a mile for
travel out and home.

TOWN CLERKS.

SECT. 10. For entering notice of an intention of marriage and issuing the certificate thereof, and for entering
the certificate of marriage filed by persons married out of
the state, fifty cents, to be paid by the parties:

For a certificate of a birth or death, ten cents:

For copies of town records and other documents furnished to any person at his request, if containing less
than one page, ten cents, and if more, at the rate of twelve
cents a page.

MINISTERS, &C., FOR MARRIAGES.

SECT. 11. For lawfully solemnizing and certifying a.

marriage by a minister or justice of the peace, one dollar
and twenty-five cents.

SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH.

SECT. 12. For a copy of any resolve or order of the
legislature, or of the governor and council, of a private or
local nature, furnished to any private person, fifty cents :

For copies of all other papers so furnished, at the rate of
twelve cents a page.

REGISTER OF DEEDS .

SECT. 13. For entering and recording a deed or other
paper, certifying the same on the original, a11d indexing it,
and for all other duties pertaining thereto, twenty-five
cents; and if it contains more than one page, at the rate of

twenty cents for each page after the first ; to be paid when
the instrument is left for record : '

For all copies, at the rate of twenty cents a page:

For entering in the margin a discharge of a mortgage,
twenty-five cents.

NOTARI ES PUBLIC.

SECT. 14. For the protest of a bill of exchange, order,
draft, or check, for non-acceptance or non-payment, or of a
promissory note for non-payment, if the amount thereof is
five hundred dollars or more, one dollar; if it is less than
five hundred dollars, fifty cents; for recording the same,
fifty cents; for noting the non-acceptance or non-payment
of a bill of exchange, order, draft, or check, or the nonpayment of a promissory note, seventy-five cents; for
each notice of the non-acceptance or non-payment of a bill,
order, draft, check, or note, given to a party liable for the
payment thereof, twenty-five cents: provided that the
whole cost of protest, including necessary notices and the
record, when the bill, order, draft, check, or note, is of
the amount of five hundred dollars or upwards, shall not
exceed two dollars ; and when it is less than five hundred
dollars, shall not exceed one dollar and fifty cents; and
the whole cost of noting, including recording and notices,
shall in no case exceed one dollar and twenty—five cents.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS.

SECT. 15. In cases not expressly provided for by law,
the fees for any official duty or service of recording officers,
shall be at the same rate as is prescribed in section thirteen,
and of other publlb officers, at the same rate as those prescribed in this chapter for like services.

SECT. 16. The word “ page,” when used as the measure
of computation, shall mean two hundred and twenty-four
words.

SECT. 17. Each of the officers before mentioned, who
keeps a public office, shall always keep posted up in some
conspicuous and convenient place in his office, a printed or
written list of the fees prescribed in this chapter, so far as
they relate to him.

SECT. 18. Every officer, upon receiving fees for any
official duty or service, shall, if required by the person
paying the same, make out in writing a particular account
of such fees, specifying for what they respectively accrued;

and if he refuses or neglects so to do, he shall forfeit to the

party paying the fees, three times the amount so paid, to
be recovered in an action of tort.

SECT. 19. All travelling fees and fees for the service of ;
writs or precepts of which an officer is required to make a 1

return, shall be indorsed on the writ or precept, or they
shall not be allowed.

SECT. 20. When the administration of justice or the i
progress of business in criminal proceedings, is delayed,:
obstructed, or prevented, by the negligence of a magistrate ’
in certifying and returning recognizances, records, or other
oilicial papers, which it is his duty to transmit to a higher
court, or in omitting the formalities required by law, the
district-attorney, with the approbation of the court, may
either in whole or in part, refuse to allow the fees to which
such magistrate would otherwise be entitled.

SECT. 21. When witnesses in criminal trials are in attend- ;
ance in two or more cases pending at the same time before I
the same tribunal, they shall not be allowed full travel and ?
attendance in each case, but the clerk of the court, under
the direction of the district-attorney, may reduce and apportion the same as may be just and equitable, allowing at least
one travel and attendance.

SECT. 22. If on the trial of a criminal case it appears;
that a witness has induced the defendant to commit the
offense with which he is charged, with the intent to appear

as a witness against him, the court or magistrate may in his
discretion refuse to allow him his fees.

SECT. 23. N o sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or other officer, 7
taking the certificates of witnesses in criminal cases, shall j
purchase or discount, or have any interest in, orders drawn
or demands upon the treasury by such witnesses.

SECT. 24. Whoever, with a design to defraud, shall sign i
or procure to be signed, a certificate of attendance or travel as a witness before a court, justice of the peace, or refer-‘
ence founded upon any rule of court, in any case in which
the witness did not so attend, or for a greater number of
days than he actually attended, or for a greater number
of miles than he actually travelled, upon which certificate
the attendance or travel so claimed shall be allowed in the
taxation of costs, shall forfeit thirty dollars for each offense,
to be recovered on complaint or indictment to the use of
the commonwealth, or by action of tort to the use of any


