TITLE FIRST.
OF ORIGINAL WRITS.

1. All personal Actions, except Replevin, brought
in any Court of Law in this State, shall be commenced by Writ of Summons; and the said Writ shall
be issued by the clerks of the said Courts respectively, directed to the Sheriff or other proper officer.

2. It shall not be necessary to mention any Form
or Cause of Action in any Writ of Summons.

3. Every Writ of Summons shall contain the name
or names of the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, and of the Defendant or Defendants; and shall state the day and
the place when and where the Defendant or Defendants is or are to appear to answer the Action; and
shall bear date on the day on which the same shall be
issued; and shall be tested in the name of the Judge

of the Court from which it shall issue; and shall be

signed, and sealed with the seal of the Court, by the
Clerk thereof.

4. The Writ of Summons shall be in the following form:

 

“ County -(or City) to wit:

State of Maryland to the Sheriff (or other prqier
ojicer) of greeting:

You are hereby commanded to summon (here insert the name or names of the Defendant or Defendants) of (County or City) to appear before
the (here insert the name of the Court) to be held at

(here insert the name of the place) in and for (here
insert the name of the County or City) on the
day of next, to answer an Action at the suit
of (here insert the name of the Plaintif or Ptaintifs.)

And have "you then, and there, this Writ. Witness, the Honorable Judge of the said Court,
the day of in the year &.c.

(Signed)

 

 

 
   

, Clerk.”

5. Before the issuing of any Writ of Summons,
the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, or his, her, its or their Attorney, shall deliver a Memorandum in writing according to the following form, or to the like effect:

. .0
against 0. IB. and D. E.

 

“A 5Pla;intitf against C. B;..., E. S. Clerk of the
r . .

Issue in this case.
day of—- . - 18—

(Signed) - ”
Such Memorandum ‘to be «delivered “to the Clerk of
the Court, and to be dated on the day of the delivery thereof, and signed by the Plaintilf or Plaintiffs,
or his, her, its or their Attorney.

   

Brought the

6. If any Defendant or Defendants named in any
Writ of Summons shall not have been served therewith, 'by the return day of th.e Writ, such Writ may
3be renewed, at any time before the next term of the
Court, and be returnable to the same, and may be so
renewed and returnable again to :succeeding terms, as
long as may be necessary; and a Writ of Summons
zso renewed shall remain in force and be available to
prevent .the operation of any Statute whereby the
time for the commencement of the Action may be
ilimited, and for all other purposes, from the date of
athe issuing the original Writ of Summons.

\7. The ‘Sheriff or other person serving the Writ of
Summons, shall endorse on -the same “Summoned” -or
“Can not be found” orl“Is dead” or -as the case may
‘be. And such endorsement shall be sufficient evi-dence of the fact endorsed.

8. The service of the Writ of Summons shall be
as heretofore personal.

9. In any Action brought against two or more Defendants, if one "or more of such Defendants, only,
shall appear, and another or others of them shall not
appear: provided the Writ of Summons has been
served upon such as do not appear, it shall be lawful
for the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs to declare against all of
the Defendants, and proceed as if they all had appeared. ~

10. A Defendant or Defendants may appear at any
time before judgment; and if he, she, or they appear
after the time specified in the Writ of Summons, he,
she or they shall, after notice of such appearance to
the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, or his, her or their Attorney, as the case may be, be in the same position as to
Pleadings and other proceedings in the Action, as if
he, she, or they had appeared in time: provided always, that a Defendant, appearing after the return
day in the Writ, shall not be entitled to any further
time for pleading or any other proceeding, than if he
had appeared within the appointed time.

11. The mode of Appearance to every Writ of

Summons, shall be by delivering a Memorandum in '

writing according to the following form, or to the like
effect:

“A Plaintiff against C. B., The Defendant C. B.

or appears in person,
against C. B. and another, or
or S. T., Attorney for C.
against C. B. and others. B., appears for him.
(Signed) ”

Such Memorandum to be delivered to the Clerk of
the Court, and to be dated on the day of the delivery thereof, and signed by the Defendant or Defendants, or his, her, its or their Attorney.

12. In any case where the Defendant has been

summoned, and does not appear by the return day of '

the writ, the Plaintiff may proceed as: if ‘ he, she, or
it had appeared.

\

13. The Action of Replevin shall be brought for

the specific recovery of personal property, and fordamages for the detention of the same; and in caseof the property being eloigned, for damages only, anti
costs.

14. The Writ of Replevin shall specify the particular goods and chattels to be replevied, and shall contain the name or names of the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs,,
and of the Defendant or Defendants ;. and shall contain a Summons for the Defendant or Defendants to
appear before the Court, and. shall state the time and
the place for such appearance; and shall bear date

onthe day on 1'w‘hich‘it~shall be issued; and shall be
tested in the name of the Judge of the Court from

which it shall issue; and shall be signed, and sealed
with the seal of the Court, by the Clerk thereof.

'15. The Writ of Replevin shall be in the following form-:

*“ County (or City) ‘to wit:

State of Maryland to the Sheriff (or other proper
-ojicer) of » greeting:

You are hereby commanded to replevy and delivrer to (here insert the name of the Plaintif or Plaintifs) the ‘following goods and ‘chattels (here insert
them) which a certain (here insert the name or names
of the Defendant or Defendants) of County -( or
City) ‘unjustly withholds from the said Plaintiff or
Plaintiffs, and to summon the said (Defendant or Defendants) ‘to appear before the (here insert the name of
the Court) ‘to be heldat (here insert the place) in and
for (here insert the County or City) on the day
of next to answer an action at the suit of
(here insert the name nrnames of the Plaintif or
PIainti17's.‘)

And have you then and there this writ.

Witness the Honorable Judge of the said
Court, the day of in the year, &.c.

(Signed)

 

 

Clerk.”

 

I6‘. It shall not be necessary, for the. Plaintiff or‘
Plaintiffs in an Action of Replevin, to deliver to the
Clerk of the Courta Memorandum. inwriting, as-is.
required to be done before the issuing of a. Writ of
Summons, but the Writ of Re:ple.vin‘shall‘ be issued.
by the Clerk of the Court, upon alproper Bond being delivered to him, and the other pre-requisites oi’

the law, if any, complied with..

17'. The mode of’ Appearance to av Writ of Re-- ’

plevin by the Defendant or Defendants, shall be by
delivering. a Memorandum in Writing to the Clerk of

the Court, like the one required ‘for. appearing to. the
Writ of Summons..

18. In- all actions of ' Replevin, if the Defendant or
Defendants shall be returned “Summoned” and shall
not appear in person or by Attorney, on or before the
fourth day of the term, next succeeding that to which
such return shall be made, the Court shall be authorized and required, on motion, to enter up judgment
for the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs for the property replevied, and for damages in the discretion of the Court,
upon satisfactory proof of any, and costs; which judgment shall be as valid and effectual, as any judgment
rendered on the verdict of a jury.

. 19. The sheriff‘ or other person serving the writ
of Replevin shall endorse on the same “-Repleviedr

and delivered” or “Eloigned” as a return to that
part of the Writ which directs the Replevin ; and on
the part of the Writ which ‘directs the Defendant or
Defendants to be summoned, the same returns as on
the Writ of Summons; and such endorsements shall
be sufficient evidence of the facts endorsed.

20. In case of the return by the Sheriff of “Eloigned” to any Writ of Replevin, the Writ may be
renewed in the same manner as the Writ of Summons; and no alias or pluries Writ of Replevin, or
Capias in Withernam shall hereafter be used. And
upon the renewal or renewals of such Writ of Replevin the Bond upon which the first Writ was issued shall be responsible.

21. If, in any action of Replevin the Defendant or
Defendants or one or more of them shall reside in a
different jurisdiction or jurisdictions in the State from
that in which the goods and chattels to be replevied
are, there shall, at the time the Writ of Replevin is issued, or upon the return of the same, be a notice or
notices is writing sent through the Post Office, by the
Clerk of the Court from which the Writ issues, to
the Sheriff or Sheriffs of the County or Counties or
City in which the Defendant or Defendants reside,
to be served upon the Defendant or Defendants notifying him, her, it or them that such writ has been
issued; and it shall be returnable on the same day
with the Writ, when it is issued simultaneously with

Fojicer) of

it, but returnableat the next » term,'when it is issued
upon the return of the Writ.

22. The Notice required by the preceding rule
shall be as follows:

(C

 

. County (or C‘ity—to wit:
State of Maryland, to the Sheriff (or other proper
greeting:
You are hereby commanded to notify (here insert
the name or names of the Defendant‘ or Defendants to

be notified) that (here insert the name or names of the
Plaintif or Plaintiyfs) has or have sued out a Writ
of Replevin from (here insert the name of the Court)
against certain goods and chattels in the County (or
City) aforesaid, which the said (here insert the name
or names of the Plaintif or Plaintifs) says the said
(here insert the name or names of the Defendant or
Defendants to be notified, and also the name or names
of those, if any, who reside in the County or City
wherethe goods and chattels are,) withholds or withhold from him, her or them; and that he, she or they
appear before the said Court to be held at (here insert the place) on the day of next to answer said suit.

And return you then and there, this notice.

Witness the Honorable Judge of the said
Court, the———-day of in the year, &.c.

(Signed)
. Clerk.”

   

 
 

 

23. Before the issuing ofany‘ Notice in m Action:
of Replevin, the Plaintifiior I?laintiE‘s,. or'his,.her, its
or their Attorney shall deliver a Memorandum in writing according, to the following, form or to the. like effeet:

“In the Action of 'Reple.vi~n~ brought by (here insert
the name or names of the Plainttf or Plaintifs) a-«
gainst (here insert the name ornames-of theDefemtant or Defendants) A. B. (or .11., B.. and 0.5 D.. &c.);
Defendant (or Defendants)«resides in‘(here~'insert the
County or City,.). ‘

Give him, her, it‘-or'them=, notice of ‘the Actio n.—.

Delivered. the day of t-—-—--———- 18'(Signed).

To. E. S., Clerk,

Such. Memorandum to- be deliveredlto the- Clerk of

the Court, andtto be dated on the day of the. delivery thereof, and signed by the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs,
or his, he.r,_,its. or their Attorney.

«24. And in case the D‘efend'an~t or Drefendiants so»

residing in a different jurisdiction shall be returned‘

“ Notified,” and shall not appear in person or by Attorney on or‘ before the fourth day of the term-‘next
succeeding that to which such returnshzall be made,
the Court shall be authorized and required, on motion to enter up- judgment for the Plaintiff" or Plain-I
tiffs for the property replevied and for damages in thediscretion of the  upon satisfactory proof of

any, and costs; which jtrdagment shall be as valid and
e%'ectua1 as any judgment. rendered on the verdict of
a Jury, .'

25. And suLh Notice to a D‘efend‘a~nt or’ Defendants, residing in .a different jurisdintion,,shall, upon a
return of “ Cannot be found,” be renewable, in the
same ‘manner as a Writ of ' Summon.s,.against any defendant not served therewithCHA PTER Is'r ..
TITLE SECOND.

IO-INDER OF‘ PARTIES. T03 ACTIONS.
ARTICLE 194'.
J-OINDER OF‘ PLAINTIFFS.

26. It shall and maybe lawful for the Court, at
any time before the trial of "a »ca=use, to order that any_
person or persons, not joined as Plaintiff or Plaintiffs’
in such cause, shall .be- so joined’, or that any person
or persons, originally joined as Plaintiff or Plaintiffs,
shall. be struck out from such. cause, if it shallirappear
to the Court that injustice will not be done by such
amendmerrt, and that the person or persons to. be added as aforesaidyconsent, either in person orby writ-.
ing under his, her or their hands, to» be so. joined; on
that the person. orpersons to be struck-out as afore-2
said, were originally introduced without his, her or
their consent, or that sunh person or -persons consent

in manner aforesaid to be so struck out; and such amendment shall be made upon such terms as to the
amendment of the pleadings, (if any,) postponement
of trial, and otherwise, as the Court shall think proper; and when any such amendment shall have been
made, the liability of any person or persons who
shall have been added as Co-plaintiff or Co-plaintiffs
shall, subject to any terms imposed as aforesaid, be.
the same as if such person or persons had been originally joined in the cause.

27. In case it shall appear at the trial of any action, that there has been a misjoinder of Plaintiffs, or
that some person or persons not joined as Plaintiff or
Plaintiffs ought to have been so, joined, such misjoinder or non-joinder may be amended as a variance at
the trial, if it shall appear to the Court that injustice
will not be done by such amendment, and that the
person or persons to be added as aforesaid consent

‘either in person or by writing, under his, her or their

hands, to be so joined, or that the person or persons,
to be struck out as aforesaid, wereoriginally introduced without his, her or their consent, or that such
person or persons consent in manner aforesaid to be
so struck out, and such amendment shall be made upon
such terms as the Court shall think proper; and when
any such amendment shall have been made, the liaability of any person or persons, who shall have been
added as Co-plaintifff or Co-plaintifffs, shall, subject
to any terms imposed as aforesaid, be the same as if

such person or persons had been originally joined in
such action.

28. In all cases where a plea in abatement of nonjoinder of a person or persons as Co-plaintifff or C0plaintifffs shall be pleaded, the Plaintiff shall be at

liberty without any order of the Court, to amend the
Writ and other proceedings before plea, by adding the
name or names of the person or persons named in
such plea, and proceed_in the action without any further appearance, on payment of the costs of, and occasioned by such amendment only, and in such case,
the Defendant shall be at liberty to plead de novo.

29. In any action brought by a man and his wife,
in respect of which she is necessarily joined as Coplaintifff, it shall be lavvful for the husband to add
thereto claims in his own right; and separate actions
brought in respect of such claims may be consolidated, if the Court shall think lit ; provided, that in the '
case of the death of either Plaintiff, such suit, so far
only as relates to the causes of action, if any, which
do not survive, shall abate.

ARTICLE 21:».
JOINDER OF DEFENDANTS.

' 30. It shall and may be lawful for the Court in the
case of the joinder of too many Defendants in any
action on contract, at any time before the trial of such

cause, to order the name or names of aneormom of
such Defendants to be struck out, if it shall appear

to such Court that injustice will not be done by such
amendment 3 and the amendment shall be made upon
such terms as the Court by whom such amendment
is made shall think proper: and in case it shall appear at the trial of any action on contract, that there
has been.a misjoinder of D.efenda.nts,'such misjoinder
may be amended, as a variance at the trial,  like
manner as the misjoinder of Plaintiffs has been before
directed to be amended, and upon such terms as the
Court shall think proper. , i

31. In any action on contract where the non-jo.inderof any person or personsas a Co-defendant or C0defendants has been pleaded" in ab‘at_ement,_ the Plaintiff, shall be at, liberty, Without ' any order, to amend

the Writ of Summons and the Declaration by adding.

thenarhe or’ names of the p'ersoI'i" or persons named
in such‘ plea of abatement as joint; contractors, and to
serve the amended Writ upon the_"person_ or ‘persons
so named in such plea in abatement,‘ and to’ proceed
against the original Defendant or Defendants, and
the person or persons-so named in such plea in abatement: provided that ,the,_ date ‘of. such, amendment
shall, as between the person or persons so‘ named in
such .p1ea « in abatement and  ,Bl§.in.tiff,, he seasidered for all purposesas the co1I1mencem.ent'of the
aption._;'-  32. In all cases after such ~ plea in abatement and
amendment, if it shall appear upon the trial of the
action that the person olri'p'ersons, so named in such
plea abatement, was er were jointly.l_iafile with
the original Defendant or Defendants, and resided
in the ,c_ounty;or,city»Where the action is brought, the
original _I)_efe_ndant.or Defendants shall be entitled as
against: the ‘Plaintiff to" the '-costs‘ of such plea in
abatement and amendment: but if at such trial it
shall §appear‘,that.'the original Defendant or any of the
original Defendants is or are liable, but that one or
more of ~ the persons named in such plea in abatement
is or -are not liable as a contracting party or parties, or
does or do not reside in the county or city where the
action is brought, the Plaintiff shall nevertheless be entitled to judgment against the other Defendant or Defendants who shall appear to be liable; and every Defendant who is not so liable shall have judgment, and
shall be entitled ‘to his costs as against the Plaintiff,
who shall be allowed the same, together with the cost
of the plea in abatement and amendment, as costs in
the paste againsttheoriginal Defendant or Defendants
who shall have so pleaded in abatement the non-joinder of such person: provided that any such Defend‘ant whe shall have so pleaded in abatement shall be
at liberty on the trial to adduce evidence of the lia"bility "of the Defendants named by him in such plea
in abatement, and of their residence in the County or
City where the action is brought.

CHAPTER ls'r.

TITLE THIRD.

JOINDER OF CAUSES OF ACTION.

3. Causes of Action of whatever kind, provided
they be by and against the same parties, and in the
same rights, may be joined in the same suit; but this
shall not extend to Replevin or Ejectment: but the
Court shall have power to prevent the trial of different causes of‘ action together, if in the opinion of the
Court, such trial would be inexpedient; and in such
case, the Court may, when the case comes up for
trial, or before, direct separate cases to be docketed,
and separate trials to be had, in their order of priority, either immediately or at such time or times as
the Court shall deem most equitable and just.

CHAPTER 2ND.

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING APPLICABLE TO ALL CASES.
FUNDAMENTAL RULE.

34. The Pleadings shall be so conducted, as to evolve upon the record by the effect of the allegations
themselves, the questions of law and of fact disputed

between the parties, and present them as the subject
matter agreed upon for decision.

TITLE FIRST;

RULES WHICH BRING THE PARTIES TO
‘ AN ISSUE. ,

GENERAL RULE.

35. The Plaintiff shall first state his cause of action in a Declaration. After the Declaration, the
parties shall, at each stage, demur, or plead by way
of traverse, or by way of confession and avoidance.
And in case a party does neither, but confesses the
right of the adverse party or says nothing, the Court
shall give judgment for the adverse party.

ARTICLE lstr.
OF DEMURRER.

36. Either party may object by Demurrer to the
Pleading of the opposite party, on the ground that
such pleading does not set forth sufficient ground of
action, defense, or reply, as the case may be. But
no pleading shall be deemed insuilicient for any defect which could heretofore only be objected to by
special demurrer, nor for the violation of any rule
hereinafter prescribed which relates only to form, unless specially provided for_.

37. Every Demurrer shall particularly express the
causes of the same, not in general terms, but in a

specific statement of some point of law showing in
what respect the pleading is ‘insufficient in substance.

And the form of a Demurrer shall be as follows, or
to the like effect:

“The Defendant (or Plaintif) by his Attorney
(or in Person) says that the Declaration (or Plea,
&c.) is bad in substance; ”

and some substantial matter of law intended to be argued showing the defect in the pleading shall then
be stated; and if ‘any Demurrer without such statement or with a frivolous statement shall be filed, it
may be set aside by the Court, and judgent may be
entered up for want of a plea.

38. The Form of a J oinder in Demurrer shall be
as follows or to the like effect:

“ The Plaintiff (or Defendant) says that the Declaration (or Plea, &c.) is good in substance.”

39. Every Demurrer shall be taken as a confession
of all the facts pleaded without regard to form.

40. When issue is joined on Demurrer, at any
stage of the cause, the Court shall consider the allegations through the whole series of pleadings, and
give judgment according as the very right of the
cause and matter in law shall appear unto it, without

regarding“  ‘imperfection, omission‘, defect "in, or
lack’ of foam,‘ for the gpartywho on-theiwhole appears
‘to be entitled to it. And no judgment shall be arrested, stayed sor reversed for any such imperfection, omission, rdefectgin or glackrof form.

4l.>‘There shall not bea Demurrer upon a Demuro'er. ' E

or THE EFFECT or TPLEADING OVER
WITHOUT DEMURRER.

42. If a declaration be defective in substance, and
the defendant pleads over; and the plea supplies, by
{express statement of fact, but not otherwise, the deSfect ‘in the declaration, such defect shall .be thereby
lcured.

43. Where there is any ‘imperfection, or omission
twhatever, in any , pleading, which would be a fatal
«objection on Demurrer, yet if the issue joined be such
-as necessarily required on the trial ‘proof of the facts
-.-so imperfectly stated, or omitted, such imperfection or
«omission shall be cured by the verdict.

M ARTICLE 2m).
or "TRAVERSE,  

44. There shall be only two forms of Traverse,
«Liz: a Direct Traverse, and an Indirect Traverse.

The General Issues, and the Replication dc injuria,
and the formal Traverse with an absque .hoc shall not
be used. . l »

OF DIRECT TRAVERSE.

45. A Direct Traverse shall consist of a direct denial of the facts alleged by the opposite party; and it
shall always be expressed in the negative, unless opposed to a precedent negative, then it may be expressed in the afiirmative. 4

46. Where, to any action for injury to. person or
character, or property, any matter of excuse or justiiication is pleaded, the plaintifff shall, in the Replication, deny it in the words of the excuse or justification or to the like effect, or may plead some special
defense.

OF INDIRECT TRAVERSE,

47. All defenses, except a direct denial of the facts
alleged, shall be pleaded specially. I ‘

48. Whenever a defendant shall plead special facts
which deny indirectly the facts alleged by the plaintifff, if the plaintifff do not demur, he shall in the replication, either deny directly the special facts so
pleaded, or plead some matter by Way of confession

and avoidance, and in either case the defendant shall
pmmm;

49. Any defense, showing that a parol contract or
deed sued on, is void or voidable, or the fact that the
alleged deed was delivered to a third person as an
escrow, shall he pleaded specially.

‘ ARTICLE 331:.
OF CONFESSION AND AVOIDANCE.

50. Any ground of defense, that admits the facts.

, alleged in the Declaration or in any other pleading,

but avoids their legal elfect, by some matter of justiiication or excuse, or of discharge or release, shall be:
specially pleaded.

51. The fiction. of Express C'.‘oIor- shall not he al;lowable.

ARTICLE 4111..
OF PLEADINGS IN GENERAL”

52.. Whatever facts are necessary to» constitute the
ground of Action, Defence, or Reply, as the case may
he, shall he stated in the Pleading, and nothing more;
_and facts only shall be, stated, and- not arguments, or
jnferences, or matter of. law, or of evidence, or of

. which the Court takes. notice ex ojicio.

s  Allstatements which need me! bepreved, such
as the statement-of Time, Quantity, Quality, and "Val'ue,'where these are immaterial; the statement of lo-sing and finding, and Bailment, in Actions for goods,
:or their value; the statement of Acts of Trespass
having been committed ‘wi,thi'orce‘and arms, and against ‘the peace, dignity and government of t'he'State
of Maryland; the statement of taking in Actions of
“Replevin,‘the statement of Promises which need not
‘be proved, or promises in Indebitatus counts, and
mutual promisesfto perform agreements; and all statements -:of a like kind, shall be omitted.

'54. An allegation shall not have two intendments:
but it "shall state one point distinctly, so that the adverse ‘party may know on what to join issue. And
if an allegation shall have two intendments, it shall,
upon motion, be considered ‘by the Court as anullity.

55. Where there are material allegations in a
pleading, that are repugnant to each other, the first
in order shall be considered the ‘proper one, and all
others inconsistent with it, shall be rejected, even
though the pleading be thereby left without an allegation of some material fact.

'56. N o superfluous allegation, whether it be consistent or inconsistent with the necessary and material allegations,'ner any impertinent allegation shallv;itiate a pleading.

57'. Il'.'any Pleading be; sos framed asto-prejudice,
embarrass or delay" the fairtrialof. the, action, the op»
posite party may movethe-.a Court.‘ tostrike: out or:a.mend such.pleading,_.and the Court shall make such
order respectingthe same, and also. respecting, the
costs, asthe Court shall. se'evli..t..

58. It sha1L not be necessaryto make.Prof"ert offany:
Deed or otherrdocument mentioned. on relied on in;
any pleading; and if. Profert shall.be.~ made,.it, shall.

n.ot entitle the opposite party to crave Oyer of.or. set.
out upon Oyer such deed,_. or other document'59. A Party pleading, in answer; to: any pleading"

in Which. any document is mentioned or referred. to,
shall be at liberty to set out the whole,. or such. part
thereof, as may be material, and the matter, so set
out, shall be deemed and taken tobe part of the
Pleading in which it is set out. '

60. Where in a Pleading, any thing is alleged generally to have been done, it shall be considered as
meaning legally done, ‘and, by the proper instrument
of Writing Where one is required, without stating how
or in what manner it was done; ' ‘

1, 61.. It shall be lawfulfor the Plaintiff or Defendant;_in.ariy_,acti0.n, to. aver pe_rformance’of conditions
precedemgenerally, and the.op,posi,teT party shallnot

deny such averment generally, but shall specify in his

pleading the condition or conditions precedent, the‘

performance of which he intends to contest.

62. Parties shall be -respectively confined to the
grounds both of fact and of law which they take in
the declaration and the plea, and shall not resort to
another in any subsequent pleading.

63. A Pleading should not anticipate the answer
of the opposite party. It is sufficient that each pleading contain facts which constitute a good, prima facie
claim or defense, or reply, without reference to possible objections not yet urged. But where the matter is such, that its affirmation or denial is essential to
the apparent or prima facie right of the party pleading, there it ought to be affirmed or denied in the
first instance, though it may be such as would otherwise properly form the subject of objection on the
other side.

- 64. The Form of pleading shall in no case whatever control its substance. Matter, though alleged in
the form of inducement, if it be of the substance of

the cause, may be pleaded to. And so, in all like
instances.

65. If the plaintifff allege a greater title or estate
than is necessary to sustain his cause of action and It

be traversed to the full extent, he shall not be compelled to ‘prove’ more than is necessary to sustain his
action. And if ‘a defendant puts into his plea more
than is needed for. his defense, he shall not be compelled to prove more than is needed for his defense.

66. When a pleading can be taken two ways it

shall be taken in that which is most against the party
pleading it. - ‘

.67. Every Pleading shall be in writing, and signed
either by the party or his Attorney.

i 68. Every Declaration and other Pleading shall be
entitled of the proper Court.

69. Whenever any rule of Pleading contained in
this code shall specify in terms, only one or more
species, as Declaration, Plea, or any other, yet if in
its nature and scope the rule be applicable to other

pleadings also, it shall be taken to apply to all to
which it is applicable.

ARTICLE 513.

OF THE DECLARATION.

70. -A ~PlaintiE shall recover only in respect of the
ground of action stated in his declaration, and not in

respect of another disclosed by the Defendant’s plea.

71*. Whenever 9. Plaintiff claims a right derogatony fromthe: general law, or when his claim is founded upon: an exception of. any kind, he shall set forth:
such claim or such. exception particularly. in. his de.elaration. ‘

72. In all’ actions‘ ontybondss with conditions, theP1aintif1" shall in the declaration notice the conditions,
and allege the breach or breaches- relied. on; ‘

73. In- all actions of’ Libel and"Sland'er5. the’-Plaintiff shall be. at liberty to aver that the wordssor matter complained; of were used in- at defamatory sense,.
specifying such defamatory sense,twi;thout any prefatory averment, toxshow howqsuch. Words or-‘matter’
were used. in that sense, and such: averment shall. beput in issue by the denial of the: alleged Libels or

Slander; and. where thewords, or: matter set forth,.

with or without the alleged meaning, show. a cause:
of action,.the Declarationshall be:sufi‘icient.. ,

(lF COMMEvN=C'ElVIENT'S’ AN;-D “ CLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS? 5 ’

‘Z4. Every Declaration; shall commenceas fol1ows,,
or to. the, like effect; ’

..i

 

“ e County (or team A. B. by-.S;o;'E xhis Ar-~

torney (or inI_?erso2z,.:a.s jtlze case,m{ly 50) S0&S§C.g D._.
for, (here state the cause of a_c:tion,j:)”‘ . E  1». ,

And shall conclude -as follows, or to the like eiiect:

“And the Plaintiff claims $ ” (or if the action is brought to recover specific goods,) “the Plaintiff claims a return of the said goods or their value,
and $ , for their detention.”

ARTICLE 6TH.

OF PLEADINGS SUBSEQUENT TO THE
DECLARATION.

75. Every Pleading must be an answer to the
whole of what is adversely alleged; but where there
are several allegations, each of which is essential to
the supportof the Pleading, the opposite party may
traverse one, or more of them, as he pleases.

76. Whenever a plea does not answer the whole
Declaration, whether it professes to do so or not, the
Plaintiff may have judgment, as by nil dicit, against
the Defendant, in respect of what is not answered.

77. Every pleading shall be considered as confessing such traversable matters alleged on the other side,
as it does not traverse; but facts not traversed shall
not be taken as admitted for any other action between
the same parties, if the present issue be found for the
person traversing.

78. Apleadingrshall not be consideredas admitting the sufficiency in law, of the facts adversely alleged.

79. A traverse must not be taken upon matter of
law; but where a mere legal inference is stated in a
pleading, and the opposite party wishes to deny it,

his course shall be, to demur. But where an allegation is mixed of law and fact, it may be traversed.

80. A traverse must not be taken upon matter not
alleged; but it may be taken upon matter, which
though not expressly alleged, is necessarily implied.

81. 'Where a part of the facts stated constitute a
cause of action or a defense,‘the part must be denied
as well as the whole 3 and if the part be proved it will
be sufficient. And where a sum of money -is alleged
to be due, the denial mustbe ‘thatno part of it is due;
and a general denial or a denial that the whole sum
isnot due, shall be taken to mean that no part of the
sum is due.

82. W here an allegation, ‘less general than the one
‘set forth in a Pleading, would constitute a cause of
action, or a defenc'e,~or a reply, the Defendant or Plaintiff shall .not deny it generally, but shall so plead as
to deny any cause of action or defense in the case.

83. Whenever the traverse tendered by a Plaintiff
to the Defendant’s plea is such as will enable the
Plaintiff to recover, without proving his right, it shall
upon motion be amended by the Court.

84. Whenever a plea does not answer the whole
declaration, and the Plaintiff demurs to "it, without

entering judgment for that part of his Declaration,
which is not answered by the plea, the action shall
not thereby be discontinued, but the demurrer shall
apply to the plea, in the same manner, as if judgment

had been entered for the part of the declaration not
answered.

85. It shall not be allowable, both to plead and (lee
mur to the same matter: but if the Demurrer be

overruled, then the party shall be allowed to withdraw the Demurrer and to plead.

86. ‘All questions of law, unless raised by demure
rer, shall fall under the decision of the Jury in the issue in fact, subject to the direction of the Court, upon
a prayer for that purpose. '

87. When a party pleads, it mustbe either by way
of traverse, or of confession and avoidance; and if
the pleading amounts to neither of these modes of
answer, it shall, upon motion, be set aside.

88. Wherever in pleading, there shall be two affirmatives. which do not impliedly negative each other,
the next pleading to be pleaded shall deny the last affirmative; and the other shall go for nothing89. The Plaintiff in any action may plead, in answer to the Plea or any subsequent Pleading of the
Defendant, as many several matters as he shall think
necessary to sustain his action: and the Defendant in
any action may plead, in answer to the Declaration,
or other subsequent pleading of the Plaintiff, as many
several matters as he shall think necessary for his defense; provided that the party so pleading or his At.torney, makes affidavit, if required by the Court, to
the effect, that he is advised and believes that he has
just ground to traverse the several matters proposed
to be traversed by him, and that the several matters
sought to he pleaded as aforesaid, by way of confession and avoidance, are respectively true in substance
and in fact. And the costs of any issue, either of
fact or law, shall follow the finding or judgment upon such issue, and be adjudged to the successful party, whatever may be the result of the other issue or
issues,

5

90. In a Plea or subsequent pleading it shall not be
necessary to use any allegation of ./fctionem mm, or
Jfctionem ulterius non, or Onerari non, or to the like
effect, or any Prayer of Judgment, nor shall it be necessary in any Replication or subsequent Pleading, to

use any allegation of Precludi non, or to the like effect, or any Prayer of Judgment.
n

91. N o formal Defence shall be required in a Plea,
or Avowry, or Cognizance, and it shall commence as
follows, or to the like effect:

“The Defendant by his Attorney (or in
person, as the case may be) says that (here state First

Defence.) ”

 

and it shall not be necessary to state in a second or
other Plea, or Avowry, or Cognizance, that it is pleaded by leave of the Court, or according to the form
of the Statute, or of the Act of Assembly, or to that
effect; but every such Plea, Avowry or Cognizance
shall be written in a separate paragraph, and numbered, and shall commence as follows or to the like effeet;

“And for a Second (&c.) Plea the Defendant says
that (here state second (&c.) Defence ;”

or if pleaded to part only, then as follows, or to the
like effect:

“ And for a second (&c.,) Plea to (stating to what i

it is pleaded) the Defendant says that,” &c.

and no formal Conclusion shall be necessary to any

Plea, Avowry, Cognizance, or other Subsequent
Pleading.

92' Any defense. arising after the commencement
of any action shall he pleaded according to the fact,
Without any formal Commencement or Conclusion;
and any Plea, which does not state, whether the defense therein set ‘up, arose before or after Action,
shall be deemed to be a Plea of matter arising before
action.

93. Any defense which may arise after the last
pleading, in any case, may be pleaded with an allegation that the matter has arisen since the last pleading.

94. It shall be lawful for the defendant, or for one
or more of several defendants in all actions (except
Actions for Assault and Battery, false Imprisonment,
Libel, Slander, Malicious Arrest or Prosecution,
Criminal Conversation, or debauching of the Plaintiff ’s daughter or servant,) to pay into Court a sum of
money byway of compensation or amends ; and the
money shall be paid to the Clerk, subject to the order

A of the Court, and the Clerk shall give a receipt for it

upon the back of the plea, and the said sum shall be
paid out to the'Plaintiff or his Attorney, upon a written authority from the Plaintiff on demand.

95. When money is paid into Court, such payment

shall he pleaded as'near as may be, in the following
form:

“The Dehendant by his Attorney (or in
person, &‘c,) (if pl’aad‘ed‘t.o part, say-, as to 3
Pareel.of the money claimed) brings into Court the
Sum of $--—- and says that the said sum is enough
to satisfy the claim of -the Plaintiff in respect of the
matter herein pleaded to~.”‘

 

 

96.. The Plaintiff, after the delivery of. a Plea of
Payment of money into Court, shall be at liberty to
reply to the same, by accepting the sum so paid into
Court in fullsatisfaction and discharge of the cause
of Action or of the matter in respect of which it has
been paid in, and he shall be at liberty in such case
to have his costs taxed. and it they be not immediately paid, he shall have judgment for the costs so- taxed: Or, the Plaintiff may reply that the sum paid into
Court is. not enough to» satisfy the claim of the Plaintiff in respectof the matter to which the plea is pleaded ; and, in the event of an issue thereon being found
for the Defendant, the defendant shall be entitled to
judgment and his costs of suit.

97. Wherever there may arise a doubt whether
the cause of action is of the nature of a breach of
contract or of a wrong, the Court shall give the defendant the benefit of the doubt; and any Plea in

such case, which shall be good in substance, shall not,

be objectionable on the ground of its treating the
Declaration, either as framed for a breach of contract
or for a wrong. _

98. Pleas of Payment and Set-oil‘ and all other
Pleadings, capable of being construed distributively,
shall be taken distributively, and if issue is taken
thereon, and so much thereof, as shall be sufficient
answer to part of the causes of action proved, shall
be found true by the Jury, a verdict shall pass for the
Defendant in respect of so much of the causes of action as shall be answered, and for the Plaintiff in respect of so much of the causes of action as shall not
be so answered.

99. Either party may plead, in answer to the Plea
or Subsequent Pleading of his adversary, that he
joins issue thereon, which Joinder of Issue may be as
follows, or to the like effect:

“The Plaintiff joins issue upon the Defendant’s lst.
&.c., (specifying what or what part) Plea ;”

“The Defendant joins issue upon the Plaintili’s
Replication to the 1st. &.c., (specifying what) Plea ;”

And such Form of oinder of Issue shall be deemed to be a direct Denial of the Substance of the’Plea
or other Subsequent Pleading, and an issue thereon.

100. Whenever any particular fact is selected and
‘directly denied, as Well as where all the facts are directly denied, by any pleading, the party to plead
next, shall merely add a joinder of issue.

101. Whenever a-Defendant cannot take any new
or other issue in his rejoinder, than the matter he has
pleaded, without a departure from his plea, or where
the issue on the rejoinder would be the same in substance, as on the plea, the Plaintiff shall, in his Replication, plead that he joins issue on the Defendant’s
plea, and may add a joinder of , issue for the Defendant.

102. If a traverse be taken upon an immaterial allegation, that is, on matter which is either irrelavent
or insufficient in law, or matter which is only introductory or explanatory, or matter -of aggravation, the
opposite party may have judgment as for want of a
plea.

103. N o more of an allegation shall be traversed,
than is material. The circumstances, which though
forming a part of the allegation, are immaterial to the
merits of the action, must not be traversed, and if
traversed, the traverse shall upon motion be corrected,
the party so traversing paying costs.

104. It shall not be necessary for the defendant to
verify the truth of any plea, except dilatory pleas, by
affidavit or aE‘irmation; nor being heir, executor or
administrator, to obtain leave of the Court, to" put in
a plea denying that the alleged deed, in the suit, is
not the deed of the ancestor, testator or intestate.

ARTICLE 7rn.

OF’ NEW ASSIGNMENT.

105. Where the Defendant pleads an evasive plea,
either as to the whole or a part of the cause of action
set forth in. the Declaration, the Plainti&' may avoid
the effect of such Plea, by restating his cause.of action with more particularity, consistently however

with the more general statement set forth in the
Declaration.

106. One New Assignment only shall be pleaded
to any number of Pleas to the same cause of action ;

and such new assignment shall be consistent with
and confined by the particulars, if any, delivered in
the action, and shall state that the Plaintiff proceeds
for causes of action different from all those which the
Pleas "profess to justify, or for an excess over and above what the defenses set up in such pleas justify,
or both.

107. N o Plea, which has already been pleaded to
the Declaration, shall be pleaded to such new Assignment, except a Plea in direct denial, unless by
leave of the Court; and such. leave shall only be
granted, upon satisfactory proof that the repetition
of such. Plea is essential to a trial upon the merits.

TITLE SECOND.

«RULES WHICH MAKE THE ISSUE A CERTAIN ONE.

ARTICLE 151:.

OF NAMES OF PERSONS.

108. The Declaration as well as the~Summons shall
set forth accurately the Christian names and Surnames of both parties, and the Christian names and
Surnames of persons not parties to the action: but
Where the name of a person, not a party to the action, shall not be known, an allegation of the fact
shall be sufiicient.

109. Wherever a party shall be sued by a wrong
Christian name or Surname, or both, upon aliidavit

or other proof to the satisfaction of the Court, at any
time before trial, that the writ or process has been
served upon the person intended to be sued, the Court
shall, upon motion, direct any writ, declaration or
other pleading, or any entry, to be amended, by inserting therein, the true name of the party, on. such
terms as the Court shall deem lit.

110. A mistake in the name either of a party to

the action, or of a person not a party to the action,
may be objected to as a variance, at the trial.

ARTICLE 22m.
OF TIME.

111. When Time ‘forms a material point in the
merits of a cause, the day, month and year, or when
there is a continuous act, the period of its duration,
must be alleged, and proved as laid. When time is
not material, it need not be mentioned, and if mentioned, need not be proved.

ARTICLE 3119.

5OF PLACE.

112. It shall be necessary to allege aplace only
when it is descriptive of the subject matter of the
action, and forms a part of the substance of the issue; and it must be proved as laid.

ARTICLE 413.

OF QUALITY OR KIND. ‘

113. In actions for injuries to goods "and chattels,
their kind or species shall be alleged in the declaration, and must be proved as laid

114. In actions for breaking the plaintifff ’s close, or
for any injury to real property, the plaintifff shall describe the property, and when the injury is to an incorporeal hereditament, shall describe the property in

respect of which the right is claimed, (as well as the
right itself,) in his declaration, either by the name by
which the property is patented, or by its abuttals, or

-by its courses and distances, or by any name which it

has acquired by reputation, or by some other description certain enough to identify it.

ARTI(:}l'_.lil 5TH.
or QUANTITY AND VALUE.

115. Where quantity forms a part of the substance
of the issue, it must be alleged, and specified with

reference to the ordinary measures of extent, Weight
or capacity. And where value forms a part of the
substance of the issue, it must be alleged, and specified by the current coin of the United States..

116. A verdict shall not be for a larger quantity or
value than is alleged.

ARTICLE 6'rH.

OF TITLE.

117. When, in pleading, any right or authority is
set up in respect of property, personal or real, some ’

title to that property must be alleged in the party, or
in some other person from whom he derives his authority. And if a party be charged with any liability

inrespect of property, personal or real, his title to
that property must be alleged, and proved as laid.

118. In no case shall it be -necessary to allege title
more particularly than is sufficient to show the right
or authority claimed, or the liability charged.

119. In the action of Replevin, for Cattle taken
damage feasant, it shall be sufficient for the Defendant
to allege mere title of possession.

120. -In .an action for breaking the Plaintiff ’s close,
when the Defendant justifies under a right of way or
other incorporeal right over or in the Plaintilf’s close,
it shall not be necessary for the Defendant, in ‘his
plea, to set forth his full title to another close in respect of which he claims such right, nor to set forth
the particular ground of his right: but he may plead
generally that he was possessed of his close, and ‘had
the right claimed, for the more convenient occupation
of the close; as a plaintiff is allowed to do in his declaration, when sueing for an injury to such incorporeal rights.

ARTICLE 7m.
OF DERIVATION OF TITLE.

121. It shall not be necessary to allege the commencement of either aparticular or of a superior estate, unless it be essential to the merits of the cause.

122. Where a party claims by inheritance, either
by immediate or mediate descent, he shall allege how
he is heir, as son, nephew, or otherwise.

123. Where ‘a party claims by conveyance, ‘he may

, state it according to its legal effect or name.

TITLE THIRD.

RULES WHICH MAKE THE ISSUE A SINGLE ONE.

124. Any number of facts constituting one cause
of action, or one defense, or one reply, or any other
pleading, may be combined: but each cause of action,
and each defense, and each reply, shall be stated in
a separate paragraph, and shall be numbered.

125. If each cause of action, or each defense, or
each reply, or other pleading shall not be stated in a
separate paragraph and numbered, the Court, or the
Judge, at any time after such pleading is ‘filed, and
beforeit is pleaded to, may, upon suggestion in Writing filed in the cause, stating such defect in the
pleading, and a copy of the suggestion being served
upon the party so pleading defectively or his attorney,
order the defective pleading to be corrected at the
costs of the party so pleading defectively. But if the

opposite party plead to such defective pleading, such
formal defect shall thereby be cured.

TITLE FOURTH.

OF JUDGMENT.

126. Whenever judgment is to be given, whether
the issue be in law or in fact, and whether the cause

has proceeded to issue or not, and whether there has
been a verdict or not, the Court shall examine the
sufficiency in law of all the allegations through the
whole series of pleadings and adjudge for the plaintifff
or defendant, according to the legal right as it may on
the whole series of pleadings appear.

127. In all, actions where the Plaintiff recovers a
sum of money, the amount to. which he is entitled
may be awarded to him by the judgment generally,
without, any distinction being therein made as to,

whether such sum is recovered by way of debt or
damages.

128. The form of all judgments shall be merely a
statement, in common language, of the award of the
Court, without regard to the forms of action heretofore existing.

JUDGMENT JVOJV‘ OBST./QJVTE VEREDICTO.

129. Whenever the plea issuch as to show to the

Court, that the Defendant is not entitled to recover
upon the merits, and the issue’ joined thereon be

found for the defendant, judgment shall be given for
the Plaintiff non obstante veredicto.

TITLE FIFTH.
REPLEADER.

130. Wherever the issue joined and tried shall be
an immaterial one, the Court shall award a Repleader ; and the parties shall begin to replead at the first.
fault which produced the immaterial issue. And the
pleadings in such case, shall be in the forms hereinbefore prescribed for pleadings in general; and shall
be substituted for the defective pleadings.

TITLE SIXTH.
ABATEME N T.

131. It shall not be necessary to use any prayer of
judgment in any Plea in Abatement. Nor shall it be
necessary, in any Plea in Abatement to crave oyer of
any instrument of writing on which the suit is brought,
nor to insert it in the Plea.

132. * No formal Defence, and no formal‘Conclusion shall be required in Pleas in Abatement. \ They
shall commence in the Form hereinbefore prescribed
for Pleas in bar, or to the like effect.

133. In a Plea in Abatement for the non-joinder of

a co—defendant or co-defendants, it shall be necessary
to allege, and to prove, that the persons mentioned
as not joined, are still living and are residing in the
County in which the suit is brought, or the City of
Baltimore, if the suit be brought there.

134. All defects in Pleas in Abatement shall be

corrected, upon motion, as in other pleadings under
this code.

TITLE SEVENTH.

MOTIONS.

135. Every motion required by this code shall be

in writing, and shall assign reasons: but no particular
form shall be necessary.

TITLE EIGHTH.

GENERAL PROVISIONAL RULES.

136. Any matter of Pleading, which shall not come
within the special provisions of this code, and for
which, there is not now some rule, which does not
conflict with the principles and rules of this code,
shall be provided for upon the analogies of the provisions which seem to bear most upon the matter;
and of this the Court shall Judge, whenever any such
Pleadings shall have been framed in a cause, and the
question is raised by motion. And if the Court shall
determine such pleading to be erroneously framed, it

CHAPTER 3111)..

FoRMs or PLEADINGS.

138. The Forms of Pleadings which follow, shall
be sufficient; and those and the like Forms may be
used, with such modifications as may be necessary to
meet the facts of the case: but nothing herein contained shall render it erroneous or irregular to depart
from the letter of such Forms, so long as. substance is

expressed without prolixity.

COMMENCEMENTS or DECLARATIONS.

(I/enue.) “A. B., by S. T., his Attorney, (or in
Person, as the case may be,) sues C. D. for, (herestate the cause of action.)-”

CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS.

“And the Plaintiff claims $ ” (or if the action is brought to recover specific goods,) “the Plaintiff claims a return of the said goods or their value,
and $ , for their detention.”

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION_ON
CONTRACTS.

I. Money payable by the Defendant to the Plaintiff for (these words, “Money payable, &c.,” shoulclprecede Money counts like I to XII inclusive, but need
only be inserted in the first, ) Goods bargained and sold
by the Plaintiff to the Defendant.

II. Work done and Materials provided by the
Plaintiff for the Defendant at his request.

III. Money lent by the Plaintiff’ to the Defendant.

IV. Money paid by the Plaintiff for the Defendant
at his request. .

V. Money receivedby the Defendant for the use

of the Plaintiff.

VI. Money found to be due from the Defendant to
the Plaintiff on accounts stated between them.

VII. A Messuage and Lands sold and conveyed by
the Plaintiff to the Defendant.

VIII. The good will of a business of the Plaintiff,
sold and given up by the Plaintiff to the Defendant.

IX. The Defendant’s use, by the P1aintiff’s permission, of Messuages and Lands of the Plaintiff.

X. The hire of (as the case may be,) by the Plaintiff let to hire to the Defendant.

XI. Freight for the conveyance by the Plaintiff for
the Defendant at his request of Goods in ships.

XII. The Demurrage of a Ship of the Plaintiff
kept on Demurrage by the Defendant.

XIII. That the Defendant on the day of
by his Promissory Note, now over-due, promised to

pay to the Plaintiff $ sixty days after date,
but did not pay the same.

 

XIV. That one A. on, &.c. (Date,) by his Promissory Note, ‘now over-due, promised to pay to the
Defendant, or order, $ Sixty days after date;
and the Defendant endorsed the same to the Plaintiff ; and the said Note was duly presented for Payment, and was dishonored, whereof the Defendant
had due notice, but did not pay the same.

XV. That the Plaintiff, on &.c. (Date,) by his Bill
of Exchange now over-due, directed to the Defendant, required the Defendant to pay to the Plaintiff
$ Sixty days after date; and the Defendant accepted the said Bill, but did not pay the same.

XVI. That the Defendant, on &.c. (Date,) by his

Bill of Exchange directed to A., required A. to pay I

to the Plaintiff $ Sixty days after date; and
the said Bill was duly presented for Acceptance, and
was dishonored, of which the Defendant had due notice, but did not pay the same.

XVII. That the Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to
marry one another, and a reasonable time for such
Marriage has elapsed, and the Plaintiff has always
been ready and willing to marry the Defendant, yet

the Defendant has neglected and refused to “marry
the Plaintiff.

XVIII. That the Plaintiff‘ and Defendant agreed

-to marry one another on a day now elapsed, and the

Plaintiff was ready and willing to marry the Defendant on that day, yet the Defendant neglected and
refused to marry the Plaintiff.

XIX. That the Plaintiff and the Defendant agreed
by Charter-party that the Plaintiff’s Ship, called the
“Daniel Webster,” should with all convenient speed
sail to L. , or so near thereto as she could safely get,
and that the Defendant should there load her with a
full cargo of Coffee, or other lawful Merchandise,
which she should carry to B. , and there deliver on

Payment of Freight per Ton, and that the
Defendant should be allowed ten days for loading, and

 

.ten days for discharge, and ten days for demurrage,

 

if. required, at $ per day; and that the Plaintiff
did all things necessary on his part to entitle him to
have the agreed Cargo loaded on board the said Ship,

at L., and that the time for so doing has elapsed, yet

the Defendant made default in loading the agreed
Cargo.

XX. That the defendant, by warranting a Horse to
be then sound and quiet to ride, sold the said Horse

to the Plaintiff, yet the said Horse Was not then sound
and quiet to ride. ‘

XXI. That the Plaintiff let to the Defendant a
House, N o. 200 Market Street, in the city of Baltimore, for four years to hold from the day of

A. D. at $ a year payable quarterly,
of which Rent quarters are due and unpaid.

 

   
 

XXII. That the Plaintiff by Deed let to the Defendant a House on Patrick Street, Frederick, in
county, seven years from the day of A.

D. and the Defendant, by the said Deed, covenanted with the Plaintiff well and substantially to repair the said House during the said Term (according
to the covenant;) yet the said House was during the
said Term out of good and substantial Repair.

 
   

XXIII. That the Plaintiff and Defendant, by their
agreement in writing, referred the matters therein

mentioned to arbitrators ; and the arbitrators have
made their award in writing, that the defendant pay

the Plaintif the sum of $ , which the DefenV dant has failed to don

( Where the award is not for the mere payment
of money as above, but for the performance of some
act by the Defendant, that act must be stated in place
of i the Italic line; and where the Plaintif also is to
perform some act either precedent or concurrent, a general averment “that he has performed (or is ready to

perform) all on his part, ” after the statement of nonperformance by the Defendant, as above, shall be sufficient.)

XXIV. That one W. T. owed the Plaintiff the
sum of $ , and the Plaintiff was about to sue

him, to recover the same. And in consideration that
the Plaintiff would forbear to sue the said W. T.,
the Defendant agreed to pay the same to the Plaintiff, and the Plaintiff did forbear to sue the said W.
T. ; and the Defendant has not paid said sum of

 

XXV. That the Plaintiff purchased of the Defendant a thousand bushels of wheat for the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, to be paid for on delivery thereof ; and the Defendant promised to deliver the same
on the day of at the Defendant’s warehouse in the city of Baltimore; and on said day, the

   

Plaintiff demanded said wheat at said warehouse, and
tendered to the Defendant said sum of fifteen hundred dollars in payment of the same; and the Defendant refused to deliver the said Wheat to the Plaintiff.

FOR WRONGS INDEPENDENT OF CONTRACT.

XXVI. That the Defendant broke and entered
certain Land of the Plaintiff, called “The Orchard,”
in County, and depastured the same with cattle.

 

XXVII. That the Defendant assaulted and beat
the Plaintiff, gave him into. the custody of a Constable and caused him to be imprisoned in the Jail of

County, (or City.)

 

XXVIII. That the Defendant debauched and carnally knew the Plaintiff ’s wife.

XXIX. That the Defendant converted to. his own
use, or wrongfully deprived the Plaintiff of the use

and possession of the Plaintiff ’s goods; that is to say,

. Wheat, Rye, Household Ftumture, (or as the case

may be.)

XXX. That the Plaintiff was possessed of’ a Mill,
called “ Linganore Mill,” in County, and by

 

reason thereof, was entitled to the Flow of a stream
for working the same, and the Defendant, by cutting
the bank of said stream, diverted the water thereof
away from the said Mill.

/

XXXI. That the Plaintiff was possessed of Land,
called “ldlewild, ” in -County, and was entitled
to a way from said land, over the Land of the Defendant, to a public high-way, for himself and his servants, with horses and wagons, to go, and return, at all
times, at his and their free will, for the more convenient occupation of the said Land of the Plaintiff; and
that the Defendant deprived him of the use of said
way, in as ample a manner as he was entitled.

XXXII. That the Defendant falsely and maliciously spoke and published of the Plaintiff the words following ; that is to say, “he is a Thief,” (if there be
any special damage, here state it with such reasonable particularity as to give notice to the Defendant of
the particular injury complained of; for instance,)
whereby the Plaintiff lost his situation of book-keeper in the Bank of Washington.

XXXIII. That Defendant falsely and maliciously
printed and published of the Plaintiff in a Newspaper, called “ The Examiner, ” the words following :
that is to say, “he foreswore himself,” the Defendant meaning thereby that the Plaintiff had been
guilty of the crime of perjury.

XXXIV. That the Defendant is a Corporation
owning a Railroad between B. and C.; that the Plaintiff was a passenger on said Railroad, and by reason
of the insufficiency of an axle of the car in which he
was riding, the Plaintiff was hurt; that the Defendant did not use due. care in reference to said axle,

but the Plaintiff did use due care.

( This form may be varied so as to adapt it totmany

cases, by merely changing the allegation as to the
cause qf the accident.)

XXXV. That the Defendant is an incorporated
City and is bound to keep its streets in repair; that
one of its streets, called street, was negligently
suffered by the Defendant to be out of repair, whereby the Plaintiff in travelling on said street and using
due care was hurt.

XXXVI. That the Defendant hired from the
Plaintiff a horse, to ride from Frederick to Hagerstown, and thence back to Frederick, in a proper
manner; and the Defendant rode said horse so immoderately that he became lame and injured in value,

COMMENCEMENTS OF PLEAS.

XXXVII. The Defendant, by S. T., his Attorney,

(or in Person,) says (here state the substance of the
Plea.)

XXXVIII. And fora second Plea the Defendant
says (here state the second Plea.)

PLEAS IN ACTIONS ON CONTRACT.

XXXIX. That he never was indebted as. alleged.
(This plea is applicable to Declarations like those numbered i. to xii.)

XL. That he did not promise as alleged. (This
plea is applicable to Declarations like those numbered

xiii and xiv, and to Declarations on simple promises of
any kind.)

XLI. That he did not accept the said Bill of Exchange as alleged. (This Plea is applicable to Declarations like that numbered x-v.)

XLII. Thatsaid Bill of Exchange was not duly
presented for acceptance, as alleged. (This Plea is
applicable to Declarations like that numbered xvi.)

XLIII. That he did not agree as alleged. (This
Plea is applicable to Declarations like those numbered
xvii to xix.)

XLIV. That he did not warrant as alleged. (This
Plea is applicable to Declarations like that numbered
xx. ) - - ‘

XLV. That he did not let a house as alleged.
(This Plea is applicable to Declarations like that
numbered xxi.)

XLVI. That the alleged Deed is not his Deed.

XLVII. That at the time of the making of the alleged Deed, the Defendant was and still is within
twenty one years of age.  

XLVII I. That at the time of the making of the alleged Deed the Defendant was and still is the wife of
one W. T. '

XLIX. That the Defendant was unlawfully imprisoned by the Plaintiff, and others in collusion with

him, until by duress of imprisonment he made the
alleged Deed.

L. That the alleged deed was procured by the
fraud of the Plaintiff.

LI. That the Plaintiff threatened the life of the

Defendant unless he would make the alleged deed;
and that from fear of the threats‘ he made the same.

LII. That after the sealing and delivery of the
alleged deed, it was without the consent of the Defendant altered, and the words (insert them, ) were inserted and substituted therein, for the words (insert
them.)

LIII. That the Defendant delivered the alleged
deed, to one A.‘ F., as an escrow on condition that

(state the condition, ) then the said A. ‘F. should deliver the alleged deed to the Plaintiff as the deed of
the Defendant. And the Plaintiff has not performed the condition.

LIV. That the alleged cause of action did not accrue within years (state the period of limitation

applicable to the case,) before this suit. ~

LV. That before this action he satisfied and discharged the Pl-aintiIi’s claim by payment.

LVI. That the Plaintiff at the commencement of
this suit was, and still is indebted to the Defendant
in an amount equal to the Plaintiff ’s claim, for (insert the cause of set-of as in a Declaration; see Form,
ante,) which amount the Defendant is willing to setoff against the Plaintiff ’s claim.

LVII. That after the alleged claims accrued, and
before suit, the Plaintiff, by Deed, released the Defendant therefrom. '

LVIII. That at the Circuit Court for County
Term 1854, the Plaintiff recovered judgment against the Defendant for the sum of dollars and
cents, and dollars for costs; and that said
judgment was rendered on the same cause of action
mentioned in the PlaintifY’s declaration, and is still a
subsisting judgment.

 

 

   

LIX. That he was discharged as an insolvent debtor by the Circuit Court for County, (or Court
of Common Pleas for the City of Baltimore,).on the
day of 1854, and that the alleged claim
accrued before the filing of his petition.

   

LX. That he applied by Petition as an insolvent
debtor to the Circuit Court for County (or
Court of Common Pleas for the City of Baltimore,)
on the day of eighteen hundred and jifly

four, and the proceedings under the Petition are still

pending, 3 and that the alleged claim accrued before
the filing of his Petition.

 

   

139. A Defendant may plead, as in the above Form,
that he has applied by Petition as an insolvent debtor
to the proper Court, and that the proceedings under

' his Petition are still pending, and that the alleged

claim accrued before the filing of his Petition. And
upon proof of the facts so pleaded‘, judgment shall
only be entered subject to the result of the proceed’ings under the Petition.

PLEAS IN ACTIONS -FOR WRONGS INDEPENDENT OF CONTRACT.

i LXI. That he did not commit the Wrong alleged.

LXII. That he did What is complained of by the
Defendant’s leave.

§"LXIII. That the Plaintiff was not entitled to the

said way over the Defendant’s land as the Plaintiff
has alleged.

LXIV. That the Plaintiff first assaulted him; and
he committed the alleged assault in his own defense.

LXV. That the Defendant, at the time of the alleged trespass, -was possessed of land called, “Idlewild,” in County, and was entitled to a way
from said land over the land of the Plaintiff, to a public high-way, for himself and his servants with horses
and Wagons, to go and return at all times, at his
and their free will, for the more convenient occupation of the said land of the Defendant; and that the

alleged trespass was a use by the Defendant of said
way. '

 

REPLICATION S.

LXVI. The Plaintiff joins issue upon the Defendant’s 1st, 2nd, &c. Pleas.

LXVII. The Plaintiff as to the second Plea says
(state the ./fnswer to the Plea as in the following
Forms.)

LXVIII. That the alleged Release is not the
Plaintiff ’s Deed.

LXI X. That the alleged Release was procured by
the fraud of the Defendant. '

LXX. That the alleged set-off did not accrue
within years (state the period of limitation applicable to the case,) before this suit.

LXXI. That the Plaintiff’s claim is upon an account concerning trade between himself and the Defendant, as merchant and merchant.

LXXII. That the Plaintiff was possessed of land
called, “Midsummer,” in County, whereon the
Defendant was trespassing and doing damage, Whereupon the Plaintiff requested the Defendant to leave
the said land, which the Defendant refused to do;
and thereupon the Plaintiff gently laid his lands on
the Defendant in order to remove him, doing no
more than was necessary for that purpose, which is

the alleged First Assault by the Plaintiff‘.

LXXIII. That the Defendant was not entitled to
the said way over the P1aintiff’s land as the Defendant
has alleged.

LXXIV. That the alleged trespass was not a use
by the Defendant of the said way.

LXXV. That the Defendant was not within the
age of twenty-one years as alleged. .LXXVI. That the alleged Deed was not delivered as an escrow as alleged.

LXXVII. That the Defendant wasnot, and is not
now, the wife of one W. T. as alleged.

LXVIII. That the Defendant did not make the alleged Deed by duress as alleged.

LXXIX. That the alleged Deed was not procured
by the fraud of the Plaintiff.

LXXX. That the Defendant did not commit the
alleged Assault in his own defense.

NEW ASSIGNMENT.

LXXXI. The Plaintiff, as to the and -—
Pleas, says, that he sues not for the Trespasses therein admitted, but for Trespasses committed by the Defendant in excess of the alleged rights, and also in
other parts of the said land and on other occasions,

and for other purposes than those referred to in the
said Pleas.

(If the Plaintif replies and new assigns, the new
.&ssign~ment may be as follows:)

LXXXII. And the Plaintiff, as to the and
Pleas, further says, that he sues not only for the
Trespasses in these Pleas admitted, but also for, &.c.

(If the Plaintif replies and new assigns to some of
the Pleas, and new assigns only to the other, the Form
may be as follows :)  

LXXXIII. And the Plaintiff, as to the and
Pleas, further says, that he sues not for the Trespasses in the Pleas (the Pleas not replied to,)admitted, but for the Trespasses in the Pleas (the
Pleas replied to,) admitted, and also for, &.c.

 

PLEAS IN ABATEMENT.

LXXXIV. That the Plaintiff at the time of issuing
the Summons in this case, was and still is the wife of
one R. B.

LXXXV. That the Plaintiff is within twenty-one

years of age; and hasldeclared by Attorney, when
he should have declared, by next friend or guardian.

LXXXVI. “That the said contract, in the Declaration mentioned, was made by the Defendant jointly
with one W. P., who is still living and is residing in
the County (or the Cz'ty,) aforesaid; and was not made
by the Defendant alone ;' and thereforee, the said W.
P. should have been sued also.

(This Form shall be suJ?icz'ent whether the contract
be by parol or by deed.)

FORM OF AFFIDAVIT TO PLEAS IN ABATEMEN T, REQUIRED BY THE STATUTE 16 ANNE.

 

LXXXVII. ' County,
M. R. (the Defendant in the cause) makes oath and

says, that the Plea, hereunto annexed, is true in substance and in fact. M. R.
Sworn before ——

FORM OF DECLARATION ,. WHEN THE
SUMMON S IS RETURNED, AS TO SOME
OF THE DEFENDANTS, “CANNOT BE

FOUND.”

LXXXVIII. (Venue) R. G., by S. T., his Attorney (or in Person,) sues J. T. and M. B., (but M. B.
cannot be found by the Sheriif,) for (here state the

cause of action,) and the Plaintiff claims from J. T.
(the person summoned,) $

COMMEN CEMEN TS OF DECLARATIONS,

BY PERSONS SUEING IN SPECIAL
CHARACTERS.

LXXXIX. (Venue.) A. B., Executor of the last
will (or ./idministrator of the goods, &c.) of O. H. deceased, by S. T. his Attorney, (or in Person,) sues D.

E. for (here state the cause of action.)

XC. ( Venue.) C. K., Trustee of O. X., an Insolvent Debtor, by S. T. , his Attorney, (or in Person,)
sues L. P. for (here state the cause of action.)

XCI. (Venue.) J. T., who is within age, by S. T.
his next friend (or guardian,) sues W. B. for (here
state the cause of action.)

XCII. ( Venue.) G. H., who was the husband of
L. K. deceased, formerly L. B., who has survived his
said wife, by S. 'I‘., his Attorney (or in Person, ) sues
C. P. for (here state the cause of action.)

XCIII. ( Venue.) B. H. and F. W., surviving partners of T. K. and I. M., (trading under the name of
B. H., F. W. «Sr Co.,) by S. T., their Attorney, (or in
Person,) sue T. H . , surviving partner ofM. S. (trading

under the name of T. H. and M. S.,) for (here state
the cause of action.)

(The words “trading under the name of, &c.,” may
be omitted, unless the name of the firm be contained in
the contract sued on.)

( The conclusion of Declarations, by persons sueing
in special characters, shall be the same with that of

Declarations, by persons sueing in their proper characters.) '

COMMENCEMENTS 015 DECLARATIONS
BY EXECUTORS 8L ADMINISTRATORS.

XCIV. (Venue.) A. B. Executor of the last
will (or ./idministrator of the Goods, &c.,) of O. H.

‘deceased, by S. T. his Attorney, (or in Person,) sues

D. E. for, (here state the cause of action.)

-CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS BY

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

XCV. And the Plaintiff claims $ (or
if the action is brought to recover specific goods,) the
Plaintiff claims a return of the goods or their value,
and .3 —— for their detention.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION ON
CONTRACT BY EXECUTORS AND ADMIN ISTRATORS.

XCVI. Money payable by the Defendant to the
Plaintiff for (these words, Money payable 8)-c., should
precede Money counts like xcvi. to cvii, inclusive, but
need only be inserted in the first,) Goods bargained
and sold by O. H. in his life time to the Defendant.

XCVII. Work done and Materials provided by

O. H. in his life time for the Defendant at his request.

XCVIII. Money lent by O. H. in his life time to
the Defendant.

XCIX. Money paid by O. H. in his life time for
the Defendant at his request.

C. Money received by the Defendant for the use
of ‘O. H. in his life time.

CI. Money found to be due from the Defendant
to O. H. in his life time, on accounts stated between
them.

CII. A Messuage and Lands sold and conveyed
by O. H. in his life time to the Defendant.

0111. The good will of a business of o. H., sold

and given up by O. H. in his life time to the Defendant.

CIV. The Defendant’s‘use, by the permission of
O. H. in his life time, of Messuages and Lands of
O. H.

CV. The hire of (as the case may be,) from O.
H. in his life time, let to hire to the Defendant.

CVI. Freight for the conveyance by 0. H. in his
life time for the Defendant at his request of Goods
in ships.

CVII. The Demurrage of a ship of O. H. in his
life time kept on Demurrage by the Defendant.

CVI_II. That the Defendant, on the day of
by his Promissory Note, now over-due, promised to pay to O. H. in his life time, .$ sixty
days after date, but has not yet paid the same.

 

CIX. That one A. on &.c. (Date, ) by his Promissory Note, now over-due, promised to pay to the
Defendant, or order, $ , sixty days after date ;
and the Defendant. endorsed the same to O. H. in
his life time; and the said Note was duly presented

 

for payment and was dishonored, whereof the Defendant had notice, but has not yet paid the same.

CX. That 0. H. in his life time on &.c., (Date,)
by his Bill of Exchange now over due, directed to
the Defendant, required the Defendant‘ to pay to O.
H. 3 , Sixty days after date; and the Defendant accepted the said Bill, but has not yet paid the
same.

CXI. That the Defendant, on &.c., (Date,) by his
Bill of Exchange directed to A., required A. to pay
to O. H. in his life time $ Sixty days after
date ; and the said Bill was duly presented for Acceptance and was dishonored, of which the Defendani had due notice, but has not yet paid the same.

CXII. That 0. H., in his life time, let to the Defendant a House, No. 200, Market Street, in the
city of Baltimore, for four years to hold from
day of A. D., at 3 a year, payable quarterly, of which rent quarters were /due,
at the time of the death of O. H. and are still due
and unpaid.

     

(./is the foregoing Declarations are for suits against
persons in their proper character, the Pleas, already
given, can be pleaded to them.)

COMMEN CEMENT OF DECLARATIONS AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINIS’ TRATORS.

CXIII. (Venue.) A. B., by his Attorney, (or in
Person, as the case may be,) sues C. D. Executor of the
last will (or ./fdministrater of the goods, chattels, &c.)
of P. S. deceased, for(herestate the cause of action.)

CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMIN ISTRATORS.

CXIV. And the Plaintiff claims $——— (or if
the action be to recover specihc goods,) the Plaintiff

claims a return of the said goods or their value, and
$—— for their detention.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION ON

CONTRACTS, AGAINST EXECUTORS
AND ADMINISTRATORS.

' CXV. Money payable by the Defendant,‘ to the~
Plaintiff for (these words, Money payable, &c., should
precede Money counts like cxv to cxxvi inclusive, but
need only be inserted in the first,) goods bargained and

‘sold by the Plaintiff to P. S. in his life time.

CXVI. Work done and materials provided by the
Plaintiff for P. S. in his life. time at his request.

CXVIL Money lent by the Plaintiff to P. S. in
his life time.

CXVHI. Money paid by the Plaintilf, for P. S, in
his life time at his request.

CX1X- Money received by P. S, in his life time
for the use of the Plaintiff.

CXX- Money found to be due from P. S, in his life
time,to the Plaintiff, on accounts stated between them.

CXXL A Messuage and Lands sold and conveyed
by the Plaintilf to P. S, in his life time.

CXXIL The good will of a business of the Plaintiff
sold and given up by the Plaintiff to P. S, in his life
time.

CXXIIL The use by P. S, in his life time of Messuages and Lands of the Plaintiff, by the Plaintiti".s
permission.

CXXIV- The hire of (as the case may be,) by P. S,
in his life time, let to hire by the Plaintiff to him.

CXXV- Freight for the conveyance by the Plaintiff

for P. S, in his_ life time at his request- of goods in
Ships.

CXXVI. The Demurrage of a ship of the Plaintiti‘
kept on Demurrage by P. S. in his life time.

CXXVIL That P. S. in his life time on the

day of by his Promissory Note, now overdue, promised to pay to the Plaintiff $ sixty days
after date, but did not pay the same, in his life time;
nor has the Defendant paid the same since the death
of P. S.

QXXVIIL That one A. K., or &.c. (date,) by his
Promissory Note, now over-due, promised to pay to
P. S. or order, $ sixty days after date; and the
said P. S. in his life time endorsed the same to the
Plaintiff; and the said Note was duly presented for
payment, and was dishonored, whereof the said P.
S. had due notice, but did not pay the same in his
life time, nor has the Defendant paid the same since
the death of P. S. '

CXXIX. That the Plaintiff, on &.c (Date,) by his
Bill of Exchange now over-due, directed to P. S. in
his life time, required P. S. to pay to the Plaintiff
$ sixty days after date; and P. S. accepted the
said Bill, but did not pay the same in his life time,
nor has the Defendant paid‘ the same since the death

 

D of P. S.

CXXX- That P. S., in his life-time, on &c. (Date)
by his Bill of Exchange directed to A. K., required
A. K. to pay to the Plaintiff $ sixty days after
date; and the said Bill was duly presented for Acceptance, and was dishonored, of which P. S. had
due notice, but did not pay the same in his life-time,

.nor has the Defendant paid the same since the death

of P. S.

COMMEN CEMENT OF PLEAS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMIN ISTRATORS.

CXXXL The Defendant, Executor of the last will
(or ./fdministrator, of the Goods and chattels, ) of P.
S., deceased,by S. T., his Attorney, (or in Person, )
says, (here state the substance of the Plea.)

CXXXIL And for a second Plea the Defendant
says, (here state the second plea.)

PLEAS IN ACTIONS ON CONTRACT BY
EXECUTORS AND ADMIN ISTRATORS.

CXXXIIL That the said P. S. deceased was never '
indebted in his life-time as alleged.

CXXXIV- That the said P. S. deceased did not
promise in his life-time as alleged.

CXXXV. That the alleged cause of action did not

accrue at any time within years before this
suit.

 

CXXXVL That the Defendant has fully administered the goods and chattels, rights and credits of

the said P. S. deceased; and had done so before this

suit.
I

_ CXXXVIL That before this suit, and after the lapse
of one year, from the date of his. letters testamentary
(or of ./9dmim'stration,) the Defendant paid away,
in discharge of just claims, all the assets of the said
P. S. deceased which had come to his hands; and
that more than six months before he so paid, he gave
notice to the creditors of P. S. to bring in their claims.

And that at the time of such payment, he had no
notice or knowledge of the alleged claim; and that

since said payment, no further assets have come to
his hands.

CXXXVHL That before this suit and after the
lapse of one year from the date of his letters testamentary (or of admz'm'stration,) the Defendant paid
away in discharge of just claims a large amount of assets of P. S. deceased ; and that more than six months
before said payments he gave notice to the creditors
of P. S, to bring in their claims. And at the time of
said payments he had no notice or knowledge of the

alleged claim. And there are other just debts still due
from P. S., of which the Defendant had no notice or
knowledge at the time of the said payments; and he
has not, and never has had, assets sufficient to pay
but a proportion of the alleged claim, regard being
had to the debts still due from P. S.

COMMENCEMENTS AND CONCLUSIONS
OF DECLARATIONS BY EXECUTORS
AND ADMINISTRATORS AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

 

CXXX1X- ° County, A. B., Executor of the
last will (or ./Yclministrator of the goods and chattels
&c.) of VV. H., deceased, by S. T. his Attorney, (or
in Person,) sues T. K., Executor of the last will (or
.Hdmin—islrat0r of the goods and chattels &c.) of -W.
K. , deceased, for (here state cause-of action.) '

CXL. And the Plaintitf claims $ (or if the
action is brought to recover specific Goods,) the Plaintiff claims a return of the said Goods or their value,
and $ , for their detention.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF.ACTION ON

CONTRACT BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS AGAINST EXECU-‘

TORS AND ADMIN ISTRATORS.

CXLL Money payable by ‘the Defendant to‘ the
Plaintiff for (these words, Money payable &c., should

precede the .Money counts, but need only be inserted in
the first,) goods bargained and sold by W. H. in his
life-time to W. K. in his life-time.

CLXII. Work done and materials provided by W.’

H. in his life-time for W. K. in his life-time.

CXLIH. That W. K. in his life-time, on the -———

day of by his Promissory Note now over-due
promised to pay to W. H. in his life-time $ , sixty
days after date, but did not pay the same; nor has the

Defendant paid the same since the death of the said
W. K. '

CLXIV- That one J. M. on, &c. (Date,) by his
Promissory Note now over due, promised to pay to
W K. , or order in his life-time 3-——-, sixty days af
ter date; and W. K. in his life-time endorsed the
same to W. H. in his life-time; and the said Note was
duly presented for payment and was dishonored,
whereof the said W. K. in his life-time had notice,
but did not pay the said note, nor has the said Defendant since the death of the said W. K. paid the
same.


