SEC. 2. Personal and transitory actions, except process of Personal and
foreign attachment, and except as provided in the six following transitory
actionsI where
sections, shall be brought, when the parties live in the state, in to be com
the county where any plaintifff or defendant lives; and when the menced.
12 Maine, 17.
plaintifff does not live in the state, in the county where any de R. S., c. 114,
2.
fendant lives; and when not so brought, on motion, or inspec i866,
c. 223.
tion by the court, they shall be abated and the defendant allow 1851, o. 4.

4496
GHAP. 81. ed double costs.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

When the plaintifff and defendant live in dif
ferent counties at the commencement of any such action, except
process of foreign attachment, and during its pendency one par
ty moves into the same county with the other, on motion of eith
er, it may be transferred to the county where both then live, if
the court thinks justice will thereby be promoted; and tried as if
originally commenced and entered therein.
Actions on
SEC. 3. Actions on bonds given by sheriffs and coroners to
sheriﬂs’ bonds.
the
treasurer of the state, shall be brought in the county in
R. S., c. 114,
which such sheriff or coroner is commissioned to act.
§ 3.
Actions of debt
S1-30.4. All actions of debt, founded on judgment rendered
on judgment.
by any court of record in this state, may be brought in the
R. S., c. 114,
county where it was rendered, or in the county in which either
§ 4.
party thereto, or his executor or administrator, resides at the
time of bringing the action.
Jurisdiction
SEO. 5. In all actions commenced in any court proper to try
sustained if
them, jurisdiction shall be sustained, if goods, estate, eﬂ'ects or
defendant_’s
ro art 111&c.
credits of any defendant are found within this state and attached
Ettﬂlztheg,
on the original writ; and service shall be made as provided in
R. S., c. 114,
§ 5.
the eighteenth section hereof.
Local and
SEC. 6. Local and transitory actions shall be commenced
transitory ac
and
tried as follows: When both parties are counties, in any
tions, in which
counties.
county
adjoining either; when a county is plaintiﬂ', if the defend
towns, and
other corpora ant lives therein, in an adjoining county; if he does not live
tions are par
therein, in the county in which he does live; when a county is
ties; where
defendant, if the plaintifff lives therein, in that county or in any
brought.
R. s., 0. 114, adjoining county; if he does not live therein, in that county or
is, 7. 3, 9, 10,
in that in which he does live; when a corporation is one party
1 12 13
1839, 3. ios. and a county the other, in any adjoining county; when both par
ties are towns, parishes or school districts, in the county in which
either is situated; when one party is a town, parish, or school
district, and the other some corporation or natural person, in
the county in which either of the parties is situated or lives;
but all actions against towns, for damages by reason of defects
in highways, shall be brought and tried in the county in which
the town is situated. All other corporations may sue and be
sued in the county in which they have any established place of
business, or in that in which the plaintifff or defendant, being a
natural person, lives.
Actions for
SEC. 7. When a forfeiture is recoverable in a civil action, it
forfeitures;
where brought. shall be brought in the county in which the offense was commit
ted, unless a different provision is made in the statute imposing
R. s., e. 114,
§ 14.
it; and if on trial it does not appear that it was committed in
the county where the action is brought, the verdict shall be in
favor of the defendant.
Justice actions
Sec. 8. Any action, against two or more defendants residing
against several
in different counties, to be tried before a justice of the peace or
defendants,
&c.
municipal or police court, may be brought in the county where
12 Maine, 17. either resides; and the writ and execution shall be directed to
15 Maine, 188.
18-12, c. 10, § 3. and executed by the proper oﬂicers in each of such counties, but
if there is but one defendant, such action shall be commenced in
the county where he resides.

TITLE IX.]

‘

CIVIL ACTIONS.

WRITS, INDORSEMENT, AND OTHER REQUISITES OF.

497
_CHAP. 81.

SEC. 9. Every writ original, of scire faeias, of error, of an \Vl1at writs
be in
dita qucrela, petition for writ of ccrtiorari, for review, or for must
dorscd, &c.
partition, and bill in equity, shall, before entry in court, be 1 Greenl. 399.
3 Greenl. 27,
indorsed by some suiﬁcient inhabitant of the state, when the 216.
plaintifff or petitioner is not an inhabitant thereof; and if pend 10 Maine, 43.
ing such suit, the plaintifff or petitioner removes from the state, R. S.. e. 114,
§ 16, 17.
such indorser shall be procured on motion of the defendant or
other party to the suit; but if one of two or more such plaintifffs
or petitioners is an inhabitant of the state, no indorser shall be
required except by special order of the court.
SEO. 10. In case of avoidance or inability of the plaintifff or Liability of
petitioner, the indorser is liable, in an action on the case, indorser, &c.
11 Maine, 443,
brought within one year after the original judgment in the court 467. 491.
Maine, 64.
in which it was rendered, to pay all costs recovered against the 15
16 Maine, 18.
plaintifff. A return upon the execution by an oﬂicer of the 20 Maine, 885.
Maine, 225,
county, where the indorser lives, that he has demanded of the 24
237, 353.
26
Maine,
40.
indorser payment thereof, and that he has neglected to pay, or
Maine, 131.
to show the oﬁieer personal property suiﬁeient to satisfy the exe 39
R. S., e. 114,
cution, or that he cannot ﬁnd the indorser within his precinct, § 18.
shall be conclusive evidence of his liability in the suit.
SEC. 11. If pending any such suit or petition, any such in New indorser
&c.
dorser becomes insufﬁcient or removes from the state, the court required,
R. S.. c. 114,
may require a new and sufficient indorser, the defendant con § 19, 20.
senting that the name of the -original indorser shall be struck
out; and such new indorser shall be liable for all costs from the
beginning of the suit, as if he had been the original indorser;
and if such new indorser is not provided, the action shall be dis
missed and the defendant recover his costs.
SEC. 12. All civil actions, except scire facias or other special Writs for civil
how
writs, shall be commenced by original writs. Writs issued by a actions;
signed, &c.
justice of the peace, or judge of a municipal or police court, 12 Maine. 196.
R. s., c. 114,
shall be sealed and signed by such justice or judge.
§ 21.
SEC. 13. All original writs, in the supreme judicial court, \Vrits
origin

may be issued by the clerk in term time or vacation, and framed

al ; how
issued, &e.

to attach the goods or estate of the defendant and for want 34 Maine, 9.
thereof to take his body; or as an original summons with or R. S.. c. 114,
§ 22, 23.
without an order to attach goods or estate.
SEC. 14. In actions against corporations, and in other cases Writs against
where goods or estate are attached, and the defendant is not corporations,
&c
liable to arrest, the writ and summons may be combined in one. R. ‘s., c. 114,
§ 25.
THE SERVICE OF WRITS, ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY, AND DISPOSAL
THEREOF.

SEO. 15. When goods or estate are attached on either of Summons;
to be left when
said writs, a separate summons, in form by law prescribed, shall attachment
is
be delivered to the defendant, or left at his dwellinghouse or made.
Maine, 494.
place of last and usual abode, fourteen days before the sitting of 31
R. s., c. 114,
the court, to which it is returnable, which shall be a suﬂicient § 2-}.
service.
'
63

-1-98
OHAP. 81.
Summons ;

original how
served.
15 Maine, 400.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 26.
Service if de
fendant is not
inhabitant, &c.

6 Greenl. 218.
19 Maine, 107.
R. S., c. 114,

i 21.
Order of notice
by- justice, 8:0.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 28.
1844. c. 86.
1850, c. 154.

Service on a
county.

R. s., c. 114,
§ 41.
Service on a
town or quasi
corporation.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 42.

Service on
other corpora
tions.
16 Maine, 370.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 43.

Service on in
snrancc com
panies out of
the state.

1846, c. 186.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

SEO. 16. Where the process is by original summons, wherein
the law does not require a'separate summons to be left with the
defendant, the service shall be suﬂicicnt by reading the writ or
original summons to the defendant, or by giving him in hand, or
leaving at his dwelling house or place of last and usual abode, a'
certiﬁed copy thereof, fourteen days before it is returnable.
SEC. 17. If the defendant was never an inhabitant of this
state or has removed therefrom, the summons where goods and
estate are attached, or a copy of the original -summons, as the
case may require, shall be left with his tenant, vent, or attorney,
fourteen days before the sitting of the court.
,
SEO. 18. \Vhen the goods or estate of any person, not an
inhabitant of the state, and having no tenant, agent, or attorney
therein, are attached in any civil action, and in all other cases
where the court orders notice, any justice of the court to which
the writ or process is returnable, may, in vacation, make his
order by him signed on the back of the writ or process, directing
how the defendant shall be notiﬁed; or the court, after entry,
may order such notice to the defendant as justice requires; and
if such order is complied with and proved to the satisfaction of
the court, the defendant shall be held to answer to the suit as in
other cases. Such order may be made by such justice in any
county in which the court is in session. A justice of the peace,
or judge of a municipal or police court, may in like cases and
with the same effect, order like notice on any writ or process
returnable, or in actions pending before them.
SEO. 19. When a suit is brought against a county, the sum
mons shall be served by leaving an attested copy thereof with
one of the county commissioners or with their clerk.
' SEO. 20. In all suits against the inhabitants of any town, par
ish, religious society, or school district, the summons shall be
served by leaving a copy thereof with the clerk, or one of the
selectmen or assessors, if there is any such officer, if not, with a
member of such corporation.
Sec. 21. In suits against all other corporations, however cre
ated, the summons shall be served by leaving a copy thereof with
its president, clerk, cashier, treasurer, general agent, or director;
if there is no such otﬁcer or agent found within the county where
such corporation is established, or where its records or papers
are by law required to be kept, such copy may be left with any
member thereof.
S110. 22. In an action against an insurance company estab
lished in any other state or country by an inhabitant of this
state, on a policy of insurance signed or countersigned by an
agent in this state, on property or lives within this state, a sum
mons in usual form, or a copy of the writ and declaration deliv
cred to the agent or attorney of the company within this state,
left at his last and usual place of abode, shall be a suﬂicient ser
vice; or if such service is made upon the person, being an inhab
itant of the state, who signed or countersigned the policy, on
which such action is founded, it shall also be a suﬂicient service;

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

but in either case, the court may order further notice to be given
to such company.
SEC. 23. In all the cases mentioned in the four preceding sec
tions, the writ shall be served thirty days before the sitting of
the court to which it is returnable.
SEO. 24. When an action is commenced against two or more
persons on a joint obligation or contract, and'any one or more
of them is not an inhabitant of the state, and has no tenant,
agent, or attorney in the state, service made on him as is provid
ed in the eighteenth section shall be sutﬁcient, unless further no
tice is ordered by_ the court.
SEO. 25. When the service of a writ is defective or insuf
ﬁcient, by reason of some mistake of the officer or of the plain
tiif, as to the place where, the time when, or the person with
whom, the summons or copy should have been left, the court
may order a new summons to be issued and served in such man
ner as they direct; and such service shall be as effectual as if

4.99
CHAP. 81.
Service, time
of, on corpora
tions.

R. S., c. 114,
§ 44.
Service on a
co-defendant
out of the
state.

R. s., c. 114,
§ 47.
Service defec
ti_ve or insulti
c1ent, &c.
R. S., c. 114,

vs.

made and returned on the original writ.
SEC. 26. When the name of a defendant is not known to the Name of de
un
plaintifff, the writ may issue against him by an assumed name; fendant
known, &c.
and if duly served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may n. s., c. 114,
§ 49.
be amended on such terms as the court orders.
SEO. 2'7. All goods and chattels may be attached and held as Attachment;
prop
security to satisfy the judgment for damages and costs which the personal
erty what, &c.
plaintifff may recover, except such as, from their nature and situa 7 Greenl. 232.
18 Maine, 231.
tion, have been considered as exempted from attachment accord 28
Maine, 176.
ing to the principles of the common law as adopted and practiced 31 Maine, 152.
33
Maine, 214.
in this state, and such as are hereinafter mentioned. Such per 37 Maine,
221.
sonal property may be attached on writs or taken on executions R. S. c. 114,
issued by a justice of the peace, or judge of a police or munici g 842,c.10§
29.
1.
pal court in any county; and they may, for that purpose, be
directed to the proper oﬂicer of such county by such justice or
judge.
SEO. 28. When estates for a term of years are attached, the Attachment of
real estate;
attachment may be preserved as provided in section thirty-ﬁve. how
made.
\Vhen sold on execution they shall be advertised, sold, and con 23 Maine, 165,
.
veyed as provided by sections thirty and thirty-three of chapter 170.
27 Maine, 449.
seventy-six. All real estate, liable to be taken in execution R. S., c. 114,
according to the provisions of chapter seventy-six, may be § 30.
attached on mesne process, and held as security for the purposes
mentioned in the preceding section. The oﬂicer, in order to
make such an attachment, need not enter on such estate or be
within view of it.
SEC. 29. A right in equity of redeeming lands mortgaged or Attachment of
taken in execution, may be attached on mesne process; and if,

equities of
redemption.
Effect of, if
redeemed be
fore levy.

before the levy of the execution, the lands are redeemed, or the
ineumbrance thereon is removed, the attachment shall hold the
premises discharged of the mortgage or levy as effectually as if R. s., c. 114,
§ 31.
they had not existed, and the premises had been attached.
SEC. 30. No attachment of real estate on mesne process shall Attachment;
of, &c.
create any lien thereon, unless the oiﬁcer making it, within ﬁve registry
39 Mame, 341.
days thereafter, ﬁles in the oﬁice of the register of deeds in the R. s., c. 114,
§ 32, 34.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

500

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 81. county or district in which all or any part of said estate is

situated, an attested copy of so much of his return on the writ,
as relates to the attachment, with the value of the defendant’s

property which he is thereby commanded to attach, the names
of the parties, the date of the writ, and the court to which it is
returnable. If the copy is not so ﬁled, within ﬁve days, the
attachment shall take effect from the time it is ﬁled, if before

Attachment
not valid, &c.
18 Maine, 296.
29 Maine, 268.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 33.

the entry of the action, although it is after service on the defend
ant. And such proceedings shall be had in such ofﬁce, by the
register of deeds, as are prescribed in the chapter respecting
the registry of deeds.
SEO. 31. N0 such attachment, though made and notice thereof
given as directed in the preceding section, shall be valid, unless
the plaintiii"s demand, on which he founds his action, and the na

ture and amount thereof are substantially set forth in proper

counts, or a speciﬁcation thereof is annexed to the writ.
Attachment,
SEO. 32. N0 personal property, and no real estate except
duration of,
equities of redeeming real estate mortgaged or taken in execu
&c.
12 Maine, 241. tion, or equities of redemption which have been sold on execu
22 Maine, 380. tion, or an obligee’s conditional right to a deed of conveyance of
R. s., c. 114,
real estate to him, which has been sold on execution, and except
§ 35.
property attached and replevied, and property attached belonging
to a person dying after an attachment of it had been made, or
specially provided for in any other case, shall be held, to be
taken in execution by virtue of an attachment, longer than thirty
days next after the day on which ﬁnal judgment was rendered
in the suit.
Attachment
Sac. 33. When ﬁnal judgment is rendered for the defendant,
dissolved by
The ﬁnal judgment, men
ﬁualjudgmcnt, the attachment is thereby dissolved.
&c.
tioned in this and the preceding section, is the judgment rendered
1-t Maine, 429. in the original action, and not such as may be rendered on review
19 Maine, 420.
R. S., c. 114, or writ of error.
§ 36, 94.
SEC. 34. When hay in a barn, horses, or neat cattle are
Attachment of
certain proper attached, and are suffered to remain, by the permission of the
ty valid, &c.
oﬁicer, in the defendant’s possession on security given for their
R. S., c. 114,
safe keeping and delivery to the oﬁicer, they shall not be subject
§ 37.
to a second attachment to the prejudice of the ﬁrst. (a)
Attachment
SEO. 35. When any personal property is attached, which by
how preserved
when property
cannot be re
moved, &c.
18 Maine, 125.
19 Maine, 92,
435.
R. S., c. 114,
39, 40.
849, c. 107.

reason of its bulk or other special cause cannot be immediately
removed, the oﬁicer may, within ﬁve days thereafter, ﬁle in the
oﬁicc of the clerk of the town, in which the attachment is made,
an attested copy of so much of his return on the writ, as relates
to the attachment, with the value of the defendant’s property
which he is thereby commanded to attach, the names of the par
ties, the date of the writ, and the court to which it is returnable;

and such attachment shall be as effectual and valid, as if the pro
perty had remained in his possession and custody. The clerk
shall receive the copy, and note thereon the time of his receiving
it, and enter it in a book kept for that purpose, and keep it on
(a)

18 Maine, 125, 272; 19 Maine, 92; 37 Maine, 326; 7 Grecnl., 178.

TITLE IX..]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

501
ﬁle for the inspection of those interested therein, for which he CHAP. 81.
shall be entitled to ten cents.
SEC. 36. The following goods and property shall be exempt Attachment,
personal prop
ed from attachment and execution:
erty exempted
First.—The debtor’s wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads, bed from.
ding, and household utensils necessary for himself, his wife and 16 Maine, 263.
children; but the beds and bedding so exempted shall not ex
ceed one bed, bedstead, and necessary bedding for every two
persons, nor the other household furniture, the value of ﬁfty dol
lars.
Second.—The tools of any debtor necessary for his trade or 10 Maine, 135.
28 Maine, 160.
occupation.
Third.-- All bibles and school books in actual use in the fami
ly, and one copy of the statutes of the state, and a library not
exceeding one hundred and ﬁfty dollars in value.
Fourth.—All iron stoves used exclusively for warming build
1ngs.
Fiﬂh.-— One cow, and one heifer under three years old; two 14 Maine, 312.
17 Maine, 70.
swine, one of which shall weigh not more than one hundred 38
Maine, 135.
pounds; and when he owns a cow, and a heifer more than three R. s., c. 141,
years old, or two swine, each weighing more than one hundred § 38.
0. 11. § 32.
pounds, he may elect the cow or the heifer, or which of the swine 1317.
1819, c. 134.
shall be so exempted; ten sheep and the wool from them; thirty 1857, c. 36.
hundred of hay for the use of the cow, two tons for the use of
the sheep, and a suiﬁcient quantity for the use of the heifer.
Siwth.—All produce of farms until harvested; and corn and
grain necessary and suiﬁeient for the sustenance of the debtor
and his family, not exceeding thirty bushels.
Sevenﬂa—A1l his interest in one pew in any meeting-house,
Where he and his family statedly worship.
E iglu:h. — All potatoes raised or purchased for the consump
tion of himself and family; one barrel of ﬂour; ten dollars
worth of lumber, wood, or bark.
"lath. _-All the ﬁrewood conveyed to his house for the use
of himself and family, not exceeding twelve cords.
Tmth.—One boat not exceeding two tons burthen, usually
employed in ﬁshing business, belonging wholly to an inhabitant
of this state.
Eleventh. — One plough of the value of ten dollars; one cart
of the value of twenty-ﬁve dollars; one harrow of the value of
ﬁve dollars; one yoke with bows, ring, and staple, all of the val
ue of three dollars; two chains each of the value of three
dollars; one ox-sled of the value of ten dollars; one cooking
stove of the value of thirty-ﬁve dollars; and all anthracite coal
not exceeding ﬁve tons; and bituminous coal not exceeding ﬁfty
bushels; and charcoal conveyed to his house to be consumed in
his family.
Tu-elﬂh. — One pair of working cattle, or instead thereof one
or two horses not exceeding in value one hundred dollars; and
a sufficient quantity of bay to keep them through the winter sea

son.

If he has more than one pair of working cattle, or if the
6

502

‘

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITIZE IX.

CHAP. 81. two horses exceed in value one hundred dollars, he may elect
Attachment,
real property
exempted
from.
1850, c. 207§ 1.
1865, c. 129.

which pair of cattle, or which of the horses shall be exempted.
SEC. 37. A lot of land and the improvements made thereon

purchased of the state under the provisions of chapter ﬁve shall

be exempted from attachment, in the manner therein provided;
land appropriated as a burying ground as described in section
eight of chapter ﬁfteen; also a lot of land, and dwellinghouse
and outbuildings thereon, or so much thereof as does not exceed
ﬁve hundred dollars in value, the property of a householder in
actual possession thereof not the owner of a lot purchased of
the state as aforesaid, shall be exempted from attachment or levy
of any execution, as is hereinafter provided.
Attachment,
S1-:o. 38. Any such person, wishing to avail himself of the
proceedings
foregoing provision, may ﬁle in the registry of deeds of the
requisite to
county or district in which the land lies, a certiﬁcate signed by
emption.
him,
declaring such wish and describing the’land and buildings;
1850, c. 207, § 4.
and the register, for the fees for recording deeds, shall record it
in a book by him kept for that purpose; and so much of such
property, as does not exceed the value aforesaid, shall be forever
exempt from attachment or levy on any execution issued on a
judgment recovered for any debt, contracted jointly or severally
by such person after the date of the recording thereof; and the
record in the register’s oﬂice shall be prima facie evidence that
the certiﬁcate purporting to be there recorded, was made, signed,
and ﬁled as appears upon such record.
Attachment,
SEO. 39. When property, exempted as aforesaid, is claimed
proceedings
by a creditor to be of greater value than ﬁve hundred dollars,
when the un
exempted part it may be seized on execution, and the appraisers shall ﬁrst set
is taken on
off such part of the property as the debtor may select, and if he
execution.
1850, c. 207, § 5. neglects so to do, as the ofﬁcer may select for him, to the value
of ﬁve hundred dollars, by metes and bounds; and shall then
appraise and set off to the creditor, in manner prescribed by
secure EX

law, the remainder or so much thereof‘, as may be necessary to

satisfy the execution; and the appraisers shall be sworn accord
ingly, and the oliicer shall make return of his doings thereon.
Attachment,
SEC. 40. After his death, the exempted premises shall not be
interest of
widow, &c., in sold for the payment of his debts during the widowhood of his
exempted
widow, or the minority of any of his children, but may be occu
homestead.
pied
by his widow during her widowhood and by his children
1850, c. 207, § 2.
during minority, free from any claim by any creditor of his
estate.
Attachment,
SEO. 41. No exemptions under the four preceding sections,
lien of me
shall apply to or defeat the liens of mechanics or other persons
chanics, &c.
1850, c. 207, § 3. under the provisions of chapter ninety-one.
Attachment of
SEC. 42. When the share or interest of any person in any
shares in a
incorporated
company is attached on mesne process, an attested
corporation.
R. s., c. 114, copy of the writ with a notice thereon of the attachment, signed
§ 45.
by the officer, shall be left with the clerk, cashier, or treasurer of
the company; and such attachment shall be a lien on such share
or interest, and on all accruing dividends; and if the officer hav
ing the writ of attachment exhibits it to the ofﬁcer of the com
pany having custody of the account of shares or interest of the
.

TITLE _IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

stockholders, and requests a certiﬁcate of the number held by CHAR 81.
the defendant, and such otiieer unreasonably refuses to give it, or
willfully gives him a false certiﬁcate thereof, he shall pay double
the damages occasioned by such refusal or neglect; to be recov
ered against him in an action on the case by the creditor.
SEC. 43. The franchise and all rights, privileges, and immuni- Attachment of

ties of any incorporated company of demanding and receiving franchise-&°~
tolls, or other corporate property may be attached on mesne §‘§‘_-' °' 114’
process, and the attaching olﬁcer shall leave an attested copy of
the writ with a notice thereon of the attachment, signed by him,
with the clerk, treasurer, or some oﬂicer or member of the cor
poration, as provided in section twenty-one.
'
SEC. 44. Different attachments in one or more counties may Attachment
be made successively upon the same writ, and by different oﬂi- dsi'f‘f'§r‘;1‘1‘:“’
cers, before the service of the summons upon the person whose counties, &c.
property is attached; but none after such service. And personal R- 5-, 0- 114,
property attached by a coroner may be again attached by a l 50'
sheriff, deputy sheriff, or constable, subject to the former attach
ment by giving notice thereof to the coroner and furnishing him
with a copy of the precept within a reasonable time thereafter,
and so property attached by the last named oﬂieers may be again
attached by a coroner in like manner; and personal property at
tached by a constable may be again attached by a coroner or

by a deputy in the same manner.
SEC. 45.

All writs of scire faeias may contain a direction to Attachment on

the oﬁicer serving them to attach the property of those against

scire whom they issue, and to arrest their bodies when liable to be ar- R_s_,'c_114,
rested, the same as in case of writs of attachment.
§5l
SEC. 46.

When personal property is attached, if the creditor Attached Per.

and debtor consent, the officer may sell it before judgment, ob- :3{‘(;“1b1f'c"(§’tf_'tY
serving the directions for selling on execution; and when the sent.’
same property is attached by different creditors in dilferent suits, if 1s\Iain°fl?196
it may be so sold by the ﬁrst attaching oﬁicer; or in case of his §52," c'

’

death, if he was a deputy sheriﬁ‘, by the sheriff or another depu

ty, by the written consent of the defendant and all attaching
creditors; and the proceeds of the sale, after deducting neces
sary expenses, shall be held, by such ﬁrst attaching oﬂicer or the
sheriff, subject to the successive attachments as if the sale had
been‘ on execution.
SEO. 47. When living animals, or goods liable to perish or Attached lit-.

waste, or be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which can- Q5 ‘“‘i““‘1s'
not be kept without great expense, are attached, and the parties g1'M,,i,,e, 152_

do not consent to a sale thereof, as before provided, the proper- R535-, c- 114.
ty so attached, at the request of either of the parties interested § ‘
therein, may be examined and appraised in the manner following.
SEO. 48. Upon such request made to the oﬂicer, he shall Notice and
give notice to all parties of the time and place of the appraisal,
in
with the names of the parties to the action, and of the supposed R_ S,’ c_ my
owner of the property, by posting up advertisements thereof in
198
two or more public places in the town where it was attached;
'c' '
or he may give like personal notice thereof, to all parties to the
suit in which it is attached, the notice in each case to be four

own. ACTIONS.

504

[TI'l_‘LE 111.

CRAP. 81. days at least before the day of the appraisal; and he shall pre

pare a schedule of the property, and cause three disinterested
persons, acquainted with the nature and value of such goods, to
be appointed and duly sworn as appraisers thereof.
}
SEO. 49. The appraisers shall be appointed, one by the cred
Appraisers,
how appointed.
itor, one by the debtor, and one by the oﬂicer; and, if the
R. s., c. 114,
creditor or debtor neglects to appoint one, the oﬂicer shall ap
§ 55.
point one in his behalf.
SEC. 50. The appraisers shall examine the property attached,
Mode of ap
praisal, &c.
and if they are of opinion that any part of it is liable to perish,
36 Maine, 161.
R. s., c. 114, be wasted, greatly reduced in value by keeping, or kept at a
§ 56.
great expense, they shall proceed to appraise it according to
their best judgment at its value in money; and it shall thereupon
be sold by the oﬂicer, and the proceeds held and disposed of as
before provided in case of a sale by consent of parties, un
less it is taken by the debtor, as is provided in the following
section.
Delivered to
SEO. 51. The property shall be delivered to the debtor, after
debtor if he
it is thus appraised, if he requires it, on his depositing with the
give bond.
31 Maine, 152. attaching oﬂicer the appraised value thereof in money, or giving
R. S., e. 114,

bond to him with two suﬂicient sureties, with condition to pay

M7.

him the appraised value of the property, or to satisfy all judg
ments that shall be recovered in the suits in which the property
is attached, if demanded before the attachments expire, or with
in thirty days after the time when the creditors might have been
entitled to demand payment out of the proceeds of the property
sold as before provided.
SEC. 52. The ofﬁcer taking such bond shall return it with
Bond returned
with writ; suit
the
writ, on which the ﬁrst attachment is made, as bail bonds are
thereon.
returned, with a certiﬁcate of his doings in relation thereto ; and
R. S., e. 114,
§ 58.
if the bond is forfeited, the creditors, or one or more of them,
may bring an action of debt thereon in the name of the otﬁcer.
SEO. 53. The writ in such action shall be indorsed with the
Proceedings in
the suit.
names of the creditors, by whom the action is brought; and if
R. S., e. 114,
judgment is rendered for the defendants, execution for the costs
§ 59.
shall be issued against all such creditors, or separate executions
against each creditor for his proper proportion, as the court con
siders most equitable and just.
SEC. 54. If judgment is rendered for the plaintiﬁ', the money
Money recov
ered; how ap
recovered shall be ﬁrst applied, under the order of court, to pay
plied.
R. S., e. 114,
§ 60.

Right by prior
ity of attach
ment

re

serve .

R. s., c. 114,
§ 61.
Suit upon the
bond and in
terest of credi
tors therein.

the reasonable expenses incurred by the creditors in prosecuting
the suit, so far as they are not reimbursed by the costs recovered
of the defendant; and the residue shall belong to all the attach
ing creditors according to their respective rights.
SEO. 55. No judgment or execution shall be awarded for the
use of any creditor, without reserving as much as may be due
upon any prior attachment, whether the creditor in such prior
suit is or is not one of those, by whom the action is brought on
the bond.
SEO. 56. Any creditor entitled to the beneﬁt of the bond,
who has not joined in bringing the action thereon, may, on his
motion at any time before ﬁnal judgment in the action on the

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

bond, be allowed, upon such terms as the court orders, to be- CHAR 81_
come a party to the suit in like manner and with like effect, as R S
114
if he had been one of the original plaintifffs; and his name shal§é2_‘' 6' '
be indorsed on the writ accordingly, or he may bring scire facias
on the judgment and recover any sum due him on the bond. But
no creditor, whose cause of action on such bond accrues more
than one year before the commencement of the action thereon,
shall have judgment or execution in such action; and no creditor
shall sue out any such writ of scire facias on the judgment, un
less within one year after the cause of the action accrues.
SEO. 57. When goods, which are sold or appraised and de- Right_by pri

livered to the debtor in the manner before provided, have been Egizygéscetiigf
attached by several creditors, any one of them may demand and R_ S,’ c_114,

receive satisfaction of his judgment, notwithstanding any prior §63
attachments, if he is otherwise entitled to demand the money,
and a. sufficient sum is left, of the proceeds of the goods, or of
their appraised value, to satisfy all prior attachments.
SEO. 58. When goods are sold or disposed of by consent of Surplus pro

partics, or after an appraisal as aforesaid, the proceeds there- §ffacsh‘§‘,Ynb°
of, whilst remaining in the hands of the oﬂicer, may be further 0ﬁicer’shands

attached by him as the property of the original defendant, as if g‘,-543-1 °' 114,
the goods themselves had remained in his possession; and the
'
proceeds so attached, shall be held and disposed of as if the
attachment had been made on the goods themselves before the
sale thereof; but nothing in this section shall prevent the oiiicer
from paying over to the defendant the surplus of the proceeds
of any sale, after retaining enough to satisfy all the attachments
actually existing thereon at the time of the payment.
SEO. 59. When any personal property is attached in any suit Attached pro

against one or more of the part owners thereof, it shall, upon
the request of any other part owner, be examined and appraised
as before provided for an appraisemcnt at the request of any
party in the suit; except that the part owner, who makes the
application, shall appoint one of the appraisers, and the defend
ant shall not appoint any.
SEC. 60. The property shall be delivered to the part owner,
attaching
at whose request
oﬂiocr, in
it was
a suﬁicient
appraised,
penalty,
uponwith
his giving
two sufficient
bond tosurethe

R,S_,c_114,
§65

And delivered
R, s_, Q, 114,

ties, with condition to restore it in like good order, or pay the W6
oﬂicer the appraised value of the defendant’s share or interest
therein, or satisfy all judgments recovered in suits in which the
property is attached, if demanded within the time during which
it would have been held by the attachments.
SEO. 61. If such appraised value, or any part thereof, is so His lien there

paid, the defendant’s share of the property shall thereby become §’,‘,‘a‘:g,§,‘%,§'
pledged to the party to whom it was delivered; and he may sell
it, if not redeemed, and shall account to the defendant for the
balance, if any, of the proceeds of the sale.
SEC. 62. If the attachment is in any way dissolved, the party,

attachment.
Ré.,S-’°- 114'
§ "
Restored to

to whom the defendant’s share was delivered, shall restore it to ‘1°‘°“d““t' 8”"
the defendant, or to the oﬂicer who made the attachment, to be €“(',8s_" c‘ 114‘
by him delivered to the defendant.

64

506

crvn. ACTIONS.

CHAR 81.
~

See. 63.

[TITLE 1x.

The doings of the oﬂicer and the bond shall be

~—-—— returned; and if any such bond by a part owner is forfeited, the

,3.‘I,‘;‘Z,:";{;.'.‘g,
%:°§’°“§éo."c‘ 114 '

like proceedings may be had thereon, as is provided in section
ﬁftv-two.
S110. 64. Personal property not exempt from attachment,

Atmchn‘1cnt of mortgaged, pledged, or subject to any lien created by law, and
persona pro
perty’
&c_
of which the debtor has the right of redemption, may be attached,
R. s., c. 114,

held, and sold as if it was unencumbered, if the attaching creditor

§_7%_, c_ 117’

ﬁrst tenders or pays the mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, the full

~§ 38.

amount unpaid on the demand so secured thereon.

ﬁggsresnegen
true mount,

SEC. 65.

.

Every mortgagee, pledgee, or holder of personal

property, on demand in writing made on him by any person de

&°gt-‘,1s." °' 114'

siring to attach it, shall render a just and true account of his
debt or demand so secured; and if he unreasonably neglects so
to do for six hours after such demand, the oiiicer may attach the
property as if it was unencumbered, and such attachment shall
have priority over the mortgage; and any overplus, after satisfy
ing the execution in the suit, shall be paid over to the mortgagee,
pledgee or holder; or if he shall receive more than is justly due
him on account of the demand so secured, he shall refund the
excess with ten per cent. interest thereon to the time of recov
ering judgment.
Attached 1>r0SEC. 66. When property attached on mesne process is claim

§;T

ed by any person not a party to the suit, and he omits, for the

8°11, 316space of ten days after notice given him therefore by the attach

?',2s_"°'114'

ing creditor, to bring his action of replevin, he shall not bring

it afterwards ; and the oﬂicer making the attachment, at the re
quest of the plaintifff and on his responsibility, the other attach
ing creditors, if any, consenting thereto, may sell the property at
public auction as provided for the sale of goods on execution;
unless the defendant claims it in his own right and forbids the
sale; but the sale shall not impair the rights of the party so
claiming the property.
Attachment of
SEO. 67. The right in equity of redeeming lands mortgaged;
the right of redeeming such right or equity of redemption, after
1ands,&c
it is sold on execution; the rigl1t of redeeming lands levied upon
12
é,1,3- or sold on execution; the right sold by this state or Massachu

151131“: 15%. setts to cut and carry away timber or grass from land, the soil
jg
$3.; of which is not sold; and the right, title, and interest, which any
-351\1n1neI520. person has, by virtue of a bond or contract, to a conveyance of

?;3s;'' °' 1”" real estate on speciﬁed conditions, may be attached on mesne
1867, c.11.

process, and the same lien shall be created thereon by such at

tachmcnt as if they were tangible property.
Cross actions
SEC. 68. When an action is brought in this state by any per
;;‘dS”t°;fi,&c' son not an inhabitant thereof, or who cannot be found therein
§'74,"'c'

Same where

'

to be served with process, he shall be held to answer to any ac

tion brought against him by the defcndant, if the demands are
of such a nature, that one judgment or execution can be set off
against the other.
See. 69. If there are several defendants in the original ac

§,‘,§_’“1d°‘e”‘1' tion, each of them may bring such cross action against the orig
R. s., c. 114, .inal plaintifff, and set off his judgment against that recovered
§76.

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

against himself and his co-defendants, as if the latter judgment CHAR 81_
had been against himself alone.
SEC. 70. The writ in such cross action may be served on the \Vrit, in such
attorney of the plaintifff in the original action; it shall be as §:§:£°w
valid as if made on the party himself in the state; and in the R_ S_,,,_114,

cases mentioned in the two preceding sections the court may or- §.76
der such continuances, as justice requires, for the defense of
either of the actions, or for setting off the demands as therein
provided.
SEC. 71. Goods and chattels attached by an oﬂicer, in case Attached
of his death, whether in his custody or taken from him by re- §:t‘1,f’O;";,ﬁ_
plevin or otherwise, and all claims for damages for goods so cer,howdis
taken from him, shall remain subject to the attachment in case of pR°s§d inn4
his death as if he had lived; and shall not be considered as
assets in the hands of his executors or administrators.
SEC. 72. All goods taken by replevin from an officer, who
has attached them, shall be considered as in his custody and control so far as to be liable to further attachments, as if the goods
had remained in his possession, subject to the provisions in the
three following sections.
SEO. 73. In case of judgment for a return of the goods so
for
replevied,
the whole
the plaintifff
of the in
goods
replevin
or the
and value
his sureties
thereof,shall
although
be liable
the

§i7." '

attachment, for which they were eventually held, was made after
the replevin of the goods.
Sec. 74. If an officer, after making an attachment of goods,
dies,
from office
while the
attachment
in
force,or-is
such removed
goods, whether
replevied,
or remaining
in remains
the possesN’

’

Attached
§e°[;’d§w“‘P‘e"'
R_ ’S_,'c'_ 114,
W3
Li-abiliay of
R_ s_,,,_114'

Attachment,
‘$36’
fed, ‘)2
P W_

sion of the officer, or of his executors or administrators, or R‘ S’, 0- 114,
other person having the possession or care of them, may be fur- §80'
ther attached by any oﬂicer so as to bind the goods or the pro
ceeds thereof, as if the latter attachment was made by the ﬁrst
mentioned oﬂicer.
SEO. 75. The officer making the latter attachment shall not Attachment;

take the goods themselves, but the attachment shall be made by g,‘:;f1e°1}"S:ch_
a return, setting forth an attachment in the common form, and R_ s_,c_ 114,
stating by whom the goods were previously attached; and if the W1
goods have not been replevied, by leaving a certiﬁed copy of
the writ, omitting the declaration, and of the return of that at
tachment, with the former oﬂicer, if living, or if dead, with his
executor or administrator, or if none are appointed, with the
person having possession of the goods; or if the goods have
been replevied, and the officer who made the original attachment

is dead, such copy shall be left with the plaintifff in replevin, or
his executors or administrators; and the attachment shall be
considered as made, when such copy is delivered in either of the
modes before described.
SEC. 76. Goods, that have been taken by replevin from an attachment.

attaching oﬁieer, shall not be further attached as the property of

°f

the original defendant in any other manner, than that provided R_s,,c_114,

in the four preceding sections, so long as they are held by the W2
person who replevied them, or by any one holding under him,

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE 11.

CHAR 81. unless the original defendant has acquired a new title to the
——————
s. 77. When any goods and chattels are attached, and the
Attachment
of g ooSEO.
g§:ts;,”“?,1cf"°'

debtor dies before they are taken in execution, the attachment

1 Gmn1_333_ shall remain in full force, as if the defendant were alive, unless

g‘,-,3S~ °' 114-. the estate of the deceased is represented insolvent by his execu
'
Attachment;

tors or administrators, and a commission of insolvency issues
within one year next after the defendant’s death.
SEC. 78. After the decease of a defendant, and before the

_,‘:;ﬁ,f,°,,‘T,ste‘:n“,'},11‘;" issuing of a commission of insolvency, the executor or adminis
?,-,f-- °- 114'
'

Attachment;

§,‘L_""'

trator on his estate may demand of the officer, who attached
such goods and chattels, a certiﬁed copy of the return thereof,
and a description of them, so particular as to enable him to de
scribe them in the inventory of the estate, subject to such attach
ment as aforesaid; and the appraisers may demand of the oﬂicer
a view of the goods and chattels, so that they may know their
value; and if the oliicer refuses or neglects to comply with either
of such demands, he shall forfeit to the executor or administrator
not exceeding thirty nor less than ten dollars.
SEO. 79.

When a commission of insolvency is issued within

one year from the death of the debtor, such attachment is there

R, 3,, ,_ 114, by dissolved; and the oiﬁcer, on demand, shall restore the goods
§85and chattels attached to the executor or administrator, to be
administered according to law, on payment of his legal fees and
charges of keeping the goods.
1: he hassold
Sec. 80. If, before any demand is made on the oﬁicer as
:1;ebf:“{’,1;§{gY,-or above, he has sold, on execution, the property so attached by
the proceeds. him, he shall not be deemed a trespasser in so doing, but be
R-S-to-114. liable only for the proceeds of the sale after deducting his legal
§ 86'
fees and charges for the keeping thereof, to be recovered by the
executor or administrator in an action for money had and re
ceived.
If proceeds
SEO. 81. If the oﬁicer has paid over the proceeds to the
,3‘:
judgment creditor before the demand, the executor or adminis
must refund. trator may recover such sum from the creditor by a similar
R._S., 0. 114,

§,:1'set0ﬁ'&c_
R_ S" c_ 114,

action.

Sac. 82.

In any such action, the defendant shall not set off

any demand, that he has against the executor or administrator or

W1
against the estate of the deceased.
Action b,-Pm.
SEO. 83. An action of replevin, trover, or trespass, brought

;§f)l§‘,:;,‘y“,“‘t‘_“8 by an oﬂicer against any person for taking away from his pos
tached, &c.
1§ég-;a5~ 114" ’ '

session any goods or chattels by him attached, shall not abate
by the death of either party, but may be prosecuted by or against
the executors or administrators of the deceased party the same
as actions on contracts. If judgment is recovered by the plain
tilt", the goods or money shall be held and appropriated as they

ought to be by the otﬁcer, if he had lived and recovered them
himself.
_Proceedings if
SEC. 84.

If judgment is rendered against the executor or ad

1,3,‘? efendant.
°‘““ ministrator, hc‘shall return the goods, or pay the damages recov
pélsq c. 114,

ered in full, though the estate of the deceased is insolvent.

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEO. 85. If a sheriff or other oﬂicer authorized to serve a CHAR 81_
precept, dies pending an action for or against him by reason of 7 4

any act done or omitted by him in his said oﬂice, and no admin

§’§;5‘,,,g

istration is granted on his estate within three months from his Tsigité ﬁg
death, the party for whose interest the suit is brought or defend’ ' '
ed may be admitted to prosecute or defend the suit in his own
name, by entering his appearance and giving security for costs,
as the court directs.
.
SEC. 86. When an attachment of real or personal property Aﬂachments

is made, and the parties, by a rule of court, submit the action, ;1;§§;;f;‘; 2%,
and all other demands between them, to the decision of referees, demands

and judgment is rendered on their report, the attachment is §f3§‘_*e‘c1_l'1%747'
thereby dissolved.
§ 92. '
'
SEC. 8'']. If the declaration is amended by consent of parties
so as to embrace a larger demand than it originally contained,
and judgment is thereon rendered for the plaintiﬂ', the attachment made on the mesne process . is thereby dissolved, unless . it
appears by the record, that no claims were allowed to the plamtitf, except those originally stated in the writ.

Attachments
,‘:;,S‘:,‘:,l1v,,e:d'§_}:‘,’1t
illlqreasins the
reenl. 348.

R. s., c. 114,
§93

NO ARRESTS ON CERTAIN DAYS.

SEO. 88.

No person shall be arrested, in any civil action, on Arrests notto

mesne process, or execution, or on any warrant of distress for B§,$§,‘,1ed§'y‘s_
taxes, on the fourth day of July, Christmas day, or on the day of R_s_,c,114,

the annual fast or thanksgiving.
Sac. 89.

§ 101

On the day of any military training, inspection, re- An-ests, oﬁi

vicw, or election, no officer whose duty it is to attend, and no gfzfsajfeiflh
soldier, who is enrolled as such, liable to do military duty and from, &c

duly notiﬁed to attend on said days, shall be arrested on mesne if 1‘S1“i:°-IP42"
process or on execution, or for taxes.
§io2I' ' '
SEO. 90. No elector shall be arrested, except for treason, Electors on
felony, or breach of the peace, on the days of election of United °le°“°“ am‘
States, state, or town officers.

R.
s., c. 114,
§103_

SEO. 91. No person shall serve or execute any civil process No civil pro
from midnight preceding to midnight following Sunday; but such
3‘:
service shall be void, and the person executing such process shall Sunday.

be liable in damages to the party aggrieved, as if he had no R- S-1°-11%
§ 104.
process.
LIMITATION OF PERSONAL ACTIONS.

SEC. 92. The following actions shall be commenced within What actions
six years next after the cause of action accrues and not after- E2325;
wards,

I

six years.

First.— All actions of debt founded upon any contract or lia- ‘1’5G,{I°a'=i‘;1e' 7146-.,_
bility not under seal, except such as are brought upon the judg- 17 Maine: 69.
ment or decree of some court of record of the United States,
333;
or a state, or of some municipal or police court or justice of the R- S-, c- 146,
peace in this state.
V
H‘
SccomZ.—All actions upon judgments of any court not a court
of record, except municipal and police courts and justices of the
peace in this state.

5

CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAR 81_

[TITLE IX.

Third.-—All actions for arrears of rent.
Fourth.—All actions of assumpsit or upon the case founded
on any contract or liability, express or implied.
F-ifth.—All actions for waste, of trespass on land, and of
trespass, except those for assault and battery and false impris
onment.

Sixth. —All actions of replevin, and other actions for taking,

Actions for.

detaining, or injuring goods or chattels.
Sevent/t.—All other actions on the case, except actions for
slanderous words and for libels.
SEC. 93. All actions for the escape of prisoners committed

§fc_p"s' on execution, shall be actions on the case, and commenced within
16 Maine, 408. one year after the cause of action accrues; but all actions against

2.}.

3,53 a sheriff, for the negligence or misconduct of himself or his dep

R. s., c.l,~16, ' uties, shall be commenced within four years next after the cause

§2’*'

of action accrues.

Actions for

See. 94.

All actions of assault and battery, false imprison

ment, for slanderous words, and for libels, shall be commenced
R-S-,c-146, within two years next after the cause of action accrues.
§3'
SEC. 95. No scire facias shall be served on bail, unless within
S
'
f '
.
.
.
.
aggillsta
one year next after Judgment
rendered agamst
the principal.
ﬁgs" @146,
SEC. 96. All actions against an indorser of a writ must be
Action,

commenced within one year next after judgment entered in the

aguil1$!iI1d0l'8- original action.
ers of Writs.
R S,’ c_ 146,
SEC. 97. None of the foregoing provisions shall apply to any
if ' f actlon upon a promissory note signed in the presence of an
‘xceptmno
witnessed
and attesting witness, or upon any bills, notes, or other evidences of

bank notes.

debt issued by a bank. (a)

?'7_S"°'“6’
Exception of
§{f§ 5°,-46

§8. ’

'

SEO. 98.

'

Nor shall any of the provisions in this chapter

apply to any case or suit, which, by any particular statute, is
limited to be commenced within a different time.

SEC. 99.

In all actions of debt or assumpsit to recover the

Eélcsgfmotf Open balance due upon a mutual and open account current, the cause
4 Gmn1_ 337_ of action shall be deemed to accrue at the time of the last item

38 Mmncy 149- proved in such account. \
11.8.,
.
.
§9. c .146 '
SEC. 100. If any person entitled
to brmg
any of the afore
S_1“'hit'\s gt

said actions, is a minor, married woman, insane, imprisoned,

rug so 111

hm, and m_ or without the limits of the United States when the cause of
'1-§iI}u<>s!il:‘eers-397 action accrues, he may bring his action within the times limited

29 Mainc,’é|7_' in this chapter, after the disability is removed.
:1-105-,°~146,

SEC. 101.

All personal actions on any contract, not limited

Gen'm,u,niu_ by_ any of the foregoing sections or other law of the state, shall
tion of twenty be brought within twenty years after the cause of action accrues.
§“§f,;,,,e' 81.
SEC. 102. When a writ fails of a suﬂicicnt service or return
‘£3 é\1ﬂinP1-4‘1364- by unavoidable accident, or default, or negligence of the officer

§i1_'’ 0' ' to whom it was delivered or directed; or when the writ is abat
Saving in eer- ed, the action otherwise defeated for any matter of form, by the
“‘"‘ °‘“°"’°f
failurc of suits.

death of either party, or if a judgment for the plaintifff is re
_

_

_

versed on a writ of error, the plaintifff may commence a new ac
(a) 7Maine, 25; 16 Maine, 470; 19 Maine, 72; 21 Maine, 176; 23 Maine, 497; W
Maine, 330; 30 Maine, 118; 31 Maine, 158; 38 Maine, 179; 38 Maine, 350.
\

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

tion on the same demand within six months after the abatement
or determination of the original suit, or reversal of the judg
ment; and if he dies and the cause of action survives, his execu
tor br administrator may commence such new action within said
six months.
SEC. 103. If any person entitled to bring or liable to any
action before mentioned, dies before or within thirty days after
the expiration of the time herein limited therefore, and the cause
of action survives, the action may be commenced by or against
the executor or administrator at any time within two years after
his appointment, and not afterwards if barred by the other pro
visions of this chapter.
SEC. 104. If any person is disabled to prosecute an action
in this state by reason of his being an alien subject or citizen of
a country at war with the United States, the time such war
continues shall not be a part of the period herein limited for
the commencement of any of said actions.
SEC. 105. All actions and suits for any penalty or forfeiture
on any penal statute, brought by any person to whom the pen
alty or forfeiture is given in whole or in part shall be commenced
within one year after the offense was committed; and if no indi
vidual so proseeutes, it may be recovered by suit, indictment, or

information, in the name and for the use of the state, at any time
within two years after the offense was committed, and not after
wards.

Sec. 106.

The time when awrit is actually made, with an

intention of service, shall be deemed the commencement of the
suit.
SEC. 107. If any person liable to any action mentioned
in this chapter, fraudulently conceals the cause of such action
from the person entitled thereto, or if a fraud is committed
which entitles any person to an action, the action may be com
menced at any time within six years after the person entitled
thereto discovers that he has just cause of action.
SEC. 108. In actions of debt or upon the case founded upon
any contract, no acknowledgment or promise shall be allowed to
take the case out of the operation of the provisions of this chap
ter, unless the acknowledgment or promise is an express one, in
writing, signed by the party chargeable thereby. No such ac
knowledgement or promise made by a joint contractor shall affect
the liability of the other contractors. (a)
SEC. 109. In actions against two or more joint contractors,
if it appears,‘ on trial or otherwise, that the plaintifff is barred by
the provisions of this chapter as to one or more of the defend
ants, but entitled to recover against the others by virtue of a
new acknowledgement, promise, or otherwise, judgment shall be
rendered for the plaintifff as to the defendant against whom he
l1as a right to recover, and for the other defendants against the
plaintifff.
(a) 15 .\Iaine. 360, 443; 17 Maine, 145, 184 ; 21 Maine, 433; 22 Maine, 100; 23 Maine,
453 ; 24 Maine, 634; 29 Maine, 47.

511
7CHAP. 81.~
8 Green]. 447.
10 Maine, 399.

38 Maine, 217.
R. S., c. 146,
§ 12.
Provision in
case of death
of either party,
&c.

R. s., c. 146,
§ 13.

Saving of
rights of alien
enemies during
war.

R. s., c. 146,
§ 14.
Limitation of
suits for pen
alties, &c.

5 Grecnl. 490.
31 Maine, 528.
39 Maine, 212,
353.
R. S., e. 146,
§ 15, 16.

The making of
a writ, &c.

R. S., c. 146,
§ 17.
Limitation ex
tended in cases
of fraud.
3 Greenl. 405.
7 Grcenl. 370.
9 Greenl. 131.
31 Maine, 448.
39 Maine, 404.
R. S., c. 146,
§ 18.
Renewal of
promise must
be in writing,
&c.
R. S., c. 146,
§ 19, 20.

If the action is
barred, &c.

7 Greenl. 26.
15 Maine. 390.
R. S., c. 146,
§ 21.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

512

[TITLE IX.

01111». 81. _ SEC. 110. In an action on contract, if the defendant pleads
in abatement, that any other person ought to have been jointly
Non-joindcr of
sued, and issue is joined thereon, and it appears on the trial,
defendants
shall not
that the action was barred by the provisions of this chapter
abate, 8:0.
against such person, the issue shall be found for the plaintifff.
R. S., c. 146,
§ 22.
SEC. 111. Nothing herein contained shall alter, take away,
Effect of in
dorsement of or lessen the effect of payment of any principal or interest made
partial pay
by any person; but no indorsement or memorandum of such
ments, &c.
payment
made on a promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
R. S., c. 146,
writing, by or on behalf of the party to whom such payment is
§ 23, 24.
made or purports to be made, shall be deemed suiﬁcient proof
of payment to take the case out of the operation of the pro
visions of this chapter; and no such payment made by a joint
contractor, or his executor or administrator, shall affect the lia
bility of any other. (a)
SEC. 112. Every judgment and decree of any court of re
Presumption
of payment
cord of the United States, or any state, or of a justice of the
after twenty
years.
28 Maine, 81.
R. S. c. 146,
§ 25.
Application of
this chapter to
set-0ﬂ's.
R. S., c. 146,

§ 26.

Provision if
defendant is
out of the
state.

R. s., c. 146,
§ 28.

peace in this state, shall be presumed to be paid and satisﬁed at
the expiration of twenty years after any duty or obligations ae
erued by virtue of such judgment or decree.
Sac. 113. All the provisions of this chapter respecting limit
ations, shall apply to any debt or contract ﬁled by way of set-off
on the part of the defendant; and the time of such limitation of
such debt or contract shall be computed, as if an action had been
commenced therefore at the time when the plaintifff’s action was
commenced, unless the defendant is deprived of the beneﬁt of
the set-off by the nonsuit or other act of the plaintifff; and when
he is thus defeated of a. judgment on the merits of such debt or
contract, he may commence an action thereon within the time
limited, as provided in the one hundred and second section of
this chapter for bringing a new action for the reasons therein
mentioned.

Sac. 114.

If any person is out of the state when a cause of

action accrues against him, the action may be commenced within
the time limited therefore after he comes into the state; and if
any person is absent from and resides out of the state after a
cause of action has accrued against him, the time of his absence
shall not be taken as a part of the time limited for the com

mencement of the action. (b)
(a) 20 Maine, 345; 21 Maine, 176, 433 ; 22 Maine, 497; 23 Maine, 156; 28 Maine, 419;
30 Maine, 253, 425; 32 Maine, 169, 260 ; 33 Maine, 182 ; 35 Maine, 183, 364.
(b) 20 Maine, 269 ; 23 Maine, 156, 413; 37 Maine, 306, 389; 38 Maine, 171.

TITLE 111.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

513
Cnxr. 82.

CHAPTER 82.
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN COURT.
Actions to be entered ﬁrst day. Further service may be ordered.
\Vhen default may be recorded; when taken off.

Sec.

Defendant out of state, proceedings.

20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
45.

Execution stayed one year, unless bond is given; review.
Bond left with clerk; may petition for a review.
Court may permit an action on a claim against an insolvent estate.
May allow appeals and complaints to be entered after ﬁrst term.
On petition within one year ; attachment or bail not revived.
On appeals, original papers to be sent up, except writ and pleadings.
Proceedings not abated, arrested, or reversed for want of form.
\Vrit or process lost, leave granted to ﬁle a new one.
Defendants may be struck out or new ones inserted, on payment of costs.
Distinction between trespass and trespass on the case, abolished.
Treasurers may sue on contracts in their own names.
Penalties recoverable by action of debt.
Assignee of a grantee may sue on covenants of ﬁrst grantor.
Several breaches may be assigned and general performance pleaded.
General issue may be pleaded, and brief statements ﬁled. Speciﬁcations of
defense to be ﬁled fourteen days before second term. Proceedings.
Demurrers, when ﬁled, to be joined and not to be withdrawn ; amendments after
decision on them. If demurrer is overruled, defendant may plead anew, on
payment of costs, unless judged frivolous. “'hen judgment shall be en
tered on the demurrer.
Involuntary trespasses, tender may be made, or money brought into court.
Offer to be defaulted and its effect.
Tender may be made before entry of action. Towns may tender or offer de
fault in actions for injuries.
Property of a deceased debtor on joint contract, liable.
Libel, actions for, truth a justification; exception.
Counts, misjoinder, and wrong joinder not cause for reversal.
Motions in arrest of judgment not to be entertained in civil actions.
Damages to be assessed by a jury on certain bonds and contracts.
Interest on judgments allowed.
Judge not disqualiﬁed by residence in a town interested when there is a waiver.
Death of a party, administrator may appear or be summoned, heirs also in
equity.
Husband may appear in action brought by an unmarried woman.
Insane parties, guardians may be appointed ad litem.
Motions to set aside verdicts, proceedings on them. ‘Costa.
\Villful trespasses, proceedings respecting them.
Damages on protest of bills.
Ten hours of actual labor a legal day's work ; exceptions.
Subsequent attaching creditors may petition to defend prior suits.
Subsequent attaching creditors admitted, on leave, and bond ﬁled.
Judgment how entered, if defense fails.
Judgment how entered, if defense prevails.
Judgment at ﬁrst tcnn, may be petition for review; proceedings.
Attachments made to delay or defraud creditors, void.
Action by a public oﬂicer not abated by his ceasing to be in office.
Action not maintainable on demands discharged by payment of part.
Bankrupt may maintain action in his own name, unless abated.
Sr-:r-orr.
Set-oﬂ'; defendant ﬁles ﬁrst day of term; clerk enters date and notice on
docket

65

5M
CHAP. 82. SEC‘ 47'
48.
49.
50.
51.

$$$$$$$

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

musm.

Set-off, kind of demands.
Set-oﬁ' must be between all of plaintiﬂs and all of defendants.
Set-off of demand assigned, when made.
Set-off of demand subsequently acquired, not to be made.
Set-oﬂ' of demand in suits in name of one for beneﬁt of another.
Set-oﬂ' of sums equitably due only.
Set-off of demands due from one deceased.
Set-off in actions brought in a representative capacity.
Set~oﬂ', pleadings and issue how made.
Set-oﬁ' actions not discontinued, statute of limitations.
Set-oﬁ' no balance against a. plaintifff suing on a demand assigned.
Set-off proceedings before inferior tribunals.
Avnrrons.

59. Auditors appointed in certain cases, parties notiﬁed, witnesses attend.
60. Auditors all hear, majority report, may be discharged, report recommitted.
61. Auditors report evidence, may be disproved.
62. Auditors, neglect to appear before them in actions of account, eifect.
Jcams.
63.
64.
65.
66.
G7.

G9.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.

Juries how impanneled and sworn.
Juries, supernumeraries. transfers, excuses.
Juries, form of their oath.
Juries, their foreman how chosen.
Juries, talcsmen for, when and how returned.
Juries, new may be summoned during term time.
Juries, challenges how tried.
Juries may ﬁnd special or general verdicts for cases of law.
Juries when not agreed, proceedings.
Juries not disqualiﬁed by residence.
Juries, objections known and not stated before trial.
Juries, their verdicts not affected by irregularities not injurious
Juries, verdict set aside for improper practices with them.
Wrrssssns arm Evrnskcx.
Witnesses may be summoned by clerks and justices of the peace.

76.
77. Witnesses, religious belief affects credibility only.
78. Witnesses, parties to suits and others interested may be.
79. Witnesses, except where cause of action implies an oﬂ'ence.

Witnesses, attestations not affected.
81. Witnesses, testimony of a party out of the state, how taken.
82. Witnesses, testimony of a party may be contradicted.
Witnesses, provisions not applicable to suits in representative character.
Witnesses, same rules respecting them in all tribunals.
\Vitnesses, duly summoned and neglecting to appear; attachment.
Witnesses, refusing to answer, may be ﬁned.
Witnesses, oaths how administered to them.
\Vitnesscs, scrupulous of oath, nﬁirm.
Witnesses, incompetency on conviction of crime.
Witnesses. fees for travel and attendance ﬁrst paid or tendered.
91. Records of other courts evidence.
Printed copy of statutes evidence.
93. Foreign and unwritten law, how proved.

$$$$$$

COSTS.
Party
95. Costs
Costs
4 . Costs
98. Costs
Costs

prevailing, recovers costs.
when plaintifff appeals from judgment in his favor.
in nctions of replevin regulated.
in actions that should have been brought before a justice.
when damages reduced by set-oﬂ'.
of evidence not doubled or trebled.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

SEC. 100. Costs discretionary, on petitions for review and the like.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.

Costs of ﬁrst suit paid before second suit for same cause.
Costs, :1 person liable for, who sues in name of the state.
Costs, state liable for, in a civil suit.
Costs not taxable for travel of attorney for the state.
Assignee’s name and residence to be indorsed on writ in name of assignor.

106.

Assignee, if not known, liable for costs.

107.
108.

Costs in one action only, when more that should have been joined.
Costs not allowed in actions on judgments, on which executions might
have issued.
Costs for travel in actions by corporations. how computed.
Costs, power of the court over not affected.
Costs of a bankrupt limited.

109.
110.
111.

5

CHAP 89
°

-"

‘

Exnonrrozv.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.

Execution, when issued and returnable.
Execution not to be issued after one year; exception.
Execution may be renewed within three years.
Execution, if cannot be renewed, scire fucias may issue.
Execution framed to collect interest on judgments.
Execution lost or destroyed, new may be issued.

Sue. 1.

No action can be entered after the ﬁrst day of the Actions en.

session of the supreme judicial court without special permission. gzed ﬁmday’
When it appears that the defendant has not had sufﬁcient notice,
the court may order such further notice as it deems proper.
SEC. 2. When a legal service of the writ has been made, and
the defendant does not appear by himself or attorney within the
three ﬁrst days of the term, his default may be recorded, and the
fore thein jury
are dismissed
fortothe
appearance
charge
the declaration
taken
be term,
true. enters
If thehis
defendant,
be

R_'s_,c,115,
§ 1. 2
\Vhen default
’e§‘Yf;f1;§°°‘d'
tak’en oﬂ'.
R. giainci
s.7l:.ei15,'

and pays to the plaintifff such costs as the court orders, the de- ifs c 151

fault shall be taken off.

The court may permit it to be taken §i3." '

'

off for suﬁicient cause.
SEC. 3. When the defendant was an inhabitant of the state Defendant out

and absent from it at the time of service, and it does not appear °‘ mm, M
that he has returned, or has actual notice of the suit, the court £13,841 °' 115’
may continue the action, not exceeding twice unless for special
cause, or enter judgment on default. If the defendant was not
an inhabitant of the state or within it, and had actual notice of
the suit, the court may order a continuance if he does not appear
at the ﬁrst term.
SEO. 4. When judgment is rendered on default of an absent Execution
defendant in a personal action as provided in the preceding sec- stc’:1l;e‘},:{‘:ss
tion, execution cannot be issued thereon within one year there- hondis given.
after, unless the plaintifff ﬁrst gives bond to the defendant, with i§°'S 0 11,
one or more surcties, in double the amount of damages and costs, §5, i’. ' 0'
conditioned to repay the amount to the defendant, if the judg
ment is reversed on review, to which he is entitled of right,
brought within one year, or so much of the amount recovered
as is recovered back on such review.
SEO. 5. The bond shall be deposited with the clerk, who shall Bond left with

decide upon the sulﬁciency of the surcties, subject to an appeal f.1i§l"nl.ft';r'0s_
to a justice of the court, and if the review is not so prosecuted, ecuted, &c.

the defendant may, within one year after he ﬁrst has notice of g‘,-; séf °- 115»

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

516

the judgment, petition the court for a review, and the court may
grant it on such terms as it deems reasonable.
SEC. 6. When a person, whose claim on an insolvent estate
Court may
permit an
has
been wholly or partially disallowed, has, by accident or mis
action on a.
take, omitted to give notice within the time allowed of his in
claim, &c.
R. S., c. 123, tention to have it determined at law, the court, on application
§ 9.
within two years after the return of the commissioners, may, af
ter notice to the executor or administrator of the estate, give
him leave to institute a suit upon it at the next term of the court,
but not after four years from the time when administration was
granted; and no distribution can be disturbed by a recovery in
such an action.
SEC. 7. When an appeal is taken from a judgment of a jus
May allow an
appealed ac
tice
of the peace or municipal or police court, and the action by
tion, &c.
mistake or accident is not duly entered, and the judgment has
R. S., e. 123,
not been aiﬁrmed, the court may, on petition of either party, al
§ 12.
low the action or complaint to be entered at another term of the
court, upon such terms as are deemed reasonable, and if entered
the court shall proceed thereon as if entered at the proper term.
SEO. 8. Such petition must be presented to the court, or ﬁled
Petition for it
within one
in
the clerk’s oﬂice within one year after the term at which the
year, attach
action ought to have been entered; and no attachment or bail
ment or bail
not revived.
shall be revived or continued by such proceedings.
R. S., c. 123,
SEC. 9. In cases carried from a justice of the peace, munici
§ 13.
On appeals,
pal or police court, to a higher court, depositions and original
original papers
to be sent up, papers, except the process by which the suit was commenced,
except writ
and pleadings. the return of service thereon, and the pleadings, shall be certi
ﬁed by the proper ofﬁcer, and carried up without leaving copies,
R. S., c. 151,
§ 21.
unless otherwise ordered by the court having original cognizance.
SEO. 10. No process or proceeding in courts of justice shall
Proceedin s
not abate ,& he abated, arrested, or reversed, for want of form only, or for
6 Greenl. 307'
16 Maine, 26% circumstantial errors or mistakes which by law are amendablc,
266, 282.
1 when the person and case can be rightly understood.
Such er
22 Maine, 311
rors and defects may be amended, on motion of either party, on
R. S., c. 115,
§9, 10.
such terms as the court orders.
SEO. 11. When in an action pending, the loss or destruction
Writ of pro
cess lost, new
of
a writ or process after service is proved by aﬂidavit or other
one may be
wise, the court may allow a new one to be ﬁled, corresponding
ﬁled, &c.
1SlS,c. 57, § 1. thereto as nearly as may be, to have the same effect as the one
lost or destroyed.
SEO. 12. When there are two or more defendants, the writ
Defendants
may be struck may be amended by striking out one or more of them, on pay
out on pay
ment of costs, ment of costs to him to that time.
A writ founded on contract,
&c.
express
or
implied,
may
be
amended
by inserting additional de
37 Maine, 563.
R. S.. c. 115, fendants; and the court may order service to be made on them,
§ 11, 12.
and their property to be attached as in case of original writs;
and on return of service duly made, they shall be deemed par
CHAP. 82.

t__

ties to the suit, but not liable to costs before such service.
Trespass and
trespass on the
case.
B. S., c. 115,
§ 13.

SEC. 13. The distinction between actions of trespass and
trespass on the case is abolished. A declaration in either form
is good.

TITLE IX.]

Sec. 14.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

The treasurers of state, counties, towns, and cor- CHAR 82_

porations, may maintain suits in their own names as treasurers Treasurers
~
on contracts given to them or their predecessors, and prosecute may sue in
suits pending in the name of their predecessors.
‘hm °‘“\
names, &c.

SEC. 15.

Penalties may be recovered by an action of debt, R. s., c. 115,

when no other form or mode of recovery is provided by the stat- §P14'1t_
CHI!

ute imposing them.

_

.

16$

recpverable by

SEC. 16. The asslgnee of a grantee, or his executor or i€"§11cOf1<}gbl
administrator, after eviction by an older and better title, may §21_
maintain an action on a covenant of seizin or freedom from in- \Vhen assignee

eumbrance contained in absolute deeds of the premises between $5,? §ff§_
the parties, and recover such damages as the ﬁrst grantee might R. c_ 115,

upon eviction, upon ﬁling, at the ﬁrst term, in court for the use § 16,17
of his grantor, a release of the covenants of his deed and of
all causes of action thereon. The prior grantee shall not, in
such case, have power to release the covenants of the ﬁrst grant
or to the prejudice of his grantee.
SEO. 17. In actions on contract in a penal sum for perform- Several

ance of covenants or agreements, and in actions of covenant, §;°§;‘,‘;n;':,"Y
several breaches may be assigned, and in defense, performance &c.
'
generally, both in affirmative and negative covenants, may be $1-15$--°-115,
alleged.
'
SEO. 18. The general issue may be pleaded in all cases, and General issue
a brief statement of special matter of defense ﬁled, or a specia Zafybﬁfe 15,1‘;
plea, or on leave double pleas in bar, may be ﬁled. The plaintifff mengs ﬁled
must join a general issue, and may ﬁle a counter brief statement; §P§"Q2§,";é°3,“
and in all civil actions if the defendant appears, he shall, at least B8 ﬁ1§<1f?\1r
fourtcen days before the next term after his appearance, ﬁle with b°.,‘}I,‘,.“.’\..*c(,,..1
the clerk a brief speciﬁcation of the grounds of his defense, §;f:;-ecdings
there
with a isdeclaration,
a good defense
signed by
to all
himor
orahis
part
attorney,
of the plaintifff’s
that he believes
claim, ;%31\Iaine,157.
10 Maine’
and that he intends to make it.

The clerk shall mark for trial 13 Maine, 36.

on the docket only cases in which speciﬁcations are so ﬁled; and ig_2M“ine' 34
the court shall dispose of all other cases as justice requires; and 291'waine,471_

may allow speciﬁcations to be amended, or to be ﬁled, and the Rigs-' °-115»
actions entered on the trial docket after the time aforesaid. issi, c. 55§ 4.

When no issue is joined, or no actual trial had in any mode in
actions so entered on the trial docket, and judgment is rendered
for the plaintifff, the defendant shall pay treble costs, unless the
judge certiﬁes or enters on record that the defendant had rea
sonable grounds for ﬁling his speciﬁcations, and that they were
not ﬁled for delay. The plaintifff may demur to such speciﬁca
tions, and the demurrer shall be disposed of as in other cases.
SEC. 19. A general demurrer to the declaration may be ﬁled; Demurrers,

and in any stage of the pleadings either party may demur, and
§l§d'a:1‘:1
the demurrer must be joined, and it shall not be withdrawn with- not to be,\vith
out leave of the court, and of the opposite party; but the judge
shall rule on it, and his ruling shall be ﬁnal unless the party
aggrieved excepts to it; and if the law court deems such exeeptions frivolous, it shall award treble costs against the party
excepting from the time the exceptions were ﬁled. If the

§{.”;‘;;"uie;,‘de_
fendnnt may
§,’1,e‘,‘,‘,i,;§,‘;‘,,",'o,
.°°;‘S-d“f"!§s§_
l)\i1sg;e\vhrt;no

declaration is adjudged defective and is amendable, the plain- ";‘1§;"§;‘e‘di_“‘°

518

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

tiff may amend upon payment of costs from the time when the
demurrer was ﬁled. If the demurrer is ﬁled at the ﬁrst term
and overruled, the defendant may plead anew on payment of
costs from the time when it was ﬁled, unless it is adjudged friv
olous and intended for delay, in which case judgment shall be
entered. At the next term of the court in the county where the
action is pending, after a decision on the demurrer has been cer
tiﬁed by the clerk of the district to the clerk of such county, and
not before, judgment shall be entered on the demurrer, unless the
costs are paid, and the amendment or new pleadings ﬁled on the
second day of the term. ‘
Tender may be
SEC. 20. In actions of trespass on lands, the defendant may
made or money
ﬁle a brief statement disclaiming all title to the land described,
brought into
court, &c.
and alleging that the trespass was involuntary, or by negligence
36 Maine, 407. or mistake, or in the prosecution of a legal right, and that before
1841, e. 1§ 19.
action brought he tendered suﬁicient amends therefore, or that he
brings money into court to satisfy the damages with costs to that
time; and if on trial he establishes the truth of his allegations,
he shall recover costs.
Oﬂ'er to be de
SEC. 21. In an action founded on judgment or contract, the
faulted and its
defendant
may, in writing entered of record with its date, offer
effect.
If not accepted within such
20 Maine, 37, to be defaulted for a speciﬁed sum.
312.
21 Maine, 529. time as the court orders, it shall not be offered in evidence or
30 Maine, 4-58. have any effect upon the rights of the parties, or the judgment
33 Maine, 216.
If the plaintiﬁ fails to recover
31 Maine, 409. to be rendered, except the costs.
39 Maine, 71, a sum as due at the time of the offer greater than the sum
474.
offered, he recovers for costs such only as accrued before the
R. S., e. 115,
offer, and the defendant recovers costs accrued since that time;
Q22.
847, c. 31,
and his judgment for costs may be set off against the plaintiﬂ”s
§ 1, 2.
judgment for debt and costs.
Tender may be
SEC. 22. A tender, with the costs then accrued, may be made
made before
after
action brought and before its entry, to the plaintifff or his
entry of action.
Towns may
attorney, with the same effect as if made before action brought.
tender, &c.
1841, c. 1, § 19. In actions against towns founded on the sixty-ﬁrst section of
chapter eighteen, a town may make a tender before the com
mencement or entry of the action, or offer to be defaulted for a
speciﬁed sum, with the same effect as in actions on contract.
Property of a
SEC. 23. The goods and estate of a deceased debtor in a joint
deceased debt
contract, express or implied, or in a judgment on contract, are
or on joint
contract liable as liable, and the creditor has his remedy, as in case of a joint
for ayment.
and several contract.
R. ., c. 115,
§ 23.
SEC. 24. In a suit for writing and publishing a libel, evidence
In actions for
shall be received to establish the truth of the matter charged as
n libel the
truth a justiﬁ libellous.
If the truth of it is established, it shall be a justiﬁ
cution; excep
cation, unless the publication is found to have originated in cor
tion.
30 Maine. 466. rupt or malicious motives.
R. S., e. 115,
SEC. 25. When in a civil action, the declaration contains a
§ 19.
Joinder of
good count and bad ones, or a wrong joinder of counts, and no
good and bad
written objection is made till after the cause is committed to
counts, &c.
R. s., C. 115, the jury, and a general verdict has been recorded, the judgment
§84.
cannot for such cause be reversed on writ of error.
CRAP. 82.
R. s., e. 115,
2 20.
856,e.2ll, 1.
1857,c.55, 3.

TITLE IX.]

SEC. 26.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

No motion in arrest of judgment in a civil action CHAR 82.

can be entertained.
IF? '
SEC. 27. In actions on bond or contract in a penal sum, for a§,._l‘,’f‘i.L‘_1
the performance of covenants or agreements, or on a recog- ?é0s-- C-115,

nizance to prosecute an appeal, when a jury ﬁnds the condition In b'0nds &c"
broken, they shall estimate the plaintiff’s damages, and judgment jury to 385058

shall be entered for the penal sum, and execution shall issue for §i{"_“‘S“_‘f°cs_' 115,
such damages an d cos 1; s _ (a)
jam,
78. c_ 31’§9.
SEC. 28. Interest is to be allowed on amount found due for Immstm
damages and costs, in actions on judgments of a court of record. judgments

SEC. 29.

A judge shall sit in the trial or disposition of an

115’

action, in which the county or town where he resides is a party §79.
or interested, if the party adverse to such county or town enters -T"‘1§.',=.‘“d"§)diﬂ
on the docket a waiver of all objections.

1(‘lll‘lsai(1le1l;ce,yéiC

SEC. 30. When a party in a pending suit dies, and his death 1853' °' 2'
is suggested on the record, and the cause of action survives, his §,),,e,‘§,h,,‘;§,,':,
executor or administrator may become a party, or at the request slfsgmedt his
Service
of the other
of the
party,
summons
be summoned
shall be to
made
appear
on him
andfourteen
become days
a party.
be- §‘:Y al‘I’<’““'
fore the term to which it is returnable. If he neglects to appear, R_ 'S,,c_ 115"
judgment may be entered by nonsuit or default according to the si8§})- 15,
provisions of chapter eighty-seven. If the suit is in equity, his 0 ’c' a'
executor, administrator, or heirs at law, may in like manner ap

pear or be summoned without a bill of revivor.
SEC. 31. When an unmarried woman, a party to a pending Husband be
suit, is married,
her husband,
on
his request,
may be admitted as :°£f£“'“'*°
.
- t .
.
yan
a party as if originally joined in the suit.
Unmarried

SEC. 32.

\

When a party to a suit becomes insane, it may be K?§‘S‘L‘_ 115'

prosecuted or defended by his guardian, who, on application of § 82

his friend, or of the other party, may be appointed for that pur- gézdjgfssg
pose by a justice of the court in term time or in vacation. He appointe to
shall be entitled to a reasonable compensation, and not be liable 1‘,‘::_“° P“'
for costs.

R. s., c. 115,

SEC. 33. When a motion is made in the supreme judicial court £88469" c_ 104,
to have a verdict set aside as being against law or evidence, a M 2

report of the whole evidence, drawn up, shall be signed by the

5:‘

presiding judge. When the motion is founded on any alleged proceedings,’
cause not shown by the evidence reported, the testimony, respect- ‘I":“'g' 115
ing the allegations of the motion, shall be heard, and reported ii01'_’ 0'

’

by the judge, and the case is then to be marked law. When 3521°~2461§8
the court of law is of opinion that the motion was for frivolous
causes, or intended for delay, it may award double or treble
costs.

SEO. 34.

In actions of trespass on property, the court and willful tres

jury, or magistrate, shall determine whether it was committed £§§f,1§r§'c_
willfully; if so found, a record thereof shall be made, and a
memorandum of it on the margin of the execution.
See. 35. Damages on protest of bills of exchange of a hundred dollars or more payable by the acceptor, drawer, or indors.
.
.
or of one in this state, are, if payable at a place seventy-ﬁve
(0) 21 Maine, 206; 22 Maine, 483, 486; 24 Maine, 166; 39 Maine, 413.

R. s., e. 115,
55109‘
Damages Qt;
Yr°teS‘°H““s'
as, .11’,
§110,i11. 0

520

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 82. miles distant, one per cent. ; if payable in the state of New

York or in any state northerly of it, and not in this state,
three per ccnt.; if payable in any Atlantic state or territory
southerly of New York and northerly of Florida, six per cent.;
and in any other state or territory, nine per cent.
SEC. 36. In all contracts for labor ten hours of actual labor
Ten hours
labor a le al
shall
be a legal day’s work, unless the contract stipulates for a
day's wor ;
exceptions.
longer time; but this rule does not apply to monthly labor or to
1848, c. 83, § 1. agricultural employments.
Subsequent
SEO. 37. When property has been attached, aplaintiﬂ', who
attaching
has caused it to be attached in a subsequent suit, may, by him
creditor may
petition, &c.
self or attorney, petition the court for leave to defend the prior
R. S., c. 115,
suit, and set forth therein the facts, as he believes them to be,
§ 113, 114.
under oath; and the court may grant or refuse such leave.
If leave is
SEC. 38. If leave is granted, he shall give bond, or enter
granted he
'ves bond and into recognizance with sullicient surety, in such sum as the court
is admitted to orders, to pay the plaintiﬂ? in the prior suit all damages and
defend.
R. s., c. 115, costs occasioned by such defense; and an entry of record shall
be made that he is admitted to defend such suit. '
§ 115, 116.
Judgment to
SEO. 39. When the petitioner enters into recognizance, and
be entered
when defense fails in his defense, execution on his recognizance shall be issued
fails.
against him for the damages found by the court, and costs; and
R. S., c. 115,
judgment
rendered between the original parties as if no such de
§ 117.
fence had been made.
How entered
SEO. 40. When the petitioner prevails, judgment shall be
when defense
rendered
against the plaintifff and in favor of the petitioner, and
prevails.
12 Maine, 502. execution issued thereon for his costs; and costs may or may
R. S., c. 115I
not be awarded to the original defendant.
§ 118.
When judg
SEC. 41. When judgment in such prior suit has been ren
ment in such
dered, since April 9, 1856, at the ﬁrst term of the court, the
prior suit at
the ﬁrst term, plaintifff in such subsequent suit, within one year thereafter, ﬁrst
&c.
giving bonds to each party as provided in section thirty-eight,
1856. c. 262,
may petition as provided in section thirty-seven for leave to sue
§ 1, 2, 3.
out a writ of review of such action; and such leave may or may
not be granted. If granted, and on ﬁnal judgment the sum
originally recovered is reduced, judgment shall be entered and
execution issued for the difference, not exceeding the amount
due from the original defendant to the petitioner, with costs for
his sole use; and it shall operate as a payment of his debt to
the amount of damages recovered.
A ﬁrst attach
SEO. 42. When it appears by the verdict, or otherwise, that
ment made to
such prior attachment was made with intent to delay or defraud
delu or de
frau creditors creditors, or that there was collusion between the plaintifff and
is void.
defendant for that purpose, such attachment shall be void.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 119.
SEC. 43. No action, commenced in his oﬂicial capacity by a
Action by a
public
oﬂicer, is abated by his ceasing to hold the oﬂice; it may
public officer
not abated, &c. be prosecuted by his successors to the same uses; and the neces
R. S., c. ll-5,
sary amendments may be made and notices given.
§ 120.
N 0 action on
SEO. 44. N0 action shall be maintained on a demand settled
demands dis
by
a creditor, or his attorney entrusted to collect it, in full dis
charged by a
purtial pay
charge of it by the receipt of money or other valuable consid
ment.
eration, however small.
1851, c. 213.

TITLE IX.]

SEO. 45.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

A. person, who has been declared abankrupt, may CHAR 82_

maintain an action respecting his former property in his own W
name, unless objection is made by plea in abatement, if before my sueiﬁms

ﬁnal judgment the assent of his assignee is ﬁled in the oﬁice of 3§,’;s1;“;‘f§t'is
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending.
abated.

1855, c. 170.
SET-OFF.
SEC. 46.

Demands between plaintifffs and defendants may be Defendant

set off against each other as follows:

§‘f}§,‘nﬁ}§:,ef,'ay

The defendant, on the ﬁrst day of the term to which the writ of term, 8w
is returnable, must ﬁle a brief statement of his demand in sub- Réf-’25°-,,},}5:-,2

stance as certain as in a declaration, which, by leave of court, i847’, c.'20.' '
may be amended. The clerk shall enter on it and on the docket
the date, and on the docket under the action, notice of its ﬁling,

before the new entries are called. (a)
SEC. 47. A demand originally payable to the defendant in Demands that
his own right, founded on a judgment or contract, express or im- ‘2‘;“;',Ib? sets?

plied, for the price of real or personal estate sold, for money 39 M:}§j4,2b,
paid or had and received, for services done, for a liquidated sum, §5-S c 115
or for one ascertainable by calculation, may be set off.
§7,.’28, 29.’
SEC. 48. The demand must be due from all the plaintifffs to Must be due

all the defendants jointly.

When there is a dormant partner,

§g_Pl“‘“‘

claims due from the ostensible one may be set oﬁ as if there 15 l\Iaine,268.

was no dormant partner.
Sac. 49.

?,',£'§,,,f_' 115'

When a plaintifff has received notice that a demand Demand ,8.

against him has been assigned to the defendant, and has agreed Bign°d1&°
to pay it to him, or to receive it as payment towards his demand, §l;',(,S_" °' 115’
before his suit was commenced, it may be set off.
SEO. 50. When a defendant had notice of the assignment of After notice of
a demand, he cannot have any demand set off that accrued or i‘,“_“§{““‘B“'"

was acquired after such notice.

§s5. ' 0' 115'

SEO. 51. When an action is brought by one person for the
use of another, a demand against the latter may be set off.
SEO. 52. When the demand to be set off is a bond or contract with a penalty, the sum equitably due only can be set off.
Sec. 53. Demands against a person belonging to a defendIn suits by
f,?,fe£‘:"8f,:'
R-S-,6-115,
S ' uh,
dl\I::Segt“(1)ﬂ'- Y

ant at the time of the death of such person, may be set oil‘ g‘,-HS-’ °- “5
against claims prosecuted by his executor or administrator; and De,,',,,nd,, due
if a balance is found due to defendant, judgment shall be in like from 1 de

form and of like effect as if he had commenced a suit therefore; ¥,f,‘:3°,‘,‘,
but if the estate is insolvent, it must be presented to the commis- °Rﬂ"s c 115

sioners or added to the list of claims, as other judgments are. §:'s7,"3s,'a9. '
SEC. 54. In actions against executors, administrators, trus- In actions
tees, or others in a representative character, they may set off §:;“,“,: §","eTp_
such demands as those whom they represent might have set off resenmtive
in actions against them; but no demands, due to or from them in i?l,‘,aS2,1,c::‘frI185z,c.
their own right, can be set off in such actions.
§40, 41
SEC. 55. The trial may proceed in cases of set-off on issue Pleadingsand
joined without a plea of set-oﬁ‘; and if an issue is not otherwise issue‘
(a) 6 Gr-eenl., 240; 15 Maine, 268; 20 Maine, 121; 31 Maine, 131 ; 32 Maine, 283 ; 35
Maine, 78; 38 Maine, 114.

66

’

522

.PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

CHAR 82, formed, the defendant may, except in actions of assumpsit, plead
mm that he does not owe the sum demanded; and the plaintifff will
R. s., 0. im, be entitled to every defense, that he might have, by any form of

§42'43Actions cannot

be dis°°“““'

pleading, to an’ action against him on the same demand.
SEO. 56.

When a demand is ﬁled in set-oﬁ', the action cannot

be discontinued without consent of the defendant.

The statute

of limitations is applicable.to demands ﬁled in set-off, as if ac

;11§“i:°i11558' tions were commenced on them at the date of the plaintifff's
§.i4,'.'is. ’ action.
Nojud cnt
SEC. 57.

When no balance is found due to either party, no

a be ance
afor insta
paintiﬁ, &c.
§€1g1ai:1°'1fg,
'
costs are recoverable. The party recovermg
a balance recovers
costs. No judgment for debt can be entered against a plain
tiff, when the demand sued was assigned to him before the suit

5145, -16.

was commenced, or for a balance due from another person.

Similarprogiﬁffrlgﬁzferiox
tribunals.
R‘-“S-.¢~115.
i '

SEO. 58. Similar proceedings in set-off may take place be
fore municipal and police courts and justices of the peace, the
demand in set-oﬂ’ being ﬁled on the return day of the writ; but
judgment cannot be rendered for a defendant for more than
twenty dollars, exclusive of costs.
AUDITORB.

Auditors ma

gf §§:;§"°
case;
_

SEO. 59.

When an investigation of accounts, or an examina

tion of vouchers is required, the court may appoint one or more
auditors to hear the parties and their testimony, state the ac

,1;:,{§‘f§,,‘,‘,§;;e, counts, and make a report to the court. They shall'notify the
attend»

parties of the time and place of hearing, and have power to ad

§l“;9S‘5§- 513.5’ journ. Witnesses may be summoned and compelled to attend,
' '
All hear, I1

and may be sworn by the auditor.
SE0. 60.

When there is more than one auditor, all must bear,

:;jO"r',i;ty,,§,';.y but a majority may report, stating whether all did hear.
my be disreport may be recommitted.
ers appointed.

mmei

Their

They may be discharged and oth

They shall be allowed a reasonable compensa

tion, ﬁxed by the court, paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the

R. S.,c. 115, costs if
. he prevails.
.

M1, 53, 5.5.

Report, evi§{_“§_e,’c‘?“§'15,

SEO. 61.

Their report may be used as evidence by either

party, and it may be disproved by other evidence.

§54SEO. 62. When in an action of account, judgment has been
gdafalgiagg in entered that the defendant do account, and he shall unreasonably
account 1103- neglect to appear, or appearing, to render an account before an

1e°‘~“'&""

ditors appointed to take it, they shall certify the fact, and the

?57sj’°‘n5’

court may enter a default and judgment thereon, or cause the

damages to be assessed by a jury.
JURIES.

guiomhow

L‘:

Sno. 63.

When venires for jurors are returned to court, the

clerk shall prepare, at the commencement of each term of the

R. S.,c.115, court, separate alphabetical lists of the names of the several
§53persons returned as traverse jurors; and the court, in impannel
ing the traverse jurors, shall cause the names of the ﬁrst two
persons who attend, to be called, who shall be ﬁrst sworn, and

then the_ others in succession, as they are named on the list, and

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

in such divisions as the court directs, or all at the same time; CHAR 82_
and the ﬁrst twelve shall compose the ﬁrst jury; and the next
twelve, on the same list, shall be impanneled and sworn in like
manner, and shall compose the second jury.
SEO. 64. Supernumerary jurors may be excused, from time to S_upemumem

time, till wanted, and they may be placed on either jury, as occa- :‘fcs,‘,s§:f‘5fe's’
sion requires; and jurors may be transferred from one jury to R. s., c. 115,

the other when convenience of business requires it; and for good $559
reason, any juror may be excused.
'
SEC. 65. The following shall be the form of the oath, admin- Form ofjurors’
istered to traverse jurors in civil causes:

“You and each of gals"

11,

you swear, that in all causes betwixt party and party, committed ,;iso." 0' 0'
to you, you will give a true verdict therein according to the law
and the evidence given you. So help you God.” When a juror
is conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, the word “ affirm,”
shall be used instead of “ swear,” and the words “this you do
under the pains and penalties of perjury,” instead of the words
“ so help you God.”
SEC. 66. Each jury shall retire, after being thus impanneled Foreman, how

and ‘sworn, and choose their foreman by ballot, or make the §‘°;en.; 115
choice upon retiring with the ﬁrst cause with which they are §ii1." ' '
charged; and when a foreman is absent or excused from service,
a new foreman shall be chosen as aforesaid.
SEC. 67. When, by reason of challenge or other cause, a suﬂi- Talesmen,

cient number of jurors duly drawn and summoned cannot be

h°“'

obtained for the trial of any cause, the court shall cause jurors R. s., e. 115,

to be returned from the by-standers, or from the county at large, §62' 63'
to complete the panel; if there are on the jury not less than
seven jurors drawn and returned as before provided. Such
jurors shall be returned by the sheriff or his deputy, a coroner,
or such other disinterested person as the court appoints.
SEC. 68. The court may, in term time, issue venires for as New jurors

many jurors as are wanted; to be drawn, notiﬁed, and returned “,,f‘Q§,e§‘,‘,‘r§,'g
forthwith, or on a day appointed; and when in any county, the term

business requires a protracted session, the court may, during the g‘,-S4S.~' °' 115*
term, excuse all or any of the jurors originally returned, and
issue venires for new jurors to supply their places; who shall be
drawn and notiﬁed to attend at such time as the court directs.
SEC. 69. The court, on motion of either party in a suit, may phallengo of
examine, on oath, any person called as a juror therein, whether lﬁffjj hm"
he is related to either party, has given or formed any opinion, or 6 Gm,-D1, 307,

is sensible of any bias, prejudice, or particular interest in the 23

3:;

cause; and if it appears from his answers, or from any compe- R._S., <=.’115,
tent evidence introduced by the party objecting to the juror, that §6‘°'
he does not stand indilferent in the cause, another juror shall be
called and placed in his stead for the trial thereof.
SEO. 70. The traverse jury may, in all cases, ﬁnd a special 1\dayﬁud_pe

or general verdict, subject to the opinion of the court on a case §(‘,'jlc:,‘;’e‘1S‘f,‘,S
agreed by the parties and reserved, or on the facts as reported l1{",-S
115
by the judge presiding at the trial.
§ ¢';é_'’ 0' ’
SEO. 71. When a jury, not having agreed, return into court When not

stating the fact, the judge may, in his discretion, explain any Z§ZS§é§f‘°'

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX. ‘

524
Cnnr. 82.
2A Maine, 509.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 67.
Not disquali
fied by resi
denee.

R. s., c. 115,
§ es.

questions of law, if proposed to him, or re-state any particular
testimony, and send them out again for further consideration; but
they shall not be sent out a third time in consequence of their
disagreement, unless on account of some diliiculties not stated
when they ﬁrst came into court.
Sac. 72. In prosecutions for the recovery of a sum of money,
or other thing forfeited, it shall not be a cause of challenge to
a juror that he is'1iable to pay taxes in a county, town, or plan
tation, which may be beneﬁted by the recovery.
SEC. 73. If a party knows any objection to a juror in season
to propose it before trial, and omits so to do, he shall not after
wards be allowed to make it; unless by leave of court for special

Objections
known and not
stated before
trial.
R. S., c. 115,
. reasons.
§ 69.
S1-:0. 74. No irregularity in the venircs, or drawing, summon
Verdict not
aﬂected by
ing,
returning, or impanneling jurors, shall be suﬁicient to set
irregularities.
if not injuri
aside averdict, unless the party making the objection was in
ous.
jured by the irregularity; or unless the objection was made
8 Greenl. 42.
R. S., o. 115,
before the return of the verdict.
§ 70.
SEC. 75. If either party, in a cause in which a verdict is re
Verdict set
turned, shall, during the same term of the court, before or after
aside for im
proper rac
the trial, give to any of the jurors who try the cause, any thing
tices wiih
jurors.
by way of treat or gratuity, or purposely introduce among the
6 Greenl. 141. papers in the case which are delivered to the jury when they
R. S., c. 115,
retire with the cause, any papers which have any connection with
§ 76.

it, but were not offered in evidence, the court, on motion of the
adverse party, may set aside the verdict and order a new trial.
WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.
Wimesses ma
be summone .

R. S., c. 115,

§11.
Religious
belief affects
credibility
only.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 72.
1847, c. 34.
Parties and
others inter
ested may be
witnesses.
1856, e. 266.

Exception
where cause of
action implies
an offense.
1856, c. 266.

Attestation of
wills, &c., not

aﬂceted.
1856, e. 266.

SEC. 76. The clerks of the several courts, and any justice of
the peace, may issue summonses for witnesses to attend before
courts, to give evidence concerning any matters there depending.
SEO. 77. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness
on account of his religious belief, but shall be subject to the test
of credibility; and any person, who does not believe in the exist
ence of a Supreme Being, shall be permitted to testify under

solemn affirmation, and shall be subject to all the pains and
penalties of perjury.
SEC. '78. No person shall be excused or excluded from being
a witness in any civil suit or proceeding at law, or in equity, by
reason of his interest in the event thereof as party or otherwise,
except as is hereinafter provided, but such interest may be shown
for the purpose of affecting his credibility.
SEO. '79. Parties -shall not be witnesses in suits where the
cause of action implies an offense against the criminal law on
the part of the defendant, unless the defendant offers himself as
a witness, and in that case, the plaintifff may be a witness, and
such defendant shall be held to waive his privilege of not testi
fying where his testimony might criminate himself.
SEC. 80. Nothing in section seventy-eight shall in any manner
affect the law relating to the attestation of the execution of last
wills and testaments, or of any other instrument, which by law
is required to be attested.

TITLE IX.]

.Suc. 81.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

When aparty to a suit resides without the state, CHAR 82_

or is absent from the state during the pendency of the suit, and
the opposite party desires his testimony, a commission, under the
rules of court, may issue to take his deposition; and such nonresident or absent party, upon such notice to him or his attorney of record in the suit of the time and place appointed for the
taking his deposition, as the court orders, shall appear and give
his deposition. If he refuses or unreasonably delays to do so,
he may be non-suited or defaulted by order of court, unless his
attorney will admit the affidavit of the party desiring his testi

TI,’
7 f
,,:,!:,t;$°:3t°0;
glﬁejfatc» hm‘
1856, 266_

mony, as to what the absent party would say if present, to be
used as testimony in the case.

SEC. 82.

When one of the plaintifffs or defendants is used as Testimony ofa

a witness by the opposite party, testimony may be introduced by 1c’:,‘ft{a‘,’1‘iacy,e‘(’1‘f
his co-plaintifffs or co-defendants to contradict or discredit him, 1856, C, 226,
as if he was not a party to the suit.
SEC. 83. The provisions of the ﬁve preceding sections shall Not applicable

not be applied to any cases, where, at the time of taking testi- f1‘:,,f1’,‘,‘i§:t‘r‘;‘;f;m
mony, Or the time of trial, the party prosecuting, or the party or heirs.
defending, or any one of them, is an executor or an administra- 1%} °
tor, or made a party as heir of a deceased party; but the depo’ 0' '
sition of a party may be used at the trial after his death if the
opposite party is then alive; and in that case he may also testify.
SEO. 84. The rules of evidence in special proceedings of a Same rules
civil nature, such as before referees, auditors, county commission
ers, courts of probate, shall be the same as herein provided for 1856, c_ 266.

civil actions.

Sac. 85. When a person, duly summoned and obliged to \Vitnesses
attend before any judicial tribunal, fails to do so without a rea- fn“g§e§“‘;'e _
sonable excuse, he shall be liable to the party aggrieved for all
damages sustained thereby. The judge of such tribunal may issue
a capias to apprehend and bring him before him; and he may be
ﬁned not exceeding twenty dollars and the costs of the attachment,

lecting’to Ea
:‘§;iéh‘;‘('i‘>;1‘1’,‘{
ﬁned.
R513” ¢- 133:

and committed until the same and the costs of commitment are 84720. 9, § 1.

paid.
, SEC. 86. When a witness in court refuses to answer such
questions as the court allows to be put, he may be ﬁned not cx
ceeding twenty dollars, and committed until the ﬁne and costs of
commitment are paid.
Snc. 87. A person, to whom an oath is administered, shall

Refusingin
:3:;,“,;e
ﬁned‘.
13471 0- 91 § 2
Oaths, how

hold up his hand, unless he believes that an oath administered in administered‘
that form is not binding, and then it may be administered in a R-'13?" °' 115'
form believed by him to be binding. One not believing the 52$--5; 133»
christian religion may be sworn according to the ceremonies of § ’ '
his religion.

SEC. 88.

Persons conscientiously scrupulous of taking an Witnesses

oath may make aﬂirmation as follows: “I do aﬂirm under the s°'“P”-‘1°““°f
swearmg, may
pains and penalties of perjury,” which shall be deemed of the iif‘1rS111-C H5
same force and eifect as an oath.
74_
SEO. 89. Persons convicted of an infamous crime, and sen- -8-c-133.

.
.
.
ss.
tenced in this state, are not competent witnesses unless restored gm competent

526

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 82. by a pardon; and a conviction out of the state, of such crime,
when convict
ed of an in
famous crime.
R. S., c. 133,
§ 44, 54.
Fees must ﬁrst
be paid.
R. S., c. 133,
§ 50.
I
Records of
other courts
admitted as
evidence.
R. S., c. 133,
§ 45.
Printed copy
of statutes

admitted as
evidence.
R. S., c. 133,
§ 46, 47.
Foreign laws
and unwritten
laws of the
states, how
rovcd.
. S., c. 133,
§ 48, 49.

may be given in evidence to affect his credibility.
SEO. 90. No person is obliged to attend in any court as a
witness in a civil suit, or at any place to have his deposition
taken, unless his legal fees for travel to and from the place, and
for one day’s attendance are ﬁrst paid or tendered; and his fees
for each subsequent day’s attendance must be paid at the close of
the preceding day when he requests it.
SEC. 91. The records and proceedings of any court of the
United States, or of any state, authenticated by the attestation
of the clerk, or oﬂicer having charge thereof, and by the seal of
such court, shall be admitted in evidence.
SEO. 92. Printed copies, purporting to be published under
the authority of government, of statutes, acts, and resolves of
the United States, or of this, or any other state or territory of
the United States, may be admitted as evidence; those of this
state as suﬂicient, those of other states as prima facie.
SEO. 93. Foreign laws may be proved by parol evidence, but
when such law appears to be existing in a written statute or
code, it may be rejected unless accompanied by a copy thereof.
The unwritten law of any other state or territory of the United
States may be proved by parol evidence, and by books of re
ports of cases adjudged in their courts.
COSTS.

SEC. 94. In all actions, the party prevailing, shall recover
costs, unless otherwise specially provided.
SEO. 95. When a plaintifff appeals from a judgment of a
g 356.
Maine, 255.
municipal
or police court, or justice of the peace in his favor,
21 Maine, 400.
37 Maine, 548. and does not recover, in the appellate court, a greater sum as
When plaintiﬂ damages, he shall recover a quarter of the sum last recovered,
ap eals, &c.
for costs.
4 reenl. 66.
R. S., c. 115,
SEO. 96. In actions of replevin, when the jury ﬁnd that each
§ 85.
party owned a part of the property, they shall ﬁnd and state in
In certain
actions of
their verdict the value of the part owned by the plaintiﬁ‘ when
replevin, &c.
replevied,
without regard to the value as estimated in the re
R. s., 0. 115,
plevin bond; and if such value does not exceed twenty dollars,
§ 77.
the‘plaintiﬁ' shall recover for costs only one quarter part of such
value.
In actions
SEC. 97. In actions commenced in the supreme judicial court,
which should
have been com except those by or against towns for the support of paupers, if
menced, &c.
it appears on the rendition of judgment, that the action should
28 Maine, 204. have been commenced before a municipal or police court, or a
82 Maine, 100.
R. s., c. 151, justice of the peace, the plaintifff shall not recover for costs more
§ 13.
1&2, c. 31, § 20. than one quarter part of his debt or damages. On reports of
referees, full costs may be allowed, unless the report otherwise
provides.
SEO. 98. When an account is ﬁled in set-oﬂ' and plaintifff rc
Damages re
duced, &c.,
covers
not exceeding twenty dollars, he is entitled to full costs,
full costs.
5 Greenl. 74.
if the jury certify in their verdict that the damages were reduced
Who recover

costs.

R. S., c. 115,

31 Maine, 130.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 99.

as low as that sum by reason of the amount allowed in set-oﬂ".

TITLE IX.]

SEC. 99.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

When a party recovers double or treble costs, the CHAR 82“

fees of witnesses, depositions, copies, and other evidence are M“.
Costs of eva

not to be doubled or trebled.

SEC. 100.

deuce, 810.

On application of a private person for a writ of §"é7s-1°- 115'

review, eertiorari, mandamus, or quo warranto, or like process,
the court may or not allow costs to a person appearing on notice
as respondent.
SEC. 101. When costs have been allowed against a plaintifff

Costsmay 0,.
n°tbM11°“‘ed
2l Maine. 400.
R. s., c. 115,
1588

on nonsuit or discontinuance, and a second suit is brought for §,f,itf0°{;eﬁI§:itd.

the same cause, before the costs of the former suit are paid, &c

further proceedings shall be stayed, till such costs are paid, and $5’-» @115,
the suit may be dismissed, unless they are paid at such time as
the court appoints.

'

SE0. 102. When a suit is brought in the name of the state gipersonsuing
for the beneﬁt of a private person, his name and place of resi- §’§e‘1;,’“’a‘t‘;“,‘";,e °
dence shall be indorsed on the writ; and if the defendant prevails, judgment for his costs shall be rendered against such person,
and execution issued, as if he were plaintiﬂ‘.
SEC. 103. When a defendant prevails against the state in a
civil suit, judgment for his costs shall be rendered against it, and
the treasurer of the county shall pay the amount on a certiﬁed

liableforcosta
g‘,-ms-, °- 115'
'
Stateliable_fo_r
£33? "1 “ mm
as 1\raine,74,

copy of the judgment; and the amount shall be allowed to him in £1-,15"'» °- 115'

his account with the state.
SEC. 104.

'

When the state recovers costs in a civil suit no No fees taxed

fees shall be taxed for the travel of an attorney.

fR°_’ S"_“§_"ﬁ§'

SEC. 105. The name and place of residence, if known, of an § 92-’
'
assignee shall, at any time during the pendency of the suit, be In suit?!
indorsed by the request of the defendant on the back of a writ 2f§.’§.°;o?s'

or process commenced in the name of his assignor, or further ‘*s$i8'“e°’§“°
proceedings thereon shall be stayed; and if the defendant pre- 184'6’°'22°’§1'
vails, judgment for his costs shall be rendered against the plain
tiff and such assignee, as if both had been originally joined in
the action.

SEC. 106.

If the name of such assignee is not known to the If such .

plaintiff
defendantforuntil
costs,after
he may
he maintain
has recovered
an action
judgment
on the case
against
against
the ant_ may in
judgment;
such assignee
and for
suchhis
judgment
costs, within
for costs
six may
years
be from
set 011'
the between
time of 81¢

such assignee
plaintiﬁ‘
in the and
suit. the defendant, as if the assignee had been

, I °- 223'

SEC. 107. When a plaintiﬁ‘ brings divers actions at the same Divers actions
term of a court against the same party, which might have been ‘;§1“e1sI‘,§‘,‘;,a,
joined in one, or brings more than one suit on a joint and sameterm,&e.

several contract, he shall recover costs in only one of them, $5-)3$-1°-1151
unless the court certiﬁes that there was good cause for commencing them.
Suc. 108. A plaintiﬁ‘ shall not be allowed costs in an action
on a judgment of any tribunal, on which an execution could issue
when such suit was commenced, except in trustee process.
SEC. 109. In actions of a corporation, its travel is to be com'
Costs not
323353 52
ij3\:1),d1§~;Irn9nts.2!1s1o
R_ S:1§_e‘115,'

puted from the place where situated, if local, otherwise from the H6

place where its business is usually transacted, not exceeding 'fi§;e1bi;‘u“§;r_

1

528

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 82. forty miles, unless its agent actually travels a greater distance
oration.
. S., c. 115,
§ 97.
Power of the
court, &c.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 98.
Costs of a
bankrupt
limited.
1848, c. 60.

to attend court.
SEC. 110. The power of the court to require payment of
costs, or to refuse them as condition of amendment or continu
ance, is not aifected by the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 111. When a defendant pleads a discharge in bankrupt
cy, obtained after the commencement of the suit, he can recover
no costs before the time when the certiﬁcate was produced in
court.
EXECUTIONS.

SEC. 112. Executions may be issued on a judgment of the
supreme judicial court after twenty-four hours from its rendition,
returnable within three months.
SEC. 113. No ﬁrst execution can be issued after one year
from the time of judgment, except in cases provided for by sec
tion four; in which the ﬁrst execution may be issued not less than
one, nor more than two years from the time of judgment.
SEC. 114. An alias or pluries execution may be issued within
three years after the day of the return of the preceding execu
tion and not afterward.
SEC. 115. When execution is not issued within the times pre
not be re
scribed by the two preceding sections, a writ of scire facias
newed, &c.
R. s., c. 115, against the debtor may be issued to show cause why execution
§ 106.
on the judgment should not be issued, and if no sufficient cause
be shown, execution may be issued thereon.
SEC. 116. On executions, issued on judgments or acknowledg
Interest on
judgments.
ments of debt, interest shall be collected from the time of judg
R. S., c. 115,
ment, or payment, and the form of the execution be varied ac
§ 107.
cordingly.
SEC. 117. A justice of the court in which the judgment was
New execution
may be issued
rendered,
upon proof by aﬂidavit or otherwise of the loss or
on proof of
loss.
destruction of an execution unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, may
1848, c. 57, § 2. order a new execution to be issued for what remains unsatisﬁed.

Execution,
when issued.
8 Greenl. 207.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 102.
Not aﬁer one
year; excep
tion.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 104.
May be re
newed. &e.
R. S., c. 115,
§ 105.
When it can

CHAPTER 83.
JUSTICES or THE PEACE, THEIR JURISDICTION AND PROCEEDINGS
IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Bee. 1. Jurisdictions in civil actions; not to exceed twenty dollars.
2. Title to real estate pleaded. case to be removed to supreme judicial court.
Recog-nizance in such case; if not given, to be tried.
pres es Copy, &c., to be produced at appellate court; proceedings, if not entered.
\Vrits, form and service of.

Judgmcnts on default, nonsuit or trial.
Costs for defendant.
Appeal, when and how claimed; effect of.
Appeal, recognizance for, when and how given.
Appeal, papers to be produced at appellate court; failure to enter, &c., ef
fect of.

TITLE IX.]

IUSTICES OF THE PEACE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 10. Subpoenas for witnesses, in what case to issue.
11. Adjournment of his court.
12. If unable to attend, another justice may enter a case, and if he remains un
able, try it.
13. Executions returnable in three months.
14. Executions may be directed into other counties, in certain cases.
15. Writs of scire facias, when he may issue.
16. Writs, &c., when directed into other counties.
17. Records, how to be kept; on his death may be transcribed into the book of
another justice.
18. Execution issued on the transcribed record.
19. Removing from the state, must deposit his records with the clerk. Adminis
trators ofdeceased justice also. Penalty on administrator for neglect. Du
ty of the clerk in such cases.
20. Proceedings if his records are not completed. Wher1 an execution may be
used in place of a copy of the record.
21. Justice whose commission has expired may certify copies and issue new exe
cutions.
22. Justice not to be of counsel in any case before himself; not to try any case
commenced by himself.
23. Justice may hold courts at his dwellinghouse or oﬂice. Justice, plea before,
to be the general issue. Justice costs, in action continued at plsintiE’s
request, limited.

- SE0. 1. Every justice of the peace may hold a court in his
county, and have original and exclusive jurisdiction of all civil
actions, including prosecutions for penalties in which his town
is interested, when the debt or damages demanded do not ex
ceed twenty dollars, except those in which the title to real estate,

5729
Cnar. 83.

Jurisdiction in
civil actions,
&c.
18 Maine. 23.
27 Maine. 85.
R. S., c. 116,
§ 1, 2.

according to the pleadings or brief statement ﬁled in the case by
either party, is in question; and except that in those towns in
which a municipal or police court is established, his jurisdiction
shall be restricted to those cases provided thereforein the act
establishing said courts.
SEO. 2. When it appears by the pleadings or brief statement Title to real
plead
in the case, that the title to real estate is in question, it shall be estate,
ed, 810.
removed, on the request of either party, to the supreme judicial R. s., c. 116,
court; and such party shall recognize to the other party in a rea u, 4.
sonable sum, with suﬂicicnt sureties, to enter the case at the next
term of said court; and if he does not so recognize, the justice
shall hear and decide the case, as if such request had not been
made.
Sec. 3. The party so recognizing shall produce at said court Copy, &c.. to

a copy of the record, and all such papers as are required to be

he produced at
appellate

produced by an appellant; and if he fails so to do, or to enter

court, &c.

the action as before provided, he shall, on the complaint of the

R. S., c. 116,

adverse party, be nonsuitcd or defaulted, as the case may be; ts.
and such judgment shall be rendered as law and justice require.
SEC. 4. The writ in civil actions commenced before a justice Virits,
of the peace, shall be a summons, a capias and attachment, or

scire facias, of the form prescribed by law, signed by the justice,
and duly served not less than seven, nor more than sixty, days
before the return day thereof.
SEC. 5. If any person duly served with process does not ap

pear and answer thereto, his default shall be recorded, and the
67

form
and service of.
R. S.. c. 116,
§ 6, 18.

Judgments on
default, non
suit or trial.

530

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

GHAP. 83. charge in the declaration taken to be true; and on such default,

and when the action is, on trial, maintained, the justice shall en
ter
judgment for such sum, not exceeding twenty dollars, as he
§ 1.
ﬁnds due to the plaintifff, with costs, and issue execution.
SEC. 6. If the plaintifff fails to enter and prosecute his ac
Costs for de
fendant.
tion, or if, on trial, he does not maintain his action, the defend
R. s., c. 116, ant shall recover judgment for his costs to be taxed by the
§ 8.
justice; and execution shall issue therefore.
Ap eelI when
SEC. '7. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of the justice,
a3.1’ how claim
may appeal to the next supreme judicial court in the same county,
e ; effect.
R. s., e. 118, and may enter such appeal at any time within twenty-four hours,
§ 9.
Sunday not included, after the judgment; and in that case no
execution shall issue, and the case shall be entered and deter
mined in the supreme judicial court.
SEO. 8. Before such appeal is allowed, the appellant shall
Appeal, recog
nizance for.
recognize with suﬂicient surety or sureties to the adverse party,
R. s., e. 116,
if required by him, in a reasonable sum, with condition to prose
§ 10.
cute his appeal with etiect, and pay all costs arising after the
appeal.
Appeal, papers
SE0. 9. The appellant shall, at the appellate court, produce a
to be produced,
copy of the record, and of all the papers ﬁled in the cause, ex
&c
R. s., c. 116, cept depositions or other written evidence or documents, the orig
§ 11.
inals of which shall be produced; and if he fails to produce such
papers, and enter and prosecute his action, the court, on com
plaint of the adverse party, may aﬂirm the former judgment with
costs.
SEO. 10. Every justice may issue subpoenas for witnesses in
Subpmnas for
witnesses, &c.
civil actions pending before him, or any other court, or persons
R. S., c. 116,
authorized to examine witnesses.
§ 12.
Ad'ournment..
Sec. 11. He may adjourn his court by proclamation from
17 l\Iaine, 413.
time to time as justice requires.
R. S., c. 116,
SEC. 12. When a justice of the peace is unable to attend at
§ 13.
If unable to
the
time and place appointed by him for the trial of any suit al
attend, anoth
er justice may ready entered, or at which any writ is returnable before him, any
enter a case,
other justice, who can legally try the same suit, may, in either
and try it.
18 Maine, 23. case, continue it once not exceeding thirty days, and note the
31 Maine, 336. fact on the back of the writ or his own docket; and if such ina
39 Maine, 465.
bility is not removed at the end of the continuance, such suit or
R. S., c. 116,
§ 14.
writ may be entered before and tried by another justice at the
time and place ﬁxed in the continuance, who may render judg
ment and issue execution accordingly.
Executions
SEC. 13. Executions issued by a justice of the peace shall
returnable, &c.
be
made returnable in three months from the day they were
R. s., e. 115,
issued.
§ 103.
Executions
SEO. 14. When a debtor removes or is out of the county in
may be direct
which
judgment is rendered against him by a justice of the
ed mto other
counties.
peace, or municipal or police court, such justice or judge may
1842, c. 10, § 2. issue execution against him, directed to the proper oﬁicers in the
county where he is supposed to be; and it shall have the same
force as if issued by a justice or court of the latter county.
Writs of scire
SEC. 15. Every justice of the peace may issue writs of scire
facms.
faeias against executors or administrators, upon a suggestion of

R. S., c. 116,

TITLE IX.]

IUSTICES OF THE PEACE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

531

waste, alter judgment against them; against bail in civil actions, CHAP. 83.
and indorsers of writs; and enter judgment and issue execution,
R. S., c. 116,
as any court might do in like cases.
§ 16.
See. 16. In cases of scire facias against bail, indorsers of Writs. &t.,
directed
writs, executors or administrators, in all trustee processes, or when
into other
original writs against two or more defendants, before a justice of counties.
the peace, or a judge of a municipal or police court, where the R. S., c. 116,
defendant or trustee resides out of the county where the pro i 842,
17. c. 10, § 1.
ceedings are had, the justice or judge may direct the writ or exe
cution to any proper oﬂicer of the county where the defendant
or trustee resides, who shall charge fees of travel from the place
of his residence to the place of service only, and postage paid
by him.
SEC. 17. Every justice of the peace shall keep a fair record Records, how
of his proceedings; and if he dies after giving judgment in a to be kept, &c.
S., c. 116,
cause and before it is satisﬁed, any other justice of the county R.
§ 19, 20, 21.
may, on complaint of the creditor, issue a summons to the person
in whose possession the record of such judgment is, directing
him to produce and deliver it to him; and if he contemptuously
refuses to produce it, or to be examined respecting it on oath,
the justice may commit him to prison, as punishment for the
contempt, to be detained until he submits to such examination
and produces the record; and when the record is so delivered
to him, he shall transcribe it upon his own book of records, and
return the original to the person who produced it; and a copy
thereof attested by the transcribing justice, or otherwise proved,
shall be legal evidence in all cases where an authenticated copy
of the original might be received.
SEO. 18. On such transcribed record, the justice may issue Execution
on the
execution as if the judgment was rendered by himself, changing issued
transcribed
the form as the case requires; but no such ﬁrst execution shall record.
issue after one year from the time the judgment was rendered, R. s., c. 116,
§ 22.
unless on scire facias.
SEC. 19. Every justice, who removes from the state, shall ﬁrst On removal or
death, records
deposit with the clerk of the judicial courts in the county for to
be depos
which he was commissioned, all his oﬂicial records and papers; ited, &c.
Penalty on
and the executor or administrator of a deceased justice shall so administrator
deposit all the deccased’s otﬁcial records and papers that come for neglect.
of the
into his hands; and if either neglects to do so, he shall forfeit Dut
cler in such
one hundred dollars. The clerk shall receive and safely keep cases.
S., c. 116.
such records and papers and may grant certiﬁed copies thereof, R.
we, 24, 25, 26.
Which shall be as good evidence as if certiﬁed by the justice.
20. Ifand
anysigning
justice dies
removesbyfrom
state, with
if
Y outSEC.
recording
any or
judgment
him the
rendered
in an Proceedings
records are
action before him, and his docket, original writ, and papers per
taining thereto, and execution if any issued, are so deposited in
the oﬂice of the clerk, he shall, on payment of usual fees, make
out and certify copies of all the papers in such cause, and all
facts appearing in such docket; and such copies shall be legal
evidence. But if such records have not been deposited with
the clerk, the plaintifff in any action may use, in place of such
certiﬁed copy, an execution issued on such judgment by the jus

not completed,
&c.
R. S., c. 116,
§ 27.
1852, c. 276.

EXECUTIONS.

$2

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 83. tice, with an aﬁidavit thereon made by the plaintifff or his attor

Justice whose
"f)llll’1)lSSl0Il
has expired,
‘he.

35 Maine, 137.
R. S., c. 116,
9 ‘.28.
Justice not to
be of counsel.

R. s., c. 103,
6 9.
R. s., c. 116,
g 15.
\‘(hcre justice
may hold
courts, &c.
R. R. e. 116,

mo, 30.
18H. 0. 35.

ney, that it is not satisﬁed, or satisﬁed in part only, as the case
may be.
SEO. 21. Any justice, whose commission expires and is not
renewed, may, during two years thereafter, certify copies of
judgments rendered by him while in commission, and issue and
renew executions thereon, which shall be obeyed by the oﬂicer,
as if the commission of the justice had not expired.
SEO. 22. No justice shall be of counsel for or give advice to
either party, in a suit before him, or be subsequently employed
as counsel or attorney in any case tried before him; nor hear or
determine any civil action commenced by himself; and every
action so commenced shall abate.
SEO. 23. Any justice may try cases at his dwellinghouse,
office, or other suitable place, and the writ shall be made return
able accordingly; except where the title to real estate is in
question, the defendant shall plead the general issue and need
not ﬁle any brief statement; and when an action, in which the
defendant does not appear, is continued at the request of the
plaintifff, only one travel and attendance shall be taxed for him,
unless the defendant agrees, in writing, to such continuance.

CHAPTER 84.
LEVY OF EXECUTIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sac.

5§;5P
ewesevpr

Execution;
Execution;
Execution;
Execution;
Execution;

what goods may be sold on.
coin and bank notes, how levied on.
goods, in what time sold on.
how advertised.
adjournment of sale, time.

Execution; adjournment of sale, place.

Indemnity; oﬂicer may require.
Re-sale, if purchaser refuses to take; oﬂieer to account for proceeds, and for
damages paid by such purchaser.
Return of sale on execution, how made. Penalty for fraud in sale or return.
Proceeds of sale, how disposed of.
Rents of buildings, how sale is to be made of.
Shares in incorporated companies, how sold.
Notice of seizure of, how given, if not attached.
If attached, mode of procedure.
Officers of the corporations to certify the number of shares, &c. Shares
sold to be transferred; new certiﬁcates to purchaser.
bl!-I
pg

§3i‘3§.oE35.~19>

Notice of sale, how given.

Franchise of corporation, how sold; notice of sale of, how given.
Mode of sale. Possession, what and how given to purchaser.
Rights and duties of the purchaser.
Rights of redemption by the corporation.
Proceeds of sales applied in order of attachment.
Notice of second attachment to be given to the ﬁrst attaching oﬂicer.
Warrant against turnpike corporation for damages. Sale of the franchise
thereon may be adjourned. In what county sale may be had.

TITLE 1X.]

EXECUTIONSL

In case of a prior attachment, how the lien by seizure on execution may be
preserved.
'
25. Proceedings when such attachment is removed.
26. Executions to be set 06 against each other.
27. Cases in which it may not be done.
28. Proceeds of, how applied. Sale without tender.
29. Executions and warrants of distress against towns, how issued and enforced.
How levied on real estate.
30. Notice and incidents of the sale.
31. Remedy of owner of property sold.
32. Payment before levy, provision for and eﬂ'ect of.
33. Protection from subsequent claims.
34. Proportion to be paid, how ascertained.

533

Sac. 24.

SEC. 1. All chattels real and personal liable at common law
to attachment, and not exempted therefrom by statute, are liable
to be taken and sold on execution as prescribed in this chapter.
SEC. 2. Current gold or silver coin may be taken on execu
tion and paid to the creditor as money collected; and bank notes
and all other evidences of debts, issued by any moneyed corpor
ation and circulated as money, may be taken on execution, and
paid to the creditor at their par value, if he will accept them;
otherwise, they may be sold like other chattels.
SEO. 3. Goods and chattels, legally taken on execution, shall
be safely kept by the oﬂiccr at the expense of the debtor, for the
space of four days at least next after the day on which they
were taken, exclusive of Sunday; and they shall be sold within
fourteen days next after the day of seizure, except as hereinafter

CHAP. 84.

Execution;

what goods
may be sold on.
R. S., o. 117,
§ 2.
Coin and bank
notes, how
levied on.
R. S., c. 117,
§ 3.

Goods, in what
time sold on.
24 Maine. 395.
R. S. c. 117,
§ 4.

provided, unless before the time of sale the debtor redeems
them by otherwise satisfying the execution.
SEC. 4. The officer shall post up public notice of the time How adver
and place of sale, at least forty-eight hours before the time of med‘
R. S., e. 117,
sale, in two or more public places in the town or place of sale. §5.
SEO. 5. If at the time so appointed, the oﬂicer is prevented Adjournment
by sickness or other casualty from attending at such place, or is of sale, time.
34 Maine. 413.
present and deems it for the advantage of all concerned to post R. S., c. 117I
pone the sale, he may postpone it not exceeding six days next § 6.
after the day appointed; and so, from time to time, for like good
cause, giving notice of every adjournment as required in the pre
ceding section.
SEC. 6. For good reason, and for the purpose of obtaining a. Adjournment
better price for the goods to be sold, he may, if he deems it for of sale, place.
811.
the beneﬁt of the debtor, adjourn the auction to another place in R.
11 Maine,
S., e. 117,
the same town.
§ 7.
SEC. 7. Where there is reasonable doubt as to the ownership Indemnity;
oﬂicer may
of goods, or their liability to be taken in execution, the oﬁicer require.
R. S., c. 117,
may require suﬁicient indemnity.
§ 8.
SEO. 8. If the highest bidder at such sale refuses to take and Re-sale,
if pur
pay for an article, the oliicer shall sell it again at auction at any chaser refuses
to
take,
&c.
time within ten days, giving due notice of the second sale; and
account for what he receives on the second sale, and for any §R.9.S., c. 117,
damages he recovers of the ﬁrst bidder for a loss on the re-sale,
as for so much received on the execution.

EXECUTIONS.

[TITLE 11.

CHAR 84“
SEC. 9. He shall, in his return on the execution, particularly
W describe each article or lot of goods sold, and the price at which

bx,“n':1,,‘1’e,5&ic‘f it was sold; and if he is guilty of any fraud in the sale or re
R.s.,o.117,

turn, he shall pay to the debtor in an action on the case ﬁve

H0‘

times the sum of which he is defrauded.

Proceeds of

SEO. 10.

§,?;;'°§,;'of.

The money, arising from the sale of any property

on execution, shall be applied to pay the charges and satisfy the

R. S" c_ 117,
§11execution; and the residue, if any, shall be returned to the
debtor on demand, or otherwise legally applied as provided in
section twenty-one.
‘ Rents ofbuildSno. 11. When a lesser of lands leased for the purpose of

f"§:,;1;‘}."‘1e erecting a building thereon commences an action against the
R, s_,,,,117, lessee, attaches the buildings within six months after the rent
§12becomes due, and recovers such rent, he may, on execution,
cause therents and proﬁts of such buildings to be sold for a
term of time suﬁicient to pay the debt and costs; or cause such
building to be sold like any other personal estate; and in the
latter case, the debtor may redeem it within one year, by paying
to the purchaser the full amount paid by him and interest
thereon.
Shares in
SEC. 12. Any share or interest of a stockholder or proprie
ilgfljggflgzgfd tor in an incorporated company may be taken on execution and
how sold.
sold in the following manner, and in no other manner, notwith
?'1§',"2§'_ 117’ standing any thing in the charter of such company to the contrary.
Notice of soilSEC. 13. If the property was not attached on mesne process

;i'feg‘;i‘;"n‘;t

in the same suit, the olﬁcer shall leave a copy of the execution

attached.
R-145--1;-117»

with the treasurer, cashier, clerk, or other recording oﬂicer of
the company, and the property shall be considered as seized on

1',o.i§zo_ execution when the copy is so left.

If it was so attached and

remains attached, the oﬂicer shall proceed in seizing and selling
it on execution as in section sixteen.
SEC. 14. The oﬂicer of the company having the care of the

If attached,

;';'§,,,‘ffP'°' records or account of shares, or interest of the stockholders,
R, s,, 0,117,

shall, on the exhibition to him of the execution, give the oiﬁcer

916holding it a certiﬁcate of the number of shares held by the
judgment debtor, or of the amount of his interest, under the
penalty provided in chapter eighty-one, section forty-two.
Oﬂiccrs or the
SEO. 15. Within fourteen days after the day of sale, the oili

‘,:I:Q,}’;",‘,‘,‘,’,““° cer shall leave an attested copy of the execution and of the
number of

return thereon with the oﬂicer of the company whose duty it is

g‘;,';';:,';,;‘;‘,,°;, ,0 to record transfers of shares; and the purchaser shall thereupon
1;; transferred, be entitled to a certiﬁcate or certiﬁcates of the shares bought by
R_'s_, c_ 117' him, on paying the fees therefore, and for recording the transfers;
§ 17.18and if such shares or interest were attached in the suit in which
the execution issued, he shall have all dividends which accrued
after the attachment.
Notice of sale,
SEO‘. 16. In selling such shares or interest, the oﬂicer hold

;°';8‘;°'1‘i7

ing the execution shall give notice in writing of the time and

§i9,"

place of sale to the debtor, by leaving it at his last and usual
place of abode, if within the county where the oﬁicer dwells;
and public notice thereof by posting it up in one or more public
places in the town where the sale is to be made, and in two ad

'

TITLE IX.]

EXECUTIONS.

5

joining towns, if there are so many, thirty days at least before CHAR 84_
the day of sale; and shall publish an advertisement of the same ————~
import, and naming the judgment debtor, three weeks successively
before the day of sale, in some public newspaper printed in the
county, if any, if not, in the state paper; and if the debtor never
lived in the county, posting the notiﬁcation and publishing the
advertisement as aforesaid shall be suﬁicient.
SEC. 17. When judgment is recovered against a bridge, canal, Franchise of

or other incorporated company with power to receive tell, its ,°1f)"1j‘:;§,"°(§,'c_
franchise may be sold on execution at public auction, by giving R_s_, c_ 117,

notice of the time and place of sale by posting a notiﬁcation in § 2°
any town, in which the treasurer, clerk, or any oﬁicer of the
company, if there are any oﬂicers, if not, where any stockholder
resides, thirty days at least before the day of sale, and by caus
ing an advertisement, naming the creditor therein, to be inserted
three weeks successively in a newspaper printed in a county
where either of said oﬂicers, or if without oﬁicers any stock
holder resides, four days before the day of sale; and if there
is no newspaper printed in any such county, then in the state

paper.
See. 18.

In the sale of such franchise, whoever will pay and Mode 0!_ sale.

satisfy such execution, all fees, and incidental expenses, in con- £§:‘f§",‘;ow
sideration of being entitled to receive to his own use all such given

toll as the corporation is entitled to receive, for the shortest pe- ?é1S-'22°- 117,
riod of time, shall be deemed the highest bidder, and the purchaser for such period of time; and immediately after such sale,
the oﬂicer shall deliver to him possession of the toll houses and
gates, in whatever county situated, and state his doings therein in
his return.
Sec. 19.

’ '

The purchaser of such franchise, andthose claiming Rights and

under him, may receive to their own use the tolls accruing within ggtlcelfaggrfhe
the time limited in the purchase, and shall have all the powers R, 3,, c_117,

of the corporation necessary for the convenient use of the pro- W3
pcrty, and be subject to the same duties and penalties during the
term of said purchase, and may recover of said corporation any
monies paid or expenses incurred in consequence of such liabil
ity, and without their fault or negligence.
SEC. 20. The corporation, at any time within three months Rightsofre

after the day of sale, may redeem said franchise by paying to the f§;"§°“ by
.

.

.

.

.

_

para

purchaser the sum he paid 1n satisfaction of the execution, with tion.
twelve per cent. interest thereon, in addition to the tell he has gt-24$-, ¢- 117,
received.
‘
Sec. 21. If goods or other property sold on execution have P1-oceedsn been attached by other creditors or seized on other executions Pliedin °' 8'
of attachment.

by the same or another oﬂicer, or if before payment of the resi- R_ s_' c_ 117,
due to the debtor, any other writ of attachment or execution §25
against him is delivered to the oﬁicer who made the sale, the
proceeds shall be applied to the discharge of the several judg
ments, in the order in which the writs of attachments or execu
tion were served; and the residue, if any, shall be paid over to
the debtor.

EXECUTIONS.

536
Cnar. 84.
Notice of
second attach
ment to be
'ven to the
rst attaching
oiiicer.
R. S., c. 117,

[TITLE 11.

Snc. 22. If a share in a corporation or other property, that
may be attached without taking and keeping possession thereof,
is attached or taken on execution, and is subsequently attached
or taken on execution by another oiﬁcer, he shall give notice
thereof to the officer who sells under the ﬁrst attachment or
seizure; and if, without such notice, he pays the balance of the

proceeds of sale to the debtor, he shall not be liable therefore to

§ 26.
the person claiming under such subsequent attachment or seizure.
Sac. 23. When damages are assessed in favor of a person
by the county commissioners, or by a committee, or verdict
of a jury, for an injury sustained by him by the acts of any cor
poration, authorized to demand and receive toll, and they are
not paid in thirty days after order, or the acceptance of such
verdict, or report of the committee, he may have a warrant of
distress against such corporation for such damages, interest,
and costs; and the oﬂicer holding such warrant may adjourn the
Q30, 31, 32.
vendue, as in the sale of goods on execution; and all proceed
ings respecting the attachment and sale on execution of the
franchise of such corporation, and sales on warrant of distress
as aforesaid, may be had in the county, in which the creditor,
the president, clerk, treasurer, or a director of said corporation,
if there is any such oiﬁcer, if not, a stockholder, resides.
SEC. 24. When real or personal estate is seized on execu
In case of a
prior attach
ment, how the tion, and further service thereof is suspended by a prior attach
lien may be
ment thereof, such estate shall be bound by seizure until it is set
preserved.
off
or sold in whole or in part under the prior attachment, or un
R. s., c. 117,
til it is dissolved, if the officer seizing such real estate, within
2 33.
842, c. 31, § 11. ﬁve days thereafter, ﬁles in the oﬂicc of the register of deeds in
the county or district where it lies, a copy of his return of the
seizure, with the names of the parties, the court at which judg
ment was recovered, and the date and amount of the execution;
and the register shall ﬁle and enter the same of record, as in
Wanant
a inst tum
pi e corpora
tion.
Sale of fran
chise, &c., may
be adjourned.
In what coun
ty sale may he
had.
R. S., c. 117,

case of attachment of real estate on writs; and like fees shall
Proceedings
when attach
ment is
removed.

R. s., c. 117,

§ 34.

Executions to
be set 06
against each
other.

22 Maine. 460.
94 Maine. 351.
R. S., c. 117,

§1.
Cases in which
it may not be
done.
3 Greenl. 34.
7 Green]. 82.

be allowed to the oﬁicer and register therefore.
Sac. 25. If the prior attachment is dissolved, or the estate
is set oil‘ or sold in part under it, the estate or remaining part
thereof shall continue bound for thirty days thereafter, by such
seizure on execution; and the service of the execution may be
completed within that time as if the estate had been then ﬁrst
seized thereon, although the return day of the execution has
passed.
SEO. 26.

When an oﬂicer has in his hands executions, where

in the creditor in one is debtor in the other in the same capaci
ty and trust, he shall cause one execution to satisfy the other so
far as it will extend; if one of such executions is in the hands
of the oﬂicer, and the creditor in the other tenders his execution
to him and requests him so to do, he shall so set off one against
the other.
Sec. 27. Executions shall not thus be set off against each
other, when the sum due on one of them has been lawfully and
in good faith assigned to another person, before the creditor in
the other execution became entitled to the sum due thereon; nor

TITLE IX.]

EXECUTIONS.

when there are several creditors or debtors in one execution,
and the sum due on the other is due to or from a part of them
only; nor as to so much of the ﬁrst execution as is due to the
attorney in the suit for his fees and disbursements therein.
SEO. 28. The oﬁicer shall apply the proceeds of the sale of
property mortgaged or pledged, after deducting his fees and
charges of sale, to the payment of the sum paid or tendered to
the mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, and the interest thereon from
the time of such payment; and the residue of such proceeds
shall be applied to the satisfaction of the plaintiﬁ"s judgment as
provided by law; or the plaintifff may have the property seized
and sold on the execution, as in other cases, subject to the rights
and interests of such mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, without pay
ing or tendering the debt due to him.
See. 29. All executions or warrants of distress against a
town shall be issued against the goods and chattels of the inhab
itants thereof, and against the real estate situated therein,
whether owned by such town or not; and the oﬁicer executing
them shall satisfy them by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels of the inhabitants as provided by law; and for want

537
CHAP. 84.

R. s., c. 11??

§ 35, 36, 37.
Proceeds of,
how applied.
Sale without
tender.
24 Maine, 110.
R. S., e. 117.
§ 39, 40.
1842, c. 31§ 12.

Executions
and warrants
of distress
against towns,

how issued,
&e.; how
levied on real
estate.

R. s., 0.117,
thereof, after diligent search, which fact the oﬂicer shall certify § 42, 43.
in his return, he shall levy upon and sell so much of the real
estate in said town by lots, as they are owned, occupied, or lot
ted out on the plan thereof, as is necessary to satisfy said pre
cepts and expenses of sale.
SEO. 30. He shall advertise in the state paper, and in one of Notice and
of
the newspapers printed in the county where the lands lie, if any, incidents
the sale.
three weeks successively, the names of such proprietors as are R. s., c. 117,
known to him, of the lands which he proposes to sell, with the § +1.
amount of the execution or warrant of distress; and, where the
names of the proprietors are not known, he shall publish the
numbers of the lots or divisions of said land; the last publica
tion shall be three months before the time appointed for the sale.
If necessary to complete the sale, he may adjourn it from day to
day not exceeding three days. He shall give a deed to the pur
chaser of said land in fee, expressing therein the cause of sale.
The proprietor of the land so sold may redeem it within a year
after the sale, by paying the sum for which it was sold, the neces
sary charges, and interest thereon.
SEC. 31. The owner of any real or personal estate so sold, Remedy of
owner of pro
and any inhabitant who voluntarily pays his due proportion or perty
sold.
is compelled to satisfy such warrant in whole or in part, may re R. S., c. 117,
cover against the town, in an action of assumpsit, the full value
t. S., c. 99,
thereof with interest at the rate of twelve per cent. yearly, with i§ 45.
22.
costs of suit; and may prove and recover the real value thereof,
whatever was the price at which it was sold.
SEO. 32. When such warrant of distress or execution is issued Payment be
levy, pro
against a town, any inhabitant thereof, or proprietor of lands fore
vision for and
therein, may, before it is levied or the sale made, pay his pro effect of.
portion thereof to the oﬁieer having such warrant or execution, R. S., c. 117,
or to the creditor therein, to be ascertained by an assessment § 46. 47.
thereof made by the assessors of the town, which they are re

68

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

538
Cnar. 84.

Protection
from subse
quent claims.

R. s., c. 117,
§ 48.

Proportion
how ascer
tained.

R. S., c. 117,
§ ~19. I

[TITLE IX.

quired to make at his request, or on notice from the county com
missioners; and his person and property shall be thereby dis
charged from such warrant or execution.
SEO. 33. If any such warrant or execution is levied on the
property of any person, who at the time has not paid his pro
portion, every person paying his part as aforesaid shall be dis
charged in person and property from all executions issued on
any judgment against the inhabitants of such town on account of
said levy.

SEO. 34.

The certiﬁcate of a majority of said. assessors shall

be conclusive evidence of any person’s proportion thereof; and
when it is delivered to the ofﬁcer and the amount thereof paid,
he shall return the warrant or execution satisﬁed for that sum
with the name of the payer.

CHAPTER 85.
BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
on is 9 ,.. .

Bail shall be by bond to the sheriﬁ or other oﬂicer; bond returned with the
writ.
?’9'!“9°5F9S° ?'’P‘!*E°P What bail he may require.
In what cases the obligors shall be holden.
Surrender of principal before entry; how to be done and eﬂ'ect thereof.
Names of bail to be entered on execution.
Officer to notify bail; his fees to be paid.
Surrender of principal in court.
In case of avoidance, oﬂicer's duty, and liability of bail.
Scire facias against bail.
Pleadings and defense by bail.
I-lb4|-I l-|—l-|
Surrender of principal on scirc facias.
Proceedings when bail is taken in a justice action.
Surrender and commitment of principal in such case.
Oﬂiccr's fees and duty.
Surrender in such case before judgment. Surrender after judgment.
Remedy of bail against principal.

A Bail shall be
by bond to
the oﬂiccr, &c.
8 Greenl. 422.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 95, 98.

What bail he
may require.
2 Greenl. 46.
R. S., c. 114,
§ 96.

SEC. 1.

When bail is taken on mesne process, it shall be by

bond to the sheriff, if taken by him or his deputy, otherwise to
the olﬁccr making the arrest, with condition that the defendant
will appear and answer to the suit, and abide ﬁnal judgment
thereon and not avoid. The bond shall be returned with the
writ, and the clerk shall note on the writ that a bail bond is so
ﬁled.
Sec. 2. No oﬂicer shall be obliged to accept a bail bond un

less signed by two surcties, at least, having suﬁicient property in
the county in which the principal is arrested or held in custody;
and if he takes a bail bond with only one surety, he shall be lia

ble to the plaintifff for any deﬁciency thereof.
In what cases
obli ors
hol en.
R. S., c. 114,

N7.

Sno. 3. A bail bond shall bind the obligors though signed by
only one surety, or when signed by two or more surcties, when

all or any of them had not suﬁicient property in the county.

TITLE IX.]

BAIL EN CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 4. Any bail may, before the action is entered, exoner- CHAR 85_
ate himself from all liability by surrendering his principal to the

jail in the county where the arrest was made, or in the county s;1§,§f;,%i'b‘::
where the writ is returnable, and within ﬁfteen days thereafter, "8 elm?’ &°'

leaving with the jailer an attested copy of the writ or process R;,9sf"°' 114’
whereby the arrest was made, of the return indorsed thereon,
and of the bail bond, and notifying, in writing, the plaintifff or
his attorney of the time and place of the commitment; and the
jailer shall receive him into custody as if committed by the oili
cer making the arrest.
SEO. 5. If judgment is rendered against the principal in the Names of bail
action in which the bail is taken, the clerk of the court or jus- fgbeexggfgjg.
tice of the peace issuing the execution on the judgment, shall in- 4 G,ee,,1_10_

sert, on the margin thereof, the names of the bail, their addition R-25-, ¢- 118,
and place of abode if inserted in the bail bond ; and if the § '
debtor is committed to jail, the clerk or justice shall note in
like manner the jail to which he is committed.
SE0. 6. The oﬂicer holding the execution, ﬁfteen days at Oﬁicerto

least before its expiration, whether the debtor has given bail to §fs‘ig'e§‘% ‘be
the arresting oﬁicer or the jailer, shall notify the bail personally, paid.
_or by leaving a notice in writing, by him signed, at his usual place 7 G1'ee111-3°
of abode, if in the 0ﬂicer’s county, certifying that he cannot ﬁnd ?;‘;_s" °' us’
the principal debtor, or property wherewith to satisfy the execu
tion, for which he may demand and receive of the bail the usual
fee for the service of a writ, and for travel from the dwelling
house of the oﬁicer to the dwellinghouse of the bail, and shall
minute in said notice the amount of the fees, which the bail shall
pay in twenty days, unless, one day at least before the execution
is returnable, the bail produce and deliver to the oﬁicer the prin
cipal debtor.
SEO. 7.

If the bail do not surrender the principal as afore- Surrender of

said, they may, at any time before ﬁnal judgment in the original ggiﬁipal in
suit, bring him into court where the action is pending, and
deliver him into the custody thereof, and be thereby discharged.
SEC. 8. In case of the avoidance of the principal, and return
on the execution by the oﬂicer that he had had it in his hands at
least thirty days before its expiration, and that the principal was
not found, his bail shall satisfy the judgment with interest thereon from the time when it was rendered, unless they discharge
themselves by surrendering the principal before ﬁnal judgment
against them on the writ of scire facias, or by other suﬁicient
defense.
SEO. 9. When the principal so avoids, and his property canR, S; c_ 118,
§4
In case of
f,‘,’§’Ci(‘}1§.‘;°§;1ty_
liability ofbail.
R-_S-,0-113»
8&0’

scire facigg

not be found to satisfy the execution, the original creditor may °8‘*i‘“‘b“i1
have a writ of scire facias, in his own name, from the same court, ?¢';,S7'; °8'_n8'
against the bail, in vacation or in term time, to be sued out with
in one year from the rendition of judgment against the principal,
and need not declare on the bail bond, but merely allege that
the defendants became bail in the original action.
SEC. 10. The bail may plead, jointly or severally, that they Plendings and

never became bail as alleged in the writ, and under that plea defense bYb‘“'
may avail themselves of every defense which would avail them in its" °' 118’

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

CRAP. 85_ an action of debt on the bond, on the plea that it is not their
bond; or may show any special matter of discharge, ﬁling a
brief statement thereof as provided by law.
Surrender of
SEO. 11. The bail may surrender the principal in court be

§gf§i};§a";_‘

fore ﬁnal judgment on the scire facias, and on paying all the

R, S" c_ 118,
§1°» 11» 12Proceedings

costs on the scire facias, they shall be discharged; and the prin
cipal shall be committed to jail to remain for the space of ﬁfteen
days; and if the creditor does not, within that time, take him in
execution, the sheriff shall discharge him on payment of the legal
prison fees.
,
SEC. 12. When bail is taken on mesne process in an action

;;§ZQ?§‘L‘s

returnable before a justice of the peace, and there is a return on

justice wiom the execution issued on the judgment therein, that the principal

gliss" @118,

is not found, the justice may issue a scire facias thereon against

'

the bail, to be served seven days before the day of trial; and if
no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, he may render judg
ment for the debt and costs recovered, with interest thereon
from the rendition of judgment, against the principal, and issue
execution accordingly, notwithstanding the debt and costs on the
original judgment exceed the sum of twenty dollars.
Surrender and
SEC. 13. If the bail, at any time before ﬁnal judgment in the
°f original suit or on scire facias, brings the principal before the jus
such case
tice, and procures the attendance of an ofﬁcer to receive hi1n, the

PMS" °- 118, justice shall make a record of the surrender, and order him into
8

'

0ﬂicer's fees

the custody of the oﬁieer to be committed to jail, to be proceeded
with as mentioned in the preceding sections; and on payment of
costs on the scire faeias, the bail shall be fully discharged.
SEC. 14. The oﬂicer shall attend before a justice for such

;‘dsd“:y'u8 purpose, when requested; and shall be allowed therefore the same
§ i5." ' ' fees as for arresting and committing a defendant on mesne pro
_ cess ; and for neglect of oﬁicial duty in such case, he shall be an
swerable for all damages to the party injured thereby.
Surrender in
SEO. 15. If the principal is surrendered before ﬁnal judg

ment in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the officer a.
judgment

copy of the writ, with the return thereon, attested by the justice;

?i6s-'17°- 118'

if after such judgment, the bail shall deliver a copy of the entry

' '

of surrender, attested by the justice; and in either case the oili
cer shall deliver it to the jailer with the prisoner; and it shall
be a suﬁicient warrant to the oﬂicer for receiving and conveying
him to jail, and to the jailer for holding him in custody.
Remedy <>f_be_i1
SEO. 16. Bail may have their remedy against their principal,

;§}‘_‘““ p'“‘°" by an action on the case, for all damages sustained by them by
piss, e. 118,

reason of their suretyship.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

541
CRAP. 86.

CHAPTER 86.
TRUSTEE PROCESS.
Sac. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
l6.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.

33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

In what actions trustee process may be used.
Form of the writ.
Mode of service.
Effect of service on the trustee.
In what county the action shall be commenced.
Insertion of additional names of trustees.
Notice to principal, if absent from the state. Trustee may appear for him.
What corporations may be summoned as trustees.
Trustee, about to leave the state, may disclose before a justice.
Course of proceeding in such case.
Any trustee may so disclose, by consent.
An inhabitant of another state may be adjudged a trustee.
Costs, if the trustee be discharged, the ﬁrst term. If adjudged trustee, he
may retain his costs.
Disclosure to be sworn to.
Lien for costs on speciﬁc articles in his hands.
Proceedings against the principal, if the trustees be all discharged.
Additional compensation, if trustee dwell in another county.
Liability of trustee for not appearing at the ﬁrst term.
Joint liability for costs if several fail to appear.
Exception in favor of trustees residing out of the county, or absent from the
state, at the time of service.
If the action fails, costs for defendant and trustee.
No costs to trustee on discontinuance, unless he appear.
Trustee living out of the county may appear by attorney.
Proceeding in such case.
If plaintiﬂ thinks proper to examine such trustee, how answers may be taken.
Disclosure, how sworn to.
Trustee not appearingI to be defaulted.
Trustee may submit a statement of facts to the court.
Plaintiff may prove other facts, not stated nor denied in the disclosure.
Such proof may be submitted to the court or a jury.
Testimony to be in writing.
Proceedings, if trustee disclose an assignment of the principal's claim.
Assignee may be summoned. If he appears, his title to be tried. If he
does not appear, his claim to be void.
Principal defendant may be a witness.
Form of judgment against principal and trustee.
Trustee may appear by consent, at a subsequent term, as of the ﬁrst.
Executor or administrator liable as trustee for a debt or legacy, and stock
holder of a corporation.
If a person diesI after being adjudged trustee, the goods and eifects are held
in the hands of the administrator.
If trustee dies before judgment, his administrator may be cited.
If the administrator do not appear, judgment may be rendered.
If he does not pay, scire facias to issue.
Proceedings if trustee dies within thirty days after judgment is rendered.
Manner of issuing execution if administrator is adjudged trustee.
Remedy on his bond if he neglects to pay.
Speciﬁc articles in trustee’s hands to be delivered to the officer.
Remedy, if trustee refuses.
Mode of settling the value, as between the principal and trustee.
If part only is taken, balance to be delivered to the principal.
Oﬁicer to restore surplus proceeds of sale.
Trustee process, after commitment of the debtor. Eﬂect thereof.

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

542
CHAP
'

'

[TITLE IX.

SEC. 50. Proceedings, if trustee discloses property mortgaged to him.
51. On return of scire facias, amount of excess determined by the court and jury.
62. On disclosure, trustee shall deliver over property to the oﬁicer.
53. Officer having sold on execution any personal property, shall pay plaintiﬂ.
Disposition of the balance.
64. Trustee not prevented from selling the property mortgaged,
55. Cases in which a person shall not be adjudged trustee.
66. Eﬁect, if defendant in a suit is summoned as trustee of the plaintiﬂ.
67. Costs in such cases.
68. Proceedings, if defendant inan action pending is summoned as trustee of
the plaintiﬂ.
69. If ﬁrst suit is not continued, and judgment rendered, defendant shall not
atterwards be adjudged a trustee while liable on execution.
60. If before ﬁnal judgment is rendered, defendant is adjudged trustee in the
prior suit.
61. Money or goods may be attached by trustee process before they are payable.
62. Proceedings, if trustee does not pay costs, when liable.
63. Goods fraudulently conveyed, may be held by trustee process.
64. Trustee may retain in his hands pay for any demand justly due him; but not
for unliquidated damages.
65. Form of judgment against a trustee.
66. Discharge of trustee no bar to the claim_of principal.
67. Scire facias against trustee.
68. Judgment on scire facias.
69. When all defendants in writ are defaulted court may enter up joint or several
judgments.
70- If any trustee defaulted on the scire facias was examined, judgment shall be
rendered on the facts disclosed or proved.
71. Liability for costs, if discharged on scire facias, not having been before ex
amined.
72. If examined in the original suit, he may be examined again on scire fucias.
73. Goods and effects liable to another attachment, if not demanded in thirty
days. Exception.
74. If there is no second attachment, principal may recover them.
75. Demand, how made, if trustee is out of the state ; how if he has no dwelling
place in the state.

76. Eﬂect of judgment against trustee.
77. Penalty, if trustee discloses falsely.
78. Trustee exempt from costs on scire facias in certain cases.
79. In case of exception, the whole case may be re-examined and remanded.
80. Form and service of trustee process for justice courts. In what county to be
brought.
81. Default, if trustee does not appear. Costs, if discharged. May retain costs,
if adjudged trustee. Costs, on discontinuance.
82. Subsequent proceedings. Discharge of trustee, if judgment is less than ﬁve
dollars. Exception.
83. How execution shall issue, if defendant or trustee removes from the county.
84. Proceedings, if trustee is discharged, living in a county diﬂerent from plain
tiﬂ and defendant.

1,, whamtionl
trustee process

may be used.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 1.

SEC. 1.

All personal actions, except those of detinue, replev

in, actions on the case for malicious prosecution, for slander by
writing or speaking, and for assault and battery, may be com
menced by trustee process in the supreme judicial court; or
when the amount demanded in damages is not less than five dol~
lars, nor more than twenty dollars, before a municipal or police
court, or a justice of the peace.

TITLE K]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

SEO. 2. The writ shall be in the form established by law, CHAR 86.
authorizing an attachment of goods and estate of the principal F——,—
defendant in his own hands, and in the hands of the trustees.

SEO. 3. The oﬂicer serving it shall attach the goods and §2- _
estate of the principal, and read it to him or leave a copy of it §,f_’§ff‘j;_ 119
at his last and usual place of abode; which shall be a suﬂicient §3.
service on the principal, whether any trustee is held or not.

SEO. 4.

'

A like service on the trustee shall bind all goods, E_ﬁ'ectofser

effects, or credits of the principal defendant, entrusted and de- me °“ ‘h°
posited in his possession, to respond the ﬁnal judgment in the 1t¥r2u1s\i:.ei:i1e.32.
action as when attached by the ordinary process.
gas" °' 119’
SEO. 5.

If all the trustees live in the same county, the action In what coun

shall be brought there; if they reside in different counties, in any
county in which one of them resides; and in a trustee process
against a corporation aggregate, its residence shall be deemed
to be in the county in which it has its established or usual place
of business, held its last annual meeting, or usually holds its
meetings.

ty action to be
brought
6G,ee,,i_40,;_
§i1gei11ei15975
§'5_ " °' ’

SEO. 6. The plaintifff may insert the names of as many per- Insertion of
sons as trustees, as he deems necessary, at any time before the gﬁﬁgggg?
process is served on the principal, but not after; and he may trustees

have a further service made on any trustee, if found expedient, ii-is-I °- 119,
if the service is afterwards made or renewed on the principal; '
but no costs for services shall be taxed for the plaintifff in such
case, except for that last made.
SEO. 7. When the principal is out of the state at the time Notice to prin
cipal, if absent
of the service, and has no agent therein, notice shall be given from
the state,
as provided in section eighteen, chapter eighty-one; or proceed &c.
1
Greenl.
325.
ings may be had as provided in section three of chapter eighty R. S., c. 119,
two, unless in the mean time he comes into the state before §7
the sitting of the court; and when he does not appear in his
own person or by attorney, any one or more of the trustees
having goods, effects, or credits in their hands, and being ad
judged trustees, may appear in his behalf, and in his name plead
and defend the cause.
SE0. 8. All corporations, except counties, towns, school dis What corpora
may be
tricts, and parishes, may be summoned as trustees, and the writs tions
summoned as
served on them, as other writs on such corporations; and they trustees.
may answer by attorney or agent, and make disclosures, which R. s., c. 119,
shall be signed and sworn to by such attorney or agent; and the § 8.
same proceedings shall thereupon be had throughout, except
necessary changes in form, as in other cases of foreign attach
ment.

SEC. 9.

When any person summoned as .trustee is about to Trustee, about

depart from the state, or go on a voyage, and not return before §‘t’alt‘i:"§mt;,‘edis_
the term of the court where he is summoned to appear, he may dos; before a

apply to a justice of the peace and quorum of the county where JI‘{““§°"‘c 119
he resides, for a notice to the plaintiﬁ‘ in the suit to appear be- §é. " ' '
fore said justice at a place and time appointed, for taking his
disclosure.
SEC. 10. On service made and returned according to the or- Proceedings in
der of the justice, the examination and disclosure shall be taken ‘“°h °”°'

544

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

CRAP. 86_ and sworn to before him, and being certiﬁed and returned to
is
115! court, the same proceedings may be had thereon as if it had been
. .,e.
,
§ 10.
in court.
Any trustee
SEO. 11. The examination and disclosure of any person sum

§,“‘,‘g'ef‘,’)y‘“c5,;n_ moned as trustee may be so taken, when the plaintifff and trustee
sent.

consent thereto.

?;,S_"°'119'

SEO. 12.

Any person summoned as trustee may be adjudged

An inhabitant
°f1“1°‘h"
state may be
adjudged
"““°°.trustee by the court, though he was not then, and never had been
an inhabitant of this state; and the writ may be made returna
ble in the county in which either the plaintifff or principal de
fondant resides.
SEC. 13. If any supposed trustee comes into court at the
_ ﬁrst term and submits himself to examination, on oath, after

2”; H
teoesbsé dis-rus

having in writing declared that at the time of the service of the

gsgasegcflrst

trustee process upon him, he hadnot any goods, effects, or credits

29 Maine‘ 464_ of the principal 1n his possession, he_ shall be entitled to his
R-Sac-119. costs, as in civil actions where issue is joined for trial; and if
§ 16’ 17'
adjudged a trustee, may deduct his costs from the amount in his
hands.
Disclosure to

‘I’:sS“°m1‘1"é

§ '19." 6'

SEC. 14.

The disclosure, when completed and subscribed by

the trustee, shall be sworn to by him in open court, or before

’

some justice of the peace.

Lien for costs
SEC. 15. Where any person is adjudged trustee for speciﬁc
‘“ articles in his hands, he shall have a lien thereon for his costs;
R_ s_,,,,119, and the oﬂicer, who disposes thereof on execution, shall pay the
§ 18trustee the amount due him for costs, and deduct it from the

amount of sale, and account to the creditor for the balance; the
amount of such fees shall be indorsed on the execution by the
clerk, and shall be evidence of the lien.

Proceedings

SEC. 16. If all the persons summoned as trustees are dis
charged, or the suit against them is discontinued, the plaintifff

R.S.,c.119,

shall not proceed against the principal defendant, unless there

§2°was sufficient personal service of the writ on him; but he may
assume the defense of the suit.

fjompensation
Sue. 17. When the trustee, at the time the writ was served
{§,?;;‘?f,°§n_
on him, did not live in the county where the writ is returnable,
other county°' 119'

the court shall, in case of his discharge, allow him, in addition
to his legal fee, a reasonable compensation for his time and ex
penses in appearing and defending.
piéiggiryogrnot
18. If any person resident in the county in which the
,,,,,,m,,,g ,, wr1t1s returnable, is summoned, and neglects to appear and
the ﬁrsHerm- submit to examination at the return term, without reasonable

?;2s_"°'119'

excuse, he shall be liable for all costs afterwards arising in the

suit, to be paid out of his own goods or estate, if judgment is
rendered for the plaintifff; unless paid out of the goods or ef
fects in his hands belonging to the principal.
Joint liability
SEO. 19. When several trustees, resident in the county where

;‘{f;:’:ﬂ‘;; the action is pending, are summoned and neglect to appear, the
§2-3.
Exception in

judgment for costs shall be rendered against them jointly.
Sec. 20.

Persons summoned as trustees, resident out of the

{‘,‘,Z,‘,";,,‘1€‘(,’,“,“,;e county where the suit is pending, shall not be liable for any
county. M
costs arising on the original process; and if the person summon

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

ed as trustee is out of the state, at the time the writ is served
on him, and appears at the ﬁrst term of the court after his re
turn, he shall be allowed for his costs and charges as if he had
appeared at the return term.
Sec. 21. When the plaintifff does not support his action, the
court shall award costs against him in favor of the principal, and
in favor of the persons summoned as trustees severally, who ap
peared and submitted to examination on oath; and several
executions shall issue accordingly.
SEC. 22., When a person summoned as trustee does not come
into court, and declare he had no property or credits of the
principal in his hands when the writ was served, and submit
himself to examination on oath, the court shall not award costs

in his favor, though the suit is discontinued.
SEO. 23. A person summoned as trustee, and then not living
in the county where the writ is returnable, shall not be required
to appear in person in the original suit, or in a suit on scire
facias; but he may appear by attorney, and declare whether he
had any goods or effects of the principal in his hands, when the
writ was served; and thereupon offer to submit himself to ex
amination on oath.

SEO. 24.

If the plaintifff proceeds no further, the declaration

shall be considered as true.
SEO. 25. But if he thinks proper to examine such supposed
trustee on oath, the answers may be taken in the county in which
the trustee dwells, before a judge of the supreme judicial court,
or a justice of the peace.
Sec. 26. When a trustee has submitted himself to examina
tion on oath in court, his disclosure may be sworn to before a
judge of the court, or a justice of the peace; and being ﬁled in
court, shall have the same effect as if sworn to in open court.
SEO. 27.

When a person, duly summoned as trustee, neg

5-15
CHAP. 86.

R. s., c. n9,
§ 2;.
If the action
fails, costs for
defendant and
trustee.

R. S., c. 119.

§ 25.
No costs to
trustee unless
he appear.

n. s., c. 119,
§ 26.
Trustee living
out of county
may appear by
attorney.

35 Maine. 156.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 27.

Procecdin s.
R. S., c. 1 9,
§ 28.
If plaintifff
thinks proper
to examine,
&e.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 29.
'
Disclosure,
how sworn to.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 30.
Trustee not

appearing, to
lects to appear and answer to the suit, he shall be defaulted, and be
defaulted.
R. S., c. 119,
adjudged trustee as alleged.
§ 31.
Sec. 28. If a person summoned admits that he has in his Trustee
may
hands goods, effects, or credits, of the principal, or wishes to submit a state
ment
of
facts
refer that question to the court upon the facts, he may make a to the court.
declaration of such facts as he deems material, and submit him R. s., Q. 119,
self thereupon to a further examination on oath; and such decla § 32.
ration and further examination, if any, shall be sworn to as before
Plaintiﬁ may
provided.
rove other
SEO. 29. The answers and statements sworn to by a trustee acts. &e.
25 Maine, 78.
shall be deemed true in deciding how far he is chargeable, until R. S., e. 119,
the contrary is proved; but the plaintifff or trustee may allege § 33.
1842, c. 31, § 15.
and prove any facts, not stated or denied by the supposed trus Proof ma be
submitte to
tee, material in deciding that question.
court or jury.
SEC. 30. Any question of fact, arising upon such additional 29
Maine, 485
allegations, may, by consent, be decided by the court, or submit 35 Maine, 227.
R. S., e. 119,
ted to a jury in such manner as the court directs.
§ 34.
SEO. 31. All testimony relating to such additional allega Testimony to

tions shall be given by depositions taken and ﬁled in the usual
manner.

69

be in writing.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 40.

546

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

SEO. 32. When it appears by the answers of a trustee, that
any effects, goods, or credits in his hands are claimed by a third
Proceedings, if
person in virtue of an assignment from the principal debtor, or
trustee dis
close an
in
some other way, the court may permit such claimant, if he
assignment of
If he does not appear voluntarily, notice
the principa.l's sees cause, to appear.
claim, &c.
may be issued and served on him, as the court directs; and if he
1 Greenl. 328.
6 Greenl. 410. appears, he may be admitted as a party to the suit so far as re
26 Maine, 448. spects his title to the goods, effects, or credits in question; and
33 Maine, 440.
may allege and prove any facts not stated or denied in the dis
R. S., e. 119,
§ 35, 36, 37, 88. closure of the trustee; but if he does not appear in person or
by attorney, the assignment shall have no effect to defeat the
plaintiﬂ"s attachment.
Principal de
SEO. 33. On the trial between the attaching creditor and
fendant may
such claimant, the principal defendant may be examined as a wit
be a witness.
R. s., c. 119, ness for either party, if there is no other objection to his com
§ 39.
petency except his being a party to the original suit.
Form of judg
Sec. 34. \Vhen the plaintifff recovers judgment against the
ment against
principal and principal, and there is any supposed trustee, who has not ap
trlistcc.
peared and been discharged by disclosure or discontinuance of
R. S., c. 119,
the suit against him, the court shall award judgment and execution
§ 41.
against the goods, effects, and credits in his hands, as well as
against the principal, in the usual form.
Trustee my
SEC. 35. If an agreement is entered on the docket between
appear by
the plaintifff and supposed trustee, that he may appear at a sub
consent, &c.
It. s., c. 119, sequent term of the court, with all the advantages that he would
§ 42.
have on appearing and answering at the ﬁrst term, the same shall
be allowed him by the court.
SEC. 36. Any debt or legacy due from an executor or admin
Executor or
adlninistrator
istrator, and any goods, effects, and credits in his hands, as such,
liable as trus
may be attached by trustee process. The amount, which a stock
tee, &e.
19 ‘-i.~.ine, 200. holder of a corporation is liable to pay to a judgment creditor
39 .\l:1ir1e, 402.
R. s., c. 119, thereof, may be attached by a creditor of such judgment credi
6 43.
itor by trustee process served on such stockholder at any time
lbéli, c. 269.
after the commencement of the judgment creditor’s action against
him, and before the rendition of judgment therein.
SEC. 37. If any person, summoned as a trustee in his own
If a person
dies, after be right, dies before the judgment recovered by the plaintifff is sat
ing trustee, &c. isﬁed, the goods, effects, and credits in his hands at the time of
11 Maine, 34.
attachment, shall remain bound thereby; and his executors or
R. S., e. 119,
§ 4-1.
administrators shall be liable therefore as if the writ had been
originally served on them.
If trustee dies
See. 38. If he dies before judgment in the original suit, his
before 'udg
executor
or administrator may appear voluntarily, or may be
ment, is ad
niinis-trator
cited to appear as in case of the death of a defendant in a com
may be cited.
mon action; and the further proceedings shall then be conducted
R. S., c; 119,
as if the executor or administrator had been originally summoned
§ 45.
as trustee; except that the examination of the deceased, if any
had been taken and ﬁled, shall have the same effect as if he were
living.
CHAP. 86.

If adminis
trator do not

=rPe=1r,juds'
ment may be
rendered

Sso. 39. If in such case the executor or administrator does
not appear, the plaintifff, instead of suggesting the death of the
deceased, may take judgment against him by default, or other

TITLE 1x.]

musrnn PROCESS.

54,7

wise, as if he were living; and the executor or administrator CHAR 86.
shall pay, on the execution, the amount which he would have I;g";f119*'

been liable to pay to the principal defendant; and he shall be §-115." ‘
thereby discharged from all demands on the part of the princi
pal defendant in the suit for the amount so paid, as if he had
been himself adjudged trustee.
Sec. 40. If the executor or administrator in the case last
mentioned does not voluntarily pay the amount in his hands, the
plaintiﬂ' may proceed by writ of scire faeias, as if the judgment
in the ﬁrst suit had been against him as trustee; but if he is discharged, he may recover costs or not at the discretion of the

'

If he does not
}’,fc’;;§°,‘;°iSsue_
3, 3,, Q, 119,
§47

court.

SEO. 41.

If any person, against whom execution issues as Pi-oceedipgs if

trustee, is not living at the expiration of thirty days after ﬁna§v’i"§f§1et‘:1‘,°r§y
judgment in the trustee suit, the demand, to be made by force of gla s after
the execution for continuing the attachment as provided in the 1;; g“‘:m1'19

seventy-third section, may be made on his executor or adminis- §-ls." '

'

trator at any time within thirty days after his appointment; and
shall have the same effect as if made within thirty days after the
judgment.

SEO. 42.

When an executor or administrator is adjudged Manner of

trustee on account of goods, effects, or credits in his hands or :f:;‘l§‘fgaf,‘r‘:fn“_‘

possession merely as executor or administrator, in a suit originally istrator is
commenced against him as a trustee, or against the deceased, or ‘;;‘,{;ﬂ§;_’d
in the original suit, or on a writ of scire facias, the execution R.S.,c.1l0,

shall not be served on his own goods or estate, or on his person; §49‘
but he shall be liable for the amount in his hands, in like manner
and to the same extent only, as he would have been to the prin
cipal defendant if there had been no trustee process.
SEO. 43. If after ﬁnal judgment against an executor or ad- Remedy on

ministrator for any certain sum due from him as trustee, he neg- 222:3‘: he
lects to pay it, the original plaintifff in the foreign attachment
shall have the same remedy for recovering the amount, either
upon a suggestion of waste or by a suit on the administration
bond, as the principal defendant in the foreign attachment would
have had upon a judgment recovered by himself for the same
demand against the executor or administrator.
SEC. 44. When any person summoned as trustee is bound
to deliver to the principal defendant any speciﬁc articles, he
shall deliver them, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to
the oﬂicer holding the execution; and they shall be sold by the

pay.
£1505-C-119.
'

Articles in
to ofﬁcen
E lg“i1;e,i4129°

officer, and the proceeds applied and accounted for, as if they § 5L" '

'

had been taken on execution in common form.
SEC. 45. If the trustee neglects or refuses to deliver them, Remedy, if
or sufficient to satisfy the execution, the judgment creditor may "“"e"°f“S‘-’S'
have his remed on a scire facias as rovided in sections from R‘ S"°‘ 119’
Y

7

P

§52.

sixty-seven to seventy-two inclusive of this chapter; and the
debtor his remedy for an overplus belonging to him, as at com
mon law.
'
SEO. 46. When by the terms of the contract between the Mode of set

trustee and the principal debtor, any mode of ascertaining the 2;“b§le,“l“,f3e“:,“;;fL;
value of the property to be delivered to the oﬂicer is pointed ptréngipal and
S

8

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

548

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 86. out, the oﬂicer shall, on the application of the trustee, notify the

principal debtor previously to the delivery, that the value may
be thus ascertained, as far as it may affect the performance of
the contract; and in other cases the value of the property, as
between the principal and the trustee, shall be estimated and
ascertained by the appraisal of three disinterested men, chosen,
one by the trustee, one by the otlieer, and one by the principal,
if he see cause; and if he neglects or refuses, by the ofﬁccr; and
they shall all be duly sworn to appraise the same, and the ofﬁcer,
justice, and appraisers, shall certify their doings on the execution.
SEC. 47. When a part of such goods and articles is taken in
If part only is
taken, &c.
execution as aforesaid, the trustee may deliver the residue to the
R. S., c. 119,
principal, or tender it to him within thirty days after satisfaction
§ 54.
of the execution, as he might have delivered the whole.
SEO. 48. Any surplus money, remaining in the hands of the
Officer to re
store surplus. oﬁicer after satisfying the execution and fees, shall be paid to
R. S., c. 119,
the principal, if within his precinct, if not, to the trustee.
§ 55.
SEO. 49. When a judgment creditor has caused the debtor to
Trustee pro
cess, aﬁer
be
committed in execution, and afterwards discovers goods, ef
commitment
of the debtor. fects, or credits of the debtor, not attachable by the ordinary
Effect thereof. process of law, he may have the beneﬁt of the trustee process
1 Greenl. 158.
13 Maine, 420. like any other creditor, if, within seven days after the service of
R. S., c. 119,
the process, he discharges the debtor from prison by a written
§ 56, 57.
direction to the jailer, stating the reason therefore; but such dis
charge shall not annul or aifect the judgment.
SEO. 50. When a trustee states in his disclosure that he had,
Proceedin s,
if trustee is
at
the time the process was served on him, in his possession,
closes pro erty
mortgage to
property not exempted by law from attachment, mortgaged,
him.
pledged, or delivered to him by the principal defendant to secure
13 Maine, 428.
35 Maine, 67. the payment of a sum of money due to him, and that the princi
R. S., c. 119,
pal defendant has an existing right to redeem it by payment
§ 68.
thereof, the court or justice, before which the action is pending,
shall order, that, on payment or tender of such money by the
plaintifff to said trustee within such time as the court orders,
and while the right of redemption exists, he shall deliver over
the property to the oﬂicer serving the process, to be held and
disposed of as if it had been attached on mesne process; and in
default thereoffthat he shall be charged as the trustee of the

R. s., c. 119,
§ 53.

principal debtor.
On return of
scire facias,
excess deter
mined by court
or jury.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 59.

On disclosure,
trustee to de

This order shall be entered on the records of

the court or justice.
SEC. 51. On the return of the scire facias against such trus
tee, if it appears that the plaintifff has complied with the order
of the court or justice, and the trustee has refused or neglected
to comply therewith, the court or justice shall enter up judgment
against him for the amount due and returned unsatisﬁed on the
execution, if there appears to be in his bands such an amount of
the property mortgaged over and above the sum due him; but if
not, then for the amount of said property exceeding that sum, if
any; and this amount of excess shall, on the trial of the scire
facias, be determined by the court or jury.
SEO. 52. If, by the disclosure, it appears that the property in
the hands of the supposed trustees was mortgaged, pledged, or

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

subject to alien to indemnify him against any liability, or to se- CHAR 86.
cure the performance of any contract or condition, and that the 1,
principal
may order,defendant
that, uponhastheandischarge
existing right
of such
to redeem
liability it,
or the
performcourt n. s., c. 119,

ance of such contract or condition by the plaintifff, within such No‘
time as the court or justice orders, and while the right of re
deeming exists, such trustee shall deliver over the property to
the oﬂicer, to be by him held and disposed of as if it had been
attached.
Sac. 53. The oﬁicer, having sold on execution any personal Ofiieerhnving

property delivered to him in virtue of this chapter, after dcduct
ing the fees and charges of sale, shall pay the plaintifff the sum to pay pleio-’
by him paid or tendered to the trustee, or applied in the per- ;f’S&°' H9
formance of such contract or condition, or discharge of such lia- §(';1_'’ 0'

'

bility, and the interest from the time of such payment, tender, or
application, to the time of sale; and so much of the residue, as
is required therefore, he shall apply in satisfaction of the plain
tiff ’s judgment, and pay the balance, if any, to the debtor, ﬁrst
paying the trustee his costs accruing before the service of the
scire facias, as provided in section thirteen.
SEC. 54. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the Trustee not
trustee from selling the goods in his hands for the payment of 1,‘rTo‘?I‘r'f:e‘fl‘i‘~ng
the sum for which they were mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise property
liable, at any time before the amount due to him is paid or ten- m°"8"$e‘1'

dered as aforesaid, if the sale would be authorized by the terms ?'62s_" °' 119’
of the contract between him and the principal defendant.
SEO. 55. N0 person shall be adjudged trustee,

c,,sesinw1,ici,

First. —By reason of any negotiable bill, draft, note, or other “ PQ"°“ aha“
not be adjudg- .

security drawn, accepted, made, or indorsed by him, except in ed trustee.
the cases provided in the sixty-third section;
Second. -By reason of any money or other thing received or
collected by him as an oﬂicer, by force of a legal process in favor
of the principal defendant in the trustee process, although it has
been previously demanded of him by the defendant;
Third.—By reason of any money in his hands as a public
oﬁicer, and for which he is accountable to the principal de
fendant;
Fou-rzlz.—By reason of any money or_other thing due from 30 M..ine,3s4.
him to the principal defendant, unless at the time of the service
of the writ upon him, it is due absolutely and not on any con
tingency;
Fifth.--By reason of any debt due from him on a judgment,
while he is liable to an execution thereon ;
Sixth.-By reason of any amount due from him to the prin- 2‘2Maine,494.

cipal defendant as wages for his personal labor, or that of his gf1‘s4“i“°’4:4'
wife or minor children, for a time not exceeding one month next iéaf’ " H ’

preceding the service of the process;
854, °- 85
Scvent/i.—Where service was made on him by leaving a copy,
and before actual notice of such service or reasonable ground of
belief that it was made, he paid the debt due to the principal
defendant, or gave his negotiable security therefore.

550

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

SEO. 56. When an action is brought for the recovery of a
demand, and the defendant is summoned as a trustee of the
Effect, if de
fendant in suit plaintifff, the action shall be continued to await the disclosure
is summoned of the trustee, unless the court otherwise orders, and if the de
as trustee of
fendant is adjudged trustee, the disclosure and the proceedings
plaintiﬁ.
R. s., 6. 119, thereon may be given in evidence on the trial of the action be
§ 13.
tween the trustee and his creditor.
'
Costs in such
SEO. 57. If the amount disclosed is as large as the sum re
cases.
covered in the action, the trustee shall be liable to no costs after
R. s., c. 119, the service of the trustee process upon him; otherwise, he shall
§ 14, 15.
be liable to legal costs.
SEC. 58. If, during the pendency of an action, the defend
Proceedings, if
defendant in
ant is summoned as the trustee of the plaintifff, the ﬁrst suit
action pending
is summoned
may nevertheless proceed so far as to ascertain by a verdict or
as trustee of
otherwise, what sum, if any, is due from the defendant; but
plaintifff.
the court may, on motion of the plaintifff in the trustee suit, con
R. S., c. 119,
§ 64.
tinue it for judgment, until the termination of the trustee suit,
or until the attachment therein is dissolved by the discharge of
the trustee, or satisfaction of the judgment otherwise.
If ﬁrst suit is
SEC. 59. If the ﬁrst suit is not continued, and judgment is
not continued
rendered
therein, the defendant shall not be adjudged afterwards
and jud ment
rendcrc , &c.
a trustee on account of the demand thus recovered against him,
R. S., c. 119,
while he is liable to an execution thereon.
§ 65.
SEO. 60. If, before ﬁnal judgment is rendered in the ﬁrst
If before ﬁnal
judgment is
suit,
the defendant in that suit is adjudged trustee in the other
rendered, 8:0.
and pays thereon the money demanded in the ﬁrst suit, or any
R. S., c. 119,
§ 66.
part of it, the fact shall be stated on the record of the ﬁrst suit,
and judgment therein shall be rendered for the costs due to the
plaintifff and for such part of the debt or damages, if any, as re
mains duc and unpaid.
Money. &<:.,
SEO. 61. Any money or other thing due absolutely, to the
may be at
principal
defendant, may be attached before it has become paya
tached by trus
tee recess.
ble; but the trustee shall not be compelled to pay or deliver it
R. ., c. 119,
before the time appointed therefore by the contract.
§ 67.
SEC. 62. If the person summoned as trustee, and liable for
Proceedings, if
trustee does
costs
as provided in section eighteen, does not voluntarily pay
not pay costs,
when liable.
them, when demanded by the oﬂicer serving the execution, he
R. S., c. 119,
shall state the fact in his return on the execution; and if it ap
§ 68.
pears by the return that they have not been paid by any one, the
court shall award execution against such trustee for the amount
of such costs.
Goods fraud
SEC. 63. If any alleged trustee has in his possession any
ulently con
veyed, may be goods, effects, or credits of the principal defendant, which he
he d by trustee holds under a conveyance fraudulent and void as to the defend
process.
ant‘s creditors, he may be adjudged a trustee on account thereof,
25 Maine, 256.
29 Maine, -185. although the principal defendant could not have maintained an
35 Maine, 328. action therefore against him.
R. s., c. 119,
SEC. 64. Every trustee shall be allowed to retain or deduct
§ 69.
Trustee ma
out of the goods, effects, and credits in his hands, all his demands
retain pay or
against the principal defendant, of which he could have availed
any demand
due him, &c.
himself, if he had not been summoned as trustee, by way of set
7 Greenl. 356. oﬁ‘ on trial, or by a setoﬂ? of judgments or executions between
CRAP. 86.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

551
himself and the principal defendant, except unliquidated dam Cuar. 86.
ages for wrongs and injuries; and he shall be liable for the bal
R. S.. c. 119,
ance only, after their mutual demands are adjusted.
§ 70, 71.
SEC. 65. When a person is adjudged trustee on disclosure in Form of judg
against a
the original suit, the amount for which he is chargeable shall be ment
trustee.
ﬁxed by the court, subject to exceptions, and be conclusive on R. S., c. 119,
scire facias, unless, for cause shown, an additional disclosure is M2.
allowed; but on default, the amount need not be expressed in
the judgment; and in all cases on scire facias, if he is adjudged
trustee, the amount for which he is chargeable shall be expressed
in the judgment.
SEO. 66. If any alleged trustee is discharged, the judgment Discharge of
no bar
shall be no bar to an action brought by the principal defendant trustee
to claim of
against him for the same demand.
grineipal.
. S., e. 119,
SEO. 67. When a person adjudged a trustee in the origina§ 73.
action does not, on demand of the oﬁicer holding the execution, Scire facias
trus
pay over and deliver to him the goods, effects, and credits in against
tee.
his hands, and the execution is returned unsatisﬁed, the plain 23 Maine, 60.
tiff may sue out a writ of scire facias against such trustee, from R. S., e. 119,
the court or justice that rendered the judgment, to show cause § 74.
why judgment and execution should not be awarded against him
and his own goods and estate, for the sum remaining due on the
judgment against the principal defendant.
SEC. 68. After such writ has been duly served on him, if he Jurlgment on
neglects to appear and answer thereto, he shall be defaulted; scire facias.
S., c. 119,
and if he was not duly examined in the original suit, judgment R.
wt.
shall be rendered against him for the whole sum remaining due
on the judgment against the principal defendant.
SEO. 69. When all the defendants in a writ of scire facias When all de
are
are defaulted, not having been examined in the original suit, the fendants
defaulted.
court may enter up joint or several judgments, as the case re R. S., c. 119,
§ 76.
quires, and issue execution in common form.
See. 70. If any trustee, defaulted on the scire facias, was If trustee de
on
examined in the original suit, judgment shall be rendered on faulted
scire facias,
the facts stated in his disclosure, or proved at the trial, for such examined, 820.
part of the goods, effects, and credits, for which he is charge R. S., c. 119,
able as trustee, as remain in his hands, if any, or so much there § 77.
of as is then due and unsatisﬁed on the judgment against the
principal defendant; but if it appears that such person paid and
delivered the whole amount thereof on the execution issued on
the original judgment, he shall not be liable for any costs on the '
scire facias.
SEO. 71. If the trustee appears and answers to the scire Liability for
if dis
facias, and was not examined in the original suit, he may be cnsts,
charged on
examined as he might have been on the original suit; and if, on scire facias,
&c.
such examination, he appears not chargeable, the court shall 7 Greenl. 129~
render judgment against him for costs only, if resident in the R. S., c. 119,
county where the original process was returnable; but if not § 78.
resident in such county, he shall not pay or recover any costs.
Sac. '12. If he had been examined in the original suit, the If examined
original
‘court may permit or require him to be examined anew in the in
suit, me be
suit of scire facias; and he may then prove any matter proper examine

552

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IL

Paar. 86. for his defense; and the court may enter such judgment, as law
again on
scire faciss.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 79.
Goods and
effects liable to
another attach
rncn t, & c.
36 Maine, 307.
R. S., c. 119,

§ so.

If there is no
second attach
ment, princi

pal mav re
cover them.
R. S., c. 119,
§ 81.
Demand, how
made, if trus
tee is out of
the state, &c.

R. S., c. 119,
2 B2.
845, c. 136.

and justice require, upon the whole matter appearing on such
examination and trial.
SEC. 73. When any person is adjudged a trustee, if the goods,
effects, and credits in his hands, are not demanded of him by
virtue of the execution within thirty days next after ﬁnal judg
ment, the attachment of them by the original process is dissolved;
and they are liable to another attachment as though the prior
attachment had not been made; but when the debt due from the
trustee to the principal defendant is payable at a future day, or
speciﬁc property is in his hands which he is bound to deliver at
a future day, the attachment shall continue until the expiration of
thirty days after such debt is payable in money, or the property
aforesaid is demanded of the trustee.
SEC. 74. If there is no second attachment, the principal de
fendant in the suit may recover the goods, effects, and credits,
if not so demanded, as if they had not been attached.
'
SEO. '75. When the oﬂicer holding the execution cannot ﬁnd
the trustee in the state, a copy of the execution may be left at
his dwcllinghousc, or last and usual place of abode, with notice
to the trustee indorsed thereon, and signed by the oﬂicer, signi
fying that he is required to pay and deliver, towards satisfying
such execution, the goods, effects, and credits, for which he is lia
ble. When such trustee has no such dwcllinghousc or place of
abode in this state, such copy and notice may be left at his dwell

inghousc or place of abode without the state, or be delivered to
him personally by the oﬂicer, or other person by his direction;
and such notice in either case shall be deemed a suﬁicient de
mand for all the purposes mentioned in the two preceding sec
tions.
SEO. '76. The judgment against any person as trustee shall
Effect of judg
ment ngunst
discharge
him from all demands by the principal defendant or
trustee.
R. s., c. 119, his executors or administrators, for all goods, eﬂ'ccts and credits,
paid, delivered, or accounted for by the trustee thereon; and if he
§83, 84.
is afterward sued for the same by the defendant or his executors
or administrators, such judgments, and disposition of the goods,
effects, and credits as above stated, being proved, shall be a bar
to the action for the amount so paid or delivered by him.
S1-:0. 7'1. If any person summoned as a trustee, upon his ex
Penalty if
trustee dis
amination
willfully and knowingly answers falsely, he shall be
closes falsely.
16 Maine, 433. deemed guilty of perjury; and shall pay to the plaintiﬂ‘ in the
R. S., c. 119,
suit so much of the judgment recovered against the principal
t as.
defendant as remains unsatisﬁed, with interest and costs, to be
recovered in an action on the case.
Trustee ex
SEO. '78. If any person summoned as a trustee is prevented
empt from
from
appearing in the original suit by absence from the state,
costs in cer
tain cases.
or any other reason deemed sulﬁcient by the court, and a default
It. s., c. 119, is entered against him, he shall not be liable for any costs on
§ 86.
the scire facias ; but, on his disclosure, the court may allow him
his reasonable costs and charges, to be retained or recovered as
if he had appeared in the original suit.

TITLE IX.]

SEC. 79.

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

In all cases under the trustee process in the su- CHA1,. 86_

preme judicial court, where exceptions are taken to the ruling I——T—

and decision of a single judge as to the liability of the trustee e‘;:;{;§0‘;,,,
to be charged, the whole case may be re-examined and deter- ‘1;1;°l‘i‘)e°¢:‘fe‘_
mined by the law court, and remanded for further disclosures or atiuyned, &cI
other proceedings, as the court thinks justice requires.
1849, c. 117.
TRUSTEE PROCESS IN JUSTICE COURTS.

Sec. 80. When a trustee process is issued by a municipal or Form and ser
police court or a justice of the peace, the writ shall be in the “rffce‘;fs };‘r‘s‘e°
form now in use, and may contain a direction to attach property ustice courts.

of the principal in his own hands, as well as in the hands of the ,;,‘,§f,:,,§’_““'
person named as trustee, and be served as a trustee process issued by a judicial court, seven days before the return day; and
shall be brought in the county where either of the supposed
trustees resides; igd if not so brought, it shall be dismissed and
the trustees reco V their costs.
SEO. 81. When the person summoned does not appear and
answer to the suit, he shall be defaulted, adjudged trustee, and
be liable to costs on scire facias; if he appears at the return day
and submits himself to an examination on oath and is discharged,
he shall be allowed his legal costs; but if he is charged, he may
retain the amount of his costs; and when the plaintifff discon
tinues his suit against him or the principal, he shall be allowed
his costs.
‘

SEO. 82.

12Ma;ne,17_
gigs-kg-119,
’ '

Defanltiftrus
Z'i,‘L§QZ" “°‘
Costs
gégs-gﬁ 3119,32
' ’ ’ '

All subsequent proceedings in such causes shall be Subsequent

had, as is prescribed in this chapter in trustee processes in the
supreme judicial court, varying forms as circumstances require;
but when, in a trustee process before such court or justice the
debt recovered against the principal is less than ﬁve dollars, the
trustee shall be discharged, unless the judgment is so reduced by
means of a set-oﬂ‘ ﬁled in the case.
SEO. 83. If after a judgment is rendered in such trustee process, the principal defendant or trustee removes out of the county
in which it was rendered, such court or justice may issue execution against either, directed to the proper officer of any other
county where he is supposed to reside.
SEO. 84. When an action is brought against a trustee in a
county where he resides, but where neither the plaintifff nor defendant resides, and the trustee is discharged, or the action
discontinued as to him, the action shall still proeeed if there was
legal service on the principal defendant, unless it appears, by
plea in abatement, that the trustee was collusively included in
the writ for the purpose of giving the court in such county juris
diction.

70

§’)'i‘;§1f§;‘eg:',
trustee, &c.
giéas-E):-119,
' '

How execution
sh”‘“‘s‘''“°' 8”‘
?§5s_" °' 119’

Pr-oceed‘in§:_<,it‘
§l“:r‘g"'§d‘s&:f
R_ S" C: 119'
§96

ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST

.s .
M

[TITLE IX.

CHAPTER 87.
ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EKECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
SEC. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Prece ts, how

Executors and administrators, writs and executions against them, how issued.
Executors and administrators, executions for costs against them, how issued.
Executions against deceased returned unsatisﬁed, proceedings.
Administrators de bonis non may prosecute and defend suits.
Executor or administrator ceasing to be such after judgment, proceedings.
Writs of error by or against administrators de bonis non.
When an only party to an action dies, proceedings.
Actions surviving enumerated, may be prosecuted or defended.
Actual damages only recoverable in actions of tort, goods in replevin.
When plaintiﬁs or defendants die, proceedings.
No suit within one year after appointment; exceptions.
No suit after four years from notice of appointment; exceptions.
When action does not accrue within four years, claim to be ﬁled; proceed
ings.
Estate liable for such claims, how suits sustained onihem.
\Vhen such claims not ﬁled. only remedy is against heirs and devisecs.
Limitation of actions against administrators de bonis non.
Limitation of actions against administrators de bonis non, when no notice by
ﬁrst administrator.
Limitation of actions not applicable to actions for legacies; liability for un
faithful administration on administration bond.

SEC. 1.

Writs and executions against executors and adminis

ime _-&°3?, 113212;:

trators for costs, for which they are not personally liable, and
for debts due from the deceased, run against his goods and estate

RS-.c-120.

in their hands.

§a1'4'1.4‘
xecuhons,
when issued

Sec. 2. Executions for costs shall run against the goods and
estate, and for want thereof against the bodies of executors and

§':i1“;§o§‘s°';’nd administrators, in actions commenced by or against them, and in
estate for
actions commenced by or against the deceased in which they
°°“".
cared, for costs that accrued after the
20 Mame, 21. have a
. y assumed
.
. the
.
23 .\Iainc, 251. P rosccutlon or defense, to be allowed to them in their adminis
'I3:‘_1g_‘fi:'ei,,265" tration account, unless the judge of probate decides that the
§2, 3, 4, 5, 14. suit was prosecuted or defended without reasonable cause.

Execution
“g“i““‘h“'
estate of de
ceased, return;‘rlo§c‘§f;se_d’
R. S.,c.120,
§6Administrator

SEC. 3. When a proper oﬁicer makes his return, on an execu
tion issued under the ﬁrst section, that he cannot ﬁnd personal
property of the deceased, or other means to satisfy it, a writ of
scire facias, suggesting waste, may be issued against the executor
or administrator; and if he does not show cause to the con
trary, execution shall issue against him for the amount of the
judgment and interest, not exceeding the amount of waste, if
proved.

SEO. 4.

When an executor or administrator ceases to be such,

an cfend,
H"
R. s., c. 120,
g1.

an action pending in his favor or against him may be prosecuted
by or agamst an administrator de bon1s non; and 1f he does not
appear, after due notice, judgment may be rendered, as if the
_
.
.
suit had been commenced by or agamst him for debt and for

2:22’ °' 28°’

costs, as herein provided.

w1,,.,,,,,,e,’°,
SEO. 5. When an executor or administrator ceases to be
or sdm'K WW such after judgment agamst him, a writ of scire facias may be
ea’ M’
issued against the administrator de bonis non; and after due no

TITLE IX._|

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

555

tice an execution may issue as provided in the preceding section; CHAR 87_
but the costs, for which the executor or ﬁrst administrator was m

personally liable, may be enforced against his executor or admin- 174: me’ ’
istrator.
R- 5-' °~ 120
SEC. 6. A writ of error may be maintained by or against an Writ of em,_
administrator de bonis non, when it could be by or against an R, 5,, 0. 120,

executor or ﬁrst administrator.

“

SEC. 7. When the only plaintifff or defendant dies while an When an only
action that survives is pending, or after its commencement and Bggfgntgig,
before its entry, his executor or administrator may prosecute or proceedings.

defend as follows ; the action, or an appeal, if made, may be en
tered, the death of the party suggested on the record, and the §1815°4- 11-9:32-11}
executor or administrator may appear voluntarily; if he does
’°' '§ '
not appear at the second term after such death, or after his ap
pointment, he may be cited to appear, and after due notice
thereof, judgment may be entered against him by nonsuit or
default.
SEC. 8. In addition to those surviving by the common law, Action, which
the following actions survive; replevin, trover, assault and bat- ggrvivei mag
. .

.

prosecute ,

tery, trespass, trespass on the case, and petltlons for and actions of &c.

review; and these actions may be commenced by or against an 3 G'°°“1'174'
.

.

17 Maine, 409.

executor or administrator, or when the deceased was a party to R. c. 120,
them, may be prosecuted or defended by them.
i81,"’1"1c6_'1'§ 21'
Sec. 9. When an action of trespass, or trespass on the case, 1,, trespass,

is commenced or prosecuted against an executor or administra
tor, the plaintifff can recover only the value of the goods taken, recoverable. '
or damage actually sustained; and when judgment is rendered if-S
120
against an executor or administrator in an action of replevin for a § '17,"1§j

'

return of goods, those returned shall not be considered assets,
and such return shall discharge him.
SEC. 10. When one of several plaintifffs or defendants, in an When plain

aetion that survives, dies, his death may be suggested on the f,‘n“,Ss‘:1‘,e‘%°ifl§“d‘
record, and the action may be further prosecuted or defended avtipns by or

by the survivors; and when all the plaintifffs or defendants die, §,1:,s;,,t,,‘:Z,§i
the action may be prosecuted or defended by the executor or insi
administrator of the last surviving plaintifff or defendant.
?'1§,‘'2§_' 120’
SEO. 11.

No executor or administrator can be compelled to No suit within

appointment,
defend a suit except
commenced
on a demand
against him
not affected
within one
by an
year
insolvency
after his eggeptions. '
of the estate, or on a demand by an appeal from a decision of
commissioners of insolvency; but all such suits shall be continned at the expense of the plaintiﬂ' till said year expires; and
a tender of a debt within the year shall bar any such actions.
Sac. 12. And none after four years from the time of giving
notice
to his hands
of his appointment,
after that time,
except
he shall
as follows.
be accountable
When assets
therefore
come
in

R- S-. c- 120.
§2_1’

And none after
notioe_o it;

the probate court, and an action may be commenced within ;‘°:P“°"1S2'0
four years after the receipt thereof, and within one year after §'23”,"';.f_' '
the creditor has notice of such receipt. (a)
(a)

11 Maine, 150; 14 Maine, 254, 320; 29 Maine, 458; 32 Maine, 72.

556

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

SEO. 13. And when an action, on a covenant or contract,
does not accrue within said four years, the claimant may ﬁle
“fhen action
such demand in the probate office within that time, and the
does not so
crue within
judge
of probate shall direct that suﬂicient assets, if such there
four years;
be, shall be retained by the executor or administrator, unless
proceedings.
39 Maine, 498. the heirs or devisees of the estate give bond, with one or more
R. S., c. 120,
surcties, approved by the judge of probate, to the executor or
§ 25.
administrator to respond the same.
Estate remains
SEO. 14. When a bond is so given, no assets shall be retain
liable to such
cd;
but the estate shall be liable in the hands of heirs or de
claims ; how
suits main
visees, or those claiming under them, to answer such demand;
mined.
and an action may be brought on such bond, or when no bond is
R. S., c. 120,
given, against the executor or administrator, and if any thing is
§ 26, 27, 28.
found due, the claimant shall have judgment therefore and for his
costs.
If such claim
SEC. 15. When such claim has not been ﬁled in the probate
is not ﬁled,
oﬁice
within said four years, the claimant may have remedy
remedy a ainst
heirs or e
against the heirs or devisees of the estate within one year after
yisees.
6 Green]. 127. it becomes due, and not against the executor or administrator.
R. S., c. 120,
SEO. 16. Upon the appointment of an administrator de bonis
§ 30.
non,
the time within which actions may be brought is extended
Time within
which actions as follows; to such a portion of the four years as remained un
can be brought
against admin expired before a vacancy, shall be added so much time after the
istrators de
new appointment as will make ﬁve years; and every new ad
bonis non.
R. s.. c. 120, ministrator shall in all cases be liable to actions of creditors for
§ 32, as.
two years after notice given of his appointment, although the
whole time may be extended beyond ﬁve years. _
Limitation of
SEC. 17. When an executor or administrator does not give
actions against
legal notice of his appointment, actions may be commenced
an adminis
trator dc bonis against a new administrator within four years after notice of his
non, &c.
R. s., c. 120, appointment; and if he fails to give legal notice of it, he can
have no beneﬁt of the limitations contained in this chapter.
§ 34, 35.
Actions for
SEC. 18. An action, for the recovery of a legacy, shall not
legacics not
be
aifeeted by the provisions of this chapter. When an execu
aﬂected, &c.
tor or administrator is guilty of unfaithful administration, he
R. S., e. 120,
§ 29, 31.
shall be liable on his administration bond for all damages occa
sioned thereby.
Cnar. 87.

CHAPTER 88.
PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.
Sic. 1. Partition may be made by writ at common law.
2. Partition may be made by petition; what must be stated in it.
3. Petition may be ﬁled in vacation, if all co-tenants are named.
L Petition may be presented in any county, if all are not named, and notice
ordered.
5. When persons not fully notiﬁed may appear ; pleadings how made.
6. Plaintiff or petitioner may reply.
'
7. Guardians for infantsand insane persons, and agents for persons out of the
state, to be appointed.

TITLE 1X.]

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

Snc. 8. Division of time, for occupation of saw mills, may be rnads.
SEGD
o~,L'cs.‘oaro Respondent having no interest, pays costs.
Petitioner owning a less share than claimed. pays costs; proceedings.
- Petitioner dying or conveying, his heirs, devisees or grantees may be ad

. . ,.
,_.

'-'

,_.

17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

CHAP 88
_r._'_ 1

mitted to proceed.
Respondent dying, his heirs or devisees may be cited to appear.
Commissioners to be appointed to set 011' shares together or separately. ‘
Commissioners to be sworn and certiﬁcate of oath made on warrant.
Commissioners to give notice of time and place for partition; majority may
decide, but all must be present.
Commissioners to assign shares so as to include exclusive possessions.
Value of improvements to be considered.
,
Commissioners may assign to one a parcel greater than his share, on his pay
ment of award to the others; report not to be accepted until award is paid.
Court to determine share of expenses to be paid by each, and may issue
execution therefore.
When a share too large, or of too much value, is set oﬂ', a new division may be
had on application to court within three years.
How a new division shall be made.
Report of commissioners conﬁrmed, recommitted, or set aside. When con
ﬁrmed, to be recorded.
Judgment conclusive of all rights, except as after provided.
\Vhen an unequal share is left for one out of the state, proceedings.
Person not a party, claiming in severalty, not precluded.
Person claiming a share assigned or left, not precluded.
Person owning, to whom no share assigned or left, not precluded.
Person evicted of his share, to have a new partition.
Mortgages, attachments and liens, remain in force on a share set out.
Lots reserved for public uses, to be ﬁrst set off.

SEC. 1.

Persons seized or having a right of entry into real Partition by

estate in fee simple or for life, as tenants in common, joint tenants,
or co-partners, may be compelled to divide the same by writ of R. s., c. 121,

partition at common law. (a)
Ssc. 2.

Si 1

Persons so entitled, and those in possession or hav- Partition by

ing a right of entry for a term of years, as tenants in common, \°'§:,‘,°§,',,S,,be
may present a petition addressed to the supreme judicial court statedinit~

held in the county where such estate is, clearly describing it, and
stating whether it is a fee simple, for life, or for years, and the 320
proportion claimed by him, the other tenants in common, and
their places of residence, if known, and whether any or all of R-S--0-121.
them are unknown.
§ 2’ 3' 4'
SEC. 3.

The petition may be ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice in va- A1100-tenants

cation, if all the co-tenants are named in it. A copy thereof, at- {§,r,',‘e§;,yp§,f,"
tested by the clerk, left with each or at his last and usual place ﬁ1ed’&°

of abode, twenty days before the session of the court to which :;"5s"°'121'
it is addressed, shall be sufficient service.

SEC. 4. When the co-tenants are not all named in the petition, it may be presented to the court in that, or in any other
county, returnable in the county where the estate is, and such
notice shall be given to the other co-tenants, as the court orders;
and in case of non-compliance therewith, or other imperfection
of notice, the court may order further notice to be given.
Q?) 12 Maine, 142, 320, 398 ; 16 Maine, 388 ; 17 Maine, 423; 21 Maine, 47; 31 Maine,
; 35 Mame, 107.
_

I

when 11?t all
t‘2“;§;Jh§&‘y
i§c““Y °°“mY'
5 (§,een,_ 458
R-S-.c-121,.
§ 6’ 7’ 8'

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 88.
€vl———
noQ§,rI§i’§?1°“5
may a.PP"‘"Pleadmgs, how
made.

SEO. 5. A person interested and not named in the petition,
or out of the state, and not so notiﬁed as to enable him to ap
pear earlier, may be permitted to appear and defend at any time
before ﬁnal judgment. And any person, defendant in an action
at law, or respondent in a petition for partition, may jointly

36 Maine, 16.
?§,S1"1,°‘151_2l'
pemionermay
"P1Y'_&°%,2_“sI_‘:“§_°'123,2,l'
§12.15sluardianifor
;‘£1";‘a‘;'dm‘
agent for those

the general issue, allege any matter tending to show that parti
tion ought not to be made as prayed for.
SEC. 6. The plaintifff or petitioner may reply by counter
brief statement, alleging that the defendant or respondent has
no interest in the premises, or other matter to show the insuﬂi
cicncy of the defense.
SEO. 7. When an infant, or insane person, living in the state,
has no guardian, and appears to be interested, the court shall
appoint a guardian ad litem for him, and an agent for persons

with others, or separately, by brief statement, without a plea of

1’,‘,“,,;’f,‘l‘_e“‘“‘e interested who had been out of the state one year before the
oigtec-121
§ ‘10,"22_' '
Division of

petition was presented, and do not return before judgment for
the partition is to be made.
SEC. 8. Tenants in common of a saw mill, may have a divi
sion of the time, during which each may occupy according to his
milés maybe interest, as partition is made of an estate; and the court may
ma 8.
1848, c_ 56_
make all necessary decrees in relation thereto.
Respondent
SEC. 9. When it appears on trial that the respondent has no
{Wing no in- interest in the estate, he shall no further be heard, and the peti
crest, &c.

R. s., c. 121,

55 13_

tioner shall recover of him the costs of the trial.

SEC. 10.

When a petitioner is found to own a less share than

\Vhen peti

donor mm,
is claimed in his petition, he shall have partition of such share,
1“? Bhmlhan but the respondent shall recover costs. When found entitled to
clmmed, &c.

5 Green, 458_ have partition of the share claimed, he shall recover costs of the
R. s., c. 121. respondent. In such cases, or on default, a judgment that parti
§ 14' 17'
tion be made shall be entered.
When _edSEC. 11. The owners may join or sever in their petitions.
boner res or
c°,“.e}.s,
heirs’ When they join, and one dies or conveys his share, or when a

dﬂisees or
several petitioner dies or conveys his share, the petition, by
grantees may
roceed_
leave of court, may be amended by erasing his name and in
-1(f_-'°- 121, serting the names of his heirs, devisees, or grantees, and they
ls12,c.31§14. may proceed with the process for their respective shares.

gzgtonlggnat
SEO. 12. The petition is not abated by the death of a party
heirs or de_
respondent. His heirs or devisees, or if the estate is for a term
v_ise§smay be of years, his executor or administrator may be cited to appear,
‘E, :n'97
and upon service on them, they shall become parties to the

' ' '

proceedings; and the court may order such judgment, and with
such costs, as the law and facts require.

Commission§{15““e’s,"§fc‘f“

SEC. 13. After judgment that partition be made, the court
shall appoint three or ﬁve disinterested persons as commission

15 Maine, 365_ ers, to make partition and set off to each his share, which shall

?-19S-’2(')=- 121' '

be expressed in the warrant. Their shares may be set off to
gether, or in one tract, or the share of each may be assigned
to him, at his election.
To be sworn:
SEO. 14. Before proceeding to discharge their duty, the com
°°‘“ﬁc‘“e' &°' missioncrs shall be sworn to the faithful and impartial perform

?'21s."c'121'

ance of it; and the justice of the peace, before whom they are

TITLE IX.]

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

559

sworn, shall make his certiﬁcate thereof on the back of their EHAP. 88.4
warrant.

SEO. 15. They shall give reasonable notice, of the time and
place for making partition, to all concerned who are known and
within the state. They must -all be present at the performance
of their duties, but the report of a majority is valid.
SEC. 16. When one of the tenants in common, by mutual
consent, has had the exclusive possession of a part of the estate,

Notice of time
and place, &c.
20 Maine, 291.
32 Maine, 136.
R. S., c. 121,
§ 23, 24.
The share ofa
tenant to be
assigned from
or to include
his exclusive
possession,
&c.
1855. c. 157.
Parcel of
greater value
than a share
may be assi ed to one WE?)
pays to others;
when.
15 Maine, 365.

and made improvements thereon, his share shall be assigned
from or including such part; and the value of the improvements
made by a tenant in common shall be considered, and the as
signment of shares be made in conformity therewith.
SEO. 17. When any parcel of the estate to be divided is
of greater value than either party’s share, and cannot be divided
without great inconvenience, it may be assigned to one party
by his paying the sum of money awarded to the parties, who
have less than their share; but the report shall not be accepted,
until the sums so awarded are paid or secured to the satisfac R. s., c. 121,
tion of the parties entitled thereto.
§ 25.
SEO. 18. An account of the charges, attending the partition, Court deter
expen
shall, on request of a petitioner, be presented to the court, which mines
ses to be paid
shall determine, after giving notice to all concerned, the pro by each; exe
cution may be
portion to be paid by each; and execution therefore may be issued.
R. S., c. 121,
issued against any one neglecting to pay.
26.
SEC. 19. If a share larger than his real interest, or more §When
a larger
than equal in value to his proportion, is set off to a part owner, share or one of
an aggrieved part owner, who at the time of partition was out K‘ eater value
than his share
of the state and not notiﬁed in season to prevent it, his heirs, is set off to a
&c.
or assigns, may, within three years thereafter, apply to the court party,
R. s., c. 121,
that made the partition, and it shall cause a new partition to be § 27.
1852, c. 235.
made.
SEO. 20. In such new partition, so much and no more shall How the new
shall
be taken from a share, as it is considered more than its propor partition
be made.
tion of the whole, estimated as in the state when divided; and R. s., c. 121,
if any improvements have been made on the part taken off, rea § 28.
sonablc satisfaction therefore, to be estimated by the commission
ers, shall be made to him, who made them, by him to whose

share they are added; and the court may issue execution there
for, and for costs of the new partition.
SEC. 21. Commissioners in all cases shall make and sign a Report; ma
conﬁrme ,
written return of their proceedings, and make return thereof be
recommitted,
with their warrant to the court from which it issued. Their re or set aside.
When con
port may be conﬁrmed, recommitted, or set aside and new pro ﬁrmed, to be
ceedings be had as before. When conﬁrmed, judgment shall be recorded.
20 Maine, 291.
entercd accordingly, and recorded by the clerk, and by the regis 30 Maine, 217.
R. S.. c. 121,
ter of deeds of the district where the estate is.
29, 30.
See. 22. Such judgment shall be conclusive on all rights of §Judgment
cott
clusive
of all
property and possession of all parties and privics to the judg
rights, except,
ment, including all persons, who might have appeared and answer- &
11?'s., c. 121,
ed, except as hereinafter provided. (a)
§ 31.
(a) 29 Maine, 29, 128, 659.

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

560

[TITLE IX.

Sso. 23. When a person, to whom a share was left, was out
of the state when notice was served on him, and did not return
“Then an une
in season to become a party to the proceedings, he may, within
qual shnre is
left for one out three years after ﬁnal judgment, apply to the same court for a
of state, a new
nrtition may new partition; and if it appears to the court that the share left
e made.
for him was less than he was entitled to, or that it was not equal
R. s., c. 121, in value to his proportion of the premises, it may order a new
§ 32.
partition as provided in section twenty.
Person not a.
SEO. 24. When a person, not a party to the proceedings,
party claiming
claims to hold the premises described, or any part thereof in
1n Severalt
not preelu ed. severalty, he shall not be precluded by the judgment for parti
33 Maine, 100. tion; but may bring his action therefore, as if no such judgment
R. S.. c. 121,
had been rendered.
§ 33.
A person
SEO. 25. When a person, not a party to the proceedings,
claiming a
claims
a share assigned to or left for a part owner, he shall be
share assigned
or left, not
concluded so far as it respects the assignment of the shares; but
precluded.
R. s., c. 121, shall not be prevented from maintaining an action, within the
time in which it might have been brought if no judgment for
§ 31, 35.
partition had been rendered, for the share claimed, vainst the
tenant in possession, as if the demandant had claimed the piece
demanded, instead of an undivided part of the whole.
A part owner
Sso. 26. When a person, not a party to the proceedings,
to whom no
claims to have been a part owner of the estate, to whom no
share was as
signed or left, share was assigned or left, he shall be concluded so far as it
not precluded,
respects the partition, but not from maintaining an action, against
&c.
R. s., c. 121, each person holding a share, for his proportion of each share as
§ 36.
owned before partition was made.
A person
SE0. 2'7. When a person, to whom a share has been assign
evicted to have
ed or left, has been evicted by an elder and better title than
a new parti
tion.
that of the parties to the judgment, he shall be entitled to a
R. S., c. 121,
new
partition of the residue, as if no partition had been made.
§ 37.
SEC. 28. A person having a mortgage, attachment, or other
A mortgage,
CHAP. 88.

attachment or
lien on it share

lien on the share in common of a part owner, shall be concluded

in common

by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition, but his
mortgage or lien shall remain in force on the part assigned or
left to such part owner.
SEO. 29. When portions or lots are reserved for public uses
in a tract of land to be divided, they shall ﬁrst be set out, of an
average quality and situation, and a return made thereof to the
land oﬂice, with a description of its quality and location; and
the commissioners’ return of partition, accepted and recorded

holds the share
set out.

R. S., c. 121,
§ 38.
Lots reserved
for public uses
to be ﬁrst set
off.
17 Maine, 423.

R. s., 0. 121,
§ 40.

as before provided, shall be a valid location of such reserved
lands.

TITLE IX.]

ACTIONS OF REVIEW.

561
CHAP. 89.

CHAPTER 89.
PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.

Sec. 1. One review may be granted on petition within three years after judgment.

sees
was

Petition presented in any county, and notice to be ordered.
When discovery of new evidence is alleged, proceedings.
Supersedeas granted in term time or vacation, on bond ﬁled.
On writ of review, trial to be had in county where judgment was rendered;
copies to be produced.
Writ of review describes former action, summons, and service.
Original plaintifff being plaintifff in review, property may be attached.
. Pleadings, how made, amended on leave, trial on former issue.
9. Plaintiﬂ recovering greater sum than before, judgment, how to be rendered.
10. Plaintiff recovering less sum than before, judgment, how to be rendered.
11. In actions of replevin, and in actions in which a claim in set-off was ﬁled,
defendant in position of s plaintiﬂ for damages.
12. Party prevailing has costs, court may impose terms respecting them.

SEC. 1.

The supreme judicial court held by one justice, may

grant one review in civil actions, including petitions for partition

Review within
three ears af
ter ju grnent.
R. S., c. 123,

and proceedings for the location of lands reserved for public
uses, when judgment has been rendered in any judicial tribunal, 2 1, 2, 5, 6.
850, c. 183§ 1.
if petition therefore is presented within three years after the ren 1852, c. 246,
§ 13.
dition of judgment. (a)
SEO. 2. The petition may be presented in any county, and Petition pre
notice,
notice be there ordered returnable in the county where the judg sented;
&c.
ment was rendered. Such reasonable notice must be given to R. S., c. 123,

the adverse party as the court orders. (b)
SEO. 3.

When the discovery of new evidence is alleged in

the petition, the names of the witnesses to prove it, and what

§ 3, 4.
Discovery of
new evidence,

each is expected to testify, must be stated under oath.
SEO. 4. On presentation of a petition for review, any justice
Any justice
of the court may, in term time, or in vacation, stay execution on may grant a
the judgment complained of, or grant a supersedeas, upon a bond supersedeas,
on bond ﬁled.
ﬁled with sureties approved by him, or by such person as he ap R.8S., c. 123,
points, in double the amount of the damages and costs, condi
ital, c. 95, § 3.
tioned to pay said amount if the petition is denied, or the amount
of the ﬁnal judgment on review, if it is granted, with interest
thereon at the rate of twelve per cent. from the date of the bond
to the time of ﬁnal judgment.
SEO. 5. When a review is a matter of right as provided by Writ of review
entered at first
the fourth section of chapter eighty-two, or when granted on term
and trial
petition, a writ of review shall be issued, and the trial take in the county
where
judg
place in the supreme judicial court in the county in which the ment rendered,
judgment was rendered. It shall be entered at the next term &c.
after the review is granted, unless leave is granted to enter it at R.10.S., c. 123,
the second term; and the plaintifff in review shall produce and . S., c. 124,
ﬁle an attested copy of the writ, judgment, proceedings, and § 1, 5.
depositions, or their originals,_in the former suit.
(a) 1 Greenl. 322; 3 Greenl. 92; 4 Greenl. 58, 634; 6 Green]. 412, 479; 8 Greenl.
211 ; 19 Maine, 107, 259; 24 Maine, 166; 27 Maine, 536; 33 Maine, 233, 585.
(b) 6 Greenl. 412; 36 Maine, 9.

'11

562

MORTGAGES or REAL Esrirrn.

[TITLE 1x.

CRAP. 89.
SEO. 6. In the writ of review, it shall be sufficient to describe
W the former action and judgment so as to identify it.’ The writ

sc,rii,e?o§,'e,

shall contain a summons to appear and answer to the plaintifff

“°‘i°“'&°?'2,s5,'_°'124'

in review, and it may be served as other writs, and when the
party is not an inhabitant of or found within the state, it may be
served on his attorney in the original suit.
When‘ original
SEO. 7. When the original plaintifff is plaintifff in review,,the

{)’{§i‘::i‘g_i§
property of the defendant may be attached, as it might have
rcview.propbeen in
n.
b
, the ori g inal suit, and the form of . the writ
- . be varied
.
§,§£: , &°c_ accordmgly; but no attachment made, or bail taken 1n the ong
R.-‘S1--10-124, inal action, shall be holden to satisfy the judgment on review.
iV,’wn'p,ead_
SEC. 8. The proper pleadings shall be made on review, when
ings had been no issue had been joined before judgment in the original action ;

f,‘,-“§,°’of,a§§,

when issue has been so joined, the cause shall be tried thereon;

issue, if nerd
OI! new p ea '
ing,’ M
$1‘-337--E-124,
when Plaintiff
reeovers_greatbut amendments, brief statements, and other issues, may be made
by leave of court, and the cause may be tried and disposed of as
if it were an original suit.
SEC. 9. Judgment in the suit reviewed, shall be given with
out regard to the former judgment, except as follows. When

fIfc§,§f“,’“J,:dg' the original plaintifff recovers a greater sum than he did by the
renderei

ﬁrst judgment as debt or damage, he shall have judgment there

§1§”j:°i21412- for, or for so much thereof as remains unsatisﬁed, and for costs
§9, 13.

on review.

When sum
SEC. 10. When the sum ﬁrst recovered is reduced, the origi
fﬁgggggfred nal defendant shall have judgment for the difference, with costs,
Fwvilédsrlaent on the review; and if the former judgment has not been satis
l8 I811 ere R_ S" c_ 124, ﬁed, one judgment may be set off against the other, and execution
§ 12.

In lactionsgzol

;§Ps°“:’m:‘

be issued for the balance.

SEC. 11.

When actions of replevin, and actions in which a

claim in set-off was ﬁled, are reviewed, the defendant shall be

§ 14.

regarded as in the position of a plaintifff, so far as it respects the
damages awarded to him.
Party prevailSEC. 12. The party prevailing in the action recovers costs,
£5 has °°s‘s' but this shall not prevent the court, granting a review, from im
1 Greenl. 155. posing terms respecting costs.
2 Greenl. 397.
R. s., e.124,
§ 10.

CHAPTER 90.
MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.
Snc.

wwas-eses r

How mortgages of real estate are made.
Mortgages may enter before breach, unless otherwise agreed.
Modes of obtaining possession for foreclosure.
Foreclosed in three years.
Mode of foreclosing without taking possession.
Mortgager may redeem within three years.
Form of declaring in a suit to obtain possession on mortgage. Conditional
judgment, and judgment as at common law, in certain cases.
Form of conditional judgment; form of judgment when condition is for some
not other than payment of money.
9. Judgment for defendant, if nothing be due.

TITLE IX.]
SEC. 10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

Action for foreclosure by executor or administrator.
Mortgages to be assets in the hands of administrators, who are to be seized to
the use of heirs.
Against whom action on a mortgage shall be brought.
Proceedings in equity to redeem a mortgage.
Proceedings when the amount due on a mortgage has been paid or tendered.
Courts to order notice, if mortgagee be out of the state. Remedy of innocent
assignee, in case of fraudulent mortgage.
Provisions for redemption when the mortgagee is out of the state.
Limitation of such bill in equity.
Court may allow other persons joined as defendants, and notiﬁed.
Award of execution on decree of court.
Deduction of rents and proﬁts from the sum brought into court for redemp
tion.
State treasurer may discharge or foreclose mortgages made or assigned to the
state.
~
Bill in equity for redemption may be ﬁled against the state.
W'here to be ﬁled, and proceedings thereon.
On decease of a person entitled to redeem, his administrator or heir may re
deem.
Tender may be made to guardian of mortgagee, if under guardianship.
How mortgages may be discharged.
Redemption of mortgaged estate from purchaser of the equity of redemption.

SEO. 1. Mortgages of real estate, mentioned in this chapter,
include those made in the usual form, in which the condition is
set forth in the deed, and those made by a conveyance appearing
on its face to be absolute, with a separate instrument of defea.s.
ance executed at the same time or as part of the some transCHAP. 90.

How mm.
gggil gig“
made.
10 Maine 197
23M‘
.234.
R. sji-1.912-5,

action.

§1.

SEO. 2. Any mortgagee, or person claiming under him, may
enter on the premises, or recover possession thereof before a.
breach of the condition of the mortgage, when there is no agreement to the contrary; but in such case, if the debt is afterwards

Mortgage.
;§g',fr‘gfc‘hbe'
unless 0tl1e'r—
;"G" “geggé

paid or the mortgage redeemed, the amount of the clear rents 27 1§f:i,,,;,531'_
and proﬁts, from the time of the entry, shall be accounted for, i}*,41g“i§ei,10§*7
and deducted from the amount due on the mortgage.
§é. " ' ' ’
SEC. 3. After breach of the condition, if the mortgagee, or
any one claiming under him, desires to obtain possession of the
premises for the purpose of foreclosure, he may proceed in either
of the following ways, viz.:
Fint.—He may commence an action at law and obtain possession under a writ of possession issued on the judgment in the
action, as provided in the eighth section, duly executed by an
oﬂicer. An abstract of such writ, stating the time of obtaining

M_od_esofob
2:125 £235‘
foreclosure.
34maine,166,

possession, certiﬁed by the clerk, shall be recorded in the regis
try of deeds of the district in which the estate is, within thirty
days after possession obtained.
Second.—He may enter into possession, and hold the same by 33 Maine, 363

consent in writing of the mortgagor, or the person holding un
der him.
Thinl.—He may enter peaceably and openly, if not opposed, 29 Maine, 56.
in the presence of two witnesses and take possession of the R-S-,0-125.
premises; and a certiﬁcate of the fact and time of such entry 281-,’ c_ 105'
shall be made, signed, and sworn to by such witnesses before a

564

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

Cnxr. 90. justice of the peace; and such written consent and certiﬁcate

Foreclosed in
three years.
R. S., c. 125,
§ 4.
Mode of fore
closin" with
out taking
possession.

25 Maine, 383.

38 Maine, 256,
648.
R._ S., c. 125,
§ 0.

1849, e. 105.

Mortga cr
re eem
wit in three
years.
R. S., c. 125,

§ 6.
Form of de
claring in a
suit to obtain
possession on
mortgage, &c.
2 Greenl. 322.
17 Maine, 437.
R. S., c. 125,
§ 7, 8.

Form of con
ditional judg
ment, &c.

shall be recorded in each registry of deeds in which the mort
gage is or by law ought to be recorded, within thirty days next
after the entry is made.
SEO. 4. Possession obtained in either of these three modes,
and continued for the three following years, shall forever fore
close the right of redemption. ((1)
SEC. 5. If after breach of the condition, the mortgagee, or
any person claiming under him, is not desirous of taking and
holding possession of the premises, he may proceed for the pur
pose of foreclosure in either of the following modes:
Fim.—He may give public notice in a newspaper printed in
the county where the premises are situated, if any, or if not, in
the state paper, three weeks successively, of his claim by mort
gage on such real estate, describing the premises intelligibly, and
naming the date of the mortgage, and that the condition in it is
broken, by reason whereof he claims a foreclosure; and cause a
copy of such printed notice, and the name and date of the news
paper in which it was last published, to be recorded in each reg
istry of deeds in which the mortgage deed is or by law ought to
be recorded, within thirty days after such last publication.
Second.—-He may cause an attested copy of such notice to be
served on the mortgagor or his assignee, if he lives in this state,
by the sheriff or his deputy of the same county, by delivering it
to him in hand or leaving it at his place of last and usual abode;
and cause the original notice and the sheriff ’s return thereon to
be recorded within thirty days after such service as aforesaid;
and in all cases the certiﬁcate of the register of deeds shall be
prima facie evidence of the fact of such entry, notice, publication
of foreclosure, and of the sheriff’s return.
SEO. 6. The mortgager, or person claiming under him, may
redeem the mortgaged premises within three years next after
the ﬁrst publication, or the service of the notice mentioned in
the preceding section, and if not so redeemed his right of re
demption shall be forever foreclosed. (b)
SEC. '7. The mortgagee, or person claiming under him, in an
action for possession, may declare on his own seizin, in a writ of
entry, without naming the mortgage or assignment; and if it ap
pears on default, demurrer, verdict or otherwise, that the plaintifff
is entitled to the possession of the premises for breach of the
condition of the mortgage, the court shall, on the motion of either
party, award the conditional judgment hereinafter mentioned,
unless it appears that the tenant is not the mortgagor, or a per
son claiming under him, and in that case, judgment may be entered
as at common law, unless the plaintifff consents to the entry of a
conditional judgment.
SEC. 8. The conditional judgment shall be that, if the mort
gagcr, his heirs, executor or administrator, pay to the mortgagee,
his executor or administrator, the sum the court adjudges to be
(a) 7 Greenl. 31 ; 23 Maine, 25; 24 Maine, 155 ; 37 Maine, 386.
(b) 7 Greenl. 31; 21 Maine, 126; 36 Maine, 50; 20 Maine, 269.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

due, with interest, within two months from the time of entering OH“, 90
up judgment, no writ of possession shall issue and the mortgage ——~;~'
shall be void; otherwise, it shall issue in due form of law. When R§,S1"5_c'125’

the condition is for doing some other act than the payment of 44|°-1°
money, the court may vary the conditional judgment as the cir
cumstances require; and the writ of possession shall issue, if the
terms of the conditional judgment are not complied with within
the two months.
SEC. 9. If it appears that nothing is due on the mortgage, Judgmentif

judgment shall be rendered for the defendant and for his costs n°“‘i“g ‘“°'
and he shall hold the land discharged of the mortgage.

SEO. 10.

’ iJ’§?,°2‘."£'

When a mortgagee, or person claiming under him, axon M

is dead, the same proceedings to foreclose the mortgage may be foreclosure by

had by his executor or administrator, declaring on the seizin of °-“'°‘°‘ “dm '

the deceased, as he might have had if living.
SEC. 11.

§l“‘nS_" °' 125'

Lands mortgaged to secure the payment of debts, Mortgages to

or the performance of any collateral engagement, and the debts {’,fe“§§f§s“;,
so secured, on the decease of the mortgagee, or person claiming administra
under him, shall be assets in the hands of his executors or ad- K‘; &:'m

ministrators; and they shall have the control of them as of a §i3." '

'

personal pledge; and when they recover seizin and possession
thereof, it shall be to the use of the widow and heirs, or devisees,
or creditors of the deceased, as the case may be; and when re
deemed, they may receive the money, and give effectual discharges
therefore, and releases of the mortgaged premises.
SEO. 12. An action on a mortgage deed may be brought Against whom

against a person in possession of the mortgaged premises; and

211,,“

the mortgagor, or person claiming under him, may, in all cases, be b'°“8h"

be joined with him as a cotenant, whether he then has any in- ?'1,E"°'125’
terest or not in the premises; but he shall not be liable for
costs, when he has no such interest, and makes his disclaimer
thereto upon the records of the court.
SEC. 13. Any mortgager, or other person having a right to Proceedingsin

redeem lands mortgaged, may demand of the mortgagee or per- §:,‘,‘,y,,t‘;,,f,‘:.},_
son claiming under him a true account of the sum due on the sage

mortgage, and of the rents and proﬁts, and money expended in g4G1{I‘f:’i§‘,1,;2;§;_
repairs and improvements, if any; and if he unreasonably re- 25Maine:383

fuses or neglects to render such account in writing, or, in any

2%:

other way by his default, prevents the plaintifff from performing 35 Blaine» 218
or tendering performance of the condition of the mortgage, he ?'1§"°'125'
may bring his bill in equity for the redemption of the mortgaged
premises within the time limited in section six, and therein
oﬂ'er to pay the sum found to be equitably due, or to perform
any other condition, as the case may require; and such offer
shall have the same force as a tender of payment or perform
ance before the commencement of the suit; and the bill shall be
sustained without such tender, and thereupon he shall be enti
tled to judgment for redemption and costs.
SEC. 14. When the amount due on a mortgage has been paid When the

or tendered to the mortgagee, or person claiming under him, :‘,",,°,,‘ft‘,;,,d';°h‘Z,'§
by the mortgagor or the person claiming under him, within the been psi 01

time so limited; he may have a bill in equity for the redemption tendmd’ 8”‘

566

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 90. of the mortgaged premises, and compel the mortgagee, or per

son claiming under him, by a decree of the supreme judicial
court, to release to him all his right and title therein; though
R. s., c. 125, such mortgagee or his assignee has never had actual possession
§ 17, 18.
of the premises for breach of the condition; or, without having
made a tender before the commencement of the suit, he may
have his bill in the manner prescribed in section sixteen, and
the cause shall be tried in the same manner.
SEO. 15. When the bill to redeem is brought before an ac
Courts to order
notice if mort tual entry for breach of the condition, and before payment or
gagee be out
tender, if the mortgagee, or the person claiming under him, is out
of the state,
of the state and has not had actual notice, the court shall order
proper notice to be given to him, and continue the cause as long
as necessary. When a mortgage is alleged and proved to be
fraudulent, in whole or in part, an innocent assignee of the
mortgagor, for a valuable consideration, may ﬁle his bill within
the time allowed to redeem, and be allowed to redeem without a
tender.
SEC. 16. When the mortgagee, or person claiming under him,
Provisions for
redemption
has
commenced proceedings for foreclosure under the ﬁfth sec
when the
mortga ec is
tion, if he resides out of the state, or if his residence is unknown
out of t e
to the party having the right to redeem, ‘he may ﬁle his bill, as
state.
1841, c. 1, § 23. prescribed in section thirteen, and pay at the same time to the
clerk of the courts the sum due, which payment shall have the
'same elfect as a tender before the suit; and the court shall order
such notice to be given of the pendency of the suit, as they judge
proper.
SEO. 1'7. No bill in equity shall be brought for redemption of
Limitation of
such a bill in
mortgaged premises, founded on a tender of payment or per
equity.
formance of the condition made before the commencement of the
R. S., c. 125,
§ 20.
suit, unless within three years next after making such tender.
SEC. 18. In any suit brought for the redemption of mortgaged
Court may
allow other
premises,
when it is necessary to the attainment of justice that
persons 'oined
as defen ant 8, any other person, besides the defendant, claiming an interest in
and notiﬁed.
the premises, should be made a party with the original defend
R. S., c. 125,
ant, on motion, the court may order him to be served with an
§ 21.
attested copy of the bill amended in such manner as they may
direct, and on his appearance, the cause shall proceed as though
he had been originally joined.
SEO. 19. The court, when a decree is made for the redemp
Award of exe
cution on de
tion
of mortgaged lands, may award execution jointly or sever
cree of court.
R. S., c. 125, ally, as the case requires; and for sums found due for rents and
§22.
proﬁts over and above the sums reasonably expended in repair
ing and increasing the value of the estate redeemed.
Deduction of
SEO. 20. When any sum of money is brought into court in a
rents and
suit
for redemption of mortgaged premises, the court may deduct
proﬁts from
the sum
therefrom such sum as the defendant is chargeable with on ac
brought into
count of rents and proﬁts by him received, or costs awarded
court for re
demption.
against him; and the person, to whom a sum of money is ten
R. S., c. 125,
dered to redeem such lands, if he receives a larger sum than he
§ 23.
7 Greenl. 31.
27 Maine, 237.

is entitled to retain, shall rpfund the excess.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

SEC. 21. When a mortgage is made or assigned to the state,
. the treasurer may demand and receive the money due thereon,
and discharge it by his deed of release. After breach of the
condition, he may, in person or by his agent, make use of the like
means for the purpose of foreclosure, which an individual mortgagee might, as prescribed in the third and ﬁfth sections.

GEAR 9O_
QM
ma discharge
°’ °"~’°1°s°
Egiliegigeszoce.

?',2s_" °' 125'

Sno. 22. If the treasurer of state, and the person applying Bmh, equity
to redeem any lands mortgaged to the state, disagree as to the fqrredemg
the
sum state
due thereon,
for the such
redemption
person may
thereof,
bring in
a bill
the in
supreme
equity judicial
against glesstezc-125

court.
SEC. 23.

§ '24." '

'

The court shall order notice to be served on the Where to be

treasurer of state in the usual form, and shall hear the cause, ﬁffgeggifl S
and decide what sum is due on said mortgage to the state, and iliereon. 8
award costs as they may deem equitable; and it shall be the ?-25°’-, “-125
duty of the treasurer to accept the sum adjudged by the court to
'
be due, and discharge the mortgage.
Sec. 24. If a person entitled to redeem a mortgaged estate, on decease of

or to redeem an equity of redemption which has been sold on ex- §’§‘;‘e‘:,‘;:I';‘ifS};d
ecution, or the right to redeem such right, or the right to redeem R_ S" c_ 1'25, '
lands set off on execution, dies without having made a tender for H6
that purpose, a tender may be made and a bill for redemption
commenced and prosecuted by his executor or administrator,
heirs or devisees; and if the plaintifff in any such bill in equity
dies pending the suit, it may be prosecuted to ﬁnal judgment by
his heirs, devisees, or his executor or administrator.
SEC. 25.

When the mortgagee, or person holding under him, Tend" to

is under guardianship, a tender may be made to the guardian, I8n“o“r'tdia';e°f
and he shall receive the sum due on the mortgage; and upon re- R.S.8,a<ii125,

ceiving it, or on performance of such other condition as the case §27'
requires, shall execute a discharge of the mortgage.
SEO. 26. In all cases, the mortgage may be discharged by the
deed of release from the person authorized to discharge it, or by
causing satisfaction and payment under his hand to be entered
in the margin of the record of such mortgage in the register’s
oﬂice. a)
SEc.(27. If the purchaser of an equity of redemption, sold
on execution, has satisﬁed and paid to the mortgagee, or those
claiming under him, the sum due on the mortgage, the mortgagor,
or those claiming under him, having redeemed the equity of reHow mort
§,§c§;f;:{Lb°
R_ 5,, c_ 125,
i28
Redemption of
f;§’e"g:IIIfd‘f:_
chaser of ihe
fgxégpﬂgon

demption within one year after such sale, shall have a right to R_s_'c_12,'5,

redeem such mortgaged estate of such purchaser, or any person i29
claiming under him, within the time and in the manner he might
have redeemed it of the mortgagee if there had been no such
sale made, and within such time only.
(a) 6 Greenl. 272; 17 Maine, 360; 18 Maine, 9.

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

568

[TITLE II.

Gun. 91.

CHAPTER 91 .
MORTGAGES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
MENT.

LIENS AND THEIR ENFORCE

Monroaons or Psnsorun Pnorsnrr.
SEC. 1. Mortgages not valid except between the parties, unless recorded, or possession
of the property taken.
2. Clerk to record mortgages in a book, noting therein, and on the mortgage,
when received.
es» Property may be redeemed within sixty days after breach of condition.
Property may be redeemed by tender of sum due and charges; if not restored,
proceedings.
Contracts for liens and transfers of vessels and goods at sea or abroad, not
defeated.
Ln-ms on Vssssns.

6. Lien on a vessel building, and on one repaired, for labor and materials, how
and when enforced.
Oﬁicer attaching, to ﬁle with clerk of the town, and deliver to owner, a copy
of his return.
8. Service of writ by sheriff, deputy or coroner, and subsequent attachments by
same oﬁicer.
Attachments preserved till thirty days after judgment in all suits; disposi
tion of property.
10. Commissioner may be appointed by a judge of the supreme court to examine
lien claims. Commissioner to give bond.
11. Power and duties of commissioner. Court may extend time for hearing cases.
One day's attendance only allowed. Claim may be contested. Report of
commissioner to be prima facie evidence.
12. Vessel may be sold, proceedings. Oﬂicer to deliver proceeds of sale to com
missioner. Penalty for neglect.
13. Proceeds of sale, how to be applied.
14. When judgment is rendered in one or more actions, while others are pend
ing, judge may order commissioner to advance to those recovering, not ex
ceeding their proportion of the whole claims.
Lmxs on Lmn AND LIME Rocx.
15.

Liens on lime and lime rock; take precedence of all other claims; continue
thirty days; to be enforced by attachment, which shall have precedence of
all other attachments ; may be discharged by tender of sum due.
Lrsxs on BUILDINGS AND L01-s.

Liens on buildings and lots for labor and materials under contract with own
er; to continue ninety days; how enforced; if levy is made, appraisers may
set out lot for buildings.
17. When owner dies before suit, how to be brought and when.
18. Lien on buildings placed on leased land, for rent, how enforced
16.

Lmss on Lops sun Lounsn.
19. Liens on logs and lumber for personal labor for sixty days after arrival at des
tination; to take precedence.
Boomage to be paid by attaching ofﬁcer. Lien not defeated by taking note.
Notice to owner.
Gsssasn Pnovmons ron Exroncsunm on Drscnnnos.
21.
22.

Attachments to have precedence. Suits after death and insolvency.
Tender of amount due discharges lien.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

569

Lrnxs on Goons m Poss1zssIoN now Exroncnn.

CHAP. 91.
See. 28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
80.
31.

Lien on goods in possession enforced by sale.
Petition to be ﬁled; contents of it.
Service on owners within the state.
Service on owners when unknown or out of the state.
\Vhen owner appears, proceedings.
When owner appears, may be required to give bond.
Court may order property to be sold.
Disposition of the proceeds.
Liens less than twenty dollars enforced by justices of the peace.
ty may appeal.

MORTGAGES

Either par

OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SEO. 1. No mortgage of personal property, made to secure
payment of more than thirty dollars, shall be valid against any
other person than the parties thereto, unless possession of such
property is delivered to and retained by the mortgagee, or the
mortgage is recorded by the clerk of the town in which the
mortgagor resides. (a) When a corporation makes a mortgage,
it shall be recorded in the town where it has its established
place of business. When the mortgagor resides in an unincor
porated place, the mortgage shall be recorded in the oldest ad
joining town in the county.
SEO. 2. The clerk, on payment of the same fees allowed to

Mortgages not
valid except
between the
parties, unless
recorded or
possession
taken.
R. S., c. 125,

registers of deeds for like services, shall record all such mort

mortgages,

i 849,
32.
1850,
1852,
1854,

c.
c.
c.
e.

103.
180.
262.
103.

Clerk records
noting when

gages delivered to him in a book kept for that purpose, noting received.
19 Maine, 167.
therein, and on the mortgage, the time when it was received; R.
S., c. 125,
and it shall be considered as recorded when received.
‘ § 33.
SEO. 3. The property may be redeemed by the mortgagor, Redemption
sixty
or person claiming under him, within sixty days after breach of within
days after
the condition, unless it has been sold by virtue of a contract, or breach of con
dition.
on execution against the mortgager. (b)
R. S., c. 125,
SEC. 4. To redeem, the sum due on the mortgage, with rea § 30.
Sum due to be
sonable charges incurred, must be paid or tendered; and if the paid
or tender
property is not immediately restored, it may be replevied; or ed to redeem,
damages for withholding it may be recovered in an action on &e.
R. S., c. 125,
the case.
§ 31.
SEC. 5. Nothing in the preceding sections shall defeat a con Liens on ves
sels or goods
tract of bottomry, respondentia, transfer, assignment, or hypothe abroad,
not
defeated.
cation, of a vessel or goods at sea or abroad, if possession is
19 Maine, 9.
taken as soon as may be after their arrival within the state.
R. S., e. 125,
§ 34.
LIENS ON VESSELS.

SEO. 6.

A person, who furnishes labor or materials for a

vessel building, shall have a lien on such vessel therefore, which
may be enforced by an attachment of the vessel within four
days after she is launched. And a person, who does so after she
is launched, or for repair of a vessel, shall have alien on her
(a) 19 Maine, 167; 22 Maine, 560; 24 Maine, 555; 26 Maine, 419; 31 Maine, 73; 32
Maine, 233; 3-1: Maine, 208; 37 Maine, 181, 543.
ab) 24 Maine, 131; 29 Maine, 429; 31 Maine, 104, 601; 36 Maine, 47; 82 Maine,
17 ; 39 Maine, 448.

72

Lien on vessel
building or
repairing, for
labor, &e., how
enforced.
33 Maine, 479.
36 Maine, 384.
R. S., c. 125,
§ 35.

MORTGAGES AND LIIENS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAL 91_ therefore, which may be enforced by attachment within four days
Oiﬁcer attM!h—

after the work has been completed.
Sec. 7. The oﬂicer, making such attachment, shall within

i‘;§nf°c,ﬁc‘fk:‘i‘h twenty-four hours thereafter ﬁle with the clerk of the town in
and deliver to which the vessel is, and deliver to some owner or master work
§n§f§fm“;f,s' man of the vessel, a copy of his return of such attachment, with
COPY °frct\1m- the value of the property which by the writ he is commanded to

1848*“ 78§ 1' attach, the date of the writ, and the names of the parties, which
Service of writ

shall be sufficient to preserve the attachment without a keeper.
SE0. 8. Service of such writ must be made by the sheriff or

,‘,‘;“:‘s§:r’,‘},':d° his deputy or a coroner ; and all subsequent attachments to
deputy or

enforce alien, made before the ﬁrst attachment is dissolved, must

;§n:f’.,g‘°‘

be made by the ofﬁcer who made the ﬁrst one, unless disqualiﬁ

§2,:'3.

'

ed, when they may be made by another competent oﬁiccr, by

giving notice thereof to him, as he is required to give notice to
Attachments

the clerk; and such attachment shall secure a share of the pro
ceeds as if made by the ﬁrst attaching oﬁicer.
SEC. 9. All the attachments shall remain in force until thirty

{’§f;§'§‘;,“n‘u days after judgment is rendered in all the suits, when the ves
afwrJ‘_\1dssel shall be sold and the net proceeds paid to the creditors, or

3,?“

if not sufficient to pay in full, distributed to them equally in pro

1s4s, c. 78, §4. portion to the amounts of their judgments.
Commissioner
SEO. 10. When, from the number of actions brought in the
my be ‘‘P'
supreme judicial court to enforce lien claims on a vessel, or for
Bgiliiigethen other cause, the judge thinks the interests of all parties will be

°‘l,';‘em§(§n§‘,’

promoted thereby, on application of any party in such actions,

1857,<:. 51, § 1. he may appoint a commissioner, who shall give bond to the clerk
of the court, with such sureties and in such sum as the court
approves, for the faithful discharge of his duties; and all the
actions aforesaid shall be submitted to him for the purposes here
inafter provided.
Powers and
SEC. 11. He shall have the same power as a court to summon

rf°“" before him and compel the attendance of any witnesses, or the
Court may al- parties in such actions, with all their books and papers relating
l‘,’$ef_“"he’
to said claims; to hear all such actions in a summary way, deter
011e <1-ifs =¢- mine the amount due to each attaching creditor, after deducting

§n§1°{§,:l, all equitable set-oil‘, whether ﬁled in court or not; and make re
Claim mgr be port of his doings to the court on the ﬁrst day of the next term

ii’;§:3,;'com. after his appointment. If he has not then heard and decided
§f:";‘ri§:',:gie all the cases, the court may allow a further reasonable time to
evidence.
hear the residue, not beyond the term then next. Only one
1857. ¢- 61§ 2- day’s attendance at a term shall be allowed in any such action
between the time of his appointment and the time of his ﬁnal
report thereon. Any such creditor may appear atjsuch hearing,
and contest the claims of any other creditor. The report of the
commissioner shall be prima facie evidence of the amount due to
each creditor, but any party aggrieved by the amount allowed on
any claim, may have it revised by the court or jury, and show
that it is not correct.

Vessel maybe

See. 12.

When such vessel, after its attachment, is liable to

§°1di P'°°°°“' be injured by the weather, or otherwise greatly reduced in value

3t‘2;....i.~

by keeping, on application of any attaching lien creditor, and

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

notice to the owner or defendant, the court may order the oﬁicer
who made the attachments, to sell such vessel in such manner
and on such conditions as the judge thinks just; he shall sell
accordingly, and immediately deliver over to said commissioner
the money and securities thereby received; and if he neglects or
refuses so to deliver, he shall forfeit a sum equal to twenty per
cent. on the whole amount for which the vessel was sold, to be
recovered in an action on the case by the commissioner, and
added to the proceeds of the sale, and it shall also be a breach
of his and the sheriﬁ"s bond.
>
SEC. 13. The commissioner shall receive such money and securities; safely keep and collect them; retain a reasonable compensation for all his services in the premises; to be allowed by
the court; and by order of the court, pay over to the creditors
the amount found due to each, and the balance, if any, to the
owner of the vessel, or other person entitled to receive it; and a
failure to do so shall be a breach of his bond.
SEC. 14. When judgment is rendered in one or more of such
and
actions,
notice,
andmay
others
order
arethe
stillcommissioner
continued, the
to advance
judge, onto application
such credCHAR 91_
_
signs; “Pei!
ill. or eg
1857,c. 51, § 3'

Proceeds of
;J‘{i1:;Lh°" “P‘
1857,, 51, § 4_

Advance on
1857, c_ 51§ 5_

itors as have recovered judgments a per cent. thereon, not ex
ceeding what they would each be entitled to on a proportional
distribution of the proceeds of said vessel, on all the attaching
lien claims.
LIENS ON LIME AND LIME ROCK.

SEC. 15.

Any person who digs, hauls, or furnishes rock for Lien on lime

the manufacture of lime, shall have a lien thereon, for his per- “;§lc‘éde'1r1‘;e‘_“ke
sonal services, and for the rock so furnished, to take precedence o continue

of all other claims, and to continue for thirty days after such §1{‘,‘,’f,y§,fo§'ced_
rock is manufactured into lime, or until such lime is sold or Attachments

shipped on board the vessel, and to be enforced by attachment

° pme‘

within the time aforesaid, which shall have precedence of all Illilay bizliiv
attachments and encumbrances made after said lien attached, and §§§, 7

not made to enforce a similar lien, and such suit may be main- 1857, c. 47,
tained though the employer or debtor is dead and his estate § 1' 2’3'
represented insolvent; and in that case his executor or adminis
trator may be summoned in to answer thereto. Any person may
discharge such lien by a tender of the sum justly due.
LIENB ON BUILDINGS AND LOTS.

Sec. 16. A person who performs or furnishes labor or mate.
- ' '
rials
for erectmg,
altermg,
or repairing
a house, building,
or
appurtenances, by virtue of a contract with the owner thereof,
shall have a lien thereon, and on the lot of land on which it
stands, or on any interest such owner has in the land, or on the

Lien on build.
ings andlots
forlabor,
&c.’
how enforced.
glléigliimay
be_se1_:outfor

equity of redemption if under mortgage, to secure payment ;“‘1Sdmc8si25
thereof, which shall continue ninety days after payment becomes iii"/,':';s.' '

due, and be enforced by attachment; and if a levy is made &5°'°'159'§1
thereon, the appraisers may set out to the creditor a suitable lot 1857' c'15'

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

572

[TITLE IX.

Case. 91. for such building, if they think the whole not needed there
When owner
dies before
suit, &c.
1850, c. 159, § 2.
Lion on build
ings laced on
land eased,
for rent, how
enforced.
R. S., e. 125,
§ 40.

for. a
SE(o.)17. When the owner dies within the ninety days and
before commencement of a suit, it may be commenced within
sixty days after notice given of the appointment of an executor
or administrator, and the lien shall be extended accordingly.
SEO. 18. When a lease of land, with a rent payable, is made
for the purpose of erecting a mill or other buildings thereon, such
buildings and all the interest of the lessee shall be subject to a
lien and liable to be attached for the rent due. Such attach
ment, made within six months after the rent becomes due, shall
be effectual against any transfer of the property by the lessee.
\

LIENS ON LOGS AND LUMBER.

SEO. 19. A person who labors at cutting, hauling, or driving
logs, or lumber, shall have a lien thereon for the amount due for
his personal services, which shall take precedence of all other
1848, c. 72, § 1. claims, except liens reserved to the states of Maine and Massa
1861, c.216§ 1. chusetts; to continue for sixty days after the logs or lumber ar
rive at the place of destination for sale or manufacture; and be
enforced by attachment. i(b)
SEC. 20. 'The oﬁicer making such attachment may pay the
Boomage may
be paid by
boomage thereon, not exceeding the rate per thousand on the
oﬂicer. Lien
quantity actually attached by him, and return the amount paid
not defeated
by takin a
on the writ, which shall be included in the damages recover
note.
otice
to owner.
ed. The action or lien shall not be defeated by taking a note, I
1848, c. 72,
unless it was taken in discharge of the amount due and of the
144. lien. Notice of the suit, such as the court orders, shall be given
to the owner of the logs or lumber, and he may be admitted to
defend it.
Lien on lum
her for labor
for sixty da s
after arrive at
destination.

GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT OB DISCHARGE.
Attachments
to have rece
dence 0 other
ineumbrances,
&c.
37 Maine, 350.
1850, e. 169, 1.
1851, c.2l6, 1.

Tender dis
charges lien.
R. S., c. 125,

§ 36. 39.

SEO. 21. Suits to enforce any of the liens before named in
this chapter shall have precedence of all attachments and incum
branccs made after the lien attached, and not made to enforce a
lien, and may be maintained although the employer or debtor
is deceased and his estate represented insolvent; and his ex
ecutor or administrator may be summoned and held to answer
to an action brought or pending to enforce the lien.
SEC. 22. All liens named in this chapter may be discharged
by tender of a sum sufficient to pay all that is justly due, made
by the debtor or owner of the property, or their agents.
LIENS HOW ENFOROED ON GOODS IN POSSESSION.

Lien on goods
in ossession,
en oreed by
sale.

SEO. 23. Any person, having a lien on any article in his pos
session, may enforce it by a sale thereof, as hereinafter pro
vided.

1856, c. 27:1, § 1.
(a)

16 Maine, 268; 33 Maine, 141, 370; 35 Maine, 73, 291, 481.

(I1)

33 Maine, 283, 480; 34 Maine, 273, 286 ; 36 Maine, 536, 642 ; 38 Maine, 80, 130.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

'

Sno. _24._ _The person claiming the lien may ﬁle, in the su- CHAR 91.
preme judlcial court 1n the county where he resides, or 1n the F“?

oﬁice of the clerk thereof, a petition brieﬂy setting forth the ﬁ1°J5f§,f,‘;,$,
nature and amount of his claim, a description of the article p0s- °f “
sessed, and the name and residence of its owners, if known to 1856'°'273'§2'
him, and a prayer for process to enforce his lien.

SEC. 25. If the owners are set forth in a petition ﬁled in Service on
the clerk’s ofﬁce, and are residents of this state, the clerk may f,j‘;“§t':t;‘_“h‘n
issue an order of notice to'such owners, by serving them with a 18,56,c_273§3,
copy of the petition and order thereon, fourteen days before the
next term of the court in such county.
Sac. 26. If the owners are not known, or not residents in Service when

the state, or the petition is ﬁled in court, the court may order §§f§f;‘r“;“t
reasonable notice to the owners and others interested; which ofthe mm.
may be returnable at the same or a subsequent term, and be by 1856'°-273'§4
personal service of a copy of the petition with the order of
court thereon, or by publication in a newspaper, or both, as the
court directs. But such order shall always allow at least four
teen days from the service or publication, before the time ﬁxed
for the appearance of the persons notiﬁed.
SEC. 27. At the time ﬁxed in the notice, any party interest- When owner

ed in the article as owner, mortgagee, or otherwise, may appear, :},’§’§fn';;_P‘°‘
and after appearance, the proceedings shall be the same as in an 1856,e.273§5.
action on the case, in which the petitioner is plaintifff and the
party appearing is defendant. Questions of fact, at the instance
of either party, shall be submitted to a jury on an issue framed

under the direction of the court.
SEC. 28. If in the opinion of the court the article on which Ownermaybe
the lien is claimed is not of sufficient value to pay the petition- ggggggf
er’s claim, with the probable costs of the suit, the court may 1856_,,_273§6,
order the persons appearing in defense to give bond to the
petitioner, with suﬂicient sureties approved by the court, to
pay such costs as are awarded against him, so"'far as they are

not paid out of the proceeds of the articles on which the lien is
claimed.
SEO. 29.

After trial and ﬁnal adjudication in favor of the Court may

petitioner, the court may order any competent oﬂicer to sell the 23:; Egfjfeny
article on which the lien is claimed, as personal property is sold
on execution, and out of the proceeds, after deducting his fees
and the expenses of sale, to pay to the petitioner the amount
and costs awarded him, and the balance to the person entitled
to it, if they are known to the court, otherwise into court.
SEC. 30. Money paid into court, may be paid over to the
person legally entitled to it, on petition and order of the court.
If it is not called for at the ﬁrst term after it is paid into court,
it shall be paid into the county treasury; and if afterwards the
person entitled to it petitions and establishes his claim to it, the
court may order the county treasurer to pay it to him.
SEC. 31. Liens, for less amount than twenty dollars, may be

1356,c_273§7_

Disposition of
the P'°°‘1ed*
1856'°'2‘3§8'

Lien'less'than

enforced before any justice of the peace for the county where §:f2'e-‘J-“‘,sr§‘sf,§‘“,_
the person having the lien resides, and all the proceedings, rights, tion

and liabilities, shall be the same as hereinbefore provided, as far 1856’°-273'§9

’

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAR 91. as the nature of the tribunal will admit; and either party may
appeal, and the proceedings shall be the same as in appeals in
civil actions before justices of the peace.

CHAPTER '92.
THE RIGHT OF ERECTING MILLS AND MILL-DAMS, AND OF FLOWING
LANDS AND DIVERTING VVATEB TO SUPPLY MILLS, AND THE MODE
OF OBTAINING DAMAGES THEREFOR.
Sac. 1.

;5
;§; 9Pﬂ9 ? F

17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22
23.
24
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

Bl ht to erect

Right to erect and maintain mill-dams, and to divert water by a canal for
rnills.
Not to injure a mill or canal previously built.
Restriction as to height of dam and quantity of water.
Damages for ﬂowing, &c., recoverable on complaint.
Form of complaint.
How presented and served.
\Vhat may be pleaded in bar.
Mode of trial. Costs for respondent if complainant fails.
Proceedings, if complainant recovers.
Trial by jury. Commissioners’ report to be evidence.
Acceptance of commissioners’ report.
Verdict or report to bar any future action.
Yearly damages, how ﬁxed.
Security to be given for yearly damages, if required.
Complainant may sue for damages, if unpaid. Lien upon mill and land for
damages.
Mill and land may be seized and sold on the execution after thirty days. Ef
fect of such sale.
Right of redemption.
Either party may ﬁle a new complaint.
RestrictioMf this right.
Owner may offer an increased compensation. Consequence.
Injured party may offer to accept a less compensation. Consequence.
Tenants may make such oﬂ'ers as well as owners.
Restriction of suits for damages.
Double damages if dam is raised higher, kept up longer, or more Water di
verted than allowed by the judgment.
Agreement of parties binding, if recorded.
Judgment no bar to a new complaint.
Tender of damages, and effect thereof.
Complaint not to abate by death of either party.
If complaint abates, rights may be preserved by new complaint within a year.
Provisions of this chapter apply to streams forming the boundary of the state.
Compensation of commissioners. Costs.

SEO. 1.

Any man may erect and maintain a water mill and

;‘]§‘,,,ff1‘;‘,iI‘1‘;§x‘;ld dams to raise water for working it, on his own land upon and
to divert water across any stream, not navigable; or, for the purpose of propelling

,t;,’§1‘i‘s_°a““l f°' mills or machinery, may cut a canal and erect walls and em
R. s., c. 126, bankments upon his own land, not exceeding one mile in length,
Q55’ c_ 133,“ and thereby; divert from its natural channel the water of any

TITLE IX.]

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

5

stream not navigable, upon the terms and conditions, and subject CW. 92_

to the regulations heremafter expressed. (a)

—~—~—

SEO. 2. No such dam shall be erected or canal constructed to
the injury of any mill or canal lawfully existing on the same
. .
.
.
.
.
stream; nor to the injury of any 111111 site, on which a 111111 or

Not to injure
m;‘{.,‘;§;‘““‘
r
y
guilt .

mill-dam has been lawfully erected and used, unless the right to 31 Mme’ 252'
_
_
I
maintain a mill thereon has been lost or defeated.

as Maine, 243.
R~ 8-, 0-126,

SEC. 3. The height to which the water may be raised, and the
c_133§2_
length of time during which it may be kept up in each year, and Restriction as

quantity of water that may be diverted by such canal, shall be
liable to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a jury, or
report of commissioners, as hereinafter is provided.
SEC. 4.-.

‘° be‘ h‘ °f
a , .
1§5"§.c.l33. 8
£15" °' 1 '

Any person, whose lands are damaged by being Damages for

ﬂowed by a mill-dam, or by the diversion of the water by such ﬂ°‘'i“B» 8“
canal, may obtain compensation for the injury, by complaint to Z0‘-}1\'I‘;°i'§1e',125254‘_
the supreme judicial court in the county where the lands or any 14 Maine. 428
part thereof are; but no compensation shall be awarded for §€f5§1,°-,}3132'6{‘
damages sustained more than three years before the institution H
of the complaint.
I
SE0. 5.

The complaint shall contain such a description of the Complaint.

land ﬂowed or injured, and such a statement of the damage, that 16 Maine. 411

the record of the case shall show the matter heard and deter- %i‘_%‘j‘,‘,.‘_°'13g,,
mined in the suit.
Ssc. 6. The complaint may be presented to the court in term
time, or be ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬂice in vacation; and a copy
shall be served by the proper oﬁicer, fourteen days before the
term day, on the respondent, by being left at his dwellinghouse,
if he has any -in the state; otherwise, it shall be left at ‘the mill
in question, or with its occupant.

“
How resent
3;“ “°1"2‘;d'
§%,éI°' '

SEO. 7. The owner or occupant of such mill or canal may What may be
plead in bar that the complainant has no right, title, or estate in Pleaded in ha"
the lands alleged to be injured; or that he has a right to main- ?§.S"°'126'
tain such dam, and flow the lands, or divert the water for an
agreed price, or without any compensation; or any other matter,
which may show that the complainant cannot maintain the suit;
but he shall not plead in bar of the complaint, that the land de
scribed therein is not injured by such dam or canal. (b)
SEO. 8. When any such plea is ﬁled, and an issue in fact or
in law is joined, it shall be decided as similar issues are decided
in cases at common law; and if judgment is for the respondent,
he shall recover his costs.
SEO. 9. If the issue is decided in favor of the complainant, or
if the respondent is defaulted, or does not plead or show any
legal
more disinterested
objection to‘ proceeding,
commissioners
theofcourt
the same
shall county,
appointwho
three
shall
or
go upon and examine the premises, and make a true and faith~
ful appraisement, under oath, of the yearly damages, if any, done
to the complainant by the ﬂowing of his lands or the diversion of
(a)

6 Greenl. 9; 28 Maine, 9; 36 Maine, 36; 39 Maine, 246.

(6) 4 Greenl. 322; 6 Green]. 9; 12 Maine, 183; 21 Maine, 220; 32 Maine, 39, 383;
33 Maine, 273, 647.

T,i,,1,&c_
6 Greenl. 282.
g’“‘15‘i"1f_' 126'
p,oc,,ed,,,gs_
if c°¥nP1“inm
i12

576

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

[TITLE IX.

Can. 92. the water described in the complaint, and determine how far the

same is necessary, and ascertain and make report what portion
of the year such lands ought not to be ﬂowed, or water diverted,
or what quantity of water shall be diverted.
Trial by jury.
SEC. 10. If either party requests that a jury may be im
Commission
panueled
to try the cause at the bar of the court, the report
ers’ re ort to
be evi ence.
of the commissioners shall, under the direction of the court, be
39 Maine, 458. given in evidence to the jury; but evidence shall not be admit
R. S., c. 126,
ted to contradict it, unless misconduct, partiality, or unfaithful
§ 13.
1856, e. 269.
ness on the part of some commissioner is shown.
SEC. 11. If neither party requests a trial by jury, the report
Acceptance of
~ report.
of the commissioners may be accepted by the court and judgment
R. s., 0. 126, rendered thereon.
§ 14.
SEC. 12. The verdict of the jury or the report of the com
Verdict or re
ort to bar any
missioners
so accepted, shall be a bar to any action brought for
uture action.
R. s., c. 125, such damages; and the owner or occupant shall not ﬂow the
§ 15.
lands nor divert the water during any portion of the period
when prohibited, nor divert the water beyond the quantity al
lowed by the commissioners or jury.
Yearly dama
SEO. 13. Such verdict or accepted report of the commission
ges, how ﬁxed.
ers, and judgment thereon, shall be the measure of the yearly
R. S., c. 126,
damages, until the owner or occupant of the lands or the owner
§ 17.
or occupant of the mill or canal, on a new complaint to the court,
and by proceedings as in the former case, obtains an increase or
decrease of such damages.
SEO. 14-.. When any person, whose lands are so ﬂowed or
Security to be
iven for yearly
amages, if rc from whose lands the water is so diverted, ﬁles his complaint for
qmre .
ascertaining or increasing his damages, or brings his action of
R. S., c. 126,
debt as provided in the following section, and moves the court
§ 18
to direct the owner or occupant of such mill or canal to give
security for the payment of the annual damages, and the court
so orders, the owner or occupant refusing or neglecting to give
such security shall have no beneﬁt of this chapter; but shall be
liable to be sued for the damages occasioned by such ﬂowing, in
an action at common law.
Sso. 15. The party entitled to such annual compensation,
Complainant
may sue for
may
maintain an action of debt or assumpsit therefore against
damages, if
unpaid.
any person who owns or occupies the said mill, or canal and
Lien upon
mill and land mills supplied thereby, when the action is brought; and shall
for damages.
therein recover the whole sum due and unpaid, with costs; and
15 Maine, 242. shall have a lien for such compensation, from the time of the in
30 Maine, 244.
34 Maine, 402. stitution of the original complaint, on the mill and mill-dam, or
R. S.. c. 126,
on the canal and the mill supplied thereby, with the appurte
19. 20.
1855, c. 133.
nances and the land under and adjoining them, and used there
with, for any sum due not more than three years before the
commencement of the complaint.
Mill and land
SEO. 16. The execution on such judgment, if not paid, may
may be sold
at any time within thirty days be levied on the premises subject
on execution
after thirty
to the lien; and the officer may sell the same at public auction,
days, &c.
or so much thereof in common with the residue, as is necessary
28 Maine, 9.
to satisfy the execution, proceeding in giving notice of such sale
R. S., c. 126,
§ 21, 22.

as in selling an equity of redemption on execution.

Such sale

TITLE IX.]

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

shall be effectual against all persons claiming the premises by any
title, which accrued within the time covered by the lien.
Sno. 17. Any person, entitled to the premises, may redeem
them within one year after the sale, by paying to the purchaser,
or the person holding under him, the sum paid therefore, with interest at the rate of twelve per cent., deducting therefrom any
rents and proﬁts received by such purchaser, or person holding
under him; and may have the same process to compel the pur
chaser to account, as might be had against a purchaser of an
equity of redemption.
SEO. 18.

CHAR 92_
————-————
Ri3ht_ofre
‘I1:“;P“°“1'26
§'23_" °' ’

When either party is dissatisﬁed with the annual Eitherparty

compensation established as aforesaid, a new complaint may be may ﬁle new
ﬁled, and proceedings had and conducted substantially as in §gr1l:;?|l:f'411

case of an original complaint.
SEC. 19.

?'24S_" °' 126’

N0 new complaint shall be brought, until the expir- Restriction of

ation of one month after the payment of the then last year is 3“ "Sh"
due, and one month after notice to the other party; and the §;';5S_"c'126’
other party may within that time make an offer or tender, as
hereinafter is provided.
SEO. 20. The owner of the mill, dam, or canal, within said Owner may
increase
month, may
of compensation
oﬂ'er in writing
for to
thethe
future;
ownerand
of the
if the
land
owner
injured
of the
an Consequence
land does not agree to accept it, but brings a new complaint for
the purpose of increasing it, he shall not recover any costs, uuless he obtains an increase greater than the offer.
SEC. 21. The owner of the land injured may, within said
month, offer in writing to the owner of the mill, dam, or canal,
to accept a reduced compensation for the future; and if the owner

$1263" °- 126»
'
Injured party
:,‘;‘c{p",ﬂ;ee'ss‘°
compensation

of the mill, dam, or canal, declines to pay it, but brings a new §°“Sse‘:“e1’;Z°'
complaint to obtain a reduction, he shall not recover costs, unless §é7." ' '
such compensation is reduced to a sum less than was offered.
See. 22. Such offers may be made by or to the tenants or Tenants may

occupants of the land, and of the mill and dam, or canal, in like ‘;‘ﬂ'?e“r§ :‘s‘°‘{feu
manner and with like eifect, as if made by or to the owners; as owners.
but no agreements founded thereon shall bind the owners, unless $505-' °- 126,
made by their consent.
'
See. 23. No‘action shall be sustained at common law for the Restriction of

recovery of damages occasioned by the overﬂowing of lands, or :21‘: f°‘ am‘
for the diversion of the water as before mentioned, except in 39 M',;m,,246_

the cases provided in this chapter, to enforce the payment of Pg-1°-1%’
damages after they have been ascertained by process of com-‘ '
plaint as aforesaid.
Sec. 24. If after judgment, the restrictions imposed by the Double darn

report of the commissioners or ﬁnding of the jury, respecting §f,‘;‘e“,fh‘l“:‘e§'
the ﬂowing or diverting of the waters are violated, the party &c.

8

’

injured thereby may recover of the wrong-doers double damages 1848'“ 86
for his injury in an action at common law.
Sno. 25. When an annual compensation, upon the acceptance Agreements of

by one party of an odor made by the other, is established and }’n‘;‘i§,’r‘:;‘°‘i‘d_
signed by the owners of the mill, dam, or canal, and of the land, ed.’

and recorded in the oiﬁce of the clerk of the court in which the R- S-, C‘ 126
former judgment was rendered, with a reference on the record 8831'

'73

578

INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

[TITLE IX.

OHAP. 92. of the former judgment, and to the book where the agreement

is recorded, such agreement shall be as binding as a verdict and
judgment on a new complaint.
Judgment no
SEO. 26. A judgment against a complainant as not entitled
bar to a new
to
any compensation shall be no bar to a new complaint for dam
complaint.
ages, arising after the former verdict, and for compensation for
R. S., c. 126,
§ 32.
damages subsequently sustained.
Tender of dam
SEO. 27. In case of an original complaint, the respondent
ages, and effect
may,
with the same advantages to himself, tender and bring
thereof.
money into court, as in an action at common law; and if it is
R. S., c. 126,
§ 33.
accepted, the judgment shall have the same elleet as if rendered
on a verdict.
Complaint not
SEO. 28. No complaint for so ﬂowing lands or diverting water
to abate by
death of either shall abate by the death of any party thereto; but it may be
party.
prosecuted or defended by the surviving complainants or respon
R. S., c. 126,
§ 34.
If complaint
abates, rights
preserved by
new complaint
within a year.
R. S., c. 126,
§ 35.

dents, or the executors or administrators of the deceased.

SEO. 29. If such complaint is abated or defeated for want of
form, or if after a verdict for the complainant, judgment is re
versed, he may bring a new complaint at any time within one
year thereafter, and thereon recover the damages sustained dur
ing three years next before the institution of the ﬁrst complaint,
or at any time afterwards.
.
Provisions of
SEC. 30. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to mills
this chapter
and dams erected upon streams forming the boundary line of
apply to
streams form
the state, although a part of the dam is not in the state; and
ing the bound
the rights and remedies of all parties concerned shall be ascer
ary of the
state.
tained aud determined as if the whole of such streams were in
1855,c.133§4. the state.
Compensation
SEC. 31. The court shall award a suitable compensation to
of commis
sioners. Costs. be paid to the commissioners, and taxed and recovered by the
R. s., c. 126, prevailing party. The prevailing party shall recover his costs,
§ 10, 29.
except where it is otherwise expressly provided.

CHAPTER 93.
INQUESTS OF OFFICE, AND INFORMATIONS FOR INTRUSION.
Sec. 1. Proceedings to revest in the state, lands granted on condition.
5??
9P?9P? P Attorney general to file information.
Scire fscias to issue. Service.
Judgment on default.
Consequence of disclaimer by defendant.
Proceedings, if defendant claims title.
Proceedings if it is adjudged that defendant holds too much land.
Such part shall be located by persons appointed by the court.
Cases in which information may be ﬁled, without order of the legislature.
Notice, how to be given.
Proceedings, judgment and costs.
Information to recover escheats. Notice.
Tenant to set up no title, unless he claims under it.
13. Costs, if defendant recovers.

TITLE IX.]
Sec. 14.

1 INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

Defendant may hold by title subsequently acquired.

579
What judgment, if the

Carr. 93.
state recovers.

\

Eﬁect of judgment, that the state be reseized.
Tenant under the state to have betterments, though occupying less than six
years.
17. Proceedings by attorney general to obtain betterments.
18. Execution therefore, how levied.
15.
16.

SEC. 1. Where lands have been granted by the colony or Proceedin s to
in t e
province of Massachusetts Bay, the commonwealth of Massachu revest
state, lands
setts, or by this state, or are hereafter granted, on certain condi granted on
tions alleged to have been violated; and the state claims to be condition.
R. s., c. 127,
revested therein, the following proceedings shall be had.
§ 1.
SEC. 2. When the legislature directs, the attorney general Attorne gen
to lo
shall ﬁle an information in the supreme judicial court in the eral
information.
county where the lands lie, stating the grant and conditions, R. s., c. 127,
breaches, and claims of the state.

§ 2.

SEO. 3. The court shall issue a scire faeias against the person Scire facias to
stated as holding the lands under such grant, returnable to said issue. Service.
court; which shall be served thirty days before the return day. R. S., c. 127,
§ 3.
SEO. 4. If the defendant does not appear and answer to such Judgment on
information, judgment shall be rendered that the state be re default.
R. s., e. 127,
seized of their lands.
§ 4.
SEC. 5. If he appears and disclaims holding said lands or Conse ucnce
of disc aimer
any part thereof‘, the attorney general shall take nothing by his by
defendant.
information, so far as respects the lands disclaimed; and the R. S., c. 127.
defendant, and all subsequently claiming under him, shall be § 5.
estopped from claiming, or holding such disclaimed lands.
See. 6. If the defendant claims all or any part of the lands Proceedings,
defendant
under such grant, and traverses the breaches, the cause shall be ifclaims
title.
tried by jury, and if the issue is found in favor of the state, judg R. s., c. 127,
ment shall be rendered that the state be reseized of said estate § 6.
and for costs; but if the issue is found for the defendant, he
shall have judgment for his costs, to be paid from the state
treasury.

See. '7. If the only alleged breach of condition is that the Proceedings,
is adju ged
defendant holds more land than he has a right to hold under the ifit
that defendant
grant, and it is so found by the jury or the defendant’s confes holds too
sion, the court shall assign to him by metes and bounds so much much land.
S., c. 127,
of the land held by him, as is equal in quantity to what he has a R§ 1.
right to held under the grant, and in such part thereof as is
judged reasonable by the court.
SEO. 8. Such part shall be located, by persons appointed by Such part shall
located by
the court, at the expense of the defendant, and a plan thereof be
persons ap
returned to the court; and if conﬁrmed by the court, they shall pointed by the
order‘ an attested copy of the location and plan to be ﬁled in court, &c.
R. S., c. 127,
the land oﬂice, and judgment shall be rendered that the state be § 8.
rescized of the residue, and for costs.
SEO. 9. In all other cases where an inquest is necessary, the Cases in which
attorney general, without order of the legislature, may ﬁle an information
may be filed,
information in said court, describing the estate claimed, and stat &c.
ing the title asserted thereto by the state; and notice shall be R. S., c. 127,
given as before mentioned, if there is any tenant in possession; § 9, 10.

INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAR 93_ if not, the notice shall be given as the court orders, at least
———- ninety days before the sitting of the court to which it is return
able.
Proceedings,
SEO. 10. If no person appears and answers to the informa

Jgggfen‘ “ml tion, or if a verdict is found, that the state has good title to such
R_s_,,,_127,
§11estate, judgment shall be rendered, that the state be seized
thereof and recover costs; but if the verdict is in favor of the
defendant, he shall recover his costs to be paid from the state
treasury.
Information to
SEO. 11. The attorney general may ﬁle an information as
TGCOVGI‘ OS

dmts_ N°_ aforesaid for recovering seizin by the state for any real estate
ticesupposed to have escheated to the state for want of legal heirs;
gag-»°-127»

and the court shall order' such notice thereon as they judge

proper.
Tenantto set
SEO. 12.
K§,Z§J‘QZ:
R_s_,c_127,
§ 13Costs, if deIn such case, the defendant shall not avail himself ,

of the title of an alien, or subject of another nation or sove
reign, or of any other person, unless he shows that he is his
tenant or agent.
SEC. 13. If on trial he proves that he is such tenant or

{f,’;"i““‘"°°" agent, or the legal owner of such estate, he shall recover his
R. s., c. 127,
glzndantmay
hold by title
§‘c‘3f§;,‘~:”gZ_
R. S" ,,_ 127’
3‘ 15costs, to,be paid as aforesaid.
SEO. 14. If it is found that he was not legal owner of such
estate, nor had any right as tenant or agent when the process
was commenced against him, but afterwards acquired a good
title, or became tenant or agent, the attorney general shall cease
further to prosecute the suit; but when the defendant proves no
such title to the estate as owner, or interest therein as tenant
or agent, judgment shall be rendered that the state be seized
thereof, and recover rents and proﬁts as in case of a. writ of en
try between private persons.
Mm of judgSEO. 15. When judgment, on information, is rendered that

§{‘e"b‘:;‘_;_‘h° the state be reseized or seized of any lands,-the state shall be
seized.
g‘-16$-1 °-127'

deemed in law to be so seized, and any judgment so rendered
shall conclude all privies and parties, and those claiming under
them, so long as it remains in force, subject to the provisions of
the following section.
Tenant under
SEO. 16. If any person appears and by due process of law

§,l;§t,',‘:f,et,‘,’_

proves himself to have a legal title to such estate, and recovers

ments, &c.

it against the state or its grantee or tenant, the estate shall be

§‘-17s-I°- 127' liable for all expenses of improvements thereon over and above
'
the rents and proﬁts thereof; though the tenant and those claim
ing under the state had not been in possession six years.
lEt1’t(‘>)<;"t:1ee<liDg8by _ SEC. 17. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of such
",1 ,0 “:1; improvements, the attorney general, or the tenant or grantee of
beﬂcmenhh the estate, may ﬁle a bill in equity in the supreme judicial court

?'l§°f" °' 127- for recovering the same; and proceedings shall be had thereon
R S_ 6.127
§19.'
'

as in other cases in equity to ascertain and adjust the amount.
Sso. 18. The sheriff, by virtue of such execution, shall sell, at
public auction, so much of said land as will be suﬂicient to satis
fy the execution and charges, unless otherwise paid.

TITLE IX.]

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

581
Gear. 94.

CHAPTER 94.
FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

TENANCIES.

S20. 1.
2.
3.
4.

Forcible entry and detniner, when may be commenced.
Tenancy at will, or sufferance, how terminated.
“That magistrates have jurisdiction.
Complaint how made, summons issued and served. If claimant lives out of
the county or state, proceedings.
5. When defendant fails to show sufiicient cause or is defaulted, proceedings.
6. 1Vhen defendant ﬁles a brief statement claiming title in himself or another,
proceedings.
7. Claimant may allege that brief statement is intended for delay, proceed
ings.
8. Either party may appeal, proceedings.
9. When judgment is for claimant, he may in all cases have possession.
10. Sums due for rent and claims for damages may be recovered by action of as
sumpsit.

Sec. 1. A process of forcible entry and detainer may be
commenced against a disseizor, who has not acquired any claim
by possession and improvement; and against a tenant holding
under a written lease or contract, or person holding under such
tenant, at the expiration or forfeiture of the term, without no
tice; if the process is commenced within seven days from the
expiration or forfeiture of the term; and against a tenant at will,
whose tenancy has been terminated as provided in the following
section.
SEO. 2. A tenancy at will may be terminated by a written
notice to quit, served on the tenant thirty days before the time
named for its termination; but if no rent is due when a rent is
payable, it shall not be terminated, except at the option of the
tenant, until rent shall become due. When terminated, the ten
ant shall be liable to the process aforesaid without further notice,
and without proof of any relation of landlord and tenant, unless
he has paid, after service of the notice, rent that accrued after
the termination of the tenancy.
Sec. 3. Justices of the peace, and judges of municipal and
police courts, have jurisdiction of cases of forcible entry and de
tainer respecting estates within their counties. Such judges
have exclusive jurisdiction of them within their cities or towns,
unless interested.
SEC. 4. On a written complaint, sworn to, charging a for
cible and unlawful entry or detaincr of real estate as aforesaid,
a summons may be issued to a proper oﬂicer, commanding the
person complained of to appear and show cause why judgment
should not be rendered against him, which shall be served like
other writs of summons, seven days before the day for his ap

pearance_.

If the claimant lives out of the county where the

estate lies, the complaint may be made in his name, but be sign
ed and sworn to by his agent or attorney, and if out of the
state, it must be indorsed like writs; and in such case, if a re
cognizance is required, any person may recognize in behalf of

the claimant, and shall be personally liable.

Forcible entry
and detainer,
when may be
commenced.
25 Maine, 283.
35 Maine, 214.
38 Maine, 482.
R. S., c. 128,
§ 5.
1847, c. 4.
1850, e. 160.
1853, c. 39, § 1.
Tenancy at
will, how
terminated.
19 Maine, 252.
20 Maine, 70.
21 Maine, 114.
24 Maine, 242.
35 Maine, 505.
R. S., c. 95,
i 849,
19, 20.
c. 98.
1853, c. 39, § 1.
What magis
trates have
jurisdiction.
4 Greenl. 484.
R. S., o. 128,
§ 1, 6.
Complaint,
how made,
summons
issued and
served.
?.é.S., c. 128,

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

[TITLE IX.

CHAR 94_
SEO. 5. When the defendant is defaulted, or fails to show
-gm sufficient cause, judgment shall be rendered against him for pos
show cause,
%C-s O 128

session of the premises, and a writ of possession issued to re
move him, which may be served by a constable.

§;';_ " ' '
SEO. 6. When the defendant pleads not guilty and ﬁles a
:%i13’°-3:'§5- brief statement of title in himself or in another person, under
fenfglrﬁleesa whom he claims the premises, he shall, except as hereafter pro
briefsmtevided, recognize in a reasonable sum to the claimant, with suffi

ment'&°'

cient sureties, conditioned to pay all intervening damages and

36 Maine, 431.
_
,
R. s., c. 128, costs, and a reasonable rent for the premises; and the claim
§4'
ant shall in like manner recognize to the defendant, conditioned
to enter the suit at the next term of the supreme judicial court,
and pay all costs adjudged against him. If either party neglects
so to recognize, judgment shall be rendered against him as on
nonsuit or default.
Claimant
SEO. 7. But the claimant may make a written allegation,
may allege that
bricfsmement that the brief statement of the defendant is frivolous and in
f;*eli;1;§nd§;1_f0r tended for delay, and the magistrate may then examine the case
ceedi,{g‘S’_

so far as to ascertain the truth respecting it, and if satisﬁed of

1853, c. saw. the truth of such allegation, he may proceed to try the cause
upon the plea of not guilty, and if determined in favor of the
claimant, may issue a writ of possession for removal of the de
fendant; but this shall not prevent an appeal as provided in
the following section.

Either party

SE0. 8. Either party may appeal from a judgment to the
supreme judicial court next to be held in the same county.

R,s,,c_128,

When the claimant appeals, he shall recognize in manner afore

$5453 0 39 W said to the defendant, except as hereafter provided, conditioned
' ' ’

' to enter the suit and pay all costs adjudged against him. When
the defendant appeals, he shall recognize in like manner to the
claimant, conditioned to enter the suit and pay all intervening
costs and such reasonable rent of the premises, as the magis
trate shall adjudge, if the judgment is not reversed.
When_juagSEC. 9. When judgment is rendered for the claimant, a writ
f,’fr‘;f,§g:'c°_“' of possession shall issue in all cases, if the claimant recognizes
1853, c_ 39, §2_ t(1)lthe 1cllegendant 1n n:1anne1t' before prcévided, cgn((1l1t1onedtt1(1). pai};

a sue

amages an

cos s as may e awar e agams

1m,

ﬁnal judgment is rendered for the defendant; and on trial if the
jury ﬁnd for the defendant, they shall ﬁnd the damages sustained
by him; and in case of nonsuit his damages shall be assessed by
the court; and the claimant may give evidence of any claim for
rent of the premises, to be set off against damages claimed by
the defendant. If the defendant prevails, the court may or not,
as justice requires, issue a writ to restore to him possession of
the premises.
Sums due for
SEO. 10. Sums due for rent on leases under seal or other
;‘[;‘;;”,‘1‘:)‘}vdam‘ wise, and claims for damages to premises rented, may be recov
recovcrcdered in an action of assumpsit, on account annexed to the writ,
1863. c- 39,i 4- specifying the items and amount claimed.

TITLE IL]

“TASTE AND TRESPASS.

583
Onnr. 95.

CHAPTER 95.
WASTE AND TRESPASS ON REAL ESTATE.
SEC. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5
6.
7.

Remedy if tenant for life or years commits waste ; the heir may sue for waste
committed in his ancestor’s time, as well as in his own time.
Proceedings in court; jury in all cases to assess damages, with or without a
view of the premises; action of the case may be brought.
Reversioner and remainder man may sue.
The action will lie against the executor or administrator.
Part owners not to commit waste without giving thirty days’ notice; treble
damages to be awarded in such case; how recovered and appropriated.
Defendant not to pay treble damages
certain cases.
Injunction
to preventl waste pending a process for the recovery of lands,
and
on lands attached.
_

8. Treble damages may be recovered for waste on lands pending a suit therefore.
9. Trespass on lands of another without his consent.
10. Trespasses on public buildings or property.
11. Trespasses by taking grass, fruit, or other vegetables from improved lands.
12. Penalty for waste on lands of a person deceased insolvent.
13. Liability of executor or administrator for committing waste.
14. One or more tenants in common may join or sever in actions for damages.
Notice to the other co-tenants to be given, who may become plaintifffs.
15. Judgment to be rendered for the whole damage, and execution to issue for the
proportion which the plaintifffs have sustained. Scire facias on such judg
ment by the other costenants for their shares.
16. If one or more joint tenant takes the whole rent, the co-tenants may recover
their share, alter demand.

SE0. 1. If any tenant in dower, by curtesy, for life, or for Remedy if
com
years, commits or suifers any waste on the premises, the person tenant
mits waste, &c.
having the next immediate estate of inheritance, may recover the R. s., c. 129,
place wasted and the damages done to the premises, in an action § 1, 2.
of waste against him; and an heir, may recover in the same ac
tion for waste done in his own time and the time of his ancestor.
SEO. 2. Any issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, with or with Proceedings in
out a view of the premises, as the court orders; and the jury that court, &c.
S., c. 129,
inquires of the waste, shall assess the damages. An action on R.
§ 3, 4.
the case in nature of waste, may be substituted for the action
of waste.
SEC. 3. The remainder man, or reversioner for life, or years Remainder
may sue,
only, or in fee simple, or fee tail, after an intervening estate for man
&c.
life, may maintain such action, and recover the damages he has 37 Maine, 363.
R. S., c. 129,
suffered by the waste.
§ 5.
SEC. 4. Such action may be originally commenced against the Action will lie
ex’or
executors or administrators of the tenant, or prosecuted against against
or adm'r.
them after his death, if brought against him before death.
R. S., c. 129,
SEO. 5. If any joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in common § 6.
owners
of undivided lands, cuts down, destroys, or carries away any Part
not to commit
waste
without
trees, timber, wood or underwood, standing or lying on such
B‘l\’l.!]8 notice,
lands, or digs up or carries away any ore, stone, or other valua &c.
ble thing found thereon, or commits any strip or waste, without 15 Maine, 198.
ﬁrst giving thirty days notice in writing, under his hand, to all R. S., c. 129,
other persons, or to their agents or attorneys, and to mortgagcrs ls-12?'c.31§ 15.
and mortgagees, if any there are, interested therein, of his in 1854, c. 78, 1.

'

WASTE AND TRESPASS.

584

[TITL11 IX.

CHAR 95_ tention to enter upon and improve the land; and if any persons
interested are unknown, or their residence is unknown, or out of
the state, the notice to them may be published in the state paper
three times, the ﬁrst publication to be forty days before such en
try; or if he does any such acts pending a process for partition

of the premises, he shall forfeit three times the amount of dam
ages; and any one or more of the co-tenants, without naming
the others, may sue for and recover their proportion of such
damages.
Defendant to
5:)‘ only single
mages 1n
certain cases.
R-é S., c. 129,

SE0. 6.

If the jury ﬁnds, that the defendant in such suit has

good reason to believe himself the owner of the land in several
ty, or that he and those under whom he claims had been in the
exclusive possession thereof, claiming it as their own for three
leak, c. 78, § 1. years next before the acts complained of were committed, only
single damages shall be recovered.
SEO. 7. If any defendant in an action to recover possession
Injunction to
prevent waste of real estate, or any person whose real estate is attached in a
pending a
process for the civil action, does any act of waste thereon, or threatens or
recovery of
makes preparations so to do, any justice of the supreme judicial
lands, and on
lands attached. court, in vacation or term time, may issue an injunction to stay
R. S., c. 129,
such waste; but notice shall ﬁrst be given to the adverse party
to appear and answer, unless the applicant ﬁles a bond, with suf
g 846,
14. c. 188,
§ 12.
ﬁcient sureties, to respond all damages and costs; and the court
may enforce obedience to such injunctions by such process as
may be employed in an equity case, and dissolve it when deemed

proper.
SEC. 8. If, during the pendency of any action for the recov
ery of land, the tenant makes any strip or waste by cutting, fell
lands pending ing, or destroying any wood, timber, trees, or poles, standing
a suit therefore.
thereon, he shall pay to the aggrieved party treble damages, to
R. S., c. 129,
be recovered in an action of trespass.
§ 11.
Trespass on
SEC. 9. If any person cuts down, destroys, injures, or carries
lands of an
away,
any ornamental or fruit trees, timber, wood, underwood,
other without
his consent.
stones, gravel, ore, goods, or property of any kind, from land not
R. S., c. 129,
his own, without license of the owner, or injures or throws down
§ 10.
any fences, bars, or gates, or leaves such gates open, or breaks
any glass in any building, he shall be liable in damages to the
owner in an action of trespass.
Trespasses on
SEO. 10. Where any trespasses are committed on any build- '
public prop
ings,
enclosures, monuments, or mile stones, belonging to a county,
crty.
town, or parish, the treasurer of such corporation may sue for
R. S., c. 129,
§ 12.
the damages in its name; and if the property injured belongs to
a school district, the treasurer of the town may sue in its name.
Trespasses by
SEC. 11. If any person enters on any grass land, orchard,
taking grass,
fruit. &c., from or garden, and takes therefrom, without permission of the owner,
improved
any grass, hay, fruit, vegetable, or shrub, he shall be liable to
lands.
the
party injured in a sum equal to three times the value of the
R. S., c. 129,
articles so taken away in an action of trespass.
§ 13.
Penalty for
SEO. 12. If an heir or devisee of a person deceased, whose
waste on lands
estate
is represented insolvent, afterwards and before sale of
of a person
deceased
the real estate for payment of debts, or before all the debts are
insolvent.
paid, removes or injures any building or trees, except what is
Treble dama
s recoverable
or waste on

TITLE IX.]

REPLEVIN.

&%

needed for fuel or repairs, or commits any strip or waste on such CHAP. 95.
estate, he shall forfeit treble the amount of damages, to be re
Maine, 365.
covered by the executor or administrator in an action of trespass. 10
15 Maine, 205.
R.
SEC. 13. If such executor or administrator is heir or devisee, S., c. 129,
15.
and commits such trespass or waste, on proof thereof before the §Liability
of
judge of probate, he shall be liable to the same extent as the executor or
administrator
heirs or devisees; and in both cases, the damages, when recov for
committing
ered by the executor or administrator, or adjudged against him waste.
by the judge of probate, shall be accounted for in the adminis R. s., c. 129,
§ 16.
I
tration account.
Sac. 14. All or any of the tenants in common, co-pareeners, One or more
in
or joint tenants of any lands may join or sever in personal ac tenants
common my
tions for injuries done thereto, setting forth in the declaration bin. &c.
otice to other
the names of all other co-tenants, if known, and the court may 0 o-tenants,
&o.
order notice to be given in such actions to all other co-tenants R. s., c. 129,
known, and all or any of them, at any time before ﬁnal judgment, § 17, 1s.
may become plaintifffs in the action, and prosecute the suit for
the beneﬁt of all concerned.
SEC. 15. The court shall enter judgment for the whole Judgment for
whole
amount of the injury proved; but award execution only for the the
damage, 820.
proportion thereof sustained by the plaintifffs; and the remaining Scire facias by
co-ten
co-tenants may afterwards jointly or severally sue out a scire other
nuts for their
facias on such judgment, and execution shall be thereupon award shares.
ed for their proportion of the damages adjudged in the original R. S., c. 129,
§ 19, 20.
suit.
SEO. 16. If any one or more of the joint tenants or tenants If one or more
tenants
in common take the whole rents or income of the joint estate, joint
take the whole
or more than their share, without the consent of their co-tenants, rent, &c.
and refuse, in a reasonable time after demand, to pay such co-ten 1848, e. 61,
ants their share thereof, any one or more of them may have an § 1, 2.
action of special assumpsit against the refusing co-tenants, to
recover their proportion thereof.

CHAPTER 96.
REPLEVIN OF BEASTS AND CHATTELS.
Rnrnnvxx or Bsssrs.
SEC. 1.

Owner of beasts distrained, may replevy them.
res
es The mode of proceeding, process, &c.
Bond to be given before service of writ.
If the beasts are lawfully distrained, defendant to have judgment for forfeiture
or damages, fees, costs and expenses, or for a return.
If unlawfully distraincd, plaintifff to have judgment for damages and costs.
Either party may appeal.
1. In what cases a cause may be transferred from a justice to the supreme judi
cial court.
Rnrnnvrrr or Goons.
8. Any goods, unlawfully detained, may be replevied.
9. In what courts replevin may be brought.

74

'

586

BEPLEVIN.

CHAP 9 6
'
'

Sec. 10. Bond to be given before service.
11. If plaintifff fails in his suit, defendant to have judgment for return, and for
damages and costs.
12. Assessment of damages on judgment for return of property to an attaching
officer.
13. Disposal of the money recovered by the oﬁicer.
14. Appropriation of the money received by the creditor in such cases.
15. Judgment for damages and costs if plaintiﬂ recovers.
16. Continuance of attachment, if goods are replevied.
17. Wlren a writ of reprisal may issue.
18. Defendant's remedy on the replevin bond.
19. Limitation of surety‘s liability on replevin bond.
BEPLEVIN OF

Owner of
:’f:i§f:ddi;'ay

ix.

BEASTS.

SEC. 1. Any person, whose beasts are distrained or impound
ed to recover a penalty or forfeiture supposed to be incurred by

reple"y'them. their going at large, or to obtain satisfaction for damages al

as 1gHi;1ei;:1- leged to be done by them, may maintain a writ of replevin there
§ i, " '

'

for against the impounder or ﬁnder, before any justice of the

peace in the county, in the form prescribed by law.
Mode of proSec. 2. The writ shall be sued out, served, and returned, and
;:°gi“8' 130 the cause shall be heard and determined like other civil actions
§_ " °' ’ before a justice of the peace, except as otherwise prescribed.

Bond to be
§i‘;§;:’_e‘°'°

SEC. 3. The writ shall not be served, unless the plaintiﬁ', or
some one in his behalf, executes and delivers to the officer a

20 mine, 266, bond to the defendant, with sufficient surcties, to be approved by

as-i°-13°’
'

I! the beasts

the oﬁieer, in a penalty double the actual value of the property
to be replevied, conditioned as in the prescribed form of the
writ, and to be returned with the writ for the use of the de
fondant.
SEC. 4. If it appears that the beasts were lawfully taken or

§§tl§‘g';§,l'&c_ distrained, the defendant shall have judgment for the sum found
17 Maine, 266, due from the plaintifff for the penalty or forfeiture, or for dam

?’-s c 130
§i. " '

ages for which the beasts were impounded, with the legal fees,
'

costs, and expenses occasioned by the distress, and the costs of
the replevin suit; or instead thereof, the justice or court, at dis
cretion, may enter judgment for a return of the beasts to the
defendant, to be held by him for the original purpose, irrep1cvi

able by the plaintifff, and for the defendant’s damages and costs
in the replevin suit.

I

If U11l_aWf\1ll
SEC. 5. If it appears that the beasts were taken or dis
:'tg‘“;°d1’30 °' trained without justiﬁable cause, the plaintifff shall have judgment
§b. " ' ' for his damages and costs.
Ap ea_l.
Sac. 6. Either party may appeal from the ﬁnal judgment of

2,; s{f1;{°i,5,,{8- the justice, as in other civil actions.
i 6SEO. '7.

When it appears that the sum demanded for the pen

illczifgacirfgsyes alty, forfeitures, or damages, exceeds twenty dollars, or that the

betransfcrrcd property of the beasts is in question, and their value exceeds
{‘o°{§e“sJ;‘l§:;f1§e twenty dollars, or that the title to real estate is in question, at
judicial court. the request of either party, the case shall be transferred to the

:28-.c-130,
'

supreme judicial court, to be there disposed of as provided by
law respecting actions brought before a justice of the peace, in
which the title to real estate is brought in question; but the

TITLE 1x.]

REPLEVIN.

587

party requesting such transfer shall recognize in such reasonable CHAR 96.
sum, as the justice orders, to enter the action at the next term ——_—
of said court, prosecute it with effect, and pay all intervening
damages and costs.
REPLEVIN OF GOODS.

Ssc. 8.

When any goods, unlawfully taken or detained from Goods, unlaw

the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof, or at- §,‘B;§:‘f;gf;k_
tached on mesne process, or taken in execution, are claimed by iod

any person other than the defendant in the suit, in which they g‘,-,5" °~ 130,
are so attached or taken, such owner or person may cause them

'

to be replevied. (a)
SEC. 9.

If the value of the goods exceeds twenty dollars, the In what courts

action shall be brought in the supreme judicial court for the ,’,f,p,‘,§f,‘,’,;{,“,_°Y
county where the goods are detained; if it does not exceed R, s_,c_130,

twenty dollars, before a justice of the peace of the county where W
the goods are detained.
Sec. 10. The officer before serving the writ shall take from Bond to be

the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant, §;§§;:’f‘°'°
with suﬂicient surcties, in double the value of the goods to be R_s_,c_130,

replevied, conditioned as in the prescribed form of the writ, to §1°
be returned with the writ to the court from which the writ issued,

for the use of the defendant. (b)
Sec. 11.

If it appears that the defendant is entitled to a re If laintiﬂ

turn of the goods, he shall have judgment and a writ of return §’,‘:if,§,‘c}_“s
accordingly, with damages for the taking and costs.
SEO. 12. If the goods, when replevied, were taken in cxecution, or attached, and judgment is afterwards rendered for the
attaching creditor, and if, in either case, the service of the cxecu
tion is delayed by the replevin, the damages on a judgment for a
return shall not be less than at the rate of twelve per cent. by
the year on the value of the goods while the service of the

It. s., c.130,
iiiéssmento
damages on
perty.
£1-12$-1°-130,
'

execution is so delayed. (c)
SEC. 13.

All sums recovered by an officer in an action of re- Disposal ofthe

plevin on account of goods attached or taken in execution by m°“eY’e°°"'
_
_
_
_
cred by officer
him, or recovered m a suit upon the replevm bond, shall be ap- R_s_,c_130,
plied:
§ 13
First.—To pay the lawful fees and charges of the oﬂicer, and
the reasonable expenses of the replevin suit, and of the action
on the bond, so far as they are not reimbursed by the costs re
covered.
Swmd.—To pay the creditor, at whose suit the goods were
attached or taken in execution, the sum, if any, recovered by him
in that suit, or what remains unpaid, with interest at the rate of
twelve per cent. by the year for the time the money was with
Sn) 4 Greenl. 306; 12 Maine, 261; 15 Maine, 373; 19 Maine, 255, 281; 20 Maine,
£31; 2‘23lgéaine, 537; 30 Maine, 181, 370; 31 Maine, 296, 340; 32 Maine, 192, 322; 37
ame,
.
(b) 27 Maine, 443; 29 Maine, 566; 34Maine, 84; 35 Maine, 53; 37 Maine, 25; 39
Maine, 516.
(c)

11 Maine, 66; 28 Maine, 241; 32 Maine, 182; 83 Maine, 384.

588

REPLEVIN.

[TITLE IX.

Can. 96. held from the creditor, or the service of his execution delayed

Appropriation
of the money
received by
creditor.
R. S., c. 180,
§ 14.

Judgment, if
plaintiﬂ recov
ers.
R. S., c. 130,
§ 15.
Continuance
of attachment,

if goods are
replevied.
R. S., c. 130,
§ 16.

\Vhen writ of
reprisal may
issue.
R. S., c. 130,
§ 17.

Defendant's
remedy on the
replevm bond.
18 Maine, 260.
21 Maine, 508.
R. S., e. 130,
§ 18.

Limitation of
surety's liabil
ity on replevin
bond.
R. S., c. 130,
§ 19.

by reason of the replevin.
Tlzird.—If the attaching creditor in such case does not re
cover judgment in his suit, or if any balance remains of the
money so recovered by the oﬁicer, after paying the creditor his
due, such balance or the whole amount, as the case may be, shall
be applied as the surplus of the proceeds of sale should be ap
plied if such goods had been sold on execution.
Sec. 14. All sums received by such creditor from the sale
of goods attached or taken in execution, and afterwards return
ed, for any of such goods not returned, and of the oﬁicer for the
insuﬁiciency of the bond, shall be applied in discharge of the
creditor’s judgment; but all sums received as interest or dam
ages for delay of his execution, shall be retained to his own use,
and not go in discharge of the judgment.
SEO. 15. If it appears that the goods were taken, attached,
or detained unlawfully, the plaintifff shall have judgment for his
damages caused thereby, and for his costs.
SEC. 16. If the goods replevied had been attached, they shall,
in case of judgment for a return, he held by the attachment until
thirty days after judgment in the suit, in which they were attach
ed; and if such ﬁnal judgment is rendered before the return of
the goods, or if the goods when replevied were seized on exc
cution, they shall be held by the same attachment or seizure for
thirty days after the return, liable to be taken and disposed of,
as if they had not been replevied.
Sac. 17. When the oﬂicer, in the service of the writ of return
and restitution, is not able to ﬁnd in his precinct the beast or
other property directed to be returned in his precept, he shall
certify that fact in his return; and the court whence it issued,
upon notice, may grant a writ of reprisal, in the form prescribed
by law, against the plaintifff in replevin, to take his goods or
beasts, not exempt from attachment, of the full value, to be de
livered to the defendant, to be held and disposed of by him
according to law, until the plaintifff restores the beast or other
property replevied by him.
SEO. 18. The foregoing provisions shall not preclude the de
fendant from resorting to his remedy on the replevin bond, or
to his remedy against the olﬁcer for the insuﬁiciency of the bond,
to recover the value of the goods together with the damage or
loss occasioned by the replevin thereof, notwithstanding he has
endeavored to recover the same by the writs of return and of
reprisal as aforesaid.
SEO. 19. N0 action shall be maintained against any person
as surety in a replevin bond, unless the writ is served on him
within one year after the ﬁnal judgment in the action of replevin;
or if the action is not entered by the plaintifff, and the defend
ant does not obtain judgment upon a complaint, such writ against
the surety may be served on him within one year after the end
of the term, at which the action of replevin ought to have been
entered, and not afterwards.

TITLE IX.]

BASTARD CHILDREN.

CHAPTER 97.

o . 97.
-ii‘-’——~

BASTARD CHILDREN AND THEIR MAINTENANCE.
Szc. 1.

Accusations by a woman pregnant with a bastard child, and her examination.
Justice may issue a warrant.
Person arrested to give bond. On refusal, to be committed.
Cause to be continued, if complainant is not delivered, or unable to attend
court. Surrender of principal by his sureties, and proceedings.
Declaration must be ﬁled before trial; form thereof.
Complainant may be a witness, if she has continued constant in her accusa
tions.
7. Proceedings if respondent is adjudged guilty. If not guilty, respondent to be
discharged.
8. Complainant not to settle with the father, unless by the written consent of
the overseers of the poor.
9. The father may be discharged from imprisonment, on taking the poor debtor's
oath ; his liability to the mother and town, aﬁer such discharge.

ewees

SEC. 1. When a woman pregnant with a child, that if born Accusations
alive, may be a bastard, or who has been delivered of a bastard }’§o;$;‘,’1‘;‘§},h
child, accuses any man of being the father thereof, before any abastardchild,
justice of the peace, and requests a prosecution against him, he
exam‘
shall take her accusation and examination on oath, respecting
the accused, and the time and place when and where the child
was begotten, as correctly as they can be described, and all such
other circumstances as he deems useful in the discovery of the
truth. ((1)
SEC. 2. He may issue his warrant for the apprehension of
such person, directed to the sheriff of any county in which the
accused is supposed to reside, accompanied by such accusation
and examination.

Sso. 3.

R_s_,c_131,
§1
'
Justice may
‘rf§:‘t‘.""“"“'
R, 3.10.131,
§2

When the person is brought before such or any other Person_arrest

justice, he may require him to give bond to the complainant with §‘,1m§F%;“;',e
suﬁicient sureties, in such reasonable sum as he orders, condi- comrhittcth
tioned for his appearance at the next supreme judicial court for
12;
the county in which she resides, and for his abiding the order of 19 1.1a;m;,4os§.

court thereon ; and if he does not give it, he shall commit him %f_1§I_‘“cfei33178'
to jail until he does.
§3, 4'.
'
SE0. 4. If at such next or any subsequent court, the com- Cause to be
plainant is not delivered of her child, or is unable to attend Surrender
°°““““"¢ of&°‘
court, or for other good reason, the cause may be continued; rincipal by

and the bond shall remain in force until ﬁnal judgment, un- 8::-Swedes‘
less the sureties of the accused surrender him in court at any R. s., c. 131,

time before ﬁnal judgment, which they may do, and thereupon §'S‘f'c_ 114
they shall be discharged; and he shall be committed until a new § 100.
'
bond is given.
SEO. 5. Before proceeding to trial, the complainant must ﬁle Declaration

a declaration, stating that she has been delivered of a bastard §}j§ebfI§:,e;d
child begotten by the accused, the time and place when and where form thereof

it was begotten, with as much precision as the case will admit I G'““1-3°4
that being put on the discovery of the truth during the time of i2Gc'1°.°.‘.‘.‘c,4261(i'

(a) 16 Maine, 38; 18 Maine, 304, 372; 36 Maine, 486; 37 Maine, 546.

590

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELED.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 97. her travail, she accused the respondent of being the father of
18 Maine, 39,
304.
R. S., c. 131,
Com lainant
may e a wit
ness, &c.

R. S., c. 131,
§ 8.

Proceedings if
respondent is
adjudged
ilty.
f not guilty,
to be dis
charged.

R. s., c. 131,
§ 9, 10.

Complainant
not to settle

with the father,

8%
18 Maine, 150.
R. S., c. 181,
§ 11.
The father may
be discharged
from imprison
ment, &c.
19 Maine, 409.
32 Maine, 21.
R. S., c. 131,

§ 12, 13.

the child, and that she has been constant in such accusation.
SEC. 6. When the complainant has made said accusation;
been examined on oath as aforesaid; been put upon the discov
ery of the truth of such accusation at the time of her travail,
and thereupon has accused the same man with being the father
of the child of which she is about to be delivered; has con
tinued constant in such accusation, and prosecutes him as the
father of such child before such court; he shall be held to an
swer to such complaint; and she may be a witness in the trial,
unless incompetent by reason of a conviction of some crime. (a)
SEC. 7. If, on such issue, the jury ﬁnds the respondent not
guilty, he shall be discharged; but if they ﬁnd him guilty, or the
facts in the declaration ﬁled are admitted by default or on de
murrer, he shall be adjudged the father of such child; stand
charged with its maintenance, with the assistance of the mother,
as the court orders; and shall give a bond, with sufficient sureties
approved by the court, to the complainant to perform said order,
and a bond, with suﬂicient sureties so approved, to the town
liable for the maintenance of such child; and be committed till
he gives them. The latter bond to be deposited with the clerk
of the court for the use of such town.
Sso. 8. No woman, whose accusation and examination, on
oath, have been taken by a justice of the peace at her request,
shall make a settlement with the father, or give him any discharge
to bar or affect such complaint, if objected to in writing by the
overseers of the poor of the town interested in her support or
the child’s.
SEC. 9. When the father of such bastard child has remained
ninety days in jail, without being able to comply with the order
of court, he may be liberated by taking the poor debtor’s oath,
as persons committed on execution; but he shall give ﬁfteen days
notice of his intention to do so, to the mother, if living, and to the
clerk of the town where the child has its legal settlement, if in
this state. The mother and said town may, after such liberation,
recover of him by action of debt any sum of money, which ought
to have been paid pursuant to the order of court.

CHAPTER 98.
PERSONAL PROPERTY SEIZED, AND LOST GOODS; AND PROCEEDINGS
THEREON.
S20. 1. Seizure of forfeited personal property, by the person entitled thereto.
2. To be restored to claimant, on his giving bond.
3. The same to be appraised.
4. Inventory and appraisal, if there is no claimant.
4335a) 8 Greenl., 163; 18 Maine, 39, 304, 372; 23 Maine, 573; 34 Maine, 237; 35 Maine,
; 39 Maine, 469.

TITLE IX.]

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELED.

Sec. 5.

If the value exceeds twenty dollars, libel to be in the supreme judicial court.
How notice of libel to be given.
6. Proceedings and decree thereon.
7. If libel is not supported, or is discontinued, court shall decree restoration.
Damages for seizure without probable cause.
8. If the value is less than twenty dollars, libel to be before a justice.
9. Appeal; decree to be affirmed, if appeal is not prosecuted; depositions may
be used in the trial.
10, 11. Duty of ﬁnder of goods worth three dollars, or more ; also, worth ten dollars

CHAP. 98.

or more.
12.
13.
14.

Proceedings, if owner appears in one year.
If no owner appears within one year, the ﬁnder to have the money, or goods,
on paying one half the value to the town treasurer.
Penalty, if ﬁnder neglects to give notice.

SE0. 1.

When any personal property is forfeited for an Seizure of for

oifence, and no special mode is prescribed for recovering it, any {fr§‘:rl’;‘f§_‘l
person entitled to the whole or part of it, may seize and keep it B. 5., ¢.'132,

till ﬁnal judgment, unless restored on the bond as herein pro- 151
vided.
SE0. 2. If the person claiming it for himself or another, gives To be restored
bond to the party seizing, with sufﬁcient surety, to pay the ap- "9 °l“im“n"°“

praised value when it is decreed forfeited, it shall be restored to ﬁR:,sns§ivini32
him.
SEC. 3.

HI ., c.

,

The value shall be ascertained by the appraisement To be ap

of three disinterested men mutually chosen by the parties; or if Praised
they cannot agree, by a justice of the peace of the county.
gas" °'132'
Sso. 4. If no person claims the property after it has been so Inven_to and

seized, the party seizing shall cause an inventory and appraise- 2 a1§:ft_' if “°
ment thereof to be made by three disinterested persons, under
oath, appointed by a justice of the county; which shall be the
rule for deciding where the libel shall be ﬁled.
*
SEC. 5. If the property seized exceeds twenty dollars, the
party seizing, within twenty days thereafter, shall ﬁle a libel in
the clerk’s ofﬁce of the supreme judicial court in the county

R_ S" ,,_132I
H
If the value
§‘c°_°°d“ $20
1_1ow notice of

where the offense was committed, stating the cause of seizure,
and praying for a decree of forfeiture.

be

The clerk shall there- R. s., c. 132,

upon make out a notice to all persons to appear at such court at
the time appointed, to show cause why such decree should not
be passed, which shall be published in some newspaper printed
in the county, if any, if not, in the state paper, at least fourteen
days before the time of trial.
See. 6. When there is a claimant, the court may hear and determine the cause by a jury, or without, if the parties agree, and
may allow costs against the claimant; if there is no claimant,
the court shall decree the forfeiture and disposition of the property according to law, and a sale and distribution of the pro
ceeds, after deducting all proper charges.
SEO. 7. If the libel is not supported, or is discontinued, the

court shall decree a restoration of the property, with costs.

M6

Proceedings
ﬁfgrggﬁfee
R_S_',,_132,
§7

If libel is not

If ‘‘“PP°''‘ed’ 8”

the jury or court ﬁnds the seizure without probable cause, rea- §‘g_s" °' 132'
sonable damages shall be decreed for the‘claimant.
Sac. 8. When the property seized does not exceed twenty Ifthe valueis

dollars, the libel shall be ﬁled before a justice of the peace of the $2? ‘hm $20’

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELED.

[TITLE IX.

CHAR 98_ county where the offense was committed; and after notice as
~ aforesaid has been posted at two or more public places in the
§R§;_S"c'132’ county, seven days at least before the day of trial, he shall try

Appeal; de—
§‘:e§1"§fcf‘f'

and decide the cause, and make such decree therein as law re
quires.
SEC. 9. Either party may appeal to the next supreme judi
cial court in the county, recognizing as in other cases of appeal;

R_s__c_132,

if the appeal is not prosecuted, the court, on complaint, may

§1°,11'12affirm the decree of the justice, with costs; and depositions, duly
taken, may be used in the trial of the action.
Duty of ﬁnder
SEO. 10. The ﬁnder of money or goods of the value of three

gggggggfgfth dollars or more, if the owner is unknown, within ten days next
R_'s_, c_ 132.
§13|14Also, worth
$10’ °"“°"'
€"i§" °' 132’

Proceedings, if
‘;g§ff"‘
R_s_,c_132,
§16If no owner_
Bppem ‘mhm
one year, &c.
R_s_,c_132,
§ 17Penalty, if

following, shall give notice thereof in writing to the clerk of the
town where they are found, post up a notiﬁcation thereof in
some public place in said town, and cause it to be publicly
cried therein on three several days, if there is any public crier
in said town. And if the value of said money or goods is ten
dollars or more, the same shall be cried and notice given by
posting as aforesaid in two towns adjoining, in addition.
SEO. 11. Every ﬁnder of lost goods of the value of ten dol
lars or more, within two months after ﬁnding, and before using
them to their disadvantage, shall procure a warrant, from the
town clerk or a justice of the peace, directed to two persons ap
pointed by said clerk or justice not interested, except as inhabi
tants of the town, returnable within seven days from the date in
said clerk’s oﬁice, to appraise said goods under oath.
SEC. 12. If the owner of such lost money or goods appears
within one year after said notice to the clerk, and gives reasona
ble evidence of his ownership to the ﬁnder, he shall have resti
tution of them or their value, paying all necessary charges and
reasonable compensation to the ﬁnder, to be adjudged by a jus
tiee of the peace of the county, if the owner and ﬁnder cannot
agree.
SEC. 13. If no owner appears within one year, such money
or lost goods shall belong to the ﬁnder, by paying one half their
_
_
value to the treasurer of said town, after deductmg all necessary
charges; but if he neglects to pay it on demand, it may be re
covered in an action brought by said treasurer in the name of
the town.
SEO. 14. If the ﬁnder of lost money or goods, of the value

f(',“é‘i"’_e‘;f$3tliec“e*_" of three dollars or more, neglects to give notice to the town
R_s"c_132,

clerk and cause them to he cried and advertised as herein pro

§18vided, he shall forfeit the full value thereof, one half to the use
of the town, and the other half to him who sues therefore, and be
liable to the owner for the lost money or goods.

TITLE 1x.]

HAIBEAS CORPUS.

593
CHAP. 99.

CHAPTER 99.
IIABEAS CORPUS.
SEC. 1. Who may prosecute the writ, as matter of right.
2. Minors enlisting in the army or navy, entitled to beneﬁts of this chapter.
Parent, master or guardian of minor restrained, entitled to such writ.
Supreme judicial court may grant such writ, on application of any person, in
behalf of one incapable of making hisown application.
P°."F‘Sh Who are not so entitled as of right.
'.*“?°
Application ; how made by persons not of right entitled.
To be returnable before the court, or anyjustice thereof.
Application to be in writing, signed and sworn to, and shall state the case
clearly. V/‘hen the writ shall not issue.
Proceedings, if excessive bail is demanded.
10. If the officer refuses a copy of the precept, the writ shall issue forthwith.
11. Form of writ, in cases mentioned in the ﬁfth section.
12. Time of service and return. Tender of fees..
13. Officer, when he makes return, to bring the body of the person restrained.
Proceedings, if the person is sick, and cannot be brought.
14. Examination of the causes of restraint.
1-5. Persons interested to be notiﬁed before discharged.
16. Proceedings and decision upon the application. If no legal cause is shown
for imprisonment, prisoner shall be discharged.
17. Party detained and imprisoned for any oﬂence which is bailafile, shall be ad
mitted to bail.
18. Form of writ, if the restraint is not by an oiﬁcer.
19. By whom issued and where served.
20. If the person restraining is unknown, how designated.
21. If the person restrained is unknown, how designated.
22. Form of return in the cases mentioned in the eleventh and eighteenth sec
tions.
How such return shall be authenticated.
Manner of keeping the party before judgment.
Penalty for neglect of an officer to give a copy of his precept for detaining a
prisoner.
Punishment if an officer neglects to serve a writ of habeas corpus.
If attachment is issued against a sheriff.
Proceedings in such case for release of the person for whose beneﬁt the writ
issued.
29. Persons discharged on habcas corpus, not to be arrested again, except in cer
tain cases.
30. Conveyance to prison of persons ordered to be committed. Penalty for elud
ing the service of a writ of habcas corpus.
31. Penalties no bar to actions for damages.
32. A third person may appear for the party detained in certain cases.
33. Supreme court may allow bail, at discretion, or any justice thereof. Excep
tion.
34. Admission of a person to bail, when committed for not ﬁnding sureties.
35. Habeas corpus may issue to bring in a prisoner as a witness.
36. Habeas corpus may issue, on application, in behalf of an insane person, com
mitted on mesne process, or execution.

SEC. 1. Every person unlawfully deprived of his personal Who mayhave
liberty by the act of another, except in the cases hereinafter writ, as matter
of right.
mentioned, shall of right have a writ of habeas corpus according R. s., c. 140,
to the provisions herein contained.
§ 1.

75

HABEAS CORPUS.

594

[TITLE IX.

r;

SEO. 4-lo Any minor enlisted within this state into the army
or navy of the United States, without the written consent of his
Minors enlist
ing into army parent, guardian, or master, shall have all the beneﬁts of this
or navy, &c.
chapter on the application of himself, parent, guardian or master.
R. S., c. 140,
SEO. 3. The parent, master, or guardian of any minor, im
§ 37.
Parent, &c., of prisoned or restrained of his liberty, shall be entitled to the
mm or restrain
writ of habeas corpus for him, if he would be entitled to it on
ed, &c.
1845, c. 138, § 1. his own application.
SEC. 4. The supreme judicial court or any justice thereof,
Supreme court
may grant such on application of any person, may issue the writ of habeas cor
writ, &c.
1845, c. 138, § 2. pus to bring before them any party alleged to be imprisoned, or
restrained of his liberty, who would be entitled to it on his own
application, when from any cause he is incapable of making it.
SEO. 5. The following persons shall not of right have such
\Vho are not
entitled of
writ:
right.
Fim.—Persons committed to and conﬁned in prison for trea
R. S., c. 140,
son, felony, or suspicion thereof, or as accessories before the fact
§ 2.
to a felony, when the same is plainly and specially expressed in
the warrant of commitment.
Sewnd.—Pers0ns convicted or in execution upon legal pro
CHAP. 99.

cess, criminal or civil.

Application ;
by persons not
of right enti
tied.

R. s., c. 140,
§ 3.

To be retuma
ble before
court, (to.

R. S., c. 140,
§ 4.
To be in writ
in , &c.
\\ en the writ
shall not issue.
R. S., c. 140,
5 5, 6.
1845, c. 138,

,< 2, 3.

Proceedings if
excessive boil
is demanded.
R. S., c. 140,
§ 7.
If officer re
fuses a copy of
pm.-cpt, &c.
R. S., c. 140I
§ 8.

Thiw-d.—Persons committed on mesne process in any civil ac
tion, on which they are liable to be arrested and imprisoned.
SEO. 6. An application for such writ by any person shall be
made to the supreme judicial court in the county where the re
straint exists, if in session; if not, to a justice thereof; and
when issued by the court, it shall be returnable thereto; but if
the court is adjourned without day or for more than seven days,
it may be returned before a justice thereof, and heard and dc- ,
termined by him.
SEC. 7. When issued by a justice of the court, it may be
made returnable before the court, himself, or any other justice
thereof.
Sno. 8. The application shall be in writing, signed, and sworn
to by the person making it, stating the place where, and the per
son by whom, the restraint is made; the applicant shall produce
to the court or justice :1. copy of the precept by which the person
is so restrained, attested by the oliicer holding it; and if, on
inspection thereof, it appears to the court or justice that such
person is thereby lawfully imprisoned or restrained of his lib
erty, a writ shall not be granted.
SEC. 9. If it appears that he is imprisoned on mesne process
for want of bail, and the court or justice thinks excessive bail is
demanded, reasonable bail shall be ﬁxed, and on giving it to the
plaintifff, he shall be discharged.
SEC. 10. If the prison keeper or other oiﬁcer having the cus
tody of such person refuses or unreasonably delays to deliver to
the applicant an attested copy of the precept by which he re
strains him, on demand therefore, the court or justice, on proof
of such demand and refusal, shall forthwith issue the writ of ha
beas corpus as prayed for.

TITLE IX.]

HABEAS CORPUS.

SEC. 11. When such writ is issued on application inbehalf CHAR 99_
of any person described in the ﬁfth section, it shall be substan—
Form of writ
tially as follows:
i,_, case, ,,,,,,_

STATE or MAL\'E.

I~.‘r‘Zl‘.°.“.é1‘..‘.’1f’

C
, ss. To A. B. of
;
RbS., c. 140,
[L. s.]
Greeting.
§ '
We command you, that you have the body of C. D., in our
prison, at
, under your custody, (or by you imprisoned and
restrained of his liberty, as the case may be) as it is said,
together with the day and cause of his taking and detaining, by
whatever name he is called or charged, before our supreme judi
cial court, held at
, in and for the county of
,immediately
after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said

court shall then and there consider concerning him in this behalf,
and have you there this writ.
Witness
, at -—, this

year

day of ---, in the

.
, Clerk.

The like form shall be used by any justice of said court, chang
ing what should be changed, when such writ is awarded by him.
See. 12. When such writ is offered to the officer to whom it Time of ser
is directed, he shall receive it; and on payment or tender of
"““'“'
such sum as thecourt or justice thereof directs, shall make due R.S.,c.140,

return thereof within three days, if the place of return is within § 10
twenty miles of the place of imprisonment; if over twenty, and
less than one hundred miles, within seven days; and if more
than one hundred miles, within fourteen days; but if such writ
was issued against such 0ﬂicer, on his refusal or neglect to de
liver, on demand, to the applicant a copy of the precept by
which he restraincd'the person of his liberty, in whose behalf
application was made, then the oﬁicer shall be bound to obey the
writ without payment or tender of expenses.
SEO. 13. The person making the return, shall, at the same om“,-,when
time, bring the body of the party, as commanded in the writ, if 1t‘:r:1n‘*tl;e§:,f1‘g
in his custody or power or under his restraint, unless prevented the body of
by sickness or inﬁrmity of such party; and in that case that fact the P°"‘°“
shall be stated in the return; and if proved to the satisfaction of
it
the court or justice, a justice of the court may proceed to the §,‘c°kf",Z'§,‘1"‘C,‘,‘:,_
place where the party is conﬁned and there make his examina- n°tbebr0\\shr

tion, or may adjourn it to another time, or make such other order ?'us"'1:,’_'14°'
in the case as law and justice requires.
SEC. 14..

'

On the return of the writ, the court or justice, with- Examination

or
out restraint;
delay, shalland
proceed
may adjourn
to examine
such the
examination
causes of imprisonment
from time to R_S_,c_1_,(,,
time.
Snc. 15. When it appears that the party is detained on any
process, under which any other person has an interest in continning such imprisonment or restraint, the party shall not be
discharged until notice has been given to such other person or
his attorney, if within the state, or within thirty miles of the
place of examination, to appear and object, if he see cause; and

at 13
persons inter
giiggetggzfore
discharge.
Ri4S-.0-140.
§ '

BABEAS CORPUS.

596

[TITLE IX.

Cnsr. 99. if imprisoned on any criminal accusation, he shall not be dis

charged until suﬂicient notice has been given to the attorney
general, or other attorney for the state, that he may appear and
object, if he thinks ﬁt.
‘
Proceedin .
SEO. 16. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny facts
If no lcgaf3
stated in the return or statement, and may allege other ma
cause for im
prisonment,
terial facts; and the court or justice may, in a summary way,
court shall
examine the cause of imprisonment or restraint; hear evidence
discharge;
exception.
produced on either side, and if no legal cause isshown for such
6 Greenl. 462.
32 Maine, 440. imprisonment or restraint, the court or justice shall discharge
36 Maine, 425. him; except as provided in section nine.
R. S., c. 140,
Sec. 17. If the party is imprisoned and detained for a baila
§ 15, 16.
Party detained blo oifcncc, he shall be admitted to bail, if suﬁicicnt bail is
for any offense
oﬁ'cred; and if not, he shall be remanded, with an order of the
which is bail
able, shall be court or justice, expressing the sum in which he shall be held to
admitted to
bail, and the court at which he shall be bound to appear; and a
bail.
Bail, &c.
justice of the peace may, at any time before the sitting of the
R. S., c. 140,
court, bail the party pursuant to such order.
§ 17.
SEO. 18. In cases of imprisonment or restraint of personal
Form of writ,
if the restraint liberty by any person not a sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, con
is not by an
stable, jailer, or marshal, deputy marshal, or other officer of the
oiliccr.
R. s., c. 140, courts of the United States, the writ shall be in the following
§ 18.
form, viz:
I

STATE OF MAINE.
[Seal.]

To the sheriffs of our several counties and their respec
tive deputies,
Greeting.

Wc command you, that you take the body of G. D. of

,

imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, by A. B.
of
, and have him before our supreme judicial court, holden
at
, immediately after receipt of this writ, to do and receive
what our court shall then and there consider concerning him in
this behalf; and summon the said A. B. then and there to appear
before our said court, to show cause for taking and detaining
said 0. D., and have you there this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, our
, at
, this —— day of
, in the
year
, Clerk.
SEC. 19. Such writ may be issued by the supreme judicial
court, sitting in any county in which the person, in whose behalf
application is made, is restrained, or by any justice thereof, the
form to be varied so far as necessary, when issued by a justice of
the court; and served in any county in the state.
Sec. 20. The person having custody of the prisoner may be
If the person
restraining is
designated
by the name of his 0ilicc, if he has any, or by his
unknown, &c.
R. s., c. 140, own name; or if both are unknown or uncertain, he may be de
§ 21.
scribed by an assumed name; and any one served with the writ,
shall be deemed the person thereby intended.
If the person
SEO. 21. The person restrained shall be designated by his
restrained is
unknown, &c. name, if known; if unknown or uncertain, in any other way,
R. S., c. 140,
so as to make known who is intended.
§ 22.
SEO. 22. In cases under section eleven-, the person who makes
Retum in the
the return, and in cases under section eighteen, the person in
cases men
By whom is
sued and where
served.
R. S.. c. 140,
§ 19, 20.

TITLE IX.]

HABEAS CORPUS.

whose custody the prisoner is found, shall state in writing to the
court or justice before whom the process is returned, plainly and
.
unequwocally,
—
_
.
Fzrst.—-Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or

CHAR 99.
_
d‘ 18th
th
l‘1°tIl‘:an1d‘
‘WHOM

power, or under restraint;

$23" °‘ 140'

Sccond.—If he has, he shall state, at large, the authority and
true and whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, upon
which the party is detained; and,
Third. - If he has had the party in his custody or power or
under his restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall
state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by
what authority, such transfer was made.
Snc. 23. Such return or statement shall be signed and sworn How authenti
to by the person making it, unless he is a sworn public oﬁicer, med‘
and makes and signs his return in his oﬂicial capacity.
" °‘ 140'
SEC. 24. The party may be bailed to appear from day to Manner of

day, until judgment is rendered; or remanded, or committed to k§,l’§_“g ‘he
the sheriff, or placed in custody, as the case requires.
.31., c. 140,
SEO. 25. If any oﬂicer refuses or neglects, for four hours, to 2,25“ f

deliver a true and attested copy of the warrant or process, by ,,e°§f;cgvo?:,ﬁ
which
he detains
any prisoner,
demands
it
and tenders
the fees
therefore, to
he any
shallperson
forfeit who
to such
prisoner
two hundred dollars.
SEC. 26. If any person or oﬂiccr, to whom such writ is directed, refuses to receive it, or neglects to obey and execute it,

°" “’?§c;.)re
8“
gt-26$-., c. 140,
Punishment,
if Officer mg

as hereby required, and no sufficient cause is shown therefore, he

to gene

shall forfeit to the aggrieved party four hundred dollars; and
the court or judge, before whom the writ was returnable, shall
proceed forthwith by attachment, as for a contempt, to compel
obedience to the writ, and to punish for the contempt.
SEC. 27. If such attachment is issued against a sheriff or his
therein
deputy, designated,
it may be directed
who shalltothereby
a coroner,
have power
or anytoother
execute
person
it;

R.S.,c.140,
H7‘

_If attachment
sheriﬁ, &c.

and the sheriff or his deputy may be committed to jail on such g‘-28$-N-14°’
process in any county but his own.
'
SEO. 28. If the person to whom the writ is directed refuses Proceedings

to obey and execute it, the court or judge may issue a precept to §’(_'r;§1:‘}Z§ °*'
any oﬁicer or other person therein named, commanding him to whose_beneﬁt
bring the person for whose beneﬁt the writ was issued before ;;‘°S“T“'S1Z‘6ed'
the court or judge; and the prisoner shall thereupon be dis- §g_" °' '
charged, bailed, or remanded, as if brought in on habeas corpus.

SEO. 29. N0 person, enlarged by habeas corpus, shall be
again imprisoned or restrained for the same cause, unless indicted therefore, convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail,
or after a discharge for defect of proof, or some material defect
in the commitment in a criminal case, he is arrested on suﬂicient
proof, and committed by legal process for the same offense.
SEC. 30. A person, ordered to be committed to prison on any
criminal
be, and shall
charge,
not shall
be delivered
be carried
from
to such
one ofﬁccr
prison,toasanother
soon asexcept
may

Persons an.
fltgggdcgﬂpus
8:0.
’
R308-.0-140.
'
Come;-ance m
to_be com

for easy and speedy conveyance; nor removed without his con- 'I‘£“;e‘1’c&1"4'o
sent from one county to another, unless by habeas corpus; and §31_

598

HABEAS CORPUS.

[TITLE IX.

Cnar. 99. if any one, who has in his custody or under his power any per

Penalties no
bar to action.
R. S., c. H0,
5‘ 32.
A third person
may appear
for the part .
R. S., c. 1 ,
§ 33.
Supreme court
ma allow
bni , &c,

R. S., c. 140,

§ 34.

son entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether issued or not,
transfers him to the custody of another, or changes his place of
conﬁnement, with intent to elude the service of such writ, he
shall forfeit four hundred dollars to the party aggrieved.
SEC. 31. No penalty, established by this chapter, shall bar
any action at common law for damages for false imprisonment.
SEC. 32. When a person is unlawfully carried out of the state
or imprisoned in a secret place, any other person may appear
for him in an action therefore in his name, who shall stipulate for
the payment of costs as the court orders.
SEC. 33. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to re
strain the supreme judicial court in term time, or any justice
thereof in vacation, from bailing a person for any offense, when
the circumstances of the case require it; except persons commit
ted by the governor and council, senate, or house of representa
tives, for the causes mentioned in the constitution.

SEC. 34. \Vhen a person is conﬁned in a jail for a bailable
offense, or for not ﬁnding sureties on a recognizance, two justices
of the peace and of the quorum, on application, may inquire into
the case and admit any such person to bail, and exercise the
same power as any justice of the supreme judicial court can;
and may issue a writ of habcas corpus, and cause such person to
be brought before them for this purpose, and may take such re
cognizance.
,
‘
SE0. 35. A court may issue a writ of habeas corpus, when
Habeas corpus
may issue to
bring a prison necessary, to bring before them a prisoner for trial in a cause
er asa witness. pending in such court, or to testify as a witness, when his per
R. S., c. 140, sonal attendance may be deemed necessary for the attainment of
§ 36.
justice.
~
SEC. 36. When an insane person is arrested or imprisoned
Habets corpus
may issue, on
on mesne process or execution in a civil suit, a judge of the su
application,
&c.
preme judicial court, or judge of probate within his county, on
1s41,a 1, § 24. application, may inquire into the ease; issue a writ of haheas
corpus; cause such person to be brought before him for examin
ation; and after notice to the creditor or his attorney, if either
is living in the state, and a hearing, if proved to the satisfaction
of said judge that the person is insane, he may discharge him
from arrest or imprisonment; and the creditor shall have the
Admission to
bail, &c.
R. S., c. 140,
§ 35.

right to make a new arrest, on the same demand, when the

debtor becomes of sound mind. But if he is arrested on the
same demand a second time, before he becomes of sound mind,
and again discharged for that reason, his body forever after shall
be exempted from arrest therefore.

TITLE IX.]

AUDITA QUERELA.

CHAPTER 100.

CHAP. 100.
M

WIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.
Sac. ?'?’$"!“5°!°t" Form of the writ.
In what court and county to be sued out.
Proceedings in court.
Complainant may recover special damages.
Pleadings, and ﬁling exceptions.
Proceedings, if complainant is in prison.
Effect of a surrender to jail.

SEC. 1. The writ of audita querela may be sued out in the Form of writ.
form of a writ of attachment or summons; and shall be sealed, 2* Mnine.304
signed, tested, and indorsed, as other writs.
?'1_S"c' H1’
SEC. 2.

When brought to prevent, set aside, or annul pro- 1,, whatcourt

court
ceedings
in which
on a judgment
judgmentorwas
execution,
rendered,
it but
shallin be
all sued
otheroutcases
of the
in R_ S" c_ 141',
the county and court having jurisdiction of the case according to W
the provisions of law as to personal actions.
SEO. 3. If the defendant does not appear, after being duly Proceedings in
served with process, he shall be defaulted; but if he does, a trial °°“"‘'

shall be had as in other actions.

gas" °' 141'

SEC. 4. The complainant may declare in his writ for any Complainant
special
and on damages
proof, hehe shall
has suffered
have judgment
by the service
and execution
of such execution
for such; ages.‘

damages, instead of recovering therefore in a subsequent suit.
SE0. 5.

%§_ g[_:“§_ei,,310,4'

The defendant may plead the general issue of not H

guilty, with or without a brief statement, or any special matter €,1i°r;“‘“e“xgc‘‘‘e' {"4
in bar; and exceptions may be alleged to the rulings, instruc~ tion§.

tions, and opinion of the court, as in civil actions.

P

§"5_s" °' 141'

SE0. 6. When the complainant is in prison on execution, the Proceedings,
court before which such action is brought may admit him to bail, icIf"‘rI;ls‘:)il‘1'“"t
to be approved by the court; the bond shall be conditioned, that R_ s_t)c_ Hi’
if ﬁnal judgment is rendered for the respondent, the complain- §6
ant, within thirty days thereafter, shall surrender himself to the
jail keeper to be detained on the execution, or within that time
satisfy it and such ﬁnal judgment as the respondent recovers.

SEO. '7.

If the complainant surrenders himself to jail, he Effect 0f8_S}ll‘

shall be in lawful custody on such execution, and there detained '°“d°‘ ‘° Jul‘
until discharged according to law.
_
?'7_S" °' H1’

REPLEVYING A PERSON.

600

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 101.
CHAPTER 1 0 1 .
WRIT FOR REPLEVYING A PERSON.
Sac.

' Who is enti
tled to the
writ.

13 Maine. 408.
32 Maine, 560.

35 Maine, 267.
R. S., c. 142,
§1 , 18.
Writ to issue
from the S. .T.
court. Service.
R. S., c. 142,

§.2
F0 rm of the
writ.

R. s., c. 1-12,
§3

Who is entitled to the writ.
\Vrit to issue from the supreme judicial court. Service.
Form of the writ.
95°
°?'9§"l ?°! " Bond to be given.
Oﬂicer responsible for the sureties.
‘Vhat judgment, if the action is or is not maintained. “’hat judgment, if defendant is entitled to the custody of the plaintifff.
If defendant has eloigned the plaintifff, he may be arrested. Defendant may
be enlarged by giving bail.
Discharge and costs, if not guilty of eloigning. If guilty, to be imprisoned;
and discharged on proof of plaintifff ‘s death.
10. Form of writs of reprisal.
11. Proceedings, if the plaintiﬂ is produced.

SEO. 1. If any person is imprisoned, restrained of his lib
erty, or held in duress, unless by a lawful writ, warrant, or
other process, civil or criminal, he shall be entitled of right,
by his own application, or by any one in his behalf without any
express power, to the writ for rcplevying a person.
SEO. 2. The writ shall issue from and be returnable to the
supreme judicial court in the county where the plaintifff is con
ﬁned, and directed to a proper ofﬁcer, and served, as soon as
may be, fourteen days at least before the return day.
SEC. 3. The form of the writ shall be as follows:

STATE OF MAINE.
[L. s.]

S

,ss.

To the sheriff of our county of S
;
Greeting.
We command you, that without delay you cause to be re
plevied, C. D., who, as it is said, is taken and detained in a
place called N., in our said county of S
, by the duress of
G. R, that he may appear at our supreme judicial court, next to
he held at
, within and for the county of S
, on the
day of
next, then and there in our said court to demand
right and justice against said G. H., for the duress and imprison
ment aforesaid, and to prosecute his replevin, as the law directs;
provided that the said C. D., (the plaintifff,) before his deliver
ance, gives bond to the defendant, in such sum as you judge
reasonable, with two suﬂicicnt sureties, with condition to ap
pear at said court to prosecute his replevin against the defend
ant, and to have his body there to be re-delivered, if thereto
ordered by the court, and to pay all such damages and costs as

are awarded against him; and if the plaintifff is delivered by
you at a day before the sitting of said court, you are to sum
mon the defendant to appear at said court.
Witness J. S. Esquire, at
, the
day of
, in the
year of our Lord
.
L. 11., Clerk.
Bond.

R. S., c. 142,

SEO. 4. No person shall be delivered by such writ until a
bond is given by the plaintifff or person suing on his behalf;

which shall be returned to the court with the writ.

TITLE IX.]

REPLEVYING A PERSON.

SEC. 5. The officer serving the writ shall be answerable for CHAR 101.
the suiﬁciency of the bond, as in case of bail in civil actions.
er * if *

SEC. 6. If the plaintifff maintains his action, he shall be dis- §,$§‘f‘&';~fSP°“'
charged and recover his costs; but if not, the defendant shall %€1‘sI=‘-i"°i45§

recover his costs and such damages as the jury assess; or if the §5. " C‘

’

defendant is defaulted, or the parties consent, the court may Whatjudg

assess the damages.
SEO. 7.

C. 142,

If it appears that the defendant is bail for the plain- t6, 7

tiff or that, as his child, ward, apprentice or otherwise he is wh""i“d8'
!

1

’

ment,if de

entitled to his custody, he shall have judgment for a re-delivery fendant is en

of his body, to be held or disposed of according to law.
SEO. 8.

:‘,fftg(f;,§,§_

If it appears that the defendant has eloigned the R-S-,c-142,

plaintifffs body, so that the oﬂieer cannot deliver him, the court, ifstiefendam

on motion, shall issue a writ of reprisal to take the defendant’s has eloigned

' body and him safely keep, so that he may be at the then next the Plaintiff,
.

.

he may be

term of the court, to traverse the return of said Writ for rep1evy- arrested;mny
ing the plaintifff; and he may be enlarged by giving bail for his i5_{_‘f§_l_";i_l'142

appearance at court, with two sufﬁcient sureties, in such sum as §9,10,

the oiﬁcer requires.

SEC. 9. The defendant may traverse the return on the writ Discharge and
for replevying the plaintifff; and if it appears that he is not ;“’j,‘f§i;,“°‘
guilty of eloigning the plaintifff, he shall be discharged and eloigning; if
recover costs; but if he does not traverse it, or if, on such tra- §,IQSE/gotsege
verse, it appears that the defendant did eloign the plaintifff, an &c.
’

alias writ of reprisal shall issue, on which he shall be committed ?-ns"12°
to jail to remain irrepleviable, till he produces the body of the
plaintifff or proves his death. He may suggest the plaintifff ’s
death, and the court shall impannel a jury to try the fact at the
defendant's expense; and if the death is proved, he shall be
discharged.
‘

'

’

'

SEO. 10. Said writs shall be substantially in the form hereto- Form of writs
fore established and used in this state.
§{_ ‘Se'P'(:f“;1,;.2
SEO. 11.

If the defendant after the return of eloignment pro- t 13-’

'

duces the body of the plaintifff in court, the court shall deliver {;f°°‘,’e§i;‘.%,£".if
him from imprisonment, on his giving the defendant such bond as prg u:leId.1 15
before directed to be taken by the oﬂicer, when the plaintifff is R
c- 1-12.
delivered by him; and for want thereof, he shall be committed §1"’1G'
to abide the judgment on the writ for replevying the plaintifff;
and, in either case, the suit shall be tried as aforesaid.

76

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

Gm. 102.
——

[TITLE IX.

CHAPTER 102.
IVRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.
Wmrs or Emma.
SEC. 1.

Writs of error may issue from the supreme judicial court in vacation or term
time.
2. Execution not to stay, unless bond is given. Bond to be approved by a justice
of the court, or the clerk.
,
3. Filing of the bond deemed a delivery thereof; clerk to issue certiﬁcate to stay
proceedings.
Costs to prevailing party ; damages and costs if defendant prevails.
Form of writ of error.
‘
Scire facias to specify the errors of fact and law.
Proceedings on writs of error, according to the common law.
Writs of error in capital cases ; notice to attorney general.
E°.° ?'9‘.°'!" Eﬂ'ect of writs of error in other criminal cases. Provisions for keeping plain
tiﬁ in error on stay of proceedings.
10. Limitation of writs of error.
Wnrrs or Csnrromm.

11. How writs of ecrtiorari to be issued.
12. Costs on application, or on ﬁnal decisions.
13 Limitations of applications for certiorari.
WRITS
Ma

imefrom

g-J;-C§“{‘4;,,

§1. ' '

SEO. 1.

OF ERROR-.

Writs of error in civil cases may issue out of the

supreme judicial court in vacation or term time, returnable to

'

Execution not

the same court. (a)
SE0. 2.

No writ of error shall stay or supersede execution

‘° ml“ “"19" in any civil action, unless the plaintifff 1n error, or some person
Bgddajfpgiiild, in his behalf, gives bond to the defendant, conditioned, that the

ifs
143
§é,.i’ 0" '

Filing of bond

plaintifff shall prosecute his suit with effect, and satisfy the judg
ment rendered therein, in such sum and with such sureties as a
justice of the court, or the clerk from whose oﬁice the writ
issued, approves, according to the rules of court.
SEO. 3.

When the bond is given, the ﬁling of it in the clork’s

seemed de1""' office for the use of the defendant shall be deemed a delivery
1315,, c_ 143,
§4thereof; and no execution shall be issued on the judgment com
plained of, while such suit is pending; and if execution has al
ready issued, the clerk shall make a certiﬁcate of the issue of
the writ and ﬁling of the bond; and after notice thereof to the
oiﬁcer holding the execution, all further proceedings thereon
shall be stayed.
Costs to preSEC. 4. The prevailing party in such writ in a civil action
§,'*ci_u“g Party’ shall be entitled to his costs; and if the judgment is aﬂirmed,
14M,ine,19,5 the defendant in error shall be entitled to not less than six, nor
R-S-1°-143, more than twelve per cent. a year on the amount of his former
.5 5.
judgment, as damages for his delay, and the court may allow him

double costs.
(a) 16 Maine, 81 ; 19 Maine, 219; 23 Maine, 251 ; 24 Maine, 437; 29 Maine, 360 ; 30
Maine, 194. 422; 31 Maine, 57, 420; 32 Maine, 135; 33 Maine, 250, 265, 350, 368, 509;
85 Maine, 97; 36 Maine, 198.

TITLE IX.]

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

SE0. 5. The writ of error may be a scire facias issued sub- CHAR102.
stantially as follows, without any assignment of errors, or other
preliminary proceedings :
Wm

STATE or MAINE.
[L. s.]

ss.

;8,5,2,',f-269»

To the sheriff, &c.

Greeting.
We command you, that you make known unto
, of
,
to appear, if he sees cause, before our supreme judicial court, to
be held at
, within and for our said county of
, on the
to answer to
, of
, in a plea. of error, whereas the
said
alleges that in the process, proceedings, and judgment
had before
, at
, on
,wherein the said
was
plaintifff, and the said
defendant, there occurred the errors
hereinafter speciﬁed, by which the present plaintifff was injured,
and for which he thereforee seeks that said judgment may be re
versed, recalled, or corrected, as law and justice require; that is '
to say, the following errors:
.
Hereof fail not, and have you there this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, -—- Esq., at -—— the —— day of
.
, Clerk.
SEO. 6. The scire facias shall specify the errors of fact and
law, upon Which the plaintifff relies; and a transcript of the re
cord, process, and proceedings, attested by the clerk of the court
or justice of the peace rendering the judgment, without further
authentication, or the introduction of the record, shall be com
petent evidence in such trial; and in case of mistake in the
transcript, the court may grant leave to amend.
SEC. 7. The proceedings upon writs of error, not herein
provided for, shall be according to the common law as modiﬁed by the practice and usage in this state, and the general
rules of court.

Scire_ facias to
2;,
law.
1852'°-2ﬁ9'§3

SEC. 8. No writ of error upon a judgment for a capital
supreme judicial court, after notice to the attorney general or
other attorney for the state.
SEO. 9. Writs of error shall issue of course upon all other
judgments in criminal cases, but not to stay or delay execution
of sentence or judgment, unless allowed by a justice of the

852,6-269,M
i:1;sceasl.)im1
R‘, 5'' °" 143’
ggéectof ,,,,-,
1
cases,

Proce_edings
§:,;‘;W°‘
23 l\Iuinc,2-51.
gas-, c. 143.

offense shall issue, unless allowed by one of the justices of the .Writ5°f °"°r

supreme judicial court, with an express order to stay all pro
ceedings thereon; and in that case, the judge may make such
order as the case requires for the custody of the plaintifff in
error or letting him to bail; or, upon a writ of habeas corpus,
if entitled, he may procure his enlargement by giving bail.
SEO. 10. No writ of error shall be sustained, unless brought
within six years next after the entering up of the judgment
sought to be reversed or avoided; but if the person entitled to
such writ is a minor, married woman, insane, imprisoned, or not
in the United States, when becoming so entitled, then he, his
heirs, executors, or administrators, may sue out the writ within

ﬁve years after the removal of such disability.

as in error on
§§',,‘:,fg§’.’°'
R_S,,0_143,
is, 9
Limitation of
‘"i‘s°f e"°'
?ﬁ_" °' 143’

D0\VER.

604

[TITLE IX.

EHAP. 102.

WRITS OF CERTIORARI.

How writs of
certiorari to be
issued.
R. S., c.143,
§ 11.

SEC. 11. All writs of certiorari, to correct errors in proceed
ings that are not according to the course of the common law,
shall be issued from the supreme judicial court according to the
practice heretofore established, and subject to such further regu
lations, as are made, from time to time, by such court.

Costs.

R&mm,
§m
Limitation of
applications
for certiornri.
R. S., c. 143,
§ 13.

(a)

SEO. 12. Upon every application for a ccrtiorari, and on the
ﬁnal adjudication thereof, the court may award costs against any
party, who appears and undertakes to maintain or object to the
proceedings.
_
SEC. 13. No application for a writ of certiorari shall be sus
tained, unless made within six years next after the proceedings
complained of, or within ﬁve years from the removal of such dis
abilities as are described in section ten.

CHAPTER 103.
ESTATES IN DOWER, AND BY CURTESY, AND ACTIONS OF DOWER.
Esrxrns IN Downn AND BY Conn-:sr.
Sec. 1.

5P@N9P?“N

Of what lands a woman is dowable.
Of what she is not dowable.
\Vhen judge of probate may assign dower.
Mode of proceeding in assignment of dower.
Special assignment in certain cases.
Rights of widow before dower is assigned.
\Vidow of naturalized alien entitled to dower.
A married woman may bar her right to dower by deed; how executed.
A woman may bar her right to dower by accepting a jointure before marriage.
Also by a pecuniary provision made for the beneﬁt of an intended wife in lieu
of dower.
‘Vidow may waive jointure in certain cases.
She may waive provision in her husband's will.
Remedy if she is evicted of her dower.
‘Vhen downble of an equity of redemption.
Penalty if she commits waste.
Rights of widow to remain in her husband's house.
Tenancy by curtesy. Husband has right of dower in deceased wife's estate.
Aerrox or Downn.

Rights of widow to sue for dower.
Previous demand, and time of bringing the action.
Demand upon a. corporation, and time for bringing the notion.
Defendant may plead in abatement, but not in bar, that he is not tenant of
the freehold.
22. Damages for detaining dower.
23. Suit to be against the tenant of the freehold; liable for damages only while he
held possession. Separate action against prior tenant, of whom demand
was made.
\

((1) 8 Greenl. 292; 19 Maine, 46. 338; 23 Maine, 9, 511; 25 Maine, 69; 26 Maine.
353; 28 Maine, 121; 29 Maine, l96; 30 Maine, 19, 270. 302, 351; 31 Maine, 573; 32
Maine, 450, 452; 33 Maine, 237, 260; 35 Maine, 373; 36 Maine, 74; 37 Maine, 561; 38
Maine, 492; 39 Maine, 62, 355.

TITLE IX.]
S50. 24.
25.
26.

DOWER.

605

If demandant dies pending an action for dower, executor or administrator CHAP. 103.
may prosecute for the damages.
Writ of seizin, and proceedings in setting oﬁ' dower.
Assignments of rents and proﬁts in certain cases.
ESTATES IN DOWER AND BY CURTESY.

SEC. 1. Every woman shall be entitled to her dower at the Of what lands
woman is
common law in the lands of her husband, with the exceptions allowable.
hereafter mentioned, to be assigned to her after his deceasc, R. s., c. 95, § 1.
unless lawfully barred. (a)
See. 2. A widow shall not be endowed of wild lands of Of what shei,
which her husband dies seized, nor of wild lands conveyed by not dowable.
15 Maine, 371.
him, though afterwards cleared; but she shall be in any wood R.
S., c. 95§ 2.
lot or other land used with the farm or dwellinghouse, though
not cleared.
SEC. 3. The judge of probate, for the county in which the When judge of
may
husband’s estate is settled, may assign dower to the widow in probate
assign dower.
the lands of which the husband died seized, in any county, when 23 Maine, 276.
R. S., e. 95, § 3.
her right of dower is not disputed by the heirs or devisees.
SEO. 4. He may issue his warrant to three discreet and dis Mode of pro
in as
interested persons to assign the dower by m'etes and bounds, ceeding
signment of
when it can be done without prejudice to the whole estate; who dower.
shall be ﬁrst sworn to assign the same equally and impartially, R. S., c. 95. § 4.
without favor and affection, as conveniently as may be, in one or §R.14.S., c. 108,
more parcels, for the best interest of the parties.
SEO. 5. When a division by metes and bounds cannot be con Special assign
- veniently made, dower shall be assigned in a special manner as ment, &e.
R. s., e. 95§ 5.
of a. third part of the rents and proﬁts.
SEO. 6. The widow shall be entitled to receive one undivid Rights of wid
ow, before
ed net third part of the rents and proﬁts of the estate, of which dower
is as
her husband died seized, until her dower is assigned either by signed.
19 Maine, 66.
the heirs, the judge of probate, or judgment of court.
34 Maine, 428.
SEO. '7. The widow of a citizen' of the United States, who R. S., c. 95, § 6.
of nut
was an alien when she married him, shall be entitled to dower ‘Vidow
uralized alien
in her husband’s estate, which was not conveyed by him or taken entitled, &c.
from him by execution prior to the twenty-third day of Februa 22 Maine, 300.

ry, eighteen hundred and thirteen.

R. S., c. 95, § 7.

SEO. 8. A married woman may bar her right of dower in an
estate conveyed by her husband, by joining in the same deed or
in a subsequent deed; and by her sole deed when her husband
is under guardianship. (b)
SEO. 9. A woman may be barred of her dower in her hus
band’s lzfnds, by a jointure settled on her with her consent be
fore marriage; such jointure shall consist of a freehold estate
in lands for the life of the wife at least, to take effect immedi
ately on the husband’s death; if of full age, she shall express
her consent by becoming a party to the conveyance; if under
age, by joining with her father or guardian.

A married
woman may
bar her right.
R. S., c. 95, §9.
1853, c. 33.

(a) 5 Greenl. 479; 14 Maine, 290; 18 Maine. 39; 19 Maine, 141; 20 Maine, 242;
2; l\dain]ei
;M25’ Mai2n_e, 94, 101; 31 Maine, 91, 243, 403; 32 Maine, 412, 424; 37
me,
;
ame, 0.
(b)

3 Greenl. 63; 29 Maine, 415; 30 Maine, 192; 33 Maine, 396; 34 Maine, 135.

A woman may
bar her right
by accepting
jointure be
fore marriage.
21 Maine, 364.
R. S., c. 95,
§ 10.

606

DOWER.

CHAR 103_

[TITLE xx.

SEC. 10. Apeenniary provision made for the beneﬁt of an
wife .in lieu of
. dower, consented to
_ b y her as p rovided
_

Alsob *a ~——
ro- mtended
.

1._iSiO,,f’;5,,Kein in tire prepedang section, shall bar her nght of dower in her
‘°“° °‘Y"- us an ’s an s.
Biis."
c' 90’
Sec. 11. If such jointure ‘or pecuniary provision is made be
\Vi_dowr_nay

fore marriage without the consent of the intended wife or if

§,“L‘,',‘;,J,,"i:t“r° made after marriage, it shall bar her dower, unless, within six
uses

months after the husband’s death, she makes her election to

giils--°-95,

waive such provision, and ﬁles the same in writing in the pro

She may waive

bate court.
SEC. 12. When a speciﬁc provision is made in her husband’s
will for the widow, within six months after probate thereof, she

will.
shall make her election-’ whether to acce p t it or
her dower '
1 G,\rI,,‘i,,,c‘,13.2'_
e nl 148 but
- claim
32
shall not be entitled to both, unless it
appears by the’

if -'§Iain@é_211- will that the testator plainly so intended.

§ 13]’ °' O’

V

SEC. 13.

If a woman is lawfully evicted of lands assigned to

Rc_medyif

her as dower, or settled upon her as a jointure, or is deprived

emted °‘

of the provision made for her by will or otherwise, in lieu of

dower.

.

23 Ma.ine,276. dower, she may be endowed anew, as though no such assign
?if,"°'95’
ment or provision had been made.
When dowaS120. 14. If the wife has released her right of dower in a

g1_eo‘;fr§e“n;l“_i' mortgage made by her husband, or if her husband is seized of
hen.
P land mortgaged by another person or by himself before their
;Gree,n1-102- marriage, she shall be entitled to dower in the mortgaged prem
0 Mame, 111.

24minc_332_ 1ses as agamst every person except the mortgagee. and those

3R4 1gBi;1°é55°§i5." ' ’

claiming under him; and if the mortgager, or other person claim
ing under the husband, redcems the mortgage, she shall repay
such proportion of the money paid by him, as her interest in
the mortgaged premises bears to the whole value; else she shall
be entitled to dower only according to the value of the estate,
after deducting the money paid for its redemption.
Pennltyif she
SEC. 15. If any woman, endowed of lands, commits or suffers

ﬁggglts

any waste thereon, she shall forfeit the place wasted, and the

13 Maine‘ 273_ amount of the damages done to the premises, to be recovered in

gtiss-,0-95,
'

an action of waste by the person having the next immediate
estate of inheritance therein; but taking fuel necessary for her
own use, and materials for the repair of buildings, and for fences
thereon, from any woodlands of which she is endowed, shall not
be considered waste.
Rights ofwidSEO. 16. A widow may remain in the house of her husband

§’,;"h§r’,‘,',‘,§_‘i“ ninety days next after his death, without being chargeable with
%m1g'sho15§e- rent therefore; and in the meantime, she shall have her. reasona
. ., c. 0,
§17.
ble sustenance out of the estate.
" ‘
Tenancy by
SEO. 17. When a man and his wife are seized of lands in fee,
°‘“‘°”in her right, acquired before March twenty-second, eighteen hun

%f}§i°'c‘_l'945‘39' drcd. and forty-four, which are under improvement, and issue is
i

6 8
’ ' '

born alive of her body that may inherit the same, the husband shall
hold such estate after his wife’s decease, during his life, as tenant
by the curtesy. When a wife dies intestate, if her estate is sol
vent, and she leaves issue, he shall have the use of one third, if
no issue, one half of her real estate for his life, to be recovered
and assigned in the manner and with the rights of dower.

TITLE IX.]

DOWER.

607

ACTIONS OF DOWEB.

GHAP. 103.
Sec. 18. When a woman is entitled to dower, and it is not Rights of wid
ow to sue for
lawfully set out to her by the heir or tenant of the freehold; nor dower.
assigned to her by the judge of probate, she may recover it by a R. S., e. 144,
writ of dower as herein provided.
c. 95§ 8.
S1-:0. 19. She must‘ demand her dower of the person who is, Previous de
and
at the time, seized of the freehold, if in the state, otherwise, Of rnand,
tune of bring
the tenant in possession, and shall not commence her action of ing the action.
dower before the expiration of one month, nor after the ex 35 Maine, 92.
Maine. 433.
piration of one year, from the time of demand; but she may 36
37 Maine, 509.
make a new demand and commence an action‘ thereon, if an R. s., c. 144,
action is not brought within one year after the ﬁrst demand. § 2.
SEC. 20. When a corporation is the tenant of the freehold, Demand upon
she must demand her dower in writing of any oﬁicer thereof, on a&c.corporatwn,
whom by law a writ in a civil action against it may be served;
and the time shall be sixty, instead of thirty days, between the
demand and the suit; but a second demand may be made as
aforesaid.
SEC. 21. The defendant may plead in abatement, but not in Plea in abate
ment, &e.
bar, that he is not tenant of the freehold.
33 Maine. 343.
SEC. 22. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, R. S., e. 144,
she may recover damages for its detention, in the same action, §4.
Damages for
to the time of its commencement, and the subsequent damages, detainmg
dower.
in a separate action.
R. S., c. 144,
SEO. 23. The action shall be brought against the person who § 6.
is at the time tenant of the freehold; but if he is not the person Suit to be
the
of whom demand was made, he shall be liable for damages only against
tenant of the
for the time he held the possession; and if the demandant re freehold, &c.
S., c . 144,
§6,7.
covers her dower and damages, she may afterwards maintain an R.
action on the case against the prior tenant of whom her demand
was made, for the rents and proﬁts while he held the premises
after the demand.
SEC. 24. If the demandant dies during the pendency of an If demandant
dies pending
action of dower, her executor or administrator may prosecute an
action for
the action to ﬁnal judgment, and recover therein the damages to dower, &c.
Which she would be entitled to the time of her decease. He 1852, c. 259, § 1.
may commence an action, or prosecute one commenced by her,
under the preceding section, and recover the damages to which
she would be entitled, if any.
SEC. 25. When judgment for dower is rendered in her favor, Writ of seizin
and proceed
a writ of seizin shall be issued, requiring the proper oﬁieer to m
s in settin
cause her dower to be assigned and set out to her by three dis oil8 dower. 8
interested persons, to be appointed by the plaintifff, defendant, 16 Maine, 80.
27 Maine, 381.
and officer, as in the levy of an execution on land; who shall be 38 Maine, 447.
duly sworn to set it out equally and impartially, as e‘onveniently R. S., c. H4,
as may be, and according to their best skill and judgment; and § 8.
the officer shall make return of the writ and doings thereon
to the court, with the assignment of dower indorsed thereon, or
annexed thereto; which, being accepted, shall be conclusive.
SEC. 26. When the estate, out of which the dower is to be Assignments
assigned, consists of a mill or other tenement which cannot be of rents and

'

r

REAL ACTIONS.
[TITLE IX.
608
CHAR 103_-divided without damage to the whole, the dower may be as

signed of the rents and proﬁts thereof, to be received by the
profits in cer
tain cases.

demandant as tenant in common with the other owners of the

R. S., c. 144,
§ 9.

estate.

CHAPTER 104.
REAL ACTIONS.
SE0. 1.

F‘

6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12,
15.
16.

7.

19.
20.
21.
22.

23.

28.
29.

B0.
31.
82

Recovery of estates by writ of entry; mode of service.
Demandant to declare on his own seizin, within twenty years, and disseizin by
tenant.
To set forth the estate/he claims in the premises.
Proof of seizin.
Demundant must have right of entry; such right not defeated by descent or
discontinuance.
‘Vho may be considered a disscizor. Disclaimer.
If defendant has ousted dcmnndant, he may be considered p disseizcr, though
he claims less than a freehold.
Proof to entitle the demandant to recover on_trial.
Joinder of demandants.
Demandant may recover. on proof of title.
Demandnnt may recover damages in the same action.
13, 14. Estimation of rents and proﬁts. Tenant not liable for more than six
years.
Recovery of damages against other persons.
Real actions not to abate by death or intermarriage of a party.
Appointment of guardians. for minors. Amendments.
Writs of possession to conform to the case; judgment conclusive against all
persons interested, who were notiﬁed.
Allowance of costs, and stay of execution, in such cases.
Betterments allowed after six years possession.
The premises to be clearly deﬁned and described, in such action.
Tenant may consent that dcmandant may recover a speciﬁed part; eﬁect
thereof.
Tenant may have bettermcnts upon demurrer or default.
Request of tenant for appraisal of improvements, and by demandant for up
praisal of the land; the jury to allow for no improvements, except those
made by tenant, or those under whom he claims, and that were judicious
and proper.
The difference between the appraised value of the land, when tenant entered,
and the value of it with improvements, at the time of trial, to be taken for
the value of betterments.
Demnndant may elect to abandon; and if so must give bond to tenant, to re
fund, if ousted by better title.
Tenant allowed to pay one-third the value of the land, the ﬁrst year, interest
on the whole, and costs.
At the end of two years, he may pay another third, with interest.
And at the end of three years, he may pay the balance, or the dcmnndant havo
his execution, and a lien on the premises. When execution or writ of pos
session may issue.
Tenant's remedy if he is evicted.
i
If the demandant does not abandon, he cannot have writ of possession, till he
pays for the improvements.
Restriction of the right to betterments.

TITLE IX.]

REAL ACTIONS.

SEC. 33. Tenant not to commit waste after judgment against him.
CHAP 1 ‘H:
34-. Parties may agree as to value of improvements.
' ' °
85. Tenant may propose a sum at which the value may be estimated. Effect
thereof.
36. Set-off of costs, against the appraised value of improvements in certain cases.
37. Jurors disqualiﬁed, if interested in similar questions.
33. Wliat constitutes a possession and improvement.
39. Proceedings, if either party dies before the cause is disposed of.
40. How writ of possession shall issue in such case.
41. Either party may have a view by the jury.
42. Proceedings if a life estate is demanded.
43. If tenant is ousted after six years possession. he may recover for his buildings
and improvements. The value of improvements in such case to be estimat~
ed, under the provisions of this chapter.
44. Cases, in which defendant may impeach the plaintiﬂ's title deeds.
45. If tenant and those under whom he claims have been in possession forty
years, demandant to recover no costs.
46. Court may appoint and protect surveyors.

SEO. 1. Any estate of freehold, in fee simple, fee tail, forlife,
or any term of years, may be recovered by a writ of entry; and
such writs, and the writ in an action of dower, shall be served
by attachment and summons, or copy of the writ, on the defendRecovery of
§’:;§jvP{n
of serv'i<,:e.
(7ig1'een}- gs

ant, but if he is not in possession, the officer shall give the ten- 17 1&°;.‘.‘..', 212;,
ant in hand, or leave at his place of last and usual abode, an
253
attested copy of the writ; and if the defendant is not an inhab- 32 Maine: 1742
itant of this state, the service on the tenant shall be suﬂicient §f"°' 145'
notice to the defendant, or the court may order further notice.

1si'2,c.31§1s.

SEO. 2. The demandant shall declare on his own seizin Demandant to
within twenty years then last past, without naming any particu- g§,,°,1“s'€f’iz§1"l§,i:.
lar day, or averring a taking of the proﬁts, and allege a disseizin 20 Maine. 231.

by the tenant.
SEC. 3.

gas" °‘ 145'

He shall set forth the estate he claims in the prem- To semnh

ises, whether in fee simple, fee tail, for life, or for years ; and if §,‘,f,t‘;Ss“§1e§1l<;
for life, then whether for his own life or that of another; but premises.
need not state in the writ the origin of his title, or the dedue- R- S-vc-145,
tion of it to himself; but, on application of the tenant, the court M’
may direct the demandant to ﬁle an informal statement of his
title, and its origin.
SE0. 4. He need not prove an actual entry under his title; Proofofseizin.

but proof that he is entitled to such an estate in the premises, 2-3 Maine.417
as he claims, and that he has a right of entry therein, shall be %§_1g_',“§,ei4552,°'
suﬁicient proof of his seizin.
'Snc. 5. No such action shall be maintained, unless, at the
time of commencing it, the demandant had such right of entry;
.
.
,
and no descent or discontinuance
shall defeat any right
of entry

§6
Demandant \
mus‘ M”
', ht 0 f on tW ,
2%.

for the recovery of real estate.

?;'s,;j°'145'

SEC. 6.

Every person alleged to be in possession of the Who may be

premises demanded in such writ, claiming any freehold therein, §‘,’;1sj:,‘;‘;)'red“
may be considered a disseizor for the purpose of trying the Disclaimer.

right;hebut
that
is the
not defendant
tenant ofmay
the plead
freehold,
in abatement,
or by a brief
but not
statement
in bar, 24
Q; Maine:308:
under the general issue, ﬁled within the time allowed for pleas $5; 8'’ °' 145’
in abatement, unless by leave of court the time therefore is en- 8t6.c-221§1

77

610

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Cu.-xr. 104. larged; and he may show that he was not in possession of the

premises when the action was commenced, and disclaim any right,
title, or interest therein, and proof of such fact shall defeat the
action; and if he claimed, or was in possession of only a part of
the premises when the action was commenced, he shall describe
such part in a statement, signed by him or his attorney and ﬁled
in the case, and may disclaim the residue; and if the facts con
tained in such statement are proved on trial, the demandant shall
recover judgment for no more than such part.
If defendant
SE0. 7. If the person in possession has actually ousted the
has ousted de
mandant, &c. demandant, or withheld the possession, he may, at the demand
s4 Maine. 79. ant’s election, he considered a disscizor for the purpose of try
R. s.. c. 145, ing the right, though he claims an estate therein less than a free
§ 10.
hold.
Sec. 8. In the trial upon such writ, on the general issue, if
Proof to enti—
tle the de
the
demandant proves that he is entitled to such estate in the
rnandant to
recover.
premises as he has alleged, and had a right of entry therein
R. s., c. 145, when he commenced his action, he shall recover the premises,
§ 11.
unless the tenant proves a better title in himself. (a)
Joinder of de
SEC. 9. Persons claiming as tenants in common, joint ten
mnndants.
ants, or coparceners, may all, or any two or more, join in a suit
R. s., c. 145,
for recovery of lands; or one may sue alone.
§ 12.
Dcmandant
SEC. 10. The demandant may recover a speciﬁc part or un
may recover
divided portion of the premises to which he proves a title, though
on proof of
title.
less than he demanded.
R. S., c. 145,
SEC. 11. When a demandant recovers judgment in a writ of
§ 13.
entry, he may therein recover damages for the rents and proﬁts
Demnndnnt
may recover
of the premises from the time his title accrued, subject to the
damages in the
some action.
limitation herein contained; and for any destruction or waste of
34 Maine, 79.
36 Maine, 440. the buildings or other property, for which the tenant is by law
R. S., c. 145,
answerable.
§ 1%.
Sec. 12. The rents and proﬁts, for which the tenant is liable,
Estimation of
rents and pro is the clear annual value of the premises while he was in posses
ﬁts.
sion, after deducting all lawful taxes paid by him, and the neces
R. s., 0. 145, sary and ordinary expenses of repairs, cultivating the land, or
§ 15.
collecting the rents and proﬁts.
Same subject.
SEC. 13. In estimating thements and proﬁts, the value of the
R. s., c. 145, use by the tenant of improvements made by himself, or those
s 16.
under whom he claims, shall not be allowed to the demandant.
Tenant not
SEC. 14. The tenant shall not be liable for the rents and pro
liable for rent:
nnd proﬁts. &c. ﬁts for more time than six years, nor for waste or other damage
committed before that time, unless the rents and proﬁts are al
R. S., c. 145,
§ 17.
lowed in set-oﬂ" to his claim for improvements.
Recovery of
Sec. 15. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the de
damages
against other mandant from maintaining an action for mesne proﬁts, or for
persons.
damage to the premises, against any person except the tenant in
R. S., c. 145, a writ of entry, who has had possession of the premises, or is
§ rs.
otherwise liable to such action.
(a) 6 Maine, 224; 12 Maine, 31-6; 19 Maine, 383; 22 Maine, 312; 23 Maine, 234; 27
Maine, 357; 31 Maine, 143, 306, 583; 33 Maine, 355, 5-11; 38 Maine, 78.

TITLE IX.]

SEO. 16.

REAL ACTIONS.

1

No real action shall be abated by the death or 0HAI,_104_

intermarriage of either party after its entry in court; but the Real actions
court shall proceed to try and determine such action, after such new, abate by

notice as the court orders has been duly served upon all inter- death 81°
ested in his estate, personally, or by publication in some news- g3G1ir1'l1c;x1llé,1222.7i.

wari’.3.1“s1?";?i1;*'

SEC. 17. In such case, if any heir is a minor, the court shal§ 19. '

'

order notice to the guardian, and may appoint a guardian ad A-fvpoinflxnmf
litem, if necessary, and direct all necessary amendments in the °&c§w mm’

forms of proceeding.

gléos-» °- 145'

Sec. 18. If the demandant recovers judgment in any such w,i',so,pos_
case, the court may order one or more writs of possession to sessiontocon
issue, as are necessary; and a writ of possession may issue,‘and
§:‘°
judgment shall be conclusive against all such as have been so R. s., c. 145,

notiﬁed, whether they appeared and defended or not.
SEC. 19.

§21'

The prevailing party shall recover full costs in all Allowance of

such cases, and the court may order one or more executions to 222*’ ‘:‘°i4_3
be issued therefore against the goods and estate of a deceased §'22." ' ’
party in the hands of his executor or administrator, or other
wise, according to the legal rights and liabilities of the parties,
and may stay any such execution, if the situation of the estate
requires it.
SEO. 20. When the demanded premises have been in the actual possession of the tenant, or those under whom he claims, for
six successive years or more before commencement of the action,
'
such tenant shall be allowed a compensation
for the value of any
buildings and improvements on the premises, made by him, or

Betterments
sesswr_1- _
12 Mame, 313.
21Ma,,,e,521_
22Mai11e, 110

.
.
.
23M ' 192.
those under whom he claims, to be ascertamed and adjusted as 25 M335: 4_11_

hereinafter provided.
SEO. 21. In such action the demanded premises shall be
clearly described in the declaration, otherwise, the court may
direct a nonsuit. If the tenant, or person under whom he
claims, has been in possession of a tract of land lying in one
body, for six years or more before the commencement of the action, and only part of it is demanded, and the tenant alleges
that the demandant has as good a title to the whole as to such
part, he may request the jury to inquire and decide that fact;
and if they so ﬁnd, they shall proceed no farther; but the court
shall enter judgment that the writ abate, unless the declaration
is amended so as to include the whole tract, which the court may
allow without costs.
SEC. 22.

$338., 0-140.
The Premises
t0l_>eclear1:~'
§§§,‘;;‘;;,
s“°11“cti°n;
?é;S_"°'14°’

If the tenant enters notice on record in open court, Tennntrnay

that the demandant may recover a speciﬁed part of the demanded °°'“°‘“ ma‘
.
_
demandant
premises, by consent of the demandant judgment may be ren- may recovera

dered in his favor for such part, and for the tenant for the residue; :I,’;§‘Z‘,ﬁf,‘:e‘,’:(’;:-_;
but if he does not consent, and recovers only such part, he shall R. s., c. 145,
recover no costs, but the tenant shall recover his costs from the H5’

time of such notice.
SEC. 23. The tenant shall have the beneﬁt of the provisions Tenant may
in the following sections as to the increased value of premises, I;1‘fe"l:’ts"°l§I)‘f)‘”,;

when the cause is determined in favor of the demandant upon demurrer or
demurrer, default, or by verdict, including all real actions brought def“““'

612

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE II.

Gear. 104. by a reversioner or remainder man, or his assigns, after the ter

mination of a tenancy in dower, or any other life estate, against
the assignee or grantee of the tenant of the life estate, or against
i 843,
26. c. 6§ 1. his heirs or legal representatives.
Request of
SEO. 24. The tenant may ﬁle a written claim to compensation
tenant for up
praisal of im for buildings and improvements on the premises, and a request
provements,
for an estimation by the jury of the increased value of the prem
&c.
ises
by reason thereof; and the demandant may ﬁle a request, in
R. S., e. 146,
writing, that the jury would also estimate what would have been
2 27.
8l3, c. 6, § 1. the value of the premises, at the time of trial, if no buildings
had been erected, improvements made, or waste committed; both
these estimates they shall make, and state in their verdict; and
the jury shall allow for no buildings or improvements, except
those that they ﬁnd were made by the tenant, his grantor, or
assignor, and were judicious and proper under the circumstances
of the case.
The diﬂerence
SEC. 25. If the tenant, so claiming, alleges and proves that
between the
appraised val he, and those under whom he claims, have had the premises in
ue of the land, actual possession for more than twenty years prior to the com
when tenant
mencement of the action, the jury may ﬁnd that fact; and in
entered, 810.
ms, c. 76, § 1. estimating the value of the premises, if no buildings had been
ms, c. am 1. erected, or improvements made thereon, they shall ﬁnd, and state
in their verdict, what was the value of the premises when the
tenant or those under whom he claims ﬁrst entered thereon.
The sum so found shall be deemed the estimated value of the
premises; and in estimating the increased value by reason of
the buildings and improvements, the jury shall ﬁnd, and state in
their verdict, the value of the premises at the time of the trial,
above their value when the tenant or those under whom he claims
ﬁrst entered thereon; and the sum, so found and stated, shall be
taken for the buildings and improvements.
Demandant
SEC. 26. If the demandant after such verdict, at the same, or
nmy elect to
a subsequent term of the court, if the cause is continued, makes
abandon, 8:0.
1 Greenl. 309. his election on record to abandon the premises to the tenant at
3 Greenl. 377.
4 Grcenl. 297. the value estimated by the jury, and ﬁles with the clerk for the
16 Maine, 124. use of the tenant a bond in the penal sum of three times the
R. S., c. 145,
estimated value of the premises, with sureties approved by the
6 28.
mas, o. 34, § 2. court, conditioned to refund such estimated value with interest
to the tenant, his heirs, or assigns, if they are evicted from the
land within twenty years by a title better than that of the de
mandant, then judgment shall be rendered against the tenant for
the sum so estimated by the jury and costs.
Tenant al
SEO. 27. At the end of one year, execution may issue for
lowed to pay
such
sum, with one year’s interest thereon and costs, unless tho
one-third the
value of the
tenant has then deposited with the clerk of the court or in his
land, &c.
officefor the demandant’s use, one year’s interest of said sum,
R. S., c. 145,
and
one-third of the principal sum, and all the costs, if taxed
§29.
and ﬁled, and in that case no execution shall issue at the time.
At the end of
SEO. 28. If within two years after the rendition of judgment,
two years, he
the
tenant pays one year’s interest on the balance of the judg
may pay an
other third,
ment
due, and one-third of the original judgment, execution shall
with interest.
R. S., c. 145,

TITLE IX.]

REAL ACTIONS.

be further stayed; otherwise, it may issue for two-thirds of the CHAR 104“
original amount of the judgment and interest thereon.
i;'s>:—145—
Sec. 29. If the tenant, within three years after the rendi- §;0_" ' ’
tion of judgment, pays into the clerk’s oﬂice the remaining third And at the end

and interest thereon, having made the other payments as afore- §i‘,:‘,;“,?§;°;{§;
said, execution shall never issue; otherwise, it may for the third balmlév. 8:0

aforesaid and one year’s interest thereon; and the premises shall

145*

be held as security for the amount of the judgment, liable to be
taken in execution for the amount and interest, until sixty days
after an execution might have issued as aforesaid, notwithstand
ing any intermediate conveyance, attachment, or seizure upon
execution; and such execution may be extended on said land
or any part of it; or it may be sold on execution like an equity
of redemption; and in either case, subject to the right of re
demption as in those cases. An execution or writ of possession
may issue at any time within three months after default of pay
ment by the tenant, in cases mentioned in this and the two pre
ceding sections, though it is more than a year after the rendition

'

of judgment.

SEO. 30.

If the tenant or his heirs are evicted by a better Tenant’, Wm.

title from the land so abandoned to him, and they notiﬁed the §{c:£d}_‘ei°
demandant or his heirs to aid him in his defense against such R_s_,c_145’

title, they, their executors, or administrators, may recover back N3
the money so paid, with lawful interest, of said demandant or
his representatives; but if no notice was given, the tenant, in
an action against the original demandant to recover the price
paid for the premises, may show that he was evicted by a title
better than that of the demandant.
Sec. 31. When the demandant does not elect so to aban- If demandant

don the premises, no writ of possession shall issue on his judg- $3?

‘“’““'

ment, nor a new action be sustained for the land, unless, within R. s., c.145,

one year from the rendition thereof, he pays into the clerk’s
olﬁce of the court, or to such person as the court appoints, for
the use of the tenant, the sum assessed for the buildings and im
provements, with interest thereon.
Sso. 32. Nothing contained in this chapter concerning rents
and proﬁts, or the estimate and allowance of the value of the
buildings
a mortgager
and and
improvements,
mortgagee, shall
theirextend
heirs and
to any
assigns;
actionor
between
to any

§34

Rem-iction of
,‘};t:ir§::ntt‘;
R558»
1 G,ee,,1_
0-145.

case where the tenant, or the person under whom he claims, en- 55 '
tered into possession of the premises and occupied under a
contract with the owner, which was known to the tenant when
he entered.
SEC. 33. No tenant, after judgment is entered against him Temmtzmtto
for the appraised value of the premises, shall unnecessarily cut
d‘:;f“°
wood, take away any timber, or make any strip or waste on the ment. ‘’ _

land, till the amount of such judgment is satisﬁed.
SEQ. 34.

?;',6S_" °' 14a’

When the parties agree that the value of the build- Pmiosma,

ings and improvements on the land demanded, and the value of
“;g'§;
the land, shall be ascertained by persons named on the record ments. P

for that purpose, their estimate, as reported by them and record- R_ S-, 0-145.

ed, shall be equal in its effect to the verdict of a jury.

H7’

61-I

'

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE rx.

CHAR 1O4_
SEO. 35. When the tenant, in any stage of such action, ﬁles
T
t
a statement in open court, consenting to a sum at which the

,,,°;‘,,‘;;e‘;°‘;{',m, buildings and improvements, and the value of the demanded
glam“, 352

premises, may be estimated, if the demandant consents there

R. s., @145,’ to, judgment shall be rendered accordingly, as if such sums had
§38'
been found by verdict; but if the demandant does not consent,
and the jury does not reduce the value of the buildings and im
provements below the sum oﬁ'ered, nor increase the value of the
premises above the sum offered, he shall recover no costs after
such offer ; but the tenant shall recover his costs after such offer,
and have judgment and execution therefore, subject to the pro
visions of the following section.
SEC. 36. In all cases where the demandant does not aban

Set-oil’ of
;{’s§' &°1'45

§i‘>9."c'

don the premises to the tenant, the court may, on the written

'

application of either party during the term when judgment is
entered, order the costs recovered by the demandant to be set
off against the appraised value of the buildings and improve
ments on the land; a record of this order shall be made, and
the court shall thereupon enter judgment according as the bal
ance is in favor of one party or the other.

:l’uror§d_isqual1=\rquesti0nsﬁg-» c-145»
'
“'hateonstiE,‘-,§f,5,;‘n§°sS°s'
imPw\'c'men§1G1{f:i“n1-275e, 345.
n.s.,c.145,
§ 42“
ggceemngs, it‘

SEC. 37.

No person shall sit as a juror in the trial of a cause,

when the value of buildings and improvements made on the de
manded premises, and the value of the premises, are to be esti
mated as aforesaid, who, as proprietor or occupant, is interested
in a similar question.
~
Sec. 38. A possession and improvement of land by a tenant
are within the provisions of this chapter, though a portion of it
is woodland and uncultivated, and though not wholly surrounded
by a fence, or rendered inaccessible by other obstructions, if they
.
.
.
.
have been open, notonous, exclusive, and comportmg with the
usual management and improvement of a farm by its owner.
See. 39. . After judgment has been rendered for the demand

d,e,,°§g;§,';Y,he ant in a writ of entry, if either party dies before a writ of pos
CZZZS iOsfdisELS‘ 0:145
§-13.’
’

How write!

session is executed, or the cause otherwise disposed of according
to the foregoing provisions, any money payable by the tenant
may be paid by him, his executor, or administrator, or by any
person entitled to the estate under him, to the demandant, his
executor or administrator, with the like effect as if both parties
were living.

SEO. 40.

The writ of possession shall be issued in the name

Eitherpsrty

of the original demandant against the original tenant,_ though
either, or both are dead; and when executed, it shall inure to
the use and beneﬁt of the demandant, or whoever is then entitled
to the premises under him, as if executed in the lifetime of the
parties.
SEO. 41. Either party may have a view by the jury of the

§}:‘y,l,‘,‘;.‘"fh:

place in question, if in the opinion of the court it is necessary to

jurya just decision; the party moving for it shall advance to the jury

§R-4;:-°-145,

such sum as the court orders, to be taxed against the adverse

such case.
gi-Hs"°-145»
'

party if the cause is decided against him on the merits, or through
his default.

TITLE IX.]

REAL ACTIONS.

615

SEC. 4'2. If the demandant claims an estate for life only in CHAR 1O4_
the premises, and pays a sum allowed to the tenant for improve- FT
ments, he, or his executor, or administrator, at the termination §’f°.‘*Z.§‘,g.s,§

of his estate, shall be entitled to receive of the remainder man demanded
or revcrsioner, the value of such improvements, as they then ?;§_" °‘ 145'
exist; and have a lien therefore on the premises, as if they had
been mortgaged for its payment, and may keep possession till it
is paid; and if the parties cannot agree on the existing value, it
may be settled as in case of the redemption of mortgaged real
estate.
SEO. 43. When any person makes entry into lands, or tene- If tenant is
ments, of which the tenant in possession, or those under whom he
s_
claims, have been in actual possession for six years or more be- session, 8:0.
fore such entry, and withholds their possession from such tenant, gt-17$-;;§-145»
he shall have a right to recover of him so entering, or of his ex- 1843, ¢.'6§ 2.
ecutor, or administrator, in an action of assumpsit for money laid
out and expended, the increased value of the premises by reason
of the buildings and improvements made by the tenant, or those
under whom he claims, to be ascertained by the principles here
inbefore provided; and these provisions shall extend to the
grantee or assignee of the tenant in dower and of any other life
estate; and a lien is hereby created on the premises in favor of
such claim, to be enforced by an action commenced within one
year after such entry; and it shall be no bar to such action, if
the tenant, to avoid cost, yields to the superior title.
SEO. 44. In all actions respecting lands or any interest there- 03595 in which
in, a title deed, offered in evidence, may be impeached by the g§f;;‘::,:‘:h‘:’Y
defendant as obtained by fraud, where the grantor, if a party, lain!iﬁ"s title
could impeach it, if the defendant has been in the open, peacea- Rccgs“ 145
ble, and adverse possession of the premises for twenty years.
§,'r,0_" c’ ’
SEC. 45.

In all real and mixed actions, in which the tenant If tenant, _&c.,

proves that he and those under whom he claims, have been in the lP§§e‘;§J‘n‘}:,r_
open, notorious, adverse, and exclusive possession of the de- ty years, &c.

manded premises, claiming in fee simple, for forty years next 132;:-ggbig-2
before the commencement of the action, and the jury so ﬁnd, the
' ' ' '
demandant shall recover no costs.
SEC. 46. The court may appoint a surveyor to run lines and Court may ap
' a real or mixed
'
'
and pro
make plans of lands demanded in
action,
on point
tec,sun.cyo"_
‘motion of either party; and if he is prevented by force, menaces, R_s.c,115,

or fear, from performing the duties assigned him, the court may i112
issue a warrant to the sheriff, commanding him, with suitable aid,
to cause such opposition to be prevented; and in the execution
of such warrant, he may exercise all the power pertaining to his
office as sheriff; and all persons refusing their aid when called
for by him shall be liable to the same penalties as in other like

cases.

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS.

616

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 105.

CHAPTER 105.
LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS, AND RIGHTS OF ENTRY.
SEO. 1. Rights of entry and of action barred in twenty years.
2. From what time.
3, 4, 5. When such right shall be deemed to accrue.
6. ‘Vixen an action may be brought by a minister, or other sole corporation.
1. Saving in favor of infants, and certain other disabled persons.
8. Further saving. if the person ﬁrst entitled dies during such disability.‘
9. Consequence, if tenant in tail or remainder man dies before the expiration of
the limitation.
10. \Vhat shall constitute such a disseizin as to bar the right of recovery.
11. Limitation of actions by the state.
12. Limitation not to take eﬁect in certain cases, where the ﬁrst suit fails.
13. Right of way, or other easement, acquired by adverse user; the owner, by no
tice, may prevent such acquisition.
14. How such notice is to be given.
I5. No real or mixed action, for the recovery of land, to be maintained, when the
tenant, and those under whom he claims, have been in possession over forty
years.
Rights of entry
and action
barred in twen
‘cars.
20 rlaine, 205.
21 Maine, 201.
25 Maine, 468.
R. S., c. 147,

§1.
From what
time.
14 Maine, 163.
21 Maine, 372.

R. s., c. 147,
§ 2.
When such
right shall be
deemed to
accrue.

R. s., c. 147,
§ 3.

Preceding
clause shall
not prevent

any person
from entering,
(to.
R. S., c. 147,
§ 4.
In all cases not

SEO. 1.

No person shall commence any real or mixed action

for the recovery of lands, or make an entry thereon, unless with

in twenty years after the right to do so ﬁrst accrued; nor within
twenty years after he, or those under whom he claims, were seiz
ed or possessed of the premises ; except as hereinafter provided.
SEO. 2. If such right or title ﬁrst accrued to an ancestor, pre
decessor, or other person under whom the demandant claims,
said twenty years shall be computed from the time when the
right or title ﬁrst accrued to such ancestor, predecessor, or other
person.
Sec. 3. The right of entry, or of action to recover land, as
used in this chapter, ﬁrst accrues at the times hereinafter men
tioned.
First.—When a person is disseized, at the time of such dis
seizm.
Second.—When he claims as heir or devisee of one who died
seized, at the time of such death, unless there is a tenancy by
the curtesy or other estate intervening after the death of the an
cestor or devisor; in that case, his right accrues when such inter
mediate estate expires, or would expire by its own limitation.
T/1i1-rl.—-When there is such an intermediate estate, and in all
cases, when the party claims by force of any remainder or rever
sion, his right accrues when the intermediate estate would ex
pire by its own limitation, notwithstanding any forfeiture thereof
for which he might enter at an earlier time.
SEO. 4. The preceding clause shall not prevent any person
from entering, when so entitled by reason of any forfeiture or
breach of condition; but if he claims under such a title, his right
accrues when the forfeiture was incurred, or the condition broken.
SEC. 5. In all cases not otherwise provided for, the right of
entry accrues when the claimant, or the person under whom he

TITLE IX.]

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS.

claims, ﬁrst became entitled to the possession of the premises, CHAR 1O5_
under the title on which the entry or action is founded.
anySEC.
of his
6. successors
If a minister,
mayor
enter
other
upon
solethecorporation
premises is
or disseized,
bring an E‘?-» °- H7,

action for their recovery, at any time within ﬁve years after the w,'mn an M
death, resignation, or removal of the person disseized, notwith- tion maybe

standing twenty years after disseizin have expired.
SEC. 7. When such right of entry or action ﬁrst accrues, if
the person thereto entitled is a minor, married woman, insane,
imprisoned, or absent from the United States, he, or any one
claiming under him, may make the entry or bring the action at
any time within ten years after such disability is removed, notwithstanding twenty years have expired.

SEO. 8.

R-S-J-147.
Siinginfavor
ofinfants, &c.
1‘SI§_°i4379,7'
H.

If the person ﬁrst entitled to make the entry or ‘Further sav

bring the action dies duringthe continuance of the disability,
.
.
,
_
_
and no determmatwn or judgment has been had on hlS title or
right of action, the entry may be made or action brought by
his heirs, or other person claiming under him, at any time within
ten years after his death, notwithstanding the twenty years have
elapsed; but no such further time for bringing the action or
making the entry, beyond what is herein before prescribed, shall
be allowed by reason of the disability of any other person.
SEO. 9. When a tenant in tail, or a remainder man in tail,

“‘g*‘f ‘he
entiﬂed dies
§;;’;{;,g,§;‘,°h
R. s.,c.147,
is‘

person first

Qonseqnepce,

dies before the expiration of the period herein before limited for f;i§e§“;‘c,§‘a,n_
making any entry or bringing an action for lands, no person, der man dies

claiming any estate which such tenant in tail or remainder man b,°.‘;’{,‘*§,°;‘,;e
might have barred, shall make an entry or bring an action to re- imimiom _
cover such land, except within the period during which the ten- gas" °'14"
ant in tail or remainder man, if he had so long lived, might have
done it.
See. 10. To constitute a disseizin, or such exclusive and ad- What shall

verse possession of lands as to bar or limit the right of the true §?;i§‘,§fi:
owner thereof to recover them, it shall not be necessary for such her right of

lands to be surrounded with fences or rendered inaccessible by

13,

water; but it shall be sufficient, if the possession, occupation, 29 Mnine:123
and improvement are open, notorious, and eomporting with the as" °‘ 147'
ordinary management of a farm; although that part of the same,
which composes the woodland belonging to such farm and used
therewith as a woodlot, is not so enclosed.
SEC. 11. No real or mixed action for the recovery of any Limitation of

lands shall be commenced in behalf of the state, unless within

bym

twenty years after the time its title accrues.
R. s., c. 147,
SEC. 12. When a writ in a real or mixed action fails of sufﬁ- £1,121 _
cient service or return by unavoidable cause, or by the default mlT;:)t:;ueog"\e:tot

or negligence of any oﬁicer to whom it was delivered or direct- icgsceirigycl

ed for service; the writ is abated; the action defeated for any R_ S; c_1',7‘
matter of form, or by the death or other disability of either §13
party; or the demaudant’s judgment is reversed on writ of
error, the demandant may commence a new action at any time

within six months after the abatement or determination of the
ﬁrst suit, or the reversal of the judgment.
'78

moss.

618
CHAP. 105.
Right of way,
or other ease
ment, &c.
R. S,, c. 147,
§ 14, 15.

Epw such no
tice is to be
given.
R. S., c. 147,
§ 16.

No real or
mixed action,
for the recov
ery of land, &c.
1848, c. 87, § 1.
1852, c. 240§ 1.

[TITLE 11;.

SEC. 13. No person shall acquire a right of way, or other
easement from, in, upon, or over, the land of another by the
adverse use and enjoyment thereof‘, unless it is continued unin
terrupted for twenty years; and the owner of such land, to
prevent such right, may give notice, in writing, to the person
claiming it, of his intention to contest such right, or easement,
which, being served and recorded as hereinafter stated, shall
be deemed an interruption of such use, and prevent the acquisi
tion of a right thereto.
.
SEC. 14. Such notice may be given by the agent or guardian
of the owner of the land, or by an oﬂiccr, by giving to the
claimant, his agent, or guardian, if in the state, an attested copy
thereof, or by leaving it at his dwcllinghousc, or, if not in the

state, a copy may be left with the tenant or occupant of the
estate, if any; if not, such copy shall be affixed to the house
or a conspicuous part of the premises. The ofﬁcer shall make his
return on the original notice; and the whole shall be recorded
in the registry of deeds in the registry district where the land
lies, within three months. from the time of such service.
Snc. 15. No real or mixed action; for the recovery of any
lands, shall be commenced or maintained against any person in
possession thereof, when such person or those under whom he
claims have been in actual possession for more than forty years,
claiming to hold them by adverse, open, peaceable, notorious,
and exclusive possession, in their own right.

CHAPTER 106.
THE SELECTION AND SERVICE OF IURORS.
SEC. L

P9°?'
57°
‘t"':"°¥°

9.
10.
11,
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Board for preparing lists of jurors; towns may make alterations.
How the lists are to be prepared,
Persons exempted from serving.
Tickets of names to be kept in jury box; liable to be drawn once in three years.
Number required to be kept in jury box ; names may be withdrawn in certain
cases.
Commissioners to divide the county into jury districts, and furnish copy of
division to clerk ; how divided and numbered.
Rule by which the clerk shall issue venires.
Grand jurors to serve one year; venircs for such, to issue forty days before
second Monday of September, annually.
Grand and traverse jurors to attend on the ﬁrst day of the term, unless, at a
previous term, the court designated a different day.
Distribution of venires, and notice of meetings to draw jurors.
12, 13. Mode of drawing jurors; date of draft to be indorsed on the ticket.
Constables to notifyjurors, and return venires.
Indorsement to be transferred, if ticket is renewed.
Penalty for neglect of selectmen or clerk.
Penalty for neglect of constable or town.
Penalty for neglect of clerk of court or sheriﬂ
Penalty for neglect of juror to attend.
Penalty for fraud by town clerk or selectmen.
Recovery and appropriation of ﬁnel

TITLE 121.]

muons.

619

SEC. 1. The municipal officers, treasurer, and clerk of each CHAR 106_
town constitute a board for preparing lists of jurors to be laid

before the town for their approval; and the town, in legal town ,1,3:,B{;‘,1;f1({§,E'§f
meeting, by a majority of the legal voters assembled, may strike J“'°"» &c

out such names as they think proper from such lists, but shall ?i_S"°' 135'
not insert any other names.
SEO. 2. Such board, at least once in every three years, shall
prepare a list of such persons, of good moral character, and
qualiﬁed, as the constitution directs, to vote for representatives,
under the age of seventy years, in such town, as they judge best
qualiﬁed to serve as jurors.
SEO. 3. The following persons shall be exempted from servHow thellsts
;;§e‘(‘1’_beP'°'
R S" 0.135,
W
PM-sons ex.

ing as jurors, and their names shall not be placed on the lists: the :;‘;{{§g_f'°m
governor, councilors, judges and clerks of the common law courts, R_ s_,c_135,
secretary and treasurer of the state, all oﬂicers of the United i3
States, judges and registers of probate, registers of deeds, set
tled ministers of the gospel, oliieers of colleges, preceptors of
incorporated academies, physicians and surgeons, cashiers of in
corporated banks, sheriffs and their deputies, coroners, counsel-_
ors and attorneys at law, county commissioners, constables, and
constant ferrymen.
SE0. 4. After the list of jurors is approved by the town, the Tickets of
board shall write their names upon tickets, and place them in the §‘;")‘;e§1'j"ul’;
jury box, to be kept by the town clerk; and the persons whose box, &c.
names are in the box shall be liable to be drawn and to serve $143" @1351
on any jury, at any court for which they are drawn, once in '
.
every three years and not oftener, except as hereiri provided.
SEO. 5. Each town shall provide, and‘ constantly keep in the Number ro

box, a number of names ready to be drawn when required, not ]‘1‘;gt°§1n§’u2;
less than one, nor more than two for every hundred persons in box, &c.

the town, according to the census taken next before preparing R-.sé'°'135

the box ; and the board shall withdraw from it the name of any h’ '
person convicted of' any scandalous crime, or guilty of any gross
immorality.
.

SE0. 6. Within one year after every new census, and oftener Com‘mis_sl_on
if a considerable change of population renders it proper, the fﬁzzzgglde
county commissioners shall divide their county into not less than in_tojury dis

four, nor more than twelve districts numerically designated; §‘°§" ‘i‘°'135

and they shall place as many adjoining towns in each district, §'1§:9.'

'

as will make the number of inhabitants in each, according to the
last census, as nearly equal as may be, without dividing a town;
and shall deliver a copy of such division immediately to the
clerk of the courts in their county.
SEC. 7. The grand and traverse jurors shall be drawn from Rule by which
7
~-jurors, at each term Egg:
hl'khll
each
jury district in such manner as to cause
ifmfmi
of the court, to come from every part of the county as equally 33 Maine, 20,,
as may be, and, as far as practicable, from every town in rota- 1‘-u§~u°- 135,
tion, having regard to the number of its inhabitants, taking not § ’ '
more than two grand jurors and two traverse jurors from the
same town at the same time, unless from necessity, or some ex
traordinary cause, or to equalize the service; and the clerk of

the courts shall issue venires to the constables accordingly.

620

JUBORS.

[TITLE IX.

CH“, 106_ SEC. 8. Venires for grand jurors to serve at the supreme
—-——'~'-- ~ judicial court shall be issued at least forty days before the

S,";‘Q;",{,“§,‘;’: second Monday of September annually; and such jurors shall
fang» &cc-135

serve at every term of said court for the transaction of criminal

i i2,"13.' ’
§‘°*1572'°-246'

business throughout the year.
SEC. 9. The grand and traverse jurors shall attend on the

‘Tums to W
tend onthe

ﬁrst day of the term for which they are drawn and summoned;
unless the court ata previous term has designated a different

felllsisyclnhe day; and if so, the venire shall specify the day on which the
ma, c. 95, § 1. jurors shall attend.

Distribution of SEO. 10. The sheriff, on receiving venires for jurors, shall
;€"‘ge5'
immediately send them to the constables of the towns where
§i4," °'

'

directed; and each constable, on receipt thereof, shall notify the

inhabitants of the town qualiﬁed to vote for representatives, in
the manner annual town meetings are notiﬁed, and especially
the municipal officers and town clerk, unless a different mode
has been adopted at a legal town meeting, which any town may
do in respect to drawing jurors only, to assemble and be pres
ent at the draft of the jurors called for; which shall be six days
before the sitting of file court to which the venire is returnable.
l\Iod_e of drawSec. 11. The town clerk, or, in his absence, one of the muni~
;‘gSJ“‘°’S;3§°' eipal oﬂicers, shall carry the jury box into the meeting, which
§ i5_" °‘ ’ shall there be unlocked, and the tickets mixed by a majority of
said oﬂicers present; and one of them shall draw out as many
4 tickets as there are jurors required; and the persons whose
.
names are drawn shall be returned as jurors, unless they have
served on the jury within three years, or from sickness, absence
beyond sea, without the limits, or in distant parts of the state,
they are considered by the town unable to attend.
Same subject.

1§-16$-M135,
‘ '

SEO. 12.

In either of said cases, or if a person is drawn

who has been appointed to an office exempting him from serving,
others shall be drawn in their stead; but any person thus ex
cused, or returned and attending court, and there excused, shall
not be excused on another draft, though within three years; and
when all the persons, whose names are in the box, have served
within three years, or are not liable to serve, the selectmen shall
draw out the required number of those who have not served for
eighteen months; and the clerk shall certify on the venire, that
all persons whose names are in the box have served within three
years, or are not liable to serve.

Date trams
SEC. 13. When a juror is drawn and not excused by the
:;§f“§“,‘ilc",:Z§_d town, the municipal oﬁicers who drew his ticket shall iudorse
R.S.,c.136,

§ 17‘

thereon the date of the draft and return it into the box.

SEC. 14. The constables shall notify the persons thus drawn

Egiiimllffrl? four days at least before the sitting of the court, by reading the
‘ "“1"‘“"‘
333_
RS-.c-135,
l 1S'19'

venire and indorsement thereon to them, or leaving at their
usual place of abode a written notice that they have been drawn,
and of the time and place of the sitting of the court where they
are to attend; and make a seasonable return of the venire with

Ixrdorsement

his doings thereon.
SEC. 15. When a new list of jurors is made, the municipal

}§,I’§d:'(‘;'§'

officers shall transfer from the back of the old tickets to the new

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

ones of the same persons, the minutes of the drafts made within CHAR 106
the three preceding years.
SEC. 16.

R S

13,

If the municipal oﬁicers or town clerk neglect to §520,"°'

"’

perform their duties herein required, so that the jurors called Penalty for

for from their town are not returned, they shall be ﬁned not less 2§l§f§_°f
than ten, nor more than ﬁfty dollars each.
R- S-, c- 135.
SEO. 17. Any constable, neglecting to perform his duties here- §P::;m M
in required, shall be ﬁned not exceeding twenty dollars; and any neglecty of con

town for a like neglect of its duties shall be ﬁned not exceeding ;€“§" °'1‘;;"“'
one hundred dollars.

,

SEC. 18. If the clerk of the court, or sheriff‘, neglects to perform his duties so as to prevent a compliance with any of the
provisions of this chapter, he shall be ﬁned not exceeding ﬁfty
dollars.
SEC. 19. Any juror, who, after being notiﬁed and returned,

§2,"2§_'

'

Penalty for
§f'§1,f§:i‘,’€°1e’k
R,s,,c_135,
§ 24.
Penalty f0?

unnecessarily fails in his attendance, shall be ﬁned as for con- {‘(f§‘,l,°,'Z§,?;J“'°r
tempt, not exceeding twenty dollars, unless he resides in Port- R.S.,c.135,

land, and then not exceeding forty dollars.

4525' 25'

SEC. 20. Any town clerk or municipal officer, who commits a Penalty for
fraud on the box previous to the draft, in drawing a juror or in ﬁggj,‘gy mm
returning a name into the box, which had been fairly drawn and R. s., e.135,

drawing another in its stead, or in any other mode, shall be ﬁned §27'29'
not exceeding two hundred dollars, half to the use of the state
and half to the prosecutor.
See. 21. All ﬁnes imposed by sections sixteen, seventeen, Recovery and

eighteen and nineteen, shall be recovered by indictment, inl'orma- :‘,3l‘ﬁ',‘:Ie§_“t‘°n
tion, or action by the county treasurer to the use of the county R. s., e. 135,

where the offense is committed.

C HAPTER 1 07.
DE POSITIONS.
Dnrosx-noxs IN Gem.-nan.
SEC. T‘?
.°'!“9°!°l" In what eases depositions may be used.
Before whom they may be taken.
\Vhen a cause is deemed pending, for the purpose of taking depositions.
Reasons for which they may be taken and used.
On application M the party, a justice or notary may issue summons to depo
nent, and notice to adverse party.
Service of such notice, how made.
Who is to be considered attorney of the adverse party.
8. Notice to one of the adverse party sufficient; time of notice ; verbal notice by
the justice or notary; due notice to be given when deposition is taken out
of the state.
9. Form of notice to adverse party.
10. Form of summons to deponent.
ll. \Vitness may be compelled to give his deposition.
12. Deponcnt to be sworn before examination.
13. ‘W10 may write the deposition.
1-1. If deception is used in giving notice, deposition may be rejected. No deposi
tion to be closed until one hour after time appointed for the taking.

H8‘

622

‘
107

OHAP.
'

SEO. 15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

DEPOSITIONS.

[TITLE I192.

Form of caption.
\
Depositions to he delivered in court, or scaled up and directed.
Not to be used if the reason for taking no longer exists.
Objections to competency of witness or questions must be seasonably made.
V/‘hen depositions may be used in a second suit.
The court may admit or reject depositions taken out of the state.
The court may issue commissions to take depositions out of the state.
DEPOSITIONS IN Panrnrean.

22.

Application for taking a deposition in pcrpctuam, and notice to persons inter
ested.
'
How such depositions are to be taken and certiﬁed.
To be recorded.
When it may be used in evidence. Never against the deponent or his interest.
Such depositions may be taken out of the state, upon a commission issued
from the supreme judicial court.
The court to order notice, and on hearing may issue a commission to take
such depositions.
Such deposition to be taken upon interrogations; application may be ﬁled in
vacation, and notice given.

-23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
?/8‘

Pssanrr ron Rsrusmo ro Arrain, on T0 Giva Darosirioss.
29.

Proceedings to compel a deponent to appear to give his deposition.
ment if he refuses to depose.

Punish

DEPOSITIONS IN GENERAL

In whatcase,
SEC. 1. Depositions taken for the causes, and in the manner
gf:f)?§)i;i3::d_ hereiiiafter mentioned, may be used in all civil suits or causes,

R_s__c.133,

petitions for partition of land, hbels for divorce, prosecutions

§ 1. 24.

for the maintenance of bastard children, petitions for review,
and in trials before arbitrators, referees and county commission
ers ; and in cases of the contested election of a person returned
as a member of the house of representatives.
SEC. 2. A justice of the peace or notary public may take
dc>ositions to be used in a endiue cause in which he is not
- 1
B
‘’
’
mtcrcsted, nor then nor previously counsel or attorney.
SEC. 3. No suit, petition, libel, or prosecution, for the pur
poses of this chapter, shall be considered pending, till the pro
cess therein has been duly served on the respondent, or such
notice as is required by law, or ordered by the court, has been

Before whom
‘“‘°“-_
as Mame 436
R_ S" ,,_ 1'33, '
§2Yf,§;‘,;§““‘°
pendins, &c.
1-5 Mains 44716 Maine, 257.

.

. .

.

.

37 M,,ine_ 411, duly given ; and no such deposition shall be used in the trial of

R- $-- °- 133'

any cause except by consent of parties, unless the notice herein

§a'

after mentioned is duly given to the adverse party.

Reasonsfor
which the
ma be ta en

an used.

SEC. 4.
'
mg c_a'uses'

Depositions may be taken for either of the follow
_

,

,

Firsz.—When the deponent is so aged, mﬁrm, or sick, as not

2% 1g“‘;‘ei3231L to be able to attend at the place of trial.
§-'1." ' ’ ' Sccoizd.-When the deponent resides out of, or is absent
1342» 0- 31§16- from the state.
iSi2,<-. i§ 1.
Third.—-When the deponent, before the session of the court
where the deposition is to be used, is bound to sea on a voyage,
is about to go out of the state, or more than sixty miles from
the place of trial, and not expected to return in season'to at
tend it.

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

‘

Fom1h.—When the deponent is judge of the supreme judicial CHAR 107.
court,
or court of
by l11S oﬁiclal duty ——-———
from attending
theprobate,
trial. and is prevented
~
18J‘4’°'w3’§ 1'
Ff/'th.—-When the deponent resides in a town other than that
in which the trial is to be had.
Sixth.-When the deponent is conﬁned in prison, and such
imprisonment is continued until after the trial.
SE0. 5. On application of either party to a justice of the

18~19,c. l23§1.
n.s.,<-.133,
H‘
On application

peace or notary public, he may issue a summons to the deponent iéthe P‘“‘y'
to appear at a designated time and place, to give his deposition, R- S» c-133.
and a notice to the adverse party to be then and there present; j8i'9,c_119§1_
and the deposition may then and there be taken by him or any
other justice or notary.
SEC. 6. The notice to the adverse party shall be served on Service of

him or his attorney by reading it in his presence and hearing, or

h°w

by giving to him, or leaving at his place of last and usual abode, R. s., c. 133,
an attested copy thereof; and the service may be made by a W‘
sworn officer, or by any other person and proved by his atﬁdavit.
SEC. '7. No person, for the purposes of this chapter, shall be Who_ is tobe

considered such attorney, unless his name is indorsed upon the §‘,’,§,,‘,‘,i§;e(§l,the
writ, or the summons left with the defendant, or he has appeared
for his principal in the cause, or given notice in writing that he
is attorney of such adverse party. (a)
SEO. 8. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants, the
notice shall be suﬂicient if given by the justice or notary to one
or more of them; the adverse party shall be allowed not less

adverse party
?; S-1 c- 133,
"
Noticeto one
;’,f,r‘,l;.es‘,‘,‘,i,‘i'_"'”°
cieM.&c

than at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty

glé

miles travel from his usual place of abode to the place of cap- R. s., c. 1'33, '

tion, between the service of notice and time appointed for taking i8§,'29'c_1gi1§4;7_
the deposition. Verbal notice to the adverse party by a jus'
'
tice or notary shall be sufficient ; and when a deposition is taken
out of the state, and not under a commission, the adverse party
or his attorney shall have due notice thereof.
See. 9. The notice to the adverse party, if in the state, shall Form ofnotioe
be in substance as follows :—1 88- T0

—-, of

gzggherse .

, in the county of

. %{2_1‘s‘_fi;1_ei35§5’7

Greeting.
§ 11
Whereas A. B., of
, has requested, that the deposition
of C. D., of
, may be taken to be used in an action of
,
pending between you and the said A. B., and the
of
,
in
, and the
day of
, at
of the clock
in
noon, are the place and time appointed therefore;
you are hereby notiﬁed to be present and put such questions as
you think ﬁt. Dated this
day of
, 18-.
-__
, Justice of the Peace.
SEC. 10. The justice or notary, when requested, shall issue F<>rmpf;um

a summons to the deponent in substance as follows, viz. :_(a) 29 Maine, 69 ; 33 Maine, 420; 36 Maine, 350.

:21: ° °"°'

mrosrrrons.

624
GHAP. 107.

R. s., c. 133,
§ 12.

Witness mag
be compelle
to give deposi
tion.
R. S., o. 133,
§ 13.

[TITLE rx.

, in the county of
.
Greeting.
Whereas A. B., of
, in the county of
,has re
quested that your deposition be taken, to be used in an action
now pending between him and E. F., of
, in the county
of
, and the
of
, in the town of
,
and the
day of
, at
of the clock in the
noon, are the place and time appointed therefore; you are
thereforee required, in the name of the State of Maine, there and
then to appear and testify what you know relating to said action.
Dated this
of
, in the year
.
, Justice of the Peace.
, ss.

To C. D., of

The summons may be served and the service there/of proved
as in section six.
SEO. 11. A witness may be compelled to attend and give his
deposition in like manner and under the same_penaltics as a wit
ness is compelled to attend and testify in court; but not to
travel more than thirty miles to give his deposition; and such

deposition shall not be used in any trial, except for the causes
mentioned in the fourth section, unless the adverse party uses
the witness at such trial.

Deponent to
be sworn.

R. s., e. 133,
§ 15.

1Vho may
write the depo
sition.
R. S., e. 133,
§ 16.

If deception is
used, 8:0.

Form of cap
tion.
R. S., 0. 133,
§ 17.

SEC. 12.

The deponent shall be ﬁrst sworn to testify the

truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the
cause or matter for which the deposition is to be taken; and he
shall then be examined, ﬁrst by the party producing him, on ver
bal or written interrogatories, and then by the adverse party,
and by the justice or the parties afterwards, if they see cause. (a)
SEO. 13. The deposition shall be written by the justice or
notary, or by the deponent or some disinterested person, in the
presence and under the direction of such justice or notary; and
after it has been carefully read to or by the deponent, it shall
be subscribed by him.
'
SEC. 14. If the adverse party is notiﬁed to take depositions
in the same cause at two places at the same time, or any decep
tive means are used to prevent his attendance at the taking of
any depositions, the court for such reason may reject them; and
no deposition shall be closed till the expiration of one hour
after the time appointed for the taking.
SEC. 15. The justice or notary shall make out a certiﬁcate
and annex it to the deposition, therein stating the following

facts: (b)
F'rsz.--That the deponent was ﬁrst sworn according to law,
and when.
Second.--By whom the deposition was written; if by the de
ponent or some disinterested person, he must name him, and
that it was written in his presence and under his direction.
Third.-—Whether the adverse party was notiﬁed to attend,_
and did or did not attend.
(a) 24 Maine, 171; 34 Maine, 69; 35 Maine, 132, 368, 511; 38 Maine, 137.
(b) 6Maine, B; 28 Maine, 22; 31 Maine, 683; 33 Maine, 376; 34 Maine, 208; 36
Maine, 71, 466.

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

Fourth.—-The cause in which the deposition is to be used and CHAR 107_
the names of the parties thereto.
—————
Fi/th.-— The court or tribunal in which it is to be tried, and
the time and place of trial.
Sixth.--The cause of taking the deposition.
SEO. 16. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice to Depcsitionto

the court or referees before whom the cause is to be tried, or in- gfcdeliiered’
closed and scaled up by him, and directed to such court or re- R"s_,c_133,

ferees, and kept sealed till opened by their order.
SEO. 17. When a deposition is so taken, it shall not be used
on trial, if the adverse party shows that the cause for taking it
no longer exists. (a)

1? 18.
Not to be used,
§°'S
133
§i9_"c' '

SEO. 18. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or to the Objections to
questions or answers, may be made when the deposition is -pro- ffc‘f‘Pe‘e"°Y’
duced, as if the witness testified on the trial; but if a deposi- 14 M,,,,,e,141_

tion is taken on written interrogatories, all objection to an inter- gg 1gi‘1inei323°3
rogatory shall be made before it is answered; and if it is not §é0_"°' "
withdrawn, it shall be noted thereon, otherwise it shall not after
wards be allowed.

SEO. 19.

When a plaintifff becomes nonsuit, or discontinues when deposi

same
his suitparties
and commences
or their representatives,
another for the same
all depositions
cause, between
lawfully
the ond suit.
taken for the ﬁrst may be used in the second suit, if they were Rils-$133,
duly ﬁled in the court where the ﬁrst suit was pending, and re- § '
mained on ﬁle till the commencement of the second.
SEO. 20. The court may admit or reject depositions taken Courtmay ad
°’ ‘elect,
out of the state by a justice, notary, or other person lawfully em

powered to take them. (b)
SEO. 21.

R. s., c. 133,

The justices of the supreme judicial court may is- if‘

sue commissions to take depositions without the state, to be used i...°,.°‘.‘I,‘,'.E,,§

in pending suits in the state, on such terms and conditions as (s,ie°p“oSSitt‘i'§l‘e
they think proper.

out of the
state.

DEPOSITIONS IN PERPETUAJL

SEO. 22.

R. S., c. 138,
§ 23.

When any person wishes to perpetuate the testimo- Application

ny of a witness, he shall make a statement in writing under oath,

‘in

brieﬂy setting forth in substance his title,.iuterest, or claim in perpetuam,

the subject to which the desired testimony relates, and the names fgreenl 88
of all persons supposed to be interested therein, and the name 4543.
' ’

of each witness proposed to be examined; and shall deliver the 1‘éf‘i“c“’
statement to a judge or register of probate, notary public, §25, 2'c.'

'

clerk of the supreme judicial court, or justice of the peace and
quorum, requesting him to take the deposition of such witness;
and he shall thereupon cause notice to be given, of the time and
place for taking such deposition, to all persons so named in the
statement, which may be given and proved as in case of other
depositions.
SEC. 23. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and How such

the deposition written, read, and subscribed, as other deposi- ﬁjggﬁjgggken
and certiﬁed.

((1) 20 Maine, 257 ; 28 Maine, 33.
(6) 29 Maine, 164; 31Maine,603; e2 Maine, 179.
79

DEPOSITIONS.

[TITLE K.

OHM, 10-L tions; and the person taking it shall annex to it a like certiﬁ
'
cate, as near as the case will admit, and also state therein that

%§_1g_i“:_ei32Zi5' it was taken in perpetual remembrance of the thing, and the
§27To be rename of the person at whose request it was taken, and of all
who were notiﬁed, and all who attended.
See. 24. The statement, deposition, and certiﬁcate, within

;g'1‘\l;“1i;1e'151_ ninety days after the taking, shall be recorded in the registry
R.s_,c_133,

of deeds in the county where the land or any part of it lies,

8528if the deposition relates to real estate; if not, in the county

Whenitmay

where the parties or some of them reside.
SEC. 25. All such depositions, recorded as aforesaid, or a

2§,I,‘Z§':e‘,”&c' copy thereof attested by the register of deeds, may be used in
R,s,,c_133,

the trial of any cause pending when the deposition was taken, or

c 242 M commenced afterwards, between the person at whose request it
' ‘ ' ' was taken, and either of the persons named in the statement
and duly notiﬁed, or those claiming under either, concerning the
title, claim, or interest set forth in the statement, subject to the
same objections as if originally taken for the suit; but no state
ment or testimony in any such deposition shall be received as
evidence in any case against the deponent or his interest, or any
one claiming under him.
S_uch deposiSec. 26. Dcpositions, to perpetuate the testimony of wit

‘,‘,?Q;,’§:{§

nesses living out of the state, may be taken in any other state,

the mte,&¢- or foreign country, upon a commission issued by the supreme
R- 5" °- 133- judicial court; and the persons desirous to procure such deposi

HO’ 31'

tions may apply to said court and ﬁle a statement as aforesaid; and
if it relates to real estate in this state, the statement shall be
ﬁled in the county where it lies; if not, in the county where
some of the parties reside.

The court to
§§e’n°“°°'
R, 5,, c_133,
H2» 33Such deposition to be tak

en upon inter
rogatoriea &c?é4s-»3;- 133' '

Sec. 27.

The court shall order notice to be served on each

of the persons named in the statement living in the state, four
teen days before the time appointed for hearing the parties, and
on hearing the parties, or the applicant, if no adverse party ap
pears, may issue a commission for taking such deposition as in a
cause pending.
Snc. 28.

The deposition shall be taken on interrogatories

ﬁled by the applicant, and cross interrogatories by any party ad
versely mterested, substantially as when taken to be used 1n
pending causes. Or the person wishing to take the deposition
may ﬁle his statement in the clerk’s oﬁice in vacation, and cause
notice to be given to the persons named therein as interested,
fourteen days at least before the next term of the court, at which
time the parties may be heard.
PENALTY FOR REFUSING TO APPEAR OR TO GIVE DEPOSITIONS.

Proceedin to
SEO. 29. When any magistrate, duly authorized, has sum
fl‘;:‘g‘t°o1 :pp°eI’a‘;', moned a_person to appear_ before him to give his deposition, to
&~:.
be used in any cause pendmg 1n any court in this or any other
22 Mﬂi11e»357- state, or to perpetuate his testimony; the summons has been
served and returned by a proper oliicer or other person, and proof
thereof is entered on the summons; legal fees have been ten
dered him a reasonable time before the day appointed for taking

TITLE IX.]

REFERENCES.

627
the deposition; and he refuses to attend, the magistrate may ad CHAP. 10’_Z_.
journ the time of taking his deposition, and issue a capias,
directed to a proper oﬂicer, to apprehend and bring him before
him at the time and place of the adjournment; and if, on being punishment“

brought before the magistrate who is to take his deposition, he he refuses
refuses to depose and answer such questions as are propounded
to him by either of the parties or persons interested, under his
direction, he may commit him to the prison of the county for
contempt, as the supreme judicial court may commit a witness for
refusing to testify.

R. S., c. 133,

§ 36, 34'.

CHAPTER 1 OS.
REFERENCE OF DISPUTES BY CONSENT OF PARTIES.
Sec. 1.

Vfhat controversies may be submitted; manner and form of submission; not
to be revoked but by consent.
Submission of all demands, and of a specific demand.
E°9 ?‘.°’$":“S*’!° Parties may agree upon the time of reporting.
Report, how returned into court.
Power of referees same as if appointed under rule of court.
Proceedings of court thereon; recommitment.
All the referees must bear, but a majority may decide.
Costs; compensation of referees.
Report to be made to the supreme judicial court; either party may bring writ
of error or ﬁle exceptions.
10. A referee may take acknowledgment, or administer oaths.

Snol 1.

All controversies, which may be the subject of a per

sonal action, may be submitted to one or more referees ; and
the parties personally, or by attorney, may sign and acknowl
edge an agreement before a justice of the peace, in substance as

What contro
versies may be
submitted, &c.
5 Greenl. 38.
13 Maine. 41.
18 Maine, 251,

follows:

25;;

22Msine 240.
Know all men by these presents, that —-— -—- of
, 32 Maine: 78.
in the county of
, and
—-— of
, in the coun- §%ﬁ§j $35;

ty of ——-—, have agreed to submit the demand made by said R- S-. c- 138,
, against said —, which is hereunto annexed, (and al§1, 2, 5.
other demands between the parties, as the case may be,) to the
determination of
; and judgment rendered on their re
port, or that of a majority of them, made to the supreme judicial
court for the county of
, within one year from this day,
shall be ﬁnal. And if either party neglects to appear before
the referees, after proper notice given to him of the time and

place appointed by the referees for hearing the parties, the
referees may proceed in his absence.
Dated this
day of
, in the year

.

Such agreement, subscribed by the parties, shall be acknowl

.edged by them or their attorneys as their voluntary act, before
the same or any other justice, and shall not be revoked without

the mutual consent of the parties.

REFERENCES.

628
CHAP. 108.
Submission of
all demands,
and of a spe
ciﬁc demand.
R. S., c. 138,

§ 3, 4.
Parties may
agree upon
time of report
ing.
R. S., c. 138,
§ 6.
Report how
returned.
R. S., c. 138,
§ 7.
Power of re
ferees, &c.

23 Maine, 125.
It. S., o. 138I
§ 8.
Proceedings of
court thereon;
reeommit

[TITLE IX.

SEC. 2. If all demands between the parties are so submit
ted, no speciﬁc demand need be annexed to the agreement; but
if a speciﬁc demand only is submitted, it shall be annexed to
the agreement and signed by the party making it, and so stated
as to be readily understood, and as certain in substance as the
case admits. (a)
SE0. 3. The parties may agree when the report shall be
made, and in that respect, vary from such form without being con
ﬁned to one year.
SEO. 4. One of the referees shall deliver the report to the
court to which, by the agreement, it is to be returned, or it shall
be sealed up and transmitted, sealed, to the court, and opened '
by the clerk.
SEO. 5. Such referees shall have the same authority as those
appointed by a rule of court.
SEO. 6. The court may accept, reject, or rccommit it for
further consideration; and the referees shall notify the parties
of the time and place of a new hearing ; and when the report is
accepted, judgment shall be entered thereon, as in cases of sub

ment.

n. s., e. 138,
§ 9.
All the referees
must hear;
majorit
decide.y ma y
R. S., c. 138,
§ 10.
Costs; com

pensation of
referees.

R. S., c. 138,
§ 11.
Report to S. J.
court, &c.
8 Greenl. 165.
23 Maine, 435.
R. S., c. 138,
t 12, 13.
1845, e. 168.
A referee may
tzakc acknrgvl
e gment, c.

It. s., c. 138,

mission by rule of court. (b)

'

SEO. '1. ~All the referees must meet and hear the parties, but
a majority may make the report, which shall be valid as if sign
ed by all; but it must appear by the report, or certiﬁcate of the
dissenting referee, that all attended and heard the parties. (c)
SEO. 8. The referees may allow costs or not to either party,
as they judge reasonable, unless special provision is made in the
submission on the subject; but the court may reduce the com

pensation of referees.
SEC. 9. The report shall be made to the supreme judicial
court within the time limited in the submission, unless varied by
the parties; and either party may bring a writ of error to re
verse any judgment, or ﬁle exceptions to any decision of the
court accepting, rejecting, or reeommitting a report, and carry
the same to the law court.
SEO. 10. Any one of the referees, who is a justice of the
peace, may take the acknowledgments of the parties to the sub
mission, and any referee may swear witnesses.

§ 14.
(a) 9 Maine, 15; 22 Maine, 240; 30 Maine, 113; 35 Maine, 357.
(b) 6 Greenl. 21; 8 Greenl. 288; 23 Maine, 435; 27 Maine, 125; 29 Maine, 70; 31
Maine, 39, 112; 32 Maine, 78; 36 Maine, 108.

(c) 1 Greenl. 64; 30 Maine, 652; 35 Maine, 281.

TITLE IX.]

COMMISSIONERS IN OTHER STATES.

CHAPTER 109.

M

TIMBER AND CORD WOOD; HOW IT MAY BE DISPOSED OF IN CER
TAIN CASES.
S20. 1.

On application of the owners of certain interests in wood lands, the supreme
judicial court, after notice and hearing, may grant leave to sell the wood.
2. Commissioners to be appointed therefore, and to give bond.
3. Proceeds; how invested. Appropriation of income.
4. Court to appoint trustees of such proceeds, who shall give bond.
'

SEC. 1.

Any person seized of a freehold estate, or of a re- Qnapplicaﬁon

mainder or reversion in fee simple, or fee tail, in a tract of g; Zléftzfffgf
woodland or timber land, on which the trees are of a growth terests in wood

and age ﬁt to be cut, may apply to the supreme judicial court in Ends“, &°1-39
any county for leave to cut and dispose of such trees, and invest §i_ "c' ’
the proceeds for the use of the persons interested therein; and
the court, after due notice to all persons interested, and a hear
ing of the parties, if any appear, may appoint one or more pcrsons to examine the land and report to the court, and the court
may thereupon order the whole or a part of such trees to be cut
and sold, and the proceeds-brought into court, subject to further
orders.
SEO. 2.

I

The court shall appoint one or more commissioners Commission

to superintend the cutting and sale of such trees, who shall ac- Q" "° be
count for the proceeds to the court, and be under bond to the :llfgrl::i:‘lnl-(:d&c.

clerk for the faithful performance of their trust.

:35" °' 139'

SEC. 3. The court may cause the net proceeds of sale to be Proceeds, -how
invested in other real estate in this state, or in public stocks, to invested, 8w

the same uses and under the same limitations as the land; and gas" °‘ 139*
the income thereof to be paid to the persons entitled to the in
come of the land, or apportioned among the persons interested
in the estate, according to their interest.
SEC. 4. The court may appoint one or more trustees, remov- Cour“, 81,
able at their pleasure, to hold such estates or stocks for said gfint trustees,
uses, who shall give bond, with suﬁicient surcties, to said clerk, R?'s,, 0, 139,

for the faithful discharge of their duty.

“

CHAPTER 1 1 0.
COMMISSIONERS TO TAKE ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF DEEDS AND OTHER
CONTRACTS, AND DEPOSITIONS IN OTHER STATES.
SEO. 1.
2.
3.
4.

Appointment; power to authenticate deeds.
Legal eﬂ'ect of their oﬁicial acts and certiﬁcates.
May administer oaths, and take depositions.
Qualiﬁcation and seal.

SE0. 1. The governor may appoint one or more commission- Appointment;
ers in any other of the United States, and in any foreign P°We1_‘t° M1

country, who shall continue in oﬁice during his pleasure; and §,§ﬁ§‘_°“w

FRAUDS AND PERIURIES.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP_110_ have authority to take the acknowledgment and proof of the
execution of any deed, other conveyance, or lease of any lands
R. S., c. 134,
i1_
lying in this state; and of any contract, letter of attorney, or any
856w-221 other writing, under seal or not, to be used or recorded in this
state.
_
Legal effects of SEO. 2. Such acknowledgment or proof, taken according to

§12f;f°ﬁl°i“1

the laws of this state, and certiﬁed by any such commissioner

R_s_,c,134,
§2under his seal of oﬂice, annexed to or indorsed on such instru
ment, shall have the same force and effect, as if done by an
oﬁicer authorized to perform such acts in this state.
May admin.isSE0. 3. Every commissioner thus appointed may administer

§{{g§‘;‘;(;é'§‘}d any oath, lawfully required in this state, to any person willing to
tions.
R3 8-. ¢- 134,
§ '

glsglggsrﬁon
Rs“ C-134,
H

take it; and take and duly certify all depositions, to be used in
any of the courts in this state, in conformity to the laws thereof,
on interrogatories proposed under commission from a court of
this state, by consent of parties, or on legal notice given to the
opposite party; and all such acts shall be as valid as if done and
certiﬁed, according to law, by a magistrate in this state.
SEC. 4. Every such commissioner, before performing any du
ty or exercising any power in virtue_ of his appointment, shall
take and subscribe an oath or aﬁirmation, before a Judge or clerk
of one of the superior courts of the state or country in which he
resides, well and faithfully to execute and perform all his oﬁicial
duties under the laws of Maine; which oath, and a description
of his seal of oﬂice, shall be ﬁled in the oﬂice of the secretary
of this state.

CHAPTER 1 1 1.
PREVENTION OF FRAUDS AND PERIURIES IN CONTRACTS, AND AC
TIONS FOUNDED THEREON.
S20. 1. Cases in which promises must be in writing.
2. The consideration need not be expressed therein.
3. No action to be maintained on a contract made by a minor, unless ratiﬁed
after becoming of age.
9°.*'9°.°'2“ Representation of another’s ability or character, to be in writing.
\Vhat contracts for sale of goods must be in writing.
“Then speciﬁc performance of a contract may be enforced by a bill in equity.
\Vhat decree to be made; the conveyance to be good.
Enforcement of the decree.
9. Provision in case of the death of the obligor before conveyance.
10. Administrator of the contractor may petition for authority to make convey
ance.

Casesinwhich
SEC. 1. No action shall be maintained in any of the follow
.
t _
0

mg <>_ases1848,c.62, 1.

Pf-i e 1 '
y

__

Fm-st.—To charge an executor or administrator upon any

special promise to answer damages out of his own estate. (a)

(a) 20 Maine, 21.

TITLE IX.]

FRAUDS AND PERJURIES.

' 631

Second.—To charge any person upon any special promise to
9&El.f
answer for the debt, default, or misdoings of another. (a)
Third.--To charge any person upon an agreement made in
consideration of marriage.
Fom-zh.—Upon any contract for the sale of lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, or of any interest in or concerning them. (b)
Fifth.—Upon any agreement that is not to be performed with
in one year from the making thereof. (a)
Sixth.--Upon any contract to pay a debt after a discharge
therefrom under the bankrupt laws of the United States, or as
signment laws of this state.
Unless the promise, contract, or agreement, on which such ac
tion is brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, is in writ
ing and signed by the party to be charged therewith, or by some
person thereunto lawfully authorized. (d)
SEC. 2. The consideration of any such promise, contract, or The considera
need not
agreement, need not be expressed in said writing, but may be tion
be expressed,
&c.
proved by any other legal evidence.
S., c. 136,
SEC. 3. N0 action shall be maintained on any contract made R.
§ 2.
by a minor, unless he, or some person lawfully authorized, rati No action on a
contract made
ﬁed it in writing after he arrived at the age of twenty-one years, by
a minor, &c.
except for necessaries, or real estate of which he has received we, c. 166§ 1.
the title and retains the beneﬁt.
SE0. 4. No action shall be maintained to charge any person Representa
of anoth
by reason of any representation or assurance, concerning the tion
er's ability, to
character, conduct, credit, ability, trade or dealings of another, be in writmg.
unless made in writing, and signed by the party to be charged R. S., c. 136,
§ 3.
thereby or by some person by him legally authorized.
SEC. 5. No contract for the sale of any goods, wares, or What con
for sale
merchandize, for thirty dollars or more, shall be valid, unless tracts
of goods must
the purchaser accepts and receives part of the goods, or gives be m writing.
something in earnest to bind the bargain, or in part payment R. s., c. 130,
thereof, or some note or memorandum thereof is made and sign §4.
ed by the party to be charged thereby, or by his agent. (e)
Sec. 6. If a person, who has contracted in writing to con When speciﬁc
vey real estate, dies before making the conveyance, the other performance
may be en
party may have a bill in equity, if ﬁled within one year after forced, &c.
the grant of administration in the supreme judicial court, to be R. S., c. 136,
heard and decided according to the proceedings in ehaneery, to § 5, 6.
enforce speciﬁc performance of the contract by his heirs, de
visees, executor or administrator.
SEO. 7. If it appears that the plaintifff is entitled to a con What decree
be made,
veyance, the court may authorize and require the executor or to
&c.
administrator to convey the estate as the deceased ought to R. B., e. 136,
have done; and if any of the heirs or devisees are in the state, § 7. 8
(a) 7 Greenl., 356; 21 Maine, 410, 545; 22 Maine, 396; 26 Maine, 341 ; 36 Maine, 113.
(b) 12 Maine, 24, 506; 15 Maine, 14, 61, 201; 16 Maine, 212; 18 Maine, 16; 22
Maine, 360; 23 Maine, 131.
(c) 10 Maine, 31; 15 Maine, 201; 20 Maine, 119; 31 Maine, 555.
(d) 3 G1-eenl., 409; 4 Green1., 1, 258.
(e) 9 Greenl. 79; 12 Maine, 374; 13 Maine, 424; 19 Maine, 137; 26 Maine, 397.

BECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.

632

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 111. and competent to act, the court may direct them, instead of the

Enforcement
of decree, &c.

R. s., c. 136,
§ 9, 10.

Provision in
case of the
death of the
obligor before
conveyance.

R. s., 0. 136,
§ 11.
Administrator
may petition
for authority
to make con
veyance.
R. S., c. 136,
§ 1?.

executor or administrator, to convey the estate or join with
either in such conveyance; which shall pass the estate as fully
as if made by the contractor.
SEO. 8. If the defendant neglects or refuses to convey ac
cording to the decree, the court may render judgment for the
plaintifff‘ for possession of the land, to hold according to the
terms of the intended conveyance, and issue a writ of seizin as
in a real action, under which the plaintifff, having obtained pos
session, shall hold the premises as effectually as if conveyed in
pursuance of the decree; or the court may enforce their decree
by any other process according to chancery proceedings.
SEO. 9. If the person, entitled to such conveyance, dies be
fore bringing his suit, or before the conveyance is completed, or
such seizin and possession are obtained, his heir, devisee, or oth

er person entitled to the estate under him, may bring and prose
cute such suit, and shall be entitled to the conveyance, or seizin
and possession, in like manner as the obligee.
Sec. 10. If the party, to whom any such conveyance was to
be made, or those claiming under him, do not commence a suit
as before provided, and the heirs of the deceased party are un
der age, or otherwise incompetent to convey the lands contract
ed for, the executor or administrator of the deceased may ﬁle a
bill in equity in the supreme judicial court, setting forth the con
tract, and circumstances of the case; whereupon the court, by

their decree, may authorize such executor or administrator to
convey the estate as the deceased should have done; and such
conveyance shall be deemed a performance of the contract, on
the part of the deceased, so as to entitle his heirs, executors,

or administrators, to demand a performance thereof on his
part.

CHAPTER 1 1 2.
RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.
1 Who may enter into recognizance.
2. Form of recognizance.
3. The justice, after recording it, to deliver it to the creditor.
4. May be ﬁled and recorded with clerk of the courts ; who may issue and renew
execution thereon, to be executed by all proper oﬂicers.
5. When not to run against the lands or body of the debtor.
6 Administrator of creditor may take out execution ; if debtor dies, or after
three years, action of debt may be brought as on a judgment.
7. Consequence, if one of several debtors or creditors dies.
8. Remedy, if execution is wrongfully issued.
“he may en
ter into recog
mzance.

R. S., o. 137,

§l.

SEO. 1. Any person, legally capable, may enter into recog
nizance to pay a. debt, as herein provided; and thereby subject
his goods and estate, or his person, to be taken in execution.

TITLE IX.]

SEC. 2.

RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.

633

Such recognizance may be taken before any justice OHAP. 112_

of the peace, and shall be in substance as follows:

——-—
Form of

I, A- B‘; Of
of

, in the county of

, in the county of

, do owe unto 0. D., ;"=°sg“;ze1*;°7e

, the sum of

, to be paid to §'2. " '

’

the said O. D., on the
day of
; and if I fail to pay
said debt at the time aforesaid, I will and grant that the said
debt be levied of my goods and chattels, lands, and tenements,
and in want thereof upon my body.
In testimony whereof, I have hereto set my hand and seal,
this
day of
, in the year
SEO. 3. After such recognizance is signed, sealed, and ac- The justice,
knowledged
annexed, it shall
beforebesaid
delivered
justice,to and
the his
creditor;
certiﬁcate
and the
thereof
justice
is to’ the creditor.

shall keep a record of all recognizances taken by him.
SEC. 4.

?,‘,_S"' °' 137*

If the debt is not paid at the time appointed, the 1t1.,_,.1,e ﬁled

of
creditor
the county
may deliver
where taken,
the recognizance
who shall record
to the clerk
it in of
a book
the court
kept the courts, &c.
for that purpose, and place it on the ﬁles of the court; and at
any time within three years after the debt becomes due, without
any order of court, he may issue an execution thereon, including
all interest due by the terms of the recognizance, varying the
form of the execution accordingly, to be renewed by the clerk,
served, and executed by all proper oﬁicers, as any other execu
tion.
SEO. 5. If the sum originally due on such recognizance does
not exceed twenty dollars, execution shall not be issued against
the lands of the debtor; and if the sum is less than ten dollars,

R-S-iv-137.
M 5' 6' 7'

When not to
“"1 "'g“i“5‘me
nlndfoudoiiigry.

it shall not be issued against his body.

gas" °' 137'

SEC. 6. If the creditor dies before the debt is fully paid, his Administrator
executor 01‘ administrator may renew such execution in his own .
,°‘:,:c .
name; and if the debtor dies, no execution shall issue of course, 1GreenL 158.

but the creditor in that case, and also after the expiration of ?,',.si;,""1%.37'
\

three years from the time of payment in the recognizance, may
have an action of debt as in case of judgment.
SEC. 7. Where there are several debtors or creditors, and consequence,
one or more of them dies before the debt is paid, the rights of :,:,“§c‘{,f,O‘f;';,
the surviving creditors, and the obligations of the surviving debt- ggegitorslﬂgigs

ors, shall be the same as in case of a judgment.
SEO. 8. Any person, injured by the suing out or service of
such execution, shall have his remedy by writ of audita querela
or otherwise, as in case the execution had been sued out upon a

§ 12_
Re1nedy,if
';',:‘;°,i,“,‘,‘,‘,’,‘,‘,i*‘
i§suSed- 137

-, Co

I,

judgment.

§ '13_'' °'

'

80

.

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

634

[TITLE IX.

Our. 113.

CHAPTER 1 1 3.
RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.
Annssrs on Mnsw; Pnocnss.
Sec. 1.

No arrest on mesne process on contract, except where specially provided.
Arrests allowed in actions not founded on contract.
Anmzsrs AND Drscnosunns on Lrnvrxo rm: Sm'1-12.

up

Debtor about to leave the state may be arrested in certain cases.
Disclosure on such arrest.
Notice thereof to be given to the plaintifff.
Mode of making disclosure.
Justices may adjourn.
Adjudication of justices; effect of discharge.
9°.".°‘.°'?‘“ Lien on property disclosed, how preserved. Provisions of section fifteen
applicable.
Drscuosunss ox Mnssa Pnocnss us:-‘one Jcncmusr.
Defendant may in all cases disclose on return of writ. Notice, how to be
given.
10. Effect thereof; lien on property disclosed.
11. Certiﬁcate of real estate disclosed to be ﬁled in registry of deeds.
12. How to preserve lien on personal estate.
13. Disclosure on mesne process by consent of parties.
1-1. Execution to issue against the body, unless there is a. disclosure and dis
charge.
15. Certain property, which cannot be come at to be attached, to be delivered up
on disclosure.
9.

Borms rrr Mssrrs Paocnss AND DISCLOSURES AFTER Jrncusxr.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Persons arrested may give bond to disclose in a certain time after judgment.
Proceedings if debtor has given bond on mesne process.
Debtor in such case may go at large thirty days during the lien on the pro
perty disclosed.
Effect of creditor's election to arrest on execution or otherwise.
Annnsrs AND Bonus on Exncvrrox, AND Drscnosumzs Tnunnox.

20. No arrest on execution if debt is less than ten dollars.
21. Arrests in other cases, and mode of release. Proceedings if not discharged.
22. Bond may be given on such arrest; condition and effect thereof.
23. Application by a debtor under bond or imprisoned, to a justice, for privilege
of poor debtor's oath. Justice to appoint the time and place and cite the
creditor.
24. Citation, how served.
25. Examination before two justices of the quorum.
26, 27. Mode of examination.
28. \Vhen the justices may administer the oath. Form of the poor debtor's oath.
29. Certain property disclosed, which cannot be come at to be attached, may be
appraised oﬁ' to the creditor.
30. Creditor may accept it within thirty days.
31. Form of justice's certificate of administration of oath.
32. Effect of such certiﬁcate.
33. Eﬁect of voluntary release by creditor, from arrest on execution.
34. Officer may indorse such release on the execution, and then levy the execution
on property.
35. Preservation of creditor's lien on real estate disclosed.
36. Lien on personal estate disclosed; consequences if debtor or any person
transfers or conceals it.

TITLE 1x.]
S20. 37.
38.

RELIEF OF POOR. DEBTORS.

635

Bond taken on execution to be returned therewith, for beneﬁt of creditor.
Amount recoverable thereon. if forfeited.
'

OHAP. 113.

Ann:-:srs ron Taxes.

39.

Persons arrested for taxes, entitled to the privileges of this chapter.
tion in form of oath and certiﬁcate.

Varia

40.

Manner of selecting the justices to take the disclosure ; if two do not agree.
they may select a third; if they cannot agree on a third, the officer may
choose him; majority may decide.
Judges of municipal or police courts may act as justices of the peace and
quorum.
Persons incompetent as witnesses not to be precluded from taking poor
debtor's oath.
Costs for creditor if debtor is not discharged.
Bond valid though not taken for exact amount; oﬁiccr not responsible beyond
actual damage.
Suits on bond to be brought within one year after forfeiture ; except as pro
vided in sections 102 and 103 of chapter 81.

Gsxsnnn Pnovrs1o1vs.

41.
42.

Fnnsn Drsonosunns nun Ammo IN Fnaununsrvr Coxvavnwoss.

46. Liability of debtor if he discloses falsely. Proceedings of creditor in such
case.

Effect if creditor prevails.

47. Liability of persons aiding in fraudulent concealment and transfer of proper
ty; double damages.
DAMAGBB on Bonus.
-18.

49.

In all actions upon a debtor's bond, if it appears that such debtor has dis
closed, and taken poor debtor’s oath, the plaintifff to recover only actual
damage.
The new judgment on any such bond to operate as a discharge of the old
judgment as far as it goes.
Wrrmrur. Tassrnss.
Disability 0! persons committed for willful trespass.
Svrronr or Dmrrons IN JAIL.

51.
52.

Prison keeper may require the creditor to support the debtor.
vision.
.
Adjustment of price of articles furnished to prisoner.

Special pro

Pnov1sroxs Rsr.arx.vo TO Dnnrons ro THE STATE.
Such debtor may apply to ajustice of the supreme court.

Notice to be given

to county attorney, or attorney general.

Proceedings and power to release the debtor.
Justice may discharge him or the debt, on payment or security for a part.
Jailer to comply with decision of judge. '
Adjudication to be entered on the record.
Same power vested in the county commissioners.
Application by such debtor to take the poor debtor’s oath, and citation to the
county attorney. County attorney to attend. Oaths and certiﬁcates in
such cases.
ARRESTS ON MESNE PROCESS.

SEO. 1. No person shall be arrested on mesne process in a N0 “mat on
pro
suit on contract, express or implied, or on a judgment on such mesne
cess, on con
contract, except as provided in the following section; and the tract,&c.

writ or process shall be varied accordingly; but in all other ac R. S., c.
,5 1, 9.
tions, the original writ or process may run against the body of

H8,

636

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

OHM,_ 11-3_ the defendant, and he may be arrested and imprisoned thereon,
— —~ -— —* or give bail as provided in chapter eighty-ﬁve.
ARRESTS AND DISCLOSURES ON LEAVING THE STATE.

Debtor about

SEC. 2.

Any person, a resident within this state or not, may

f_,‘,’al,‘“'e“,‘;,°,_§,h_{,’e

be arrested and held to bail, or_ committed to prison on mesne

arresyedin

process on contract express or implied, 1f the sum ‘demanded

amounts to ten dollars, or on ajudgment on contract, if the debt
16 Maine, 398. originally recovered and remaining due is ten dollars or more,

%5]_““‘‘‘’' 77' exclusive of interest, when he is about to depart and reside be
as Maine, 45. yond the limits of this state, with property or means of his own

£3 §{“‘c‘_‘°l‘4}3?s‘ exceeding the amount required for his immediate support, if the
Wcreditor, his agent, or attorney makes oath before a justice of
the peace, to be certiﬁed by such justice on said process, that he
has reason to believe and does believe that such debtor is about
so to‘ depart, reside, and take with-_ him property or means as
aforesaid, and that the demand, or principal part thereof, amount
ing to at least ten dollars, is due to him.
Disclosureon
SEO. 3. On the arrest or imprisonment of any debtor by

";“gr‘e::l”‘;';;4_ virtue of the preceding section, on request to the oﬂicer or jailer
15 Maine,56.

who has him in custody, he may be taken before two disinter

glés" ¢' 143'

ested justices of the peace and quorum, to be selected as

'

_Mode_of mak;8Sd‘s°l‘ii‘;'°‘
,5. "c' '

provided in section forty, to disclose the actual state of his
affairs.
SEC. 4. Previous to the disclosure, he shall give due notice
to the creditor or one of them, if more than one, his agent, or
attorney, of his intention, and of the time and place forsaid
disclosure, that he may be present and select one of the justi
ces and be heard thereon; such notice shall not be less than one
day for every twenty miles travel, exclusive of Sundays.
SE0. 5. If the debtor makes a full disclosure, at the appoint
ed time and place, to the satisfaction of said justices, of the
actual state of his affairs, and of all his property, rights, and

Ju_stices may

credits; answers all proper interrogatories in regard to the
same; and signs and olfers to make oath to the truth of his dis
closure and answers before the justices, they shall administer to
him such oath, and hear any other proper evidence, offered on
either side.
SEC. 6. The justices may adjourn from time to time, if they

;,‘:J;“'':' 148

see cause; and if either of them is not present at the adjourn

Notice to be
,g-,‘,§f’“ ‘° I“‘‘“‘‘
R.S.,c.1-48,
§4§c. " '

'

ment, the other may adjourn to another_ time; but no such ad
journment or adjournments shall exceed three days in the whole,
exclusive of Sundays.
Adjudication
Sec. 7. » On such examination, the justices may discharge the
§{;§;‘,'“(§°§i;_ debtor from arrest and imprisonment, or remand him into the
charge
custody of the jailer or other oﬁicer, as the case requires; and

Q g‘“ic“"l'4§75~ in case of such discharge, no execution, issuing on the judgment
§7.

Liep o1iiproper y 1 is

clmd'ho,,
Preserved.

in the suit or process, shall run against his body, but against his
property only.

Sec. 8.

All attachable property disclosed by the examina

tion, or so much as the creditor designates to satisfy his de
mand, shall be held as attached from the time of the disclosure

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR. DEBTORS. ,

637

until thirty days after ﬁnal judgment, like other attachments; CHAP. 113.
the oﬂieer shall make return thereof on the writ or process, cer
tifying the fact that the property was so disclosed; if it is real gr. s., c. 148?
estate, he shall certify it to the register of deeds, like other
attachments; and if the creditor requires it, at any time before
ﬁnal judgment, he shall take into his custody any part of the
personal property so disclosed, sufficient to secure the demand,
and hold it as in other cases; and the provisions of section
ﬁfteen are also applicable to this class of disclosures.
DISCLOSURES ON MENSE PROCESS BEFORE JUDGMENT.

SEC. 9. When a person is served with an original writ, or Defendant may
all cases
other mesne process, founded on such contract or judgment, in in
disclose on
any other manner than by arrest of the body, he may, at any return of writ,
time before ﬁnal judgment, appear before the court or justice, R. S., c. 148,
before whom such writ or process is pending, or a disinterested § 10.
commissioner or commissioners, appointed by said court or jus
tice, and submit himself to examination; and such court, justice,
or commissioner shall give notice, and proceed to take his dis
closure as provided in sections four, ﬁve, and six, and with like
effect.
SEC. 10. On such examination, the court, justice, or commis Effect thereof;
on pro er
sioner, except as is provided in section ﬁfteen, may determine lien
ty disclose .
that the execution, on the judgment recovered in the suit, shall R. S., c. 148,
run against the property only of the defendant, or otherwise, as § 11.
justice requires, on the facts so disclosed or proved; and all at
tachable property so disclosed, from the time of the disclosure,
shall be held attached as provided in section eight, and subject
to the provisions of the two following sections.
SEC. 11. If the disclosed property is real estate, the court, Certiﬁcate of
estate dis
justice, or commissioner, shall deliver to the plaintifff a certiﬁcate real
closed to be
thereof, stating the names of the parties, and the amount of the ﬁled in registry
claim in the writ, which the plaintifff shall ﬁle with the register of deeds.
R. S., c. 148,
of deeds for the county or district where the estate lies, within § 12.
ﬁve days after its date; and the register shall enter and ﬁle it as
returns of oﬂicers making attachments on real estate, and be
entitled to the same fees from the plaintifff.
SEO. 12. If personal estate liable to attachment is disclosed, How to pre
serve lien on
and the plaintifff states that he is apprehensive that it may be re personal
moved or concealed, so that it cannot be taken on execution, the estate.
court in term time, or any justice thereof in vacation, or the jus R. S., c. 148,
tice of the peace before whom the suit is pending, may issue an § 13.
order duly signed and sealed, directing any officer, authorized to
serve processes in the suit, to take such property into his custody,
and hold it as if originally attached; and he shall execute it
accordingly.
SEO. 13. At any time before or after the return day of any Disclosure on
process
such writ or process, the parties to the suit, by a written agree mesne
by consent of
ment, may appear before a justice of the peace and quorum in parties.
the county where the suit is pending; and the defendant shall R. S., c. 148,
make the disclosures, and submit to the examination and pro 14
ceedings required in section nine, and the record thereof shall be

638

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

GHAP. 1 13. returned to the court or justice before which the suit is pending,

Execution to
issue against
the body, 620.

R. s., c. 148,
§ 15.
Certain ro
perty, w ich
cannot be
come at to be

attached, &e.
R. S., c. 148,

§ 16.

before ﬁnal judgment, where the proceedings shall be the same
as if the disclosure had been before a commissioner appointed
for the purpose.
SEC. 14. If no such disclosure and examination are made be
fore ﬁnal judgment, or if the result thereof is adverse to the
defendant’s right to exemption from arrest, the execution shall
run against his body.
See. 15. If, on any disclosure and examination. before judg
ment, it appears that the debtor possesses, has in his power, or,
with intent to protect the same from his creditors, has assigned,
secreted, or otherwise disposed of any bank bills, notes, ac
counts, bonds, other contracts, or property not exempted from
attachment, but which cannot be reached to be attached from its
nature or otherwise, the debtor, if under arrest, shall not be re
leased; nor shall he be exempted from arrest on execution on
judgment in such suit, unless he assigns and delivers to such per
son as the examining magistrate, court, or commissioner appoints,
all such property, or so much of it as they adjudge suﬂieient secur
ity for the creditor, to be held by him, under the direction of the
court or justice before which the suit is pending, in trust for the
parties, that it may be applied and appropriated as provided in
sections twenty-nine and thirty.
BONDS ON MESNE PROCESS AND DISCLOSURES AFTER JUDGMENT

Persons ar
rested may
ive bond to
isclosc in a
certain time
after judg
ment.

4 Greenl. 10.
2'2 Maine, 483.

24 Maine. 361.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 17.
1848, c. 85§ 6.

Proceedings if
debtor has
given bond on
mesne process.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 35.

Debtor may
0 at large
Ehirty days,

Ssc. 16. When a person is arrested or imprisoned on mesne
process in a civil action, he may be released, by giving bond to
the plaintifff in double the sum for Which he is arrested or im
prisoned, with surety or surcties, approved by him, or by two or
three justices of the peace and quorum of the county where the
arrest or imprisonment is made, selected and proceeding as pre
scribed in section forty, conditioned that within ﬁfteen days
after rendition of judgment, or after the adjournment of the
court in which it is rendered, he will notify the creditor, his
agent, or attorney, to attend at a certain place in the county, at
a time not more than thirty, nor less than ﬁfteen days after
such notice, for the purpose of disclosure and examination; that
he will then and there submit himself to examination; make
true disclosure of his business alfairs and property on oath;
and abide the order of the justices thereon; and if the oﬂicer
serving the writ takes such bond, he shall return it to the court
or justice where the suit is pending.
SEC. 17. After judgment, he may apply in writing to ajustice
of the peace of the county where he was arrested, who shall
issue a citation to the creditor, his agent or attorney; and an
examination and disclosure may be had before two justices of
the peace and quorum, within the time speciﬁed in the bond;
and the same proceedings shall be had, and the same results
follow, as in disclosures on bonds given on,.execution, except as
provided in the following section.
Sso. 18. If the debtor, on such examination, does not entitle
himself, in the opinion of the justices, to the beneﬁt of the oath

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

hereinafter provided, and it appears that at that time he has
any real or personal estate, liable to attachment, or any property
such as is described in section twenty-nine, they shall permit him
to go at large on his bond during the thirty days the crcditor’s
lien exists on the property disclosed; and, during that time, the
creditor may elect to arrest him on execution, or enforce his lien
on the property.

SEO. 19.

CRAP. 113_
5 7-1;
pl-l(‘;;)I:_*§t;e;li5‘:n
cl°s°d
§”'3§" G148’

If the creditor elects to so arrest him, and the officer Effectof credi

having the execution returns that he is not found, his bond shal§g’;;§,°§,‘,‘;“
be forfeited, and, on judgment thereon, execution shall issue for execution 01'

the amount of judgment in the original suit and interest.
.

.

.

.

If the ;’,th;'w‘se1'48
~| 6y

debtor 18 not arrested, within that time, and does not avoid §37.
arrest, no -execution, issued or founded on such judgment, shall
run against his body, but against his property only.
ARRESTS AND BONDS ON EXECUTION, AND DISCLOSURES THEREON.
SEC. 20. No person shall be arrested on an execution issued No arrest on
the
on adebt
judgment
is lessfounded
than ten
on adollars,
contract,
exclusive
express ofor costs;
implied,orwhere
on a 1h1m$l0

prior judgment on contract, where the amount of the origina§*-18-’°- 148'
debt remaining due is less than ten dollars, exclusive of costs;
'
and the form of the process shall be varied accordingly.
SEC. 21. In all other cases, except where express provision Arrests in

is by law made to the contrary, an execution shall run against §,t,l,‘1°:,,‘,"'§1seef,’f
the body of the judgment debtor; and he may be arrested and release

imprisoned thereon for the purpose of obtaining a discovery of as-' °- 148'
his
shallproperty
not be wherewith
required totogive
satisfy
anyit, bond
as hereinafter
for his release,
stated.but He
on ;8§57é_°"*2'
1856'. c.
request to the oﬁicer or jailer having him in custody, he may be '
taken before two disinterested justices of the peace and quorum
to disclose the actual state of his affairs; who shall be selected
as provided by law, and the proceedings before them, in making
such disclosure and determining the result thereof, shall be sub
ject to the provisions and regulations contained in sections four,
ﬁve, six, seven, and eight, and also to the provisions contained
in sections twenty-nine and thirty; and if one of the creditors,
their agent, or attorney, lives in the same town in which he is
arrested, it shall not be necessary to give more than twenty-four
hours personal notice of the time and place for attending to such
disclosure. If he is not discharged, the justices shall certify
their doings on the execution, and the oﬁicer shall make return
of costs so incurred, to be added to his fees and paid by the
debtor; if he is discharged, they shall certify that fact on the
execution, and the officer shall make his return thereon, and no
execution on such judgment shall thereafter run against the
debtor's body. If the oﬁicer fears that he cannot otherwise
safely keep the debtor till after disclosure, he may commit him
to jail.
SEO. 22. When a debtor is arrested or imprisoned on exe- Bpnd may be

cution issued on a judgment in a civil suit, he may be released §;§;‘,,°,Qc“-“°h
by giving bond to the creditor, in double the sum for which he is R‘-)S',c-148,
arrested or imprisoned, with surety or sureties approved in writ- $812,‘, 0, MA 6.

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

GHAP_113_ ing by the creditor, or by two or three justices of_ the peace
-——— and quorum, of the county where he is arrested or imprisoned,
selected and proceeding as provided in section forty, conditioned
that he will, within six months thereafter, cite the creditor be
fore two justices of the peace and of the quorum; submit him
self to examination, and take the oath prescribed in section
twenty-eight; pay the debt, interest, costs, and fees, arising in
said execution; or deliver himself into the custody of the_ keeper
of the jail to which he is liable to be committed’ under said exe
cution. (a)
A plication by
SEC. 23. A. debtor, who has given such bond, may apply ‘in

' E"*°“““‘°' writing, within the time limited in his bond, to it justice of the
bond or im.

.

risoned. &c- peace in the county where he was arrested, claiming the beneﬁt

p:is#t°fhi,°t?,‘;'e of the oath authorized in section twenty-eight; or if he is in
“Pd Place and
cite the creditor.
R.S.,c.148,
§21'22'

jail on an execution in a civil suit, he may apply to a justice of
.
. .
.
.
the same county, or at his request, the jailer shall apply in his
behalf; and in either case, the justice shall appoint a time and
place for his examination, and issue a citation to the creditor,
under his hand and seal. (b)
Citation, how
SEC. 24. The citation shall be served on the creditor, or one
;;’;:d_' 400 of them if more than one, by any officer qualiﬁed to serve civil
R, s,z:"cl_e‘148, ' process between the same parties, by reading it to him, or leav

i8‘b;32- Q31 M9 ing an attested copy of it at his place of last and usual abode,
’
’ ' or by giving it to him in hand, ﬁfteen days at least before the
time appointed for the examination, if the creditor is alive and
in the state; otherwise it shall be so served on his attorney in
the suit, his executor or administrator, or some known author
ized agent; and if no such representative can be found in the
state, such copy shall be left in like time with the clerk of the
court or magistrate who issued the execution.
Examination
SEO. 25. The examination shall be before two disinterested
"“°’° ‘w°
justices of the peace and quorum for the county, who may ad
ipstices, &'c.
_
.
.
.
.
.S.,c.148, journ as provided in section six. (0)
iii‘; Mexm_
SEO. 26. They shall examine the citation and return, and if
ination.
found correct, they shall examine the debtor on oath, concerning
12 Maine, 415. his estate and effects, their disposal, and his ability to pay the

E §£“‘;‘_°i43£6' debt for which he is committed; and hear any other legal and
§25pertinent evidenceadduced by the debtor or creditor.
Samesubjcct.
SEC. 27. The creditor may propose to the debtor any in
R,-)6S-. 0- 148, terrogatories pertinent to the inquiry, and if he requires it, they
§' '
shall be answered in writing, and the answers signed and sworn
to by the debtor; and the creditor may have a copy thereof cer
tiﬁed by the justices, on paying therefore twelve cents a page.
\Vhen the
SEC. 28. If, on such examination and hearing, the justices

i§lsI_flfIfi“s$;’{he are satisﬁed that the debtor’s disclosure is true, and they do not
oath.

discover any thing therein inconsistent with his taking the oath,

it'27s,"2zi.' 148’ they may administer it to him as follows:
(a) 20 Maine, 465; 21 Maine, 385, 430; 24 Maine, 166, 451, 546, 551 ; 36 Maine, 419.
(b) 10 Maine, 334; 15 Maine, 33, 337; 17 Maine, 96, 398; '18 Maine, 120; 32 Maine,
27; 85 Maine, 158.
(c) 23 Maine, 144; 24 Maine, 166, 196; 25 Maine, 423; 39 Maine, 267.

TITLE 111.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

641
I,
, do solemnly swear (or aﬂirm) that I have not GHAP. 113:
any real or personal estate, or interest in any, except what is
Form of the
exempted by statute from attachment and execution, and what poor debtor's
I have now disclosed; and that since any part of this debt or oath.
Maine, 53,
cause of action accrued, I have not directly or indirectly sold, 21
108.
22
conveyed, or disposed of, or entrusted to any person, any of my Maine, 493.
Maine, 509.
real or personal property, to secure it, or receive any beneﬁt from 24
25 Maine, 423.
it to myself or others, with an intent to defraud any of my credi 26 Maine, 200.
27 Maine, 419.
tors. So help me God; (or, this I do under the pains and penal 39 Maine. 355.
R. S., c. 148,
ties of perjury.)
§ 28.

When, from the disclosure of a debtor arrested or Certain pro
imprisoned on execution, it appears that he possesses or has uu- P erty dis
SEC. 29.

closed. which

der his control any bank bills, notes, accounts, bonds, or other

cannot be

contracts, or property, not-exempted by statute from attachment,

come at to be

which cannot be come at to be attached, and the creditor and

be appraised

attached, may

off to the cred
debtor cannot agree to apply the same towards the debt, the itor.
justices hearing the disclosure shall appraise and set 0133' enough of 23 Maine, 310.
Maine, 368.
such property to satisfy the debt, cost, and charges; and the cred 29
32 Maine, 458.
itor or his attorney, if present, may select the property to be ap 36 Maine, 494,
praised. If the creditor accepts it, it may be assigned and de 589.
38 Maine, 122,
livered by the debtor to him, and applied towards the satisfaction 215.
R. S., c. 148,
of his demand.
If any particular article of such property,
29. e. 85, § 5.
necessary or convenient to be applied in satisfaction of the g 848,
execution, exceeds the amount due thereon, and is not divis
ible in its nature, the creditor may take it, by paying the
overplus to the debtor, or securing it to the satisfaction of the
justices.
SEC. 30. If the creditor is absent, or does not so accept it, Creditor may
it with
the debtor shall deposit with the justices a written assignment to accept
in thirty days.
the creditor of all the property thus appraised and set 011'; and R. S., c. 148,
they shall make a record of such proceedings, and cause such § 30.
property to be safely kept and secured for the term of thirty
days thereafter, to be delivered to the creditor with the assign
ment, on demand, within that time. If not so demanded, they
shall be returned to the debtor.
See. 31. After the oath is administered and the property Form ofjus
certiﬁ
disclosed is duly secured, the justices shall make out and deliver tiee's
cate of admin
to the debtor a certiﬁcate under their hands and seals in the istration of

form following:
STATE OF MAINE.

, ss.

To the sheriﬁ‘ of the county of

, or his
deputy, and to the keeper of the jail at
, (or to any coroner
or constable.)
[L. s.] We, the‘ subscribers, two disinterested justices of the
[L. s.] peace and quorum in and for said county of - _
,
hereby certify, that
, a poor debtor arrested on a certain
execution issued by (here insert the name and style of the court,
or of the justice of the peace, and the amount of the judgment,
and date of the judgment and cxecution,) and committed to the
jail at
aforesaid, (or enlarged on giving bond to the creditor,
as the case may be,) has caused
, the creditor, to be notiﬁed,
81

Oath.
11 Maine, 238.
18 Maine, 340.
19 Maine, 452.
20 Maine, 435.
23 Maine, 489.
24 Maine, 196.
26 Maine, 444.
27 Maine, 153,
174.
30 Maine, 347.
33 Maine, 500.
34 Maine, 230.
R. S., c. 143,
§ 31.

RELIEF OF POOR DEDTORS.

642

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 113. according to law, of his desire to take the beneﬁt of the one

hundred thirteenth chapter of the revised statutes; that in our
opinion he is clearly entitled to the beneﬁt of the oath pre
scribed in the twenty-eighth section thereof; and that we have,
after due caution, administered it to him.
Witness our hands and seals, this —— day of —-—, in the

year
-—— -—, chosen by -—-.
, chosen by
Effect of such
certiﬁcate.
20 Maine, 75.
24 Maine, 451.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 32.

Eﬁect of vol
untary release
by creditor
from arrest.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 69.
Officer ma
indorse re case
on the execu
tion and pro
ceed to levy on
property.

R. S., e. 148,
§ 60, 61.

Preservation
of creditor’!
lien on real
estate dis
closed.
31 Maine, 50.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 33.

.

SEO. 32. The debtor, on delivering the certiﬁcate to the prison
keeper, or ﬁling it in his office if imprisoned, shall be set at lib
erty, so far as relates to this execution; ‘and his body forever
after shall be free from arrest thereon, and on every subsequent
execution issued on the judgment, or on any other judgment
founded thereon, except as provided in sections thirty-six and
forty-six.
SEC. 33. A creditor may discharge his debtor from arrest, or
imprisonment on execution, by giving to the officer or jailer hav
ing him in custody a written permission to go at large; and it
shall have the same effect as a discharge or disclosure.
SEO. 34. A certiﬁcate of a discharge on execution in any of
the modes hereby authorized, and of the cause of it, shall, at
any time, at the creditor’s request, be indorsed on the execution
by the ofﬁcer who had such debtor in custody; and if it is before
the return day of the execution, it may still be levied on his
property; if after, it may be renewed like other executions,
against his property only; and the judgment may be revived or
kept in force, with said execution, as judgments in other cases.
SEO. 35. If an execution debtor discloses any real estate
liable to be seized on execution, the justices shall give the cred
itor a certiﬁcate thereof, stating the names of the parties, and
the amount of the execution; and the creditor shall have alien
thereon for thirty days thereafter, if he ﬁles the certiﬁcate with
the register of deeds of the county or district where the real
estate lies within ﬁve days from the date of the disclosure; and
the register shall enter and ﬁle it like oﬂicers’ returns of attach
ments.

Lien on per
sonal estate
disclosed, 8:0.

20 Maine, 222,
465.
21 Maine. 191.
R. S., c. 148,

§ 34.

SEC. 36. If he discloses personal estate liable to be seized
on execution, the creditor shall have a lien on it for thirty days,
or so much of it as the justices, in their record, judge necessary;
and if the debtor transfers, conceals, or otherwise disposes of it
within said time, or suffers it to be done, or refuses to surrender
it, on demand, to any proper oﬂicer having an execution on the
same judgment, the debtor shall have no beneﬁt from the certiﬁ
cate described in section thirty-one; and the creditor may re
cover, in an action on the case against him, or any person
fraudulently aiding in such transfer, concealment, or disposal,
double the amount due on said execution; and any execution on
a judgment in such action shall run against the body of the
debtor and other persons so aiding; but the payment thereof shall
be a satisfaction of the original debt.

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

613
SEO. 37. Every oﬂicer, taking a bond on an execution, shall Cnar. 113.
return it with the execution for the beneﬁt of the creditor, who
taken on
may receive it on ﬁling a copy with the clerk of court, judge, or Bond
execution to be
justice to whom it is returned. He may also receive from the returned, 8:0.
jailer any such bond in his hands on the like terms.
' R. S., c. 148,
§ 38.
SEC. 38. If the debtor fails to fulﬁll the condition of such Amount re
coverable
bond, judgment in a suit thereon shall be rendered for the thereon
if
amount of the execution, costs, and fees of service, with interest forfeited.
thereon, against all the obligors; and a special judgment against R. s., c. 148,
the principal, for a sum equal to the interest on said amount, at § 39.
the rate of twenty per cent. by the year, after the breach of the
bond. (a)
ARBESTS FOR TAXES.

SEC. 39. Any person arrested or imprisoned by virtue of a Pérsons ar
for
warrant for the collection of a public tax; or any constable, rested
taxes, entitled
collector, or deputy sheriff, arrested or imprisoned for default in to the privi
of this
collecting taxes committed to him, shall have the privileges, and leges
chapter.
be subject to the obligations of this chapter, as if arrested or Variation in
form of oath
imprisoned on execution for debt ; and for all purposes relating and certiﬁcate.
thereto, the assessors who assessed the taxes shall be ‘deemed 19 Maine. 3-22.
the creditors; and corresponding verbal alterations shall be R. s., c. 148,
§ 50, 51.
made in the oath and certiﬁcate of discharge.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEO. 40. One of the justices, to hear a disclosure, may be
chosen by the debtor, and the other by the creditor, his agent, or
attorney; and if, at the time appointed, he refuses, or unrea
sonably neglects to appoint, or to procure his attendance, the
other may be chosen by an oﬂicer who has the debtor in charge,
or if not in charge, who might serve the precept on which he
was arrested; and in that case the justice chosen by the debtor,
if he deems it necessary, may adjourn once, not exceeding twen
ty-four hours, Sundays excluded, to enable the debtor to procure
the attendance of another justice. If the justices do not agree,
they may choose a third; if they cannot agree on a third, such
oﬂicer may choose him; and a majority may decide. (1))
SEO. 41. The judge of a municipal or police court shall have
the same powers, duties, and obligations under this chapter, as a
justice of the peace and quorum of his county.
SEC. 42. No criminal conviction, or other disqualiﬁcation to
be a witness, shall preclude a debtor from relief under this
chapter.
SEC. 43. If a debtor fails in any application for a discharge
from arrest or imprisonment, the creditor shall recover his costs
' as in actions before a justice of peace, and the justices shall issue
execution therefore; but no such failure shall prevent his obtain
(a
15 Maine, 340; 16 Maine, 353; 18 Maine, 120; 20 Maine, 206; 22 Maine, 160;
23 Maine, 76. 101, 2&4; 2% Maine, 123, 166; 27 Maine, 97.
Q2 20 Maine. 206; 23 Maine, 26, 489; 24 Maine, 196; 26 Maine, 101 ; 27 Maine, 551;
28 A aine, 4:58 ; 39 Maine, 504.

Manner of
selecting the
justices to take
the disclosure.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 46.

Municipal and
police judges
ma.

act.

R. ., c. 148,
§ 82.
Persons in- '
competent as
witnesses, not

recluded.
. S., c. 148,
§ 40.
Costs for cred
itor if debtor is
not discharged.
R. S., c. 143,
§ 41.

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

644

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 1 1 3. ing a discharge at any future examination, except as provided in
Bond to be
valid. though
not taken for
exact amount.

Liability of,
officer.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 43.
Limitation of
suits on bond.
10 Maine, 399.

R. S., c. 148,
§ 45.

sections thirty-four and forty-six.
SEO. 44. If by mistake or accident, the penalty of a bond
taken by an officer under this chapter, varies from the sum re
quired by law, it shall still be valid; and the oﬁicer shall not be
responsible to either party beyond the actual damage. (a)
SEC. 45. No suit, on any bond herein authorized to be given,
shall be sustained unless commenced within one year after the
forfeiture; except that the provisions of sections one hundred
and two and one hundred and three of chapter eighty-one are
applicable to such suits.
FALSE DISCLOSURI-]S_AYD AIDING IN FBAUDULENT CONVEYANCES.

Sec. 46. When a debtor, herein authorized or required to t
disclose on oath, willfully discloses falsely, withholds, or sup
presses the truth, the creditor may bring a special action on the
case against him, whether he is criminally prosecuted or not,
particularly alleging the false oath and fraudulent concealment
of his estate or property; and, on oath, before a justice of the
peace, may declare his belief of the truth of the allegations in
the writ; such justice shall certify the oath on the writ; and
thereupon the debtor shall be held to bail, or in default thereof,
committed to jail to abide the judgment in the suit; and if the
. creditor prevails in the suit, judgment shall be rendered against
the debtor, for double the amount of the debt and charges on
the former judgment; and the debtor may be arrested and com
mitted to prison on any execution issued on the judgment last
recovered, without the privilege of release or discharge, except
by payment or consent of the creditor.
SEC. 47. Whoever knowingly aids or assists a debtor or pris
Liability of
persons aiding oner in a fraudulent transfer or concealment of his property to
m fraudulent
secure it from creditors, and prevent its attachment or seizure
concealment
or transfer of
on execution, shall be liable to any creditor suing therefore in
property.
an
action on the case, in double the amount of property so
25 Maine, 249.
R. S., c. 148,
fraudulently transferred or concealed, not exceeding double the
§ 49.
amount of such creditor's demand.

Liability of a
debtor if he
discloses
falsely.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 47, 48.

DAMAGES ON BONDS.
In all actions
upon a debt
or’s bond, &c.
28 Maine, 371.
30 Maine, -157.

32 Maine, 335.
33 Maine, 383.

36 Maine. 240.
1848, c. 85,
2 2, 4.
856, c. 263.

SEC. 48.

In all actions on any bond given by a debtor to ob

tain his release from arrest on mesne process, execution, or war

rant of distress for taxes, if it appears that, prior to the breach
of any of its conditions, the principal had legally notiﬁed the
creditor, or the assessors who issued such warrant, and had been
allowed by two justices of the peace and of the quorum of the
county where the arrest was made, having jurisdiction and legal
ly competent to act in the matter, to take, and had taken the
oath prescribed in the twenty-eighth section, the damages shall
be assessed by the jury, at the request of either party; other
wise, by the court. The amount assessed shall be the real and
(a)

23 Maine, 101; 24 Maine, 646; 31 Maine, 350.

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

actual damage, and any legal evidence on that point may be in~ CHAR 113_
troduced by either party. In any such action, evidence may be —
received to show that no legal service of the citation was made
on the creditor or assessors, though it may contradict the record
and certiﬁcate of the magistrates who administered the oath.
Sec. 49.

If the whole amount due on the execution or war- The new jud rant of distress is recovered in any such action, the new judgment shall be a discharge of said execution or warrant of distress; if only a part is recovered, it shall be a discharge of such
part. If the amount of damage is not more than twenty dollars,

{)“0‘;fd‘fOno“1;‘e°r_
ate asdis
_i°,},‘(‘1‘;,g,fe§’\: :13
far as item

the plaintiﬂ"s costs shall not exceed a quarter part of the dam- 1848*’-85, l 3
age, though the penalty of the bond is more than twenty dollars.
If the verdict or judgment is that the creditor has sustained no
damage, neither party shall recover costs.
WILLFUL TRESPASS.

SEO. 50. When, in the trial of an action of trespass on property, the court, jury, or magistrate, determines that such trespass was committed willfully, and the fact is recorded, and
noted on the margin of the execution on such judgment, and the
debtor is thereon arrested and committed to prison, he shall not
be entitled to give any bond for his liberation; and if he ap
plies to take the oath described in section twenty-eight, no notice
shall be issued to the creditor till at least thirty days after his

Disability of
§’n°i'ti:f1‘s,.‘fI°m'
willful tres
PR“: 148
§54_'’ 0' ’

commitment.
SUPPORT OF DEBTORS IN JAIL.

SEC. 51. When a person is committed to prison on mesne prison keeper
process or execution, or delivers himself into the custody of the ‘c':‘3§i{§‘rl§:°
jailer to save the condition of a bond given on execution, and support

makes a written complaint, by him signed and sworn to, stating d°b‘°'_' &°'
that he is unable to support himself in jail, and has not sufficient Z2
333:
property to furnish security for his support, the jailer may require
of any one of the creditors, their agent or attorney, security for
his support; and unless it is satisfactorily furnished within eight
days after the request, or money is paid in advance therefore from
time to time, he may release him; but when a debtor is commit
ted on more than one execution-at the same time, the jailer shall
be entitled to pay for board only on the ﬁrst execution, to be
paid for equally by all the creditors, on whose executions he is
committed; and the ﬁrst creditor may have an action against
the other committing creditors for their proportion thereof; and
if such debtor is discharged on the ﬁrst, the jailer shall notify
the next committing creditor of his liability to pay for his sup
port, as on the ﬁrst execution.
SEC. 52. In case of dispute about the price of such support,

£1-56$-, 0- 148,
1542', c,23§ 1,
2

Adjustment of

the county commissioners may determine it, not exceeding two "f,‘,°,'_3 °'s“P‘
dollars and twenty-ﬁve cents a week.

§.57s., c.148,

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

646

[TITLE IX.

Cnsr. 113.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEBTORS TO THE STATE.

Such debtor
may apply to a
justice of the

SEC. 53. Any person committed to jail in any county on ex
ecution, warrant of distress, or other ﬁnal civil process for debt,
penalty or costs, due to the state, may make application in writ
ing to a justice of the supreme judicial court for relief, whether
the court is in session or not; who shall appoint a convenient
time and place to inquire into the circumstances of the peti
tioner; givc such notice thereof as he thinks proper to the
attorney general, or county attorney for the county where the
commitment is made, to attend the hearing in behalf of the

supreme court.

Notice to
attorney gen
eral, 8:0.

R. s., c. 148,
§ 63, 64.

state.
Proceedings
and power to
release the
debtor.

R. s., c.14S,
§ 65.

Ju e may
disiharge him
or the debt,
&c.
R. S., c. 148,
§ 66.

SEO. 54. The justice shall consider all proper evidence of
fered on either side, and may require the oath of the petitioner
to all or any of the facts by him stated; and if satisﬁed that the
prisoner is unable to pay any part of the amount due on such
process, may order his discharge from imprisonment, having ﬁrst
administered to him, if he thinks proper, an oath substantially in
the form prescribed by the twenty-eighth section.

SEO. 55.

If, on examination, it appears to the justice that the

prisoner is able to pay only a part of the amount due, he shall
order his release from imprisonment, and, if he thinks it more

for the interest of the state, may order the whole debt to be
discharged, upon his paying or securing such sum of money, or
assigning to the state such securities or other property, at such
time and in such manner, to be deposited with such public oili
cer, as he directs.

SEO. 56. The jailer having charge of the debtor shall there
upon release him from conﬁnement, or give him a full discharge
from the demand on the terms prescribed.
Sec. 57. If such proceedings are had when the supreme ju
Adjudication
to be recorded. dicial court is not in session for the county, the justice shall
R. S., e. 148,
cause his adjudication and discharge to be entered of record as
§ 68.
of the last preceding term of the court therein.
SEO. 58. The county commissioners, at a regular session, or
Same powers
vested in the
a
majority
of them in vacation, on application, may exercise the
county com
missioners.
powers, and their pr0ce‘edings shall have the like effect, provid
R. S., c. 148,
ed iu the ﬁve preceding sections.
§ 69.
SEC. 59. A person committed on execution as mentioned in
Application
by such debtor section ﬁfty-three, desiring to take the oath provided in section
to take the
poor debtor's twenty-eight, may apply to the jailer, who shall apply in writing
oath.
to a justice of the peace in his behalf, and he shall issue a cita
Notice to
county attor
tion as herein before prescribed, to be served on the county at
ney.
torney for the same county, who shall attend at the time and
Oath and
certiﬁcate.
place, by himself or a competent substitute as attorney to the
R. s., e. 148,‘ state, and a disclosure may thus be had, and all the proceedings
§ 70, 71, 72.
and the effect shall be the same as in the disclosures of execu
tion debtors to individual creditors; and the justices of the
peace and quorum hearing it may, if they see cause, administer
an oath, and grant a certiﬁcate to the debtor as hereinbefore
provided, with verbal alterations to conform to the case.
Duty of jailer.

R. S., c. 148,
§ 67.



