MANNER OF NOTICE... .REMEDIES IN EQUITY.

estate for the payment of such sum as shall be adjudged on
such process ; and the Sheriff or other officer to whom the

213

Ch. 49.
^~v-*^

same shall be directed, shall at public auction sell so much
of the same lands as shall be sufficient to pay the same, with
all charges, unless the same shall be otherwise discharged.
[Approved February 24, 1821.]

Chapter 49.
AN ACT directing the manner of giving notice in certain cases.

_E$E it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa- Notice to be
ffiven ii

lives, in Legislature assembled, That in every case, where Portland news
paper in cer
any notice respecting real estate is now required by law to be tain cases.
given by advertisement, in one of the Boston newspapers,*
[*189]
or in the newspaper of the printer of the General Court, for
die time being, such notice instead of being given in said
Boston newspaper, or in the newspaper of the printer of the
General Court, for the time being, shall hereafter, be given
by advertising in one of the newspapers printed in Portland,
and in one of the newspapers printed in the county where
such real estate lies, or the next adjoining county, if any such
newspaper there be. [Approved June 17, 1820.]

Chapter .TO.
AN ACT for giving Remedies in Equity.

Sect. 1. DE it enacted by the Senate and House of Equity power»
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That the Justices f^" c^unis
of the Supreme Judicial Court shall have power and authority j° ^ustsu.n<lcr
to hear and determine in equity (a) all cases of trust arising &«•
(a) I. A statute granting chancery powers to relieve against all penalties and
forfeitures, in actions at common law, it seems, may be allowed, if such is
its general language, to operate upon penalties and forfeitures already incur214
Ch. 50.
v^^"*-/
Feb 10, 1818,
' J

REMEDIES IN EQUITY.
under deeds, wills or in the settlement of estates (b) ; and all
cases of contract in writing, where a party claims the specific
performance of the same, and in which there may not be a
plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law (c) . And the

What kind of bill or complaint in such cases may be inserted in a writ of
iLed*"
attachment or original summons, returnable to the same Court ;
and such writ be served on the adverse party as other writs
of attachment, or original summons are by law to be served.
And the said Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court shall
may use pro- have authority to issue all such writs and processes as may be
cen to execute
. .
_
.
,
,
the powers necessary or proper to carry into effect the powers hereby
8™nte '
granted : and to make from time to time all necessary rules (d)
rules, not re- and orders for the convenient and orderly conducting of the
pugnant to.
,
,
.
Constitution said business : Provided, the same be not repugnant to the
constitution and laws of this State; and provided also that
to contracts the cases of contract, to which this act shall apply, shall be
within this
such only as shall be hereafter made in writing, or which have
act.
red at the time of its enactment, without violating the principle that Tested
rights are not to bo disturbed. Potter vs. Sturdivant, 4 Glf. 154.
2. In equity, relief will be given against mere lapse of time where that is
not of the essence of the contract; if the party seeking relief has acted fairly;
unless the delay of performance on his part has been so long as to justify the
inference that he had abandoned the contract. Gctchell vs. Jeusett, 4 Glf.
850.
3. The want of mutuality in a contract a no objection in equity, if it has
been signed by the party sought to be charged, lb.
4. The equity jurisdiction given to the S. Court was not intended to im
pair or relax the rules of evidence which govern contracts nnder seal, or writ
ten contracts.

Dxeight vs. Pomeroy JJ- als. 17 Mass. 825.

(&) This provision is applicable only to express trusts, arising from the
written contracts of the deceased ; and not to those implied by law, or grow
ing out of the official character or situation of the executor or administrator.
Given fy ux. vs. Simpson 4" al. 6 Glf. 303.
(c) 1. It is not necessary, to found a decree for specific performance of a con
tract, that the breach be such as would support a claim for damages at law.
Getehell vs. Jewett, 4 Glf. 850.
2. The party sought to be charged may shew by parol, that by reason of
fraud, surprise, or mistake, the contract does not truly exhibit what was
agreed on between the parties.

Bradbury vs. White, 4 Glf. 391.

(d) For rules, see 6 Glf. 481.

REMEDIES IN EQUITY.

215

so been made since the tenth day of February in the year
eighteen hundred and eighteen.

Ch. 50.
v^-v-w

Sect. 2. Be it further enacted (e), That in all causes
brought before the Supreme Judicial Court of this State or
before any* Circuit Court of Common Pleas to recover the
.
forfeiture annexed to any articles of agreement, covenant, contract, or charter party, bond, obligation or other specialty
or for forfeiture of real estate upon condition, by deed of
mortgage, or bargain and sale with defeasance (/), when the

[*100]
Courts may
exercise chanas to forfeit"J^J judg-"
ment *"? "j1"1'

forfeiture, breach or non-performance shall be found by Jury, due.
by the default or the confession of the defendant, or upon demurrer, the Court before which the action is, shall make up
.,..-,,..,_
,
.
judgment therein for the plaintifff to recover so much as is
due according to equity and good conscience (g).
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted (/i), That when any action shall be brought and prosecuted on any bond or other
specialty, with penalties, for the payment of sums of money,
performance of covenants, contracts, agreements, matters or
. .
.
.
..
iii>>/r>
things to be done at several times, and the plaintifff recover
the forfeiture of such penalty ; the Court shall enter up
judgment for the whole of such forfeiture, and award execution only for so much of the debt or damage as is due (i) or
(e) § 2 relates only to specialties under the hand and seal of the party
contracting; and not to recognizances. Paul vs. JVowell, 6 Glf. 289.
(/) 1. All estates upon condition do not fall within the range of the reme
dies in equity given by the statute; but such only as arise from deeds of mort
gage, or of bargain and sale with defeasance Frost vs. Butler, 7 Glf. 230.
2. The defeasance must be of as high nature as the conveyance; must be
executed at the same time, and is to be considered as a part of it. Kelleran
vs. Brown, 4 Mass. 445.
(g) When the statute authorizes the court to proceed according to equity
and good conscience, it was undoubtedly intended that they should proceed,
as to the subject matter of their jurisdiction, in the same manner as courts of
a similar jurisdiction proceed in England, to whose laws and forms of trials
all our statute provisions are referable, when no particular provision for tho
mode of trial is enacted.

Pomeroy vs. Winship, 12 Mass. 525.

(ft) See note e to § 2; also ch. 497, Vol. 3, p. 343.
(t) In a hearing in chancery upon a penal bond, it is the plaintifff''» duty
to show how much is due in equity and good conscience. Gowen vs. JVow
ell, 2 Glf. 18.

No^'i, 1785,
$ 1-1
[See ch. 463,
Vol. 3, p.304.]
in case 0f peti
^'^"to'1^*
tcr judgment
penalty and isfor 6um due.
[Mass. Stat,
}%\ ' ' '

6ue execution

216
Ch. 50.
v-*""v'"*-/

REMEDIES IN EQUITY.
sustained at that time (j ), so always that the said judgment
shall stand and be a security to the plaintifff, his executors

Voi?34>.304.j ana administrators for any further and after payment or dam
ages he or they may have just right to, by the non-perform
ance or breach of the covenants, contracts, agreements or
things in such bonds or other specialties contained ; and who
may have a writ or writs of scire facias (fc) on said judgment
from such Court, where the same was obtained, against the
defendant, his heirs, executors or administrators, suggesting
Further dam- other and further damages sustained by non-performance or
penaUy,Ptrhc breach of such covenants, contracts and agreements, and to
recovered on suramon hjm or them to show cause why execution should
scire tac i as—

Proceedings
in such cases.

*

not be awarded upon said judgment for other and further
damages, as set forth in the writ and made out to the Court ;
upon which the Court shall proceed as aforesaid, as often as
*

such damage shall accrue, and be sued for as aforesaid ; or
may have his action of debt, or on the case, as the case may
require for such payment or damages as aforesaid.
In scire facias
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted (I), That in all actions
™e.r*™:^" of scire facias broueht in the name and on behalf of the State,
sons as princi^

'

either in the Supreme Judicial Court or any Circuit Court
( j) 1. In such case the court will enter up judgment for damages incurred
up to the time of rendering judgment— and will not restrict the plaintifff to
such damages only as were incurred at the time of commencing the action.
Waldo vs. Fobes If at. 1 Mast. 10.
2. Conditional judgment in a mortgage shall be for the amount of princi
pal and interest due, though it exceed the penalty of the bond. Pitts vs.
Tilden If at. 2 Mass. 118.
3. Interest beyond the penalty of a bond may be recovered in the shape of
damages, even against a surety. Harris vs. Clap If at. 1 Mass. 308; War
ren vs. Thurlow Sf als. 15 Mass. 154.
(k) Scire facias may run against the body and property of the respondent,
by ch. 463, Vol. 3, p. 304.
(2) 1. § 4 relates only to recognizances taken or entered into in criminal ca
ses, or by witnesses conditioned to appear in behalf of the State. Paul vs.
JVowell, 6 Glf. 239.
2. The provisions of § 4, were plainly intended for cases of unavoidable
accident, or irresistible necessity, and for the relief of unfortunate persons,
and not for cases where the principal may be produced. Com. vs. Dana,
14 Mass. 65.

COURTS OF PROBATE.

217

of Common* Pleas, to recover the penalty or forfeiture of any Ch. 51 .
recognizance (hi) taken or entered into in criminal prosecu- "^pqTT
tions, either by principal or sureties, or by witnesses to ap- pal,sureties or
-ii-i t ncmocJ "
pear at either of the aforesaid Courts, and give evidence on cmiru may rethe part of the State, when the forfeiture, breach or non-per- ™|£, p^jjjy'
formancc of the condition of such recognizance shall be found
by the default or confession of the party, or by verdict of Feb.26,1811.)
a Jury, or upon demurrer, the Court before which such action
may be brorght, may render judgment therein for the State
according to the circumstances of the case, and the situation
of the party, and may remit either the whole, or any part of
the penalty of such recognizance, upon such terms and con
ditions as to them shall seem reasonable and just ; any law
or usage to the contrary notwithstanding. [Approved Feb
ruary 20, 1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 4G2, Vol. 3, p. 303.

Chapter 31.
AN ACT to regulate the jurisdiction and proceedings of the Courts of Probate.

Sect. 1. JjE it enacted by the Senate and House °f Co„ns0(pr0.
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That a Court of ba'e establishProbate (a) shall be held within the several counties of the
(w) 1. Debt, as well as icire facias, lies on a recognizance to the State.
Com. vs. Green, 12 Mass. 1.
2. In a scire facias upon a recognizance taken by a Justice of the Peace
in a criminal case, it must appear that the recognizance has been returned to
the Court having jurisdiction of the matter. State vs. Smith, 2 Glf. 62.
3. A scire facias can only issue from a court in possession of the record
upon which it issues. Com. vs. Downey, 9 Mass. 492.
(a) The connty Courts of Probata were never established by any statute,
until the act ofMarch 12, 1784. Before the revolution, the judges of probate
were considered as surrogates of the Governor and Council, who derived from
the royal charter the authority to prove wills and to grant administrations.
A provincial act was passed for erecting courts of probate in the several coun
ties, but it was negatived by the king. A number of other acts were afterwards
passed, which recognize the power of the courts of probate, and regulate »pVOL. I.

28

290

Ch. 54.
v-*~v~'*-'
No contract for

sale of goods
morc^ good™or"p«rJ7exe^
c\|o1' s
Jtmp 19, 178S,
52]

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

price of thirty dollars or more, shall be allowed to be good,
except the purchaser shall accept part of the goods so sold,
,

„

.

•

■•

and actually receive the same, or give something m earnest
to bind the bargain, or in part payment, or that some note or
memorandum in writing of the said bargain be made and signed by the parties to be charged by such contract, or their
agents thereunto lawfully authorized. [Approved March 8,
1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 358, Vol. 3, p. 209.

Chapter 54.
AN ACT establishing a Supreme Judicial Court within this State.

Court esubhshed.

Sect. 1. IjE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That there shall

July 3, 1782, be a Supreme Judicial Court within this State, to consist of
5 '•'
one Chief Justice and two other Justices, each of whom shall

Jurisdiction,
[So modi of §
1, rq>eaK;n, as
requires two
Justices to constitute a quo««.. ' Sco cii.
a! p. 490 VO'

be an inhabitant of this State, of sobriety of manners and
learned in the law, to be appointed and commissioned as is
by the Constitution provided, and they or any two of them,
shall be a Court, and have cognizance of pleas real, personal
anj mixed ; and of all civil actions between party and party,
and between the State and any of the citizens thereof, whether the same d0 concern the realty, and relate to right of freeJ'
"
hold, inheritance or possession, whether the same do concern
,
the personalty, and relate to any matter of debt, contract,
damage or personal injury ; and also all mixed actions, which
^° concern the realty and personalty brought legally before
the same Supreme Judicial Court, by appeal, review, writ of
error, or otherwise ; and in all such actions real, personal
and mixed, to give such judgment, and award such execution,
as die common rules of justice and the laws of this State shall
direct ; and shall take cognizance of all capital and other of
fences and misdemeanors whatsoever of a public nature, tendagainst an action of trespass by the original owner.
7 Glf. 451.

Erskinc vs. Plummcr,

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

291

ing either to a breach of the peace, or the oppression of the Ch. 54.
citizen, or raising of faction, controversy or debate, to any ^~~*-**s
manner of misgovernment ; and of every crime whatsoever
that is against* the public good, and shall by virtue of their [*242]
office, be severally conservators of the peace throughout the
State. And upon all persons duly and legally convicted be
fore the said Court, of crimes, offenses or misdemeanors, to
inflict such punishment as by the laws of the State is provi
ded. And in case of legal conviction, where no punishment
by statute law is provided, then the said Court shall punish
the person so convicted, according to the common usage and
practice within this State, not repugnant to the Constitution,
according to the nature of the offense. And said Court are
hereby invested generally with all the jurisdiction, power and
authority, except in relation to the appointment of Clerksf, ftSee ch. 90,
and enjoined to perform all the duties, which by existing laws
adopted by the Constitution, and not repugnant thereto, ap
pertain and belong to the Supreme Judicial Court. And may
issue all manner of writs, executions, certificates and pro
cesses whatever, for carrying into effect and authenticating
any judgment, order or adjudication whatever, which may
have been rendered in the late Supreme Judicial Court, in
any county within this State, prior to the sixteenth day of
March last ; and all suits, writs, executions, certificates and
processes, when so issued, shall be of the same effect, and
be executed, levied and extended in the same manner, as if
issued on any judgment, order or adjudication of the Court
hereby created ; and all records and documents of the late
Supreme Judicial Court, now remaining in the several coun
ties in this State shall be placed and remain under the con
trol and authority of the Supreme Judicial Court of this State,
in the same manner and for the same purposes as the records
and documents of their own doings, and the Clerk of the
same Court shall have the like power in relation to the one
as the other of those records and documents.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That the same Supreme May order the
Judicial Court, may by certiorari (a) or other legal methods, inferior court*
(a) 1. Upon certiorari an order of notice issues, and upon a return of the
record the Court inspect it, and, if they find errors, will quash the procood292

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

cause to be brought before them, as well indictments or oth
er criminal prosecutions or civil proceedings pending in, as
i«fore iiienl? the records of sentences, orders, decrees, and judgments of
[lb. $ 2.J
any Court of inferior, criminal or civil jurisdiction, and to pro
ceed, order and award thereon, as is or shall be by law pro
vided and directed. And the said Supreme Judicial Court
[*2431 is* empowered to impose and administer all oaths, as well
A"d a^"n"' those that are necessary for promoting justice between par
ty and party as those necessary to the conviction and punAn<i punish for 'snment of offenders ; and to punish at the reasonable discoutempts.
cretion of the Court, all contempts committed against the
authority of the same ; and the said Court shall have power
to issue all writs of prohibition and mandamus, according
to the law of the land, to all Courts of inferior judiciary
powers, and all processes necessary to the furtherance of jus
tice, and the regular execution of the laws,
h^totofihe
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That all writs and profirm Justice, cesses of the same Court, shall be in the name of the State
ings without an assignment of errors, which is necessary upon a writ of er
ror. Com. vs. Shelden fl- als. 3 Mass. 188.
2. Where the error is merely in the forms of the proceedings, not affect
ing the substantial justice of the cause, the court will refuse the writ of certi
orari. Ex parte, Miller, 4 Mass. 565; Weston If als. ex parte, U
Mass. 417; Freetown vs. Bristol, C. C. S Pick. 46.
3. This court will not grant a certiorari to bring before them the pro
ceedings of a Court Martial. Ex parte, Dunbar, 14 Mass. 393.
4. A certiorari will not be granted unless probable cause bo shown for
•apposing injustice has been done in the court below. Lees vs. Childs, 17
Mass. 351.
5. Where the proceedings of the court below are, in any stage of thein,
different from the course of the common law, the only mode of correcting
any error that may have occurred is by a writ certiorari. Melvin vs. Bridge,
3 Mass. 305; Edgar vs. Dodge, 4 Mass. 670; Com. vs. B. H. T. Corp.
bMass. 420; Com. vs. Ellis, 11 Mass. 465.
6. Judgment for costs cannot be rendered upon a certiorari, but only the
proceedings affirmed or quashed, lb.
7. Certiorari does not lio to quash proceedings in the location of a town
way. Harlow vs. Pike, 3 Glf. 438.
8. Hayward Pet. 10 Pick. 358; Gilc vs. Moore, 2 PicU. 886; Clark vs.
Com. 4 Pick. 125; Com. vs. Hall, 8 Pick. 440.

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

of Maine, bear test (b) of the first Justice, who is not a parly to the suit, and shall be under the seal of the same Court
and signed by the Clerk.
Sect. 4. Beit further enacted, That the same Supreme
Judicial Court, shall and may, from time to time, make, record, and establish all such rules and regulations with respect to the admission of Attornies and Counsellors, ordinarily practising in the said Court, and all other rulesf respecting modes of trial, and the conduct of business, as the discre
tion of the same Court shall dictate. Provided always, That
such rules and regulations be not repugnant to the laws of
the State.
Sect. 5. [Repealed, sec ch. 219, § 9, vol. 3, p. 49.
It provided the linns of holding the S. J. Court in the several* counties for
the year 1820.]

293

Ch. 54.
^-"--~»May make
j^'"^^''^
a"0"1"*, &c.
[lb. § 4.]
[fi Gif. 4io.]
Proviso.

[ *2 1 1]

Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That all actions and Actions now
civil suits of every name and kind, which may be pending in PeildlnBthe Supreme Judicial Court for the counties of Cumberland
and Oxford : or for the counties of Kennebec and Somerset ;
or for the counties of Hancock, Washington and Penobscot,
on the first day of April next ; which shall have been origin
ally commenced in the Courts of Common Pleas for the
counties of Oxford, Somerset, Washington or Penobscot re
spectively ; all petitions in which the petitioner may be an
inhabitant of either of said counties, and all indictments
against any person or persons for offenses committed within
either of said counties, shall be transferred and removed to,
entered, heard, tried, and proceeded upon, at the Supreme
Judicial Court, then next to be holden within the said coun
ties of Oxford, Somerset, Washington and Penobscot re
spectively, within which the said actions originated and were
commenced, the said petitioners reside, and the said offenses
may have been committed ; and all the papers and docu
ments, belonging to all such actions, suits, petitions and in
dictments,* shall be delivered over to the Clerks of the said
counties of Oxford, Somerset, Washington and Penobscot
respectively. And all appeals which may be made from

[*245]

(6) 1. Ripley, ex. vs. Warren, mini. 2 Pick. 592.
2. Taylor vs. Henry, 2 Pick. 397.

f

294

Ch. 54.
»-*"v-^

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

any Court of Common Pleas, and all recognizances which
may be taken, and all offenses which may be committed
within either of the said counties of Oxford, Somerset,
Washington and Penobscot, after the first day of the terms
of the Supreme Judicial Court to be holden prior to the first
day of May next, for the counties of Cumberland and Ox
ford, and for the counties of Kennebec and Somerset, and
for the counties of Hancock, Washington and Penobscot
respectively, shall be entered, heard, tried, prosecuted and
proceeded upon, at the Supreme Judicial Court then next
to be holden within and for the said counties respectively,
where the appeals may be made, the recognizances may be
taken, and the offenses may be committed.
S«CT. 7. [Repealed; see ch. 219, $ 9, Vol. 3, p. 49.
It empowered one Judge to adjourn the Court in case a quorum was not present.

Judgment how
to be entered
m certain
a""*rMam. St«t.
Feb. is, 1816,

Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That when at any term
°f tne Supreme Judicial Court holden or to be holden in any
county any actions shall have been continued nisi for adJ'
J
visement by the Court, or for argument by consent of parl'es> ana" l'ie Justlces °f said Court shall have determined
(he same before the next term of said Court holden in the

§ l & 2.

[•246]

same county, it shall be lawful to enter judgment upon said
actions as of the last term of said Court, at which said ac
tions shall have been continued, or at the succeeding term.
And whenever the Clerk of said Court in any county shall
enter a judgment upon any action by order of the Justices
of said Court out of term time, he shall enter upon his docket* the time when he shall receive such order, and all liens

created by attachment on mesne process in said actions, shall
continue and be in force for and during thirty days after the
then next term of the Supreme Judicial Court for said county,
any thing in the law to the contrary notwithstanding.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That the Governor, by
Reporter to be an(] wjth the advice of the Council, shall, as soon as may be
appointed.

'

J

after the passing of this act, appoint some suitable person,
nfar^'s Tsoi ^earne{l m tne 'aw» t0 be a Reporter of the decisions of the
§ *•]
Supreme Judicial Court, who shall be sworn to the faithful
discharge of his duty, and shall be removable at pleasure of
the Executive ; whose duty it shall be, by his personal at

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

295

tendance, or by any other means in his power, to obtain Ch. 55.
true and authentic reports of the decisions, which may here- v-^-v*-'
after be made by said Court, and shall publish the same
whenever they will compose a suitable volume.
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That the said Report
er shall receive out of the Treasury of this State, six hun
dred dollars annually, which together with the profits arising [Ib- $2-l
from the publication of his said reports, shall be a full com
pensation for his services aforesaid ; and that the money, paid
by persons admitted to practise as Attorneys in the Supreme
Judicial Court shall be a fund for the payment of said sum :
and if insufficient, to be paid out of any other monies in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Sect. II. Be it further enacted, That this act shall continue in force during
the term of three years from the passing the same and no longer. [Approved June
oi im i
24, 1820.]

[§ 11, repealJJi vidc cn^00, vol. 3, p.
22.]

Additional Act, ch. 200, vol. 3, p. 22. See also ch. 219, vol. 3, p. 45.

Chapter 55.
AN ACT to alter the limes of holding the Supreme Judicial Court, and Circuit
Court of Common Pleas, in the County of Cumberland*.

[*247]

[Repealed, see ch. 234, vol. 3, p. 63, and ch. 326, vol. 3, p. 172.]

[Approved March 21, 1821.]

Chapter 56.
AN ACT in addition to "An Act establishing a Supreme Judicial Court within
this State."

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa- In certain catrees, in Legislature assembled, That in all actions, peti- J^™ J»^°
tions, and civil suits pending before the Supreme Judicial power to hear
■»
r
*j n
1
decide
Court, wherein any two of the Judges of said Court, have causes,
been of counsel for either party, or are otherwise interested
in such actions, petitions or civil suits, one of the Justices of
said Court, who has not been counsel or otherwise interested

296

REVIEWS.

Ch. 57.
v~'""v~*"'

as aforesaid, shall have full power and authority to hear, adjudge, and determine said actions, petitions, and civil suits
with or without the intervention of a Jury, as the parties may
by their pleadings, or agreed statements of facts, render ne
cessary according to law ; any thing in the act, to which this
is an addition, to the contrary notwithstanding. [Approved
March 8, 1821.]

Chapter 57.
AN ACT defining the powers of die Judicial Couru in granting Review! and for
other purposes.

When there is
cause to set aside a verdict,
teamed!"**
Junel's, vras,
$ ^l

Sect. 1. M$E it enacted by the Senate and House of
n
r
Hepresentativcs, in Legislature assembled, That wherever
^ere snaN have been my leg*"" cause for any Judicial Court
before judgment, to set aside any verdict, but nevertheless
judgment* shall have been rendered on such verdict, the party
aggrieved by such judgment may petition the Justices of die
Court, at any of their terms, for a review of such cause ; and
!£" atd oT t,le said Justices on due notice to the adverse party, and full
condition.
consideration (a) of such petition, are hereby empowered (if
they see fit) to grant a review (6) of the said cause on such
(a) 1. The affidavit of a petitioner in such case may be used on the hearing
of the petition, to prove facta, known to himself only. Coffin vs. Abbot, 7
Mass. 252.
2. Depositions of other persons are not received on such hearing, unless
taken with the usual forms, as depositions in the trial of a cause. lb.
(6) 1. Whnre a witness, whose testimony was in favor of the prevailing par
ty in a cause, is afterwards convicted of perjury in giving such testimony, the
Court, in the exercise of its discretion under this statute, will grant a writ of
review. Morrill, petr. vs. Kimball, 1 Glf. 322.
2. A writ of review cannot be granted in a criminal case, under any of
the provisions of this act. Wells' case, 2 Glf. S22.
3. Reviews are bad only in actions commenced by writ.
Bowen, 7 Mass. 93 ; Pope vs. Pope, ex. 4 Pick. 129.

Borden vs.

4. Whether the provisions of this statute extend to prosecutions under
the statute for the maintenance of bastard children. Quere; Gowen, em
parte, 4 Glf. 58.

-. ^^

REVIEWS.

297

terms and conditions! as to them ma.y seem just and reason- Ch. 57.
able between the said parties.
,iv^TX>a
r

[tSecch.o02,

Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That whenever by reason of any accident, mistake, or any unforeseen cause, judgment shall have been rendered on discontinuance, nonsuit,
nil dicit, non sum informatus, report of referees, or default,
or suits may have been discontinued without judgment, to the

vol. 3, p. 350.]
^'""acciS"
mistake, &c.
judgment lias
been rendered,
tIb" ' -1

5. Whether the process by petition for partition is within the meaning of
this statute, quere. Sturdioant vs. Greely If als. 4 Glf. 534.
6. But if it is, no review can be had of either one of the judgments in
partition, without the other. Therefore, where the judgment quod partitio
fiat was rendered upon demurrer, the title of the petitioners not being con
tested, but a mistake was made by the commissioners, which was not dis
covered till after the final judgment; it was held that a review could not be
granted, for the correction of this error. lb.
7. By the subsequent statute of Feb. 7, 1828, judgments upon petitions
for partition are open to review. See ch. 384, vol. 3, p. 233. But the ap
plication for such review must be made within three years after the rendition
of the judgment complained of. See ch. 432, vol. 3, p. 276.
8. No new trial or review will be granted on account of newly discover
ed evidence which is merely cumulative. Warren vs. Hope, 6 Glf. 479.
9. Reviews and new trials will be granted where a material witness,
whose testimony at the trial was against the interest of the petitioner, has
discovered since that he testified incorrectly by mistake. lb.
10. Or when the newly discovered evidence relates to confessions or de
clarations of the other party respecting a material fact, and inconsistent with
the evidence adduced by snch party at the trial, lb.
11. Or where such evidence was placed beyond the knowledge or con
trol of the petitioner, by means of the other party, and with a view to preju
dice the petitioner's cause. lb.
12. A writ of review does not lie upon a judgment rendered on a report
of referees. Dickerson vs. Davis, 4 Mass. 520. See Stone 4* ah. vs.
Davis 4- als. 14 Muss. 360.
13. A writ of review is a writ of right, in the nature of a scire facias
to hear errors, in a record or process remaining with the court. Burrell
vs. Burrell, 10 Mass. 222.
1 4. A review commenced and discontinued is not a bar to another re
view in the same action, if not prevented by other limitations, lb.
15. A review may be granted on the petition of a trustee, who suffered a
default upon a scire facias. Ex parte, Packard, 10 Mass. 426. Sec
Perry vs. Goodwin, 6 Mass. 498.

Vol. i.

38

298
Ch. 57.
v-""v"*"

REVIEWS.
hindrance or subversion of justice, the said Justices, on petition as aforesaid, are further empowered to grant a review

S. J. Court

may gram a
in ail civil aeT^'naMe."
rMaas. Stat,

of the action. And the said Justices shall be, and they are
hereby vested with discretionary power, to grant reviews in
a^ (c) c'v" acti°ns5 in manner as aforesaid, whenever they
g^j judge it to be reasonable, without being limited to par5 2-]
in case of
juiigments

ticular cases.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That wherever, by reason 0r any 0f tne causes mentioned in the last enacting clause,

rendered in
"
3
'
Common Pleas any judgment in the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, or beor before Jus- ._.,._

ticc under cer- fore any Justice of the Peace, may have been rendered in
.
.
....
.
stances,
manner as m the same clause is mentioned ; or any appeal
may have been prevented or lost to the hindrance or subver[Mass. Stat.
.-..,
June is, 1788, sion of justice as aforesaid ; and the party aggrieved shall
]
produce in, and file with the Clerk of the Supreme Judicial
Court a copy of record of the cause duly attested, and shall
Court may
petition the Justices of the same Court for a review of the
grant a review
.
._ .
.t _
on petition of cause, in manner as aforesaid, the said Justices may grant a
party injure ; review 0f tne sg\^ cause m manner aforesaid to be heard and
tain circumprovided ap- determined in the said Supreme Judicial Court : Provided,
ma'de'wUhin -That application be made to the Justices of the said Court
Syears.
within three years after the rendition of the judgment com[tHowe vs.

plained of, and only onef review shall ever be granted in any

Mass. 490.]

action by virtue of this act.

When review
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That whenever a review
writ'tonbe sued 's granted by virtue of this (d) act, a writ of review shall be
(c) 1. The S. J. Court, in the exercise of its general power to grant reviews
in all cases, will not sustain an application for the review of an action in a Jus
tice's Court, where the party may have redress in the C. C. Pleas. Mer
rill vs. Crockett, 6 Glf. 412. See ante, note a, 0.
2. The discretionary power, under this section, does Bot extend to ap
peals from probate courts. Dean vs. Dean, 2 Mass. 150.
('/) 1. When granted under this statute the writ mast be entered at the next
following term, unless otherwise specially provided in the order of the Court
by which the review is granted. Hobart vs. Tilton, 1 Glf. 399.
2. But since the foregoing decision, the S. J. Court may allow entry of
writs of review at the second term after being granted, by ch. 347, § 5, vol.
S, p. 195.
S. It is further provided by ch. 602, § 4, vol. 3, p. 351, as follows:—
"That all writs of review shall be served within one year from the term
when judgment is rendered on the verdict in the original action."

REVIEWS.

sued out and prosecuted to final judgment and execution.
And the* party bringing such action of review, shall produce
,
.
» i
...
in Court attested copies of the writ, judgment and all papers
used and filed in the former (e) trial, and each party shall have
the liberty to offer any further evidence ; and the whole
cause shall be tried in the same manner as if no judgment
had been given
thereon: and the former jjudgment
may
be
°
o
j
reversed in whole or in part, or greater damages or less, or
.
°
no damages may be given, as the merits of the cause upon
law and the evidence shall appear to require.
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That the Justices aforesaid to whom any petition shall be preferred in manner aforesaid, are further empowered to stay execution in the cause on
such conditions (/) as are before mentioned ; and whenever
the same Justices shall adjudge that the petitioner shall take
Dothing by his petition, they are also empowered to award
the respondent his costs, and execution may be sued out accordingly.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That whenever by
reason of any accident, mistake (g) or unforeseen cause, an
appeal in a civil action or complaint may not be entered at
the Supreme Judicial Court at the proper term of said Court
•
i
t
/~i
i
for entering the same, the Justices ot the same Court be, and
they are hereby empowered, on the petition of the party, at
their discretion, to order such appeal or complaint, to be entered at any» other term of said Court,' within the countyJ
where the judgment appealed from shall have been rendered ;
and to proceed to try the appeal or affirm the former judgment, with additional damages and costsf, in the same manner
as they might have done if the said appeal or complaint had
(e) The deposition of a person used in a former trial is competent evidence
in a review, though the deponent is a party to the suit, having beconio ad
ministrator of one of the original parties.

Gold vs. Eddy,adm. 1 Ma$$. 1.

(/) See ch. 502, § S, vol. 8, p. 351 ; Luckport vs. Keen, 7 Mass. 500;
Bingham vs. Pepoon &al. 9 Mass. 340; Bacon vs. Otis, 11 Muss. 407; Rice
vs. Towtiscnd, 14 Mass. 366.
(g) 1. The mistake or accident must be specified in the petition of the party so
as to enable the Court to judge thereof. Jackson vs. Goddard, 1 Mass. 230.
2. The petitioner will be confined to the facts and witnesses named in the
petition.

Warren vs. Hops, 6 Glf. 479.

299

Ch. 57.
^-*"*-*-'
ou* and prosecutcd:
Proceedings.
Fe£"26 1737
i1,2-l.
,
runner judgment may >»
reversed in
whole or part,
Execution to
Jon* &c.COn
Jun?i8, nss,
* 6-^
Cost*.
whenbyacciJJJJ °&c™ls*
an
I or com
plaint was not

entered at the
Pr0pw term,
s. j. Court
c"ntry0ateranv*
other term»
[Mas»- s™\
June 18,1791,
§ i.j
nnd ^ &„
^^"^ 444>
vo1- 3> P- 286•'

300
Ch. 57.
v-"-"~»-'

REVIEWS.
been entered at the proper term for entering the same ; and
the said Justices are hereby vested with all the discretionary

8. J. Court to

.

'

.

.

. :

have same dis- power respecting such appeals or complaints with which
powers"'^ in they are vested, in the cases of petitions for review mentionviT""n8 le~ e<^ m tms act • Provided, That no petition for entry of such
Proviso—peappeal or complaint shall be sustained, unless such petition

tmon must be

rr

f

_

*

presented

shall be exhibited to the Court within one year after the

year after the
fiT/Tandpropnot'to^te'af?
fected by such

term at which such appeal or complaint ought to have been
entered. And provided also, That no goods or estate attacnea> or Da'l given upon the original writ shall be affected
by any thine; done by force of this section ; but the same

proceedings.

J

J

a

•>

[*250]

shall* remain discharged, notwithstanding the entry of any
such appeal or complaint as aforesaid.
Power of c.
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That every Circuit
to' apS" M Court of Common Pleas within this State be, and they are
from Justice's hereby vested with the same powers respecting appeals made
complaints,

.

.

taxi

defaults, and from judgments rendered by Justices of the Peace, and cornjudgments by

.

mistake, &c. plaints lor not entering the same ; and also respecting all
actions and suits before Justices of the Peace wherein the
[Mass. Stat.
,
June is, 1791, damage laid does not exceed twenty dollars, and wherein
the defendant has been defaulted for want of actual notice
of the suit, or by some other accident or mistake, with which
the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court are by this act
vested, respecting appeals from judgments rendered by Cir
cuit Courts of Common Pleas, and complaints for not enter
ing the same, and respecting the granting reviews in the cer
tain other actions or suits before mentioned, wherein the de
fendant has been defaulted, or lost his law.
A person
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That in all cases in
whose claim a.
gainst an in- which any person shall have presented any claim for aJlowwolvent estate
.
,.
,
,. . ,
..
. . .
.
.
has been re- ance t0 anY Board of Commissioners which may have been
missionersC°ind aPPointed by any Judge of Probate, to receive and examine
take &c T" tne c'a'ms aga'nst the estate of any deceased person, which
omitted or
may have been represented insolvent, and such claim shall
may omit to

•

j i

•

•

i

i

Kjve notice of have been rejected by such commissionersf, and a return of
sue at common tne'r doings made to the Judge of Probate, and the claim
ant, who has or may prefer such claim for allowance has by
6*25? ante, 5p.' acc'aent> mistake or otherwise, omitted to give notice, or
233.]
shall hereafter omit to give notice at die Probate Office,

REVIEWS.

301

within twenty days after the making of such return of the
commissioners, that it is his or her intention to have such
•

i

in

,• •

Ch. 57.
>-*-v~w
[Mass. Stat.

claim determined at common law, the Supreme Judicial Dec. 4, 1316.]
Court, at any session thereof, holden in any county, upon such
claimant's presenting a petition for relief, and making it to ''«'<»> to imtiappear that he or she has reasonable grounds for expecting
to support his or her claim, and that he or she has [not ?] lost
his or her right to institute a suit against the executor or ad
ministrator of such estate, and have such claim determined at
common law, by his or her negligence, is hereby authorized
and empowered after due notice to the adverse party, to
grant such claimant a right to institute a suit for the recov
ery* of such claim against the executor or administrator of
[*25l]
such insolvent estate, at the next Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, to be holden in the county in which such executor or
administrator dwells ; and the same proceedings shall be had Proceedings
m such suit, as are by law provided in suits instituted by on had, in
claimants for the recovery of claims against insolvent es- suc casa'
tates, which have been rejected by the commissioners ap
pointed to receive and examine the claims against such es
tates : Provided however, That no such petition shall be sus- Proviso—
taincd unless the same shall be presented within two years Such applica,

c

,

/•

i

•

•

i

tion

must

"•

from the return ot the report ol such commissioners to the made within
Judge of Probate and that the distribution of any insolvent .w°5'
'
3

J

Any

previous

estate which may have been made previously to the present- distribution of
t '

*

*

L

estate, not

to

ing of such petition and notice thereof to the executor or ad• •
r
i ii
t.
ii
i t.
i
• j
ininistrator of such estate, shall not be disturbed by the judgment which may be recovered in any such suit; nor shall
the right to institute any such suit be granted to any claimbe disturbed,
ty after judgment.
^bT granted
*{^r ^'j?*^

ant after four years shall have elapsed, from the time of grant....
ing administration on such estate.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That in all such cases
where any married man shall have absented himself from

grant ofadminiteration,
gup. Court
™JriJ.je^ a

this State abandonine his wife, and not making sufficient pro- m»n> •<> *u
°
'
.
ner rea' or p^r'
vision for her support (h) or maintenance, the Justices of the sonnl estate in
Supreme Judicial Court are hereby authorized at any of the
(fc) See "An Act authorizing Judges of Probate, in certain cases, to ap
point Guardians to married women;" ch. 380, vol. B,p. 230; also, ch. 485,
vol. S, p. 334.

302
Ch. 57.
v"*~v-*"'
[Mast. Slat.

REVIEWS,
terms of the said Court, upon the application of any such
wife, to empower and enable her during; the absence of her
'

r

°

Ni>». 21,1787, husband from this State, and no longer, in her own name (»)
to make and execute any contract either under seal or oth
erwise, and by deed to sell and convey any estate real or
personal, of which at the time of such sale, she shall be
and to prose- seized or possessed in her own right ; and to commence,
cute and der
...
.
/-,.,
fend actions u prosecute and defend any suit in law or equity to final judg^ eme e, ment an(j execution, in the same manner as if she was sole
and unmarried ; or the said Justices may grant to any such
wife any or all the powers above described according as
they shall judge the circumstances of such wife shall require.
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That if any such husturn he shall band should return into this State while any contract made by
contracts of his wife, pursuant to the powers aforesaid should remain unW'[*252]
discharged,* the same remedy shall lie against such husband,
[lb. § 2.]
as if the contract had been made by her before the marSuitofthe wife riage ; and no suit pending, wherein his wife shall be a party,
by his return, pursuant to the said powers, shall abate by his return into
this State.
Coart to ive
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That when application
notice, 4c. be- shall be made by any wife for any or all of the powers aforefore granting
. . ,
T
.
.
such powers to said the Justices of the said Court, shall previous to their
granting any of the powers aforesaid, cause such public nolib. § 8.]
t;ce ^j ) 0r tne ggjj appiication to be given as by law they
are directed in case of any libel filed by any married woman
for a divorce. [Approved March 15, 1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 502, Vol. 3, p. 350.
(») At common law the deed of a married woman is ipio facto void, onless joined by the husband; nor when joined by the husband, is she liable on
any of the covenants, further than as they operate as an estoppel. Fowler
M. Shearer, 7 Mat$. 21, and Colcord <V at. vs. Swan tf %ue. »b. 291.
(j) 1. An order to give notice by publishing in a newspaper three weeks
successively is complied with, by publishing in such paper in three successive
weeks, although there be not an interval of a week between either of the
publications. Bachelor vi. Bachelor, I Man. 256.
2. Rule, to shew cause why a writ of review should not be qnasbed.
was granted on affidavit of the party stating that ho had no notice of the ap
plication for the writ of review. Clap vt. Jotlyn, 1 Matt. 129.

INSANE PRISONERS.

Chapter 58.

303

Ch. 58.

AN ACT extending the powen of the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, in
certain cases.

Sect. 1. Jt»E it enacted by the Senate and .House of Persons acRepresentatives, in Legislature assembled, That whenever any ;'„ ' sup°n jild.
person who may have been arrested and in custody, or in pris- —"ua'd of Inon, to answer for any crime or crimes, offense or offenses, Kia'ty> &cJ ,
may be combefore the Supreme Judicial Court, shall be acquitted there- mitted to prisr
i
• i-iii on until restorof by the Jury of trials J or shall not be indicted by the ed to reason,
Grand Jury, by reason of the insanity or mental derange
ment of such person, and the discharge, or going at large rMass. Stat,
of such person shall be deemed by the same Court to be § i.j
dangerous to the safety of the citizens, or to the peace of
the State, the said Court be, and hereby is authorized and
empowered to commitf such person to prison, there to be [t § l modifidetained till he or she be restored to his or her right mind, "0f. ^p. 320.]'
or otherwise delivered by due course of law. And every
person so committed shall be kept at his or her own expense, pense.
if he or she have estate sufficient for that purpose ; other
wise at the charge of the person or town, upon whom his or
her maintenance would have been legally chargeable, if he
or she had not been committed as aforesaid.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That whenever the if no indictGrand Jury, upon any inquiry which they may hereafter tyGrandJury,
make as to* the commission of any crime or offense by any {Jor Traverse"
person, shall omit to find a bill for the cause aforesaid, it shall Jl,ry for. 8Uch
*
<
cause, they
be the duty of such Jury to certify the same to the said Court, shall so certify
And whenever the Jury of trials, upon the general issue of [»253]
not guilty, shall acquit any person for the cause aforesaid, it fn,, 5 2.]
shall be the duty of such Jury, in giving in their verdict of
not guilty, to state that it was for such cause.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That any one of the
Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, or any two Justices s. J™ Court, or
of the Peace, quorum unus, within their county, may dis- two Ju"tlce"'
charee (a) from confinement any such person, when it shall be may d'«harge
.
..-.
a person so
made to appear to his or their satisfaction, that the going at convicted,
large of such person will not be dangerous to the safety of [lb. § s.]
the citizens and to the peace of the State.
(a) Or commit, originally.

See onward, ch. Ill, § 6.

''

304

Ch. 59.
v-'-v~**-'

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That upon the application of any friend or friends of such lunatic person, the Suany one of 'the preme Judicial Court, or any one of the Justices thereof, or
j»stS°quo-° any two Justices of the Peace, quorum unus (b), of the coun«Um|ication of ty m which such person may have been in prison, as aforefriend- of a lu- sa\d be anj are hereby authorized and empowered to comnatic may com'

*

m

*

mit him to the mit to the custody and safe keeping of such friend or friends,
frienV^on
such lunatic person : Provided however, That such applicant
^"e'n.'&'cf
or applicants shall first give bonds, with sufficient surety or
given
sureties, to the Judge of Probate for the county in which
[lb. § 4.]
such lunatic is confined, conditioned for the safe keeping of
[See ch. 51, § sucn lunatic person, and for the payment of all damages
this vol.]

which any person may sustain, by reason of the acts and do
ings of such lunatic ; which bond shall be approved by the
Court, Justice or Justices aforesaid, and may be put in suit
for the benefit of persons interested, in like manner as is by
law provided in case of probate bonds : Provided, That
nothing in this act contained, shall deprive any person of the
benefit of the writ of habeas corpus.
[Approved March 17,
1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 474, Vol. 3, p. 320.

[•254]

Chapter 59.*
AN ACT regulating Judicial Process and proceedings.

Sect. 1. JdE it enacted by the Senate and House of
ing writs of at- Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That when the
Mmmoningde'! goods or estate of any person shall be attached at the suit of
fendant.
another, in any civil action, a summons in form prescribed
Mass. Stat. by 'aw> snau De delivered to the party whose goods or estate
Feb. 17, 179S, are attached, or left at his or her dwelling house or place of
last and usual abode, fourteen days before the day (a) of the
sitting of the Court where such attachment is returnable ;
(ft) It is only necessary that one of the Justices should be of the quorum.
Gilbert v>. Swcetsir, 4 Glf. 488.
(a) Meaning the first day of the term.

Anon. 6 Mass. 198.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

305

and if the defendant was not at any time an inhabitant (b) or Ch. 59.
resident within this State, or has removed therefrom, then s-*">'-w
such summons shall be left with his tenant, agent or attor
ney ; and such service shall be made by the officer to whom
the writ may be directed who shall return the same accord
ing to the precept thereof : and if such defendant shall not
have a tenant, agent or attorney within the State, and his
goods or estate shall be attached as aforesaid, the officer
shall return the writ with his doings thereon ; and such ac
tion being duly entered, the "Court may order such notice to
the defendant, as justice may require.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That in all suits wherein Mode of wrT.
the process is by original summons, as against executors, iaS ot'f™'£
administrators or guardians, in ejectment, dower, scire facias,
error, review, and all other civil actions wherein the law
does not require a separate summons to be left with the de
fendant, the service thereof by the proper officer shall be
good and valid in law, either by his reading the writ or orig
inal summons to the defendant, or by leaving a certified
copy (c) thereof at his or her house or place of last and usual
abode, fourteen days before the same is returnable ; and in
all real actions, where the defendant or defendants in re- view, where
view live out of the State, so that the writ of review cannot out of state.
be served upon him or them, the service of such writ upon
the tertenant or person in possession shall be deemed a good
and sufficient service, and the defendant or defendants shall
be held to answer thereupon accordingly.
Sect. 3*. Be it further enacted, That in all (d) actions
r»2S5]
(6) When it appears to tho court thai neither the defendant, nor any prop
erty of his, is within the jurisdiction of the commonwealth, the court will
■tay all further proceedings. Lawrence vs. Smith #• at. 6 Mast. 862.
(c) The blank form of a trustee writ was made use of to effect an at
tachment, but the pin in i i T did not insert the name of any trustee; and the
defendant was served with a copy of the writ,. Held, that this process was
valid, by virtue of nt:it. Juno 16, 1798, § 1 — [ch. 61, § 5, in this volume.]
JBadlam ex. vs. Tucker JJ- at. 1 Pick. 389.
(*/) 1. The provisions of § 3, are not lo be restricted to those cases only in
which the defendant has property in this State; but extends to all cases
where the process is by originul summons. JVclton vs. Omaiey, 6 Glf. 218.
2. Peck vt. Warren, 8 Pick. 163.

Vol. i.

S9

(

V

306

Ch. 59.
v-""""~w

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

wherein the process shall be by original summons as aforesaid, and the defendant was at no time an inhabitant or resivice, when de- dent within this State, or has removed therefrom, then the
ncveran iuiiab- service thereof shall be in like manner by the proper officer's
uant of
c' reading the same to, or leaving a like copy duly attested
with the tenant, agent or attorney of the defendant, the like
number of days before the day of the sitting of the Court
whereto the same process shall be returnable ; and if such
defendant shall not have a tenant, agent or attorney within
the State, the Plaintiff or demandant may enter his action
and the Court may order notice to the defendant in the man
ner provided in the first section of this act.
In actions of
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That in actions of dower
ouieTreai ac- an<^ other real actions, wherein the possession of land or
tiona, summon, buildings shall not be demanded in the writ of the tenant in
to be also serv^

ed on tcrten- the actual possession or occupancy thereof, in addition to a
service on the defendant in the writ or summons as afore
said, there shall be a service on such tenant the like number
of days before the day of the sitting of the Court by the prop
er officer's reading to him or her the same writ or original
summons, or leaving a like certified copy at his or her house
or place of usual abode on the premises, which shall also be
certified by the proper officer ; or the writ shall abate.
Mode of »erSect. 5. Be it jurther enacted, That when two or more
vice of process are jointly obligated by act of law or agreement, and one or
on joint conJ

J

°

'

°

tracu,
when more of them are without the Slate, havineO rproperly
or esone or rauio
r
J
defendants live tate, but no tenant, agent, trustee or attorney within the
State.
same, the property or estate of those so without the State,
*■ ' ' '■'
may be attached, and the summons being left by the officer
serving the writ, with those within the State, shall be deem„ .
ed a legal service on those without the same : Provided, one
Continuance to
,
be granted in continuance shall be granted, unless the plaintifff can show
that notice has been given to the person so out of the State,
in which case the Court may proceed at their discretion,
without granting a continuance.
., , ,
Sect. 6. Beit further enacted, That when a suit shall
Mode ot per*
'
vice on towns, be brought against any town, parish, or against the proprieproprietors,

&c.
[*250]

e

i

tors of any common or undivided lands or other estate, the
plaintifff* shall cause the Clerk of such town, parish or propriJUDICIAL PROCESS.

307

etors, or one or more of the Selectmen of such town, or as- Ch. 59.
sessors of such parish, to be served with a copy of the writ ^*^-*"
of summons, at least thirty days before the day of the sitting
of the Court to which the same shall be returnable (e).
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That when a suit (/) Wnennone of
shall-be broueht, and no one of the defendants named in the tim defendant!
,

.

.

...

writ, shall, at the time of the service thereof, be an inhabitant or resident within this State, or then be present within
the same, and shall not return before the time of trial ; or if
the action shall be grounded on a tort, and any one of the deJ

are in the

State at the
nor retUrn beJf™,.;," ^t
proceedings
arc to be had—

fendants shall so be absent or not inhabitant or resident,
and not return ; then the court wherein such suit shall be
pending, shall continue the same to the next term, on a sug
gestion of the fact being made on the record. And if the
defendant, whose absence was noted on the record, shall not ance—
then appear by himself or attorney and be so remote that the
notice of such suit pending could not probably be conveyed
to him or her during the vacation, the said Court may fur
ther continue the action to the next term, and no longer.
And in such cases where judgment shall be entered up by :nd.mcn,
default after one or two continuances as aforesaid, execution
and execution.
or writ of seizin shall be stayed and not issue until the plain
tiff or demandant shall have given bond (g) with sufficient
sureties in double the value of the estate or sum recovered
by such judgment, to make restitution, and to refund and
pay back such sum as shall be given in debt or damages ;
or so much as shall be recovered upon a suit therefore, to be
brought in one year next after entering up the first judg
ment ; if upon such suit the judgment shall be reversed, an(e) Bullard vs. Nantucket Bank, 5 Mass. 100.
(/) Provisions of § 7, do not apply to a process of foreign attachment;
but in such process, if the principal shall be absent, the cause shall be con
tinued to the third term, undor the provisions of ch. 61, § 3, vol. 1, p. 287.
Spratt fit. Webb, 1 Glf. 325.
fj») 1. If nn execution be issued in such case, without tho previous filing of
a bond, it cannot be avoided collaterally, but is good till superseded. Gar
diner Man. Coy. vs. He aid, 5 Glf. 381.
2. A writ of error does not lie to reverse a judgment against a defendant
out of the Stale, because the plaintifff sued out bis execution, without filing a
bond pursuant to the stntuta. Johnston vs. Harvey, 4 Matt. 483.

'

308

Ch. 59.
^^~^
Proviso as to
fng'^iln lai
fcnduu ice

[•257]

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

nulled or altered ; the security aforesaid to be no further answerable than for the recover)' that shall be made on such
suit, to be had within one year as aforesaid : Provided nevertheless, If any plaintifff or plaintifffs in any such suit shall at
an)' tune after ^e service of the original writ or summons
as aforesaid, and thirty days before the term of said Court,
in which judgment may be rendered in manner aforesaid,
cause the defendant or defendants in the case (being out of
this State) to be notified of such suit by serving him or them
with an attested copy of such writ or summons, and the officer's* return thereon, and shall file in said Court the deposi

tion of one witness, being an inhabitant of this State, that
such copy of said writ or summons was left with said de
fendant or defendants, or at his or their last and usual place of
abode, in such case the plaintifff or plaintifffs may have his or
their writ of execution or seizin, in the same manner as though
the said defendant or defendants had appeared in said Court
and made answer in said action, without such bond being
given in manner aforesaid : Provided also, That no real es
tate taken in execution, granted upon such first judgment
shall be conveyed by such plaintifff or demandant, until the
expiration of the said one year, or after a new trial brought
within the said space of one year.
All original
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That all (h) original
endorsee1, &c. wr'ts issuing out of the Supreme Judicial Court, or Circuit
[Mam Stat Court °f Common Pleas, or from a Justice of the Peace, shall,
°"- 30' 1784> before they are served, be endorsed on the back thereof by
the plaintifff (i) or plaintifffs, or one of them, with his chris{h) 1. Writs ol replevin must be endorsed.
200.

Gould vs. Barnard, 3 Mast.

2. A writ of error need not be endorsed.
Mass. 74.

Grosvenor vs. Danforth, 16

(i) 1. Whether the clerk of a militia company, suing for a penalty, should
endorse the writ with his own name, provided the captain has endorsed his
approval of the suit as required by eh. 164, § 46, vol. 2, qucre. Abbot vs.
Crawford, 6 Gtf. 214.
2. A proehtin ami is a party, within the meaning of the statute, and his
endorsement is good. Crotsen vs. Dryer, IT Mass. 222.
S. If the original writ be endorsed with the name of the plaintifff, "by A.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

tian and surname, if he or they are inhabitants of this State,
or by his or their agent or attorney, being an inhabitant thereof; and where the plaintifff is not an inhabitant of this State,
then his writ shall be endorsed in manner aforesaid, by
some responsible person who is an inhabitant of this State,
provided that the Court may upon motion in consideration
that the agent or attorney who endorsed the writ, is not of ability for the purposes hereafter mentioned, order that the plaintifff
shall procure a new(j) endorser, and such new endorser shall
B. his attorney," the attorney is personally liable for cosls, under the provis
ions of§ 8. Davis vs. McArthur, 3 Glf. 27; Chapman vs. Philips, 8
Pick. 25.
4. Such an endorsement also disqualifies the attorney from being a wit
ness on the part of the plaintifff. Chadwick vs. Upton Sf Trus. 3 Pick. 442.
6. Want of an endorser on an original writ, must be pleaded in abate
ment at the return term. IVhiting vs. Hollister, 2 Mass. 102.
6. Such a defect may be taken advantage of in abatement, cither by plea
or on motion, but cannot avail the defendant after pleading in chief. Clapp
vs. Batch, 3 Glf. 216.
7. If the endorsement of a writ does not contain the whole christian
name, and is not objected to by the defendant on that account, the endorser
cannot afterwards take advantage of this omission to avoid his own respon
sibility. Strout If al. vs. Bradbury If al. 5 Glf. 313.
{j) 1. It is within the equi'y of this statute for the court to order on motion,
a new endorser, where the plaintifff had endorsed the writ and subsequent
ly absconded and left the State. Oystcad vs. Shed If als. 8 Mass. 272.
2. Where the S. J. Court order a new endorser under the above provis
ion, in an action originally commenced in the C. C. Pleas, an endorsement
on the office copy of the original writ filed in this court, is sufficient to bind
the endorser, without any endorsement of the original writ in the court be
low. Hartwell vs. Bemmenway, 7 Pick. 117.
3. A new endorser, who is substituted for the original endorser, is liable
for all the costs recovered against the plaintifff, arising from the commence
ment of the action, Dot merely for those accruing subsequent to the new en
dorsement, lb.
4. The court will not allow a change in an endorsement of a writ, with
out the consent of the defendant. Ely If al. vs. Forward If al. 7 Mass.
25; Caldwell vs. Lovett, 13 Mass. 422.
5. Where a person summoned as trustee is discharged and recovers judg
ment for costs against the plaintifff, the endorser of the writ is not liable for
such costs, his liability only extending to costs recovered by the defendant.
Chapman vs. Philips, 8 Pick. 26.

309

Cu. 59.
*~*~<-*-/

New endorser
SCa may t» rec,u,re

310

Ch. 59.
v-*"v~*-'

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

be held in the same manner as if the endorsement had been
made before the writ was served, and unless the plaintifff shall

procure such new endorser when directed thereunto by the
Court, he shall become nonsuit, but no costs shall be award
ed against him. And the plaintifff's agent or attorney who
shall so endorse his name upon an original writ, shall be
,. .... . f _ liable (k) in case of the avoidance or inability of the plaintifff
dorien.
to pay the defendant all such costs as he shall recover, and
to pay all prison charges (/) that may happen where the plain
tiff shall not (m) support his action.
In what coiinSect. 9. Be it further enacted, That when the plaintifff
mnn be com- and defendant both live within the State, all personal or tran[ibn.C§di3.]
sitory actions shall be brought in the county where one of
[•258]

the* parties (n) lives.

And when an action shall be commenc

ed) 1. The proper remedy against the endorser of n writ is by scire faciat.
Reid vs. Blaney, 2 Clf. 128; How vs. Codman, 4 Glf. 79.
2. In scire facias against the endorser, no interest is allowed on the
judgment in the original suit. To.
S. The endorser of an original writ is not liable to the defendant for his
costs, unless an execution be sued out within a year against the plaintifff1,
and ha avoid it, or be committed to prison upon it; one of which facts must
be alleged in a scire facias brought against tho endorser for such costs.
Ruggles If al. vs. lees, 6 Mass. 494.
4. But the endorser is liable, although scire facias be not sued out within
a year after judgment. Miller vs. Washburn, II Mass. 411.
5. The common law, that the agent acting in the name of his principal,
does not bind himself, is altered by § 8, so far as it regards endorsers of writs.
How vs. Codman, 4 Glf. 79.
(I) "Prison charges" do not include the sheriff's fees on execution. How
vs. Codman, 4 Glf. 79.
(m) 1. When the plaintifff appeals, and recovers a less sum than entitles him
to costs, on the appeal, but costs are awarded the defendant on the appeal,
the endorser of the writ is not liable for the defendant's costs. Fairbanks
vs. Townscnd, 8 Mass. 450.
2. When the plaintifff becomes nonsuit, the endorser is liable.
vs. Whiting, 10 Mass. 359.

Talbot

(n) 1. By parties, tho legislature meant individuals, and not the inhabitants
of a county, who sue or are sued as a corporation. The inhabitants of the
county of A. cannot thereforee in their corporate capacity maintain an action
against an inhabitant of another county, in tho C. C. Pleas for the county
of A. Lincoln Coy. vs. Prince, 2 Mass. 644. See below, note p, 2.

1 UDICIAL PROCESS .

311

ed in any other county than as above directed, the writ shall
abate (o) , and the defendant shall be allowed double costs.

Ch. 59.
v^-v-^

Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That any local or tran- where actions
sitory action against the inhabitants of any county in this "gam»t counState, in their corporate capacity may be commenced and brought,
prosecuted to final judgment and execution (p), either in the ..
g
county where the plaintifff in such action lives, or in the Mar. 6, isio,
county against which the action shall be brought, at the and wnere acplaintifff's election, and any local or transitory action in which ^'f "countfmay
the inhabitants of any county shall be plaintifff's, may be com- •» brought,
menced and prosecuted to final judgment and execution, in
the county where the defendant in such action shall live, un2. A turnpike corporation is not within the purview of §9.

T. If S. B.

T. Corporation vs. Whiting, 9 Mass. 321.
3. When an action arises partly from matter of record, and partly from
matter in pais, in different counties, the plaintifff may bring his action in
either county. Marshall vs. Hosmer, 3 Mass. 23.
4. When an action of covenant is founded on privity of contract between
the parties, their executors or administrators, it is transitory, and may be
sued as such; but when it is founded on privity of estate, the action is then
local, and must be sued in the county where the land lies. Licnow vs. El
lis, 6 Mass. 332.
5. The design of the legislature appears to have been, that a defendant
should not be called to answer out of his own county, except in n county
where a plaintifff lived, or where a defendant lived, unless all the plaintifffs
lived out of the State; in which case, the plaintifff or plaintifffs might elect
their county. Day If al. vs. Jackson If al. 5 Mass. 239.
6. By ch. 359, vol. 3, p. 210, it is provided, that actions of assumpsit be
fore a Justice of the Peace, in which there shall be two or more defendants
living in different counties, may be brought in either county where either
defendant lives. And the writ and execution is to be varied and obeyed in
either county; and also in any county where personal property may be found
and seized, belonging to either defendant.
(o) The defendant may waive the exception, and will be considered as
waiving it, unless he Beek the remedy by plea in abatement. The exception
is not to the jurisdiction of the court, but to the writ. Cleveland vs. Welsh,
4 Mass. 592.
(;i) 1. In judgments recovered against the inhabitants of a county, the es
tate of every inhabitant is liable to be taken in execution to satisfy such judg
ment.

Hawkes If al. vs. Inhbts. of Kennebec, 7 Mass. 463.

2. An action against the inhabitants of a county may be brought to the
C. C. Pleas holden for the same county. Brown vs. Somerset Coy. 11
Mass. 221.

See above, note n, 1.

312
Cm. 59.
■~*~^^*s

JUDICIAL PROCESS.
less the defendant shall be an inhabitant of the same count/,
;n which case the action may be commenced and prosecuted

in either of the adjoining counties.
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That when any cor....
.
poration shall be a party in any action commenced by or against
between corpo- (he inhabitants of any county in this State, in their corpo
rations and
t
,
counties are to rate capacity the action shall be commenced and prosecuted
to final judgment and execution, in one of the counties ad[Ib. §2.]
. . .
,
°
.
. •
i
joining the county interested in the same.
Where artion>
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That any local or tranby plaintifffs

against their
arV1 to" be"
brought.
[lb. § 3.]

.

.

.

.

sitory action against the inhabitants ot any county by any
plaintifffs belonging to such county, shall be commenced and
prosecuted to final judgment and execution in such county,
or ;n an a(jj0jning county at the plaintifff's election.

Where actions
Sect. 13. Be it further enacted, That any local or trano? on™ county sitory action by the inhabitants of one county against the inagainst Mhab- ijaDitants 0f another county shall be commenced and prosituntsof annth1

er, shall be ecuted to final judgment and execution in an adjoining
|lb.°§4.]
county.
.Actions
.
.
Sect. 14. Be it Jfurther enacted,' That no action shall
to be
entered at c. be entered at any circuit Court of Common Pleas after the
C.C. Pleas first

'.

day of term, first day of the sitting thereof: Provided nevertheless, That
«*
where, by any inevitable misfortune or accident, the plaintifff
July 3, 1782, shall be prevented from entering his action upon the first day
of the sitting of the Court, he may upon making the same
appear to the Court, enter his action at any time before judg
ment is given for cost to the defendant.
r*259]
Sect. 15". Be it further enacted, That when any defenappcari'nir, to dant snaU be duly served with process, and return thereof
be defaulted s]la]j De ma^e ;nt0 tne Court where the same is returnable,
and damages

assessed.

and he shall not appear by himself, or his attorney, his deOct!'sb, 1784, '"au't sna" De recorded, and the charge in the declaration
5 7-l
shall be taken and deemed to be true (g), and the Court
(7) 1. In nn action where the principal suffers default, his sureties are not
thereby precluded from any mutter proper for their defense; the default is to
be taken as true only against the parly defaulted.
als. 4 Glf. 75.

Foxcrofl es. A"evens B[

2. A judgment rendered upon default is valid, though it does not appear
explicitly that the court inquired into the damages. Jareii »*. Blanchard,
6 Mass. 4.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

shall thereupon give such damages as they shall find upon inquiry that the plaintifff shall have sustained, unless the plain313

Ch. 59.
^-*~v-w

tiff shall move to have a Jury to inquire into the damages,
in which case the Court shall enter up judgment for such
damages as the Jury shall assess : Provided nevertheless, Defiiu|t ma ,,„
That if the defendant shall come into Court at any lime be- taken off> in
...

case, on payfore the Jury is dismissed, and shall pay down to the ad- mem of cost*,
verse party the costs he has been at, thus far, or so much
thereof as the Court shall judge reasonable, then the Court
may admit the defendant to have the same day in Court, as
if his default had never been recorded.
Sect. 16. Be it further enacted, That no summons, circumstantial
writ, declaration, pica, process, judgment or other proceed- ™'rfje amendings in the Courts or course of justice, shall be abated, ar- "' on I,10,,on»
rested, quashed, adjudged insufficient or reversed, for any
kind of circumstantial (r) errors or mistakes, when the person
3. When after default, damages are assessed for the plaintifff either by
the jury or the judge, and the judge admits illegal evidence, the party ag
grieved may filo exceptions to such admission, and thus bring the question
before the whole court.

Storer vs. White, 7 Mass. 448.

4. Papers filed in a case as evidence in ascertaining the plaintifff's dam
ages after default, are no part of '.he record, nor can the court take notice of
them upon a writ of error brought to reverse the judgment for such dama
ge*, lb.
5. If a plaintifff recovers judgment by default, upon an account annexed
to tho writ, in which account credit is given the defendant for certain servi
ces at their full value, this judgment will be a defense to an action for tho
same services, brought by the same defendant against such plaintifff during
the pendency of the first action. Brings vs. Richmond, 10 Pick. 391.
(r) 1. The omission or insufficiency of tho ad damnum in a writ, cannot
properly be considered as merely a circumstantial error within the mean
ing of § 16, after the rendition of judgment. And thereforee where no dam
ages had been laid in the writ, tho plaintifff after verdict and before judg
ment, may have leave to amend. McLellan vs. Croftnn, 6 Glf. 307.
2. Leave to amend is granted at the discretion of the court; and the ex
ercise of ibis discretion cannot be impeached by n bill of exceptions.
Wyman vs. Dorr, 3 Glf. 183. See Daniclson /r at. vs. Andrews If at. 1
Pick. 156.
3 An amendment by which the plea is changed, so as to niter a plea of the
cane to a plea of debt or trespass, is not within the discretion of tho com t;
to alter the writ and declaration in a writ of entry so as to make it a writ cf

Vol. i.

40

314

Ch. 59.
*-'"'"*■'

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

and case may be rightly understood by the Court, nor through
defect or want of form only ; and the Court, on motion

made, may order amendments, but shall not allow costs, or
grant a continuance in consequence thereof.
On nomuit,
Sect. 17. Be it further enacted, That when any plainAc. party pre- t jff s^a]| in any stage of his action become nonsuit (s) , or
vailing entitled

JO

\ lJ

to bia co«ts.

discontinue (t) his suit, the defendant shall recover his costs

[lb. § 9.]

against him, and in all actions, as well those of qui-tam as
others, the party prevailing (u) shall be entitled to his legal
costs.
right, has been refused; bo has a motion to file a new declaration for a new
cause of action, not contained in any original courts. Haynes 4' ux. vs.
Morgan, 3 Mass. 210; Phillips If at. vs. Bridge, 11 Mass. 242. See
Bridge vs. Austin, 4 Mass. 115; Colt vs. Root, 17 Mass. 229; Swan If
al.vi. JVesmith, 7 Pick. 220.
4. If a writ be served by an officer, which he would be anthorized to
serve if it were directed to him, but which contains no snch direction, the
plaintifff may have leave to amend by inserting snch direction. Hearsey vs.
Bradbury, 9 Mass. 95; Campbell vs. Sfiles, ib. 217; Wood vs. Ross,
1 1 Mass. 276.
5. When an action cannot be maintained in the names of all the plaintifffs,
who have joined therein, if it could be maintained in the name of either alone,
were he sole plaintifff, the court will authorize the names of the others to be
stricken out

Rehoboth vs. Hunt, 1 Pick. 224.

6. Tho court will refuse to grant the plaintifff an amendment or replead
er, if there appear to be in tho circumstances of the action any peculiar hard
ship upon the defendant. Dawes vs. Gooeh, 8 Mass. 488.
(s) 1. After a cause is opened to the jury the plaintifff cannot become non
suit, unless allowed by the court. Lockef als. vs. Wood, 16 Mass. 317.
2. A nonsuit is only to be ordered at a trial for the insufficiency of the
evidence on the part of the plaintifff; not on evidence produced by the de
fendant. Rose vs. Learned, 14 Mass. 154.
({) It is not within the discretion of the court to disallow a motion of tho
defendant for costs, where the plaintifff discontinues his suit.

Gilbreth vs.

Brown If at. 15 Mass. 179.
(«) 1. If the plaintifff m review succeeds in correcting an error in a former
verdict against him when he was original defendant, ho is entitled to costs of
review, ns the party prevailing, though the accumulation of interest may
have rendered the last verdict larger than the first. Kavanagh Sf al. vs.
Askins, 2 Glf. 397.

See Bruce vs. Learned, 4 Mass 614.

2. Where a plaintifff in review becomes nonsuit, because no review lay

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

315

Sect. 18. Be it further enacted, That in all actions of Ch. 59.
trespass, quare clausum freeit hereafter broueht, wherein the v^»-v-»^
. r

j

.

11 •

v

i

ji •

ii

• v

■ i

j •

delendant shall in his plea disclaim all right, title and interest to the land in which the trespass is by the declaration
supposed to be done, and the trespass be involuntary or by
negligence, the defendant shall be admitted to plead a disOn plea of duclaimer, &c.
lender amende
[Mass. Stat,
§C2.'] '
'

claimer, and that the trespass was done involuntarily! or by [tSee act pannegligence, and a tender or offer of sufficient amends for 1S33]
in the case, the defendant has his costs.
503.

Treat vs. Hathaway 4" at. 7 Mast.

3. When several issues are made np and tried in the same cause, some*
of which are found against the "party prevailing," he is still entitled to his
fall costs under the provisions of § 17. O'Brien vs. Dunlap, 5 Glf. 281.
4. A submission of all demands between parties is a submission of the
question of costs in the suit; and judgment relative to the costs must con
form to the award of the referees. JYclson vs. Andrews, 2 Mass. 164.
5. In a trustee process, the plaintifff is entitled to costs against the de
fendant after default, until the final decision of the question whether the sup
posed trustee shall be held as such or not. Wells If at. vs. Banister If tr.
A Mass. 514.
6. In replevin, if the jury find the plaintifff's property to be in part of
the chattels, and not in the remainder, each party is entitled to damages and
costs. Powell vs. Hindsdale, 5 Mass. 343. See ch. 186, vol. 3, p. 5;
also, Harding vs. Harris, 2 Glf. 162.
7. Corporations, not being such in virtue of their locality, cannot tax
costs for travel. K. P. vs. Crossman, 6 Mass. 458.
8. An error in the taxation of costs, by the omission of an item, may be
corrected, after the issuing of execution, if there is any thing in the case to
award by; it being a misprision of the clerk. Wright vs. Wright, 6 Glf. 415.
9. If a mistake arises in taxing costs, the remedy is by writ of error to
reverse the judgment. Field fr als. vs. F. W. T. Corp. 5 Mass. 389.
10. Where the court quash a writ of error, as having improvidently is
sued, they do not award costs to the defendant in error. Jarvis vs. Blanchard, 6 Mass. 4.
11. When a party, against whom costs are to be taxed, by himself or his
attorney notifies '.he clerk that he desires to be present at the taxation, it is
the duty of the clerk to give notice to such party or his attorney previous to
his allowance of the costs taxed; and if the parties cannot agree, application
is to be made to a judge at his chambers for his decision. Dodd vs. Lewis,
10 Mass. 26.
12. Where two defendants in an action for tort jointly plead not guilty,
and one is found guilty and the other is acquitted, the latter is entitled to
judgment for his costs. Brown vs. Stearns If al. 13 Mass. 536.

316

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

Ch. 59.
v-"~'"*-'

such trespass before the action brought ; or the defendant
may* have leave to bring money into Court to satisfy the

or bring mo- damage the plaintifff has sustained ; and in case the Jury
ProceciinTin s',a^ not assess greater damages for the trespass than the
»uch case.
money tendered, or brought into Court, the defendant shall
recover of the plaintifff his reasonable costs.
In certain acSect. 19. Be it further enacted, That when an action
iions defend- sjia]] ^e ijj-ouebt to recover a debt due on book ft') accounts,
ant may file

°

v '

account in off- an account stated by the parties, a quantum meruit, quantum
[Mass. Stat.

On. 30, 1784,
' ''
time wi.cn and
it
pacewiere.

valebat or for services done upon an agreed price, or upon
.
,
.....
ill
simple contract or promise in writing not under seal, the dcfendant may file any (to) account he hath in the Clerk's office
seven days before the sitting of the Circuit Court of Common pjeas> w],ere lue action is brought, or if the suit is be
fore a Justice of the Peace, the accounts shall be filed be
(») When a tradesman's day-book contains marks which shew th* item*
transferred to his ledger, the ledger must be produced in evidence in support
of the day-book. Prince ex. vs. Swett, 2 Mais. 569.
(u>) I. Notes may be filed in offset, by ch. 228, vol. 3, p. 60.
2. A promissory note, given to a third person by the defendant as sure
ty for the plaintifff, and taken up by the defendant, with the creditor's re
ceipt of payment from the defendant thereon, being duly filed in the Clerk's
office by way of set off, is of itself sufficiently explicit as a demand for mon
ies paid, within the meaning of § 19. Fox vs. Cults, 6 Glf. 240.
3. Offsets aro confined to transactions between the parties in the suit —
thereforee, in an action brought on a chock, which had been assigned to the
plaintifff, the defondant was not allowed to set off a negotiable note made by
the drawer of the check and endorsed to the defendant. Holland vs. Make
peace, 8 Mass. 418; Grew vs. Burditl, 9 Pick. 265.
4. An account for board, lodging and washing is within the meaning o(
the statute, and may be filed in offset. Witter vs. Witter, 10 Mass. 225.

ed.

5. But a specific charge for rent of a room might well be exclud
n>.

G. Nor can an account on merchandize consigned by the defendants to
the plaintifffs, and improvidently sold by the latter, be filed in offset. Ad
ams 4- ah. vs. Manning If ah. 17 Mass. 178.
7. In an action against two defendants upon a simple contract, a demand
of one of them against the plaintifff cannot be given in evidence by way of
offset.

Walker vs. Leighton o> at. 11 Mas.<. 140.

8. Trusdel! vs. Wallis, 1 Pick. 65; Grew vs. Burditt, 9 Pick. 266;
Wright vs. Dunham, 9 Pick. 37; Eihcridge vs. Binney, ib. 272.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

317

fore the Justice four days before the day of trial, and upon
the general issue give the same in evidence against the plainCh. 59.
v^-v-*»/

tiff's demand. And if upon the trial it shall appear that Defendant
there is a balance due to the defendant he shall recover the ™'y ^aac*
same in the same manner as if he had brought his action due h,mtherefore (x) . And where a plaintifff shall at the same Court Regulation as
bring divers (1/) actions upon demands which might have ^in0^". cer*
been joined in one, he shall recover no more costs than in
one action only.
Sect. 20. Be it further enacted, That when any per- i„ reai actions
son or persons shall be sued in ejectment, or other real ac- dffcndant may
r ■

J

disclaim in

tion, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments, they shall be part or whole,
holden to answer for so much or such part of the premises rMass gtat
demanded as they then hold or are in possession of which £"■£• 27> 1796,
they shall distinguish and set forth by their plea, and dis
claim (r) the rest ; and if any of them disclaim the whole, such case*.
(x) Where the plaintifff, in an action before a Justice of the Peace, had
leave to discontinue, the defendant could not have judgment for Ilia account
filed in offset. Cummingsvs. Pruden, 11 Mass. 206.
(y) 1. It is further provided by ch. 184. vol. 3, p. 4. as follows :—
" That whenever more than one suit shall be brought on a joint and sev
eral, or a several promissory note, made by two or more persons residing in
the same County, costs shall be recovered in one suit only, unless the Court
in which such additional suit or suits may be entered, shall certify that thera
was good cause for commencing and prosecuting the same."
2. Where goods attached by the Sheriff on four writs, are replevied by
as many writs of replevin, sued by the same party, on each of which a bond
is given, and he puts them all in suit, he shall have costs in each action.
Morse vs. Hodsdon If als. 6 Mass. 3 IS.
3. A creditor who brings an action against each of several joint and sev
eral promissors, at the same term, is entitled to full costs in each action, not
withstanding the provisions of § 19. Simonds vs. Center, 6 Mass. 19.
4. This provision of the statute bas been considered as applying to actions
upon contract only, and not to actions for tort. Ripley vs. Chandler, 10
Mass. 175.
(*) I. The plea of non tenure is not taken away by tho provisions of §
10.

Fates p. vs. Thompson, 1 Mass. 134.

2. A plea of non tenure without disclaiming was holden good.
vs. Libby, 14 Mass. 151.

Prout

3. A disclaimer may be pleaded in bar. Preseott vs. Hutchinson, If
-Willi. 439; Oti.1 vs. Warren, 14 Mass. 239.

S18

Ch. 69.
,"^v~*-'

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

and the plaintifff cannot prove the defendant's possession of
the premises, or any part thereof the defendant shall recover

his costs.
„
.
Sect. 21. Be it »further enacted V(a)/ », That in actions of
Heirs may join
or sever in kc- vvaslc, ejectment, or other real actions, where possession of
tion* fur inner.

,

itance desren- the inheritance alleged to have descended, is the object of
....... .
,
common auces- the suit, the heirs claiming under a common ancestor, may
all or any two or more of them join therein, or each may
Mar^b nse prosecute for his particular share of such inheritance, and the
» 8-l
same rule shall extend to joint tenants who are or may be

rlcd from a

disseized.
[*26i]
Sect. 22*. Be it further enacted, That in all actions
^'"coroners" now depending or that may be hereafter depending in any
itc. may m Court within this State wherein the defense intended to be
certain cases*

on filingabrief set up by the defendant, is or may be, that he was a Justice
special matter of the Peace, Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, or Coroner or a town
or parish officer, or some other officer, civil or military, and
tMass. Stat, that the act or thine for which he is or may be sued, is or
eb.25,1793.]
,
u-j
u v
v
•
u
may be any act or thing done by him by virtue, or in the
execution of his office, the defendant may plead the general
issue, and give the special matter in evidence upon filing in
the cause a brief statement (6) of such special matter of de
4. Owen vs. Bartholomew, 9 Pick. S25.
6. See ch. 344, vol. 3, p. 190; and cb. 397, ib. p. 246.
(a) 1. The provisions of § 21, are confined to actions real or mixed, and do
not extend to personal actions to recover damages only, which remain sub
ject to the rules of common law. Daniels If al. vs. Daniels If al. 7 .Mais.
136.
2. Tenants in common, and heirs, must join in detinne of charters, and
in actions for the destruction of their charters or title deeds. Ib.
8. If heirs or joint tenants join in their action, notwithstanding the pro
visions of § 21, the disability of one demandant abates the writ as to all,
whether it exists at tho commencement of the action, or occur* afterwards.
Oxnard If alt. vs. K. Purchase, 10 Mass. 179; Cults If als.vs. Haskint,
11 Mass. 56; see Sackett & al. vs. Saekett, 8 Pick. 311.
4. But this objection is remedied in this State by the statute of Jan. 29,
1S22, ch. 186, § 3, vol. 3, p. 6; See also, Ryder If ux. vs. Robinson, 2
Glf. 127.
(i) 1. The strictness required in pleading, is not applied to a brief state

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

319

fence within such time as the Court sball order, of which
statement the plaintifff shall be entitled to a copy, or he may

Cii. 59.
v-^v-^/

plead specially at his election.
Sect. 23. Be it further enacted, That upon a judgment i„ action of
rendered in any Circuit Court of Common Pleas, that the fe"dantmay
defendant shall account, it shall be in the power of the party "Pi*"1 from in1

r

J

terlocutory

against whom such judgment shall hereafter be given, to judgment, heappeal tlierelrom, if such party shall think proper, before mem of auditthe same Court proceed to appoint auditors ; and in case
no appeal shall be made from the first judgment, that the [Man?. Stat.
defendant shall account, an appeal from the final judgment
after the cause has been before auditors, shall not entitle
the original defendant to try the issue of bailiff or not bailiff
before the Supreme Judicial Court, but the first judgment
that the defendant shall account shall remain in full force,
and he shall account accordingly ; and in case the defendant shall not enter and prosecute his appeal from the first
judgment the same upon complaint may be affirmed ; and
auditors may thereupon be appointed in the same manner
they would have been in the Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, had no appeal been made from the first judgment.
Sect. 24. Be it jurthcr enacted, That when any person
against whom judgment shall be given, that he shall account,

§ l.j

Proceeding.
not au appeal.

wheo defcndf0map^farref^

shall unreasonably refuse or neglect to appear at the time l<>™ auditors—
J

°

l r

what procecdand place assigned by the auditors, or after appearing, shall ings may be
refuse or neglect to render an account, the auditors may
certify such refusal or neglect to the Court from which their
appointment issued ; and the same Court may thereupon
cause damages to be assessed, by a jury and enter up judg
ment for the damages so assessed, with reasonable costs,
or* they may render judgment against the defendant as upon
default.
ment; which is an indulgence allowed to the officer for his benefit and re
lief. Clark vs. Fuxcroft, 6 Glf. 302.
2. The defendant who files a brief statement under the provisions of §
22, has the right of opening and closing. Bangs vs. Snow Sf at. 1 Mass.
181.
3. Special pleading is abolished in all civil actions, by ch. 51-1, vol- 3,
p. 368.

[•208]

320

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

Ch. 59.
^^~^^^s
[Map?. Stat.
Feb.28, ISIS.]

Sect. 25. [Repealed; see ch. 347, S, 8, vol. 3, p. 196.
It provided for the appointment of auditors to examine accounts, or touchers,
in actions where the Court might deem proper ; also, for their report w be
given in evidence to the Jury. Sec ch. 347, vol 3, p. 193.]

Siate TreasurSect. 26.
Be it further enacted, That (c) the TreasurtmvnC'an'd'Vpar- cr °f l'"s State, the Treasurers of counties, towns, parishes,
ish Treasure™ anfj 0[|ler corporations, for the time being, be and hereby are
may sue and
x
.

prusecutc ac- authorized and empowered, in their own names and capacilions, Sic.

.

.

,

ties, respectively to commence, and prosecute to final judg[Mass. Stat. ment and execution, any suit or suits at law upon any bonds,
June 22,1797.]

......

notes or other securities, which have been or shall be given
to them or their predecessors in said capacity ; and to pros
ecute to final judgment and execution, any suits which have
been or shall be commenced by their said predecessors in
said capacity during their continuance in office, and pending
at the time of their removal therefrom.
Writ of reSect. 27. Be it further enacted, That if pending a writ
view pending, r
.
.. .
.
.
.
.
,
if cither party ol review between the original parties whether m a real or
ceedin'sarcto personal action, either of them shall die (d), his death shall,
be had.
at ^ request 0f the attorney for either party, be entered
Mass. Stat, upon the records of the Court, and the cause shall thereupon
jV] ' " ' be continued, to the end the heirs at law of such deceased
party or other person interested in the tenements in ques
tion, as aforesaid, or his executors or administrators may
• come into Court, and take upon them the prosecution or de
(c) 1. The right of towns to sue as before, is not taken away by § 26.
Inhbts. Newcastle vs. Bellard, 3 Ol/ 369.
2. A Treasurer may be substituted ns nn endorser upon a writ brought
upon a probate bond in the name of the judge, in place of his predecessor who
bad originally endorsed the same. Paine, Judge, vs. Gill $■ al. 2 Mass.
136.
(<i) 1. Under § 27, the administrator of a person who has died pending a
writ of review brought on a judgment rendored against him for damage* in
nn action of trespass quare clausum /regit may come in and prosecute the
review.

Prop, of Great Beach vs. Rogers, 1 Afass. 1 59.

2. Where the plaintifff in review dies pending the review, the original ac
tion being case for special damage from a common nuisance, in which the
plaintiffTin review was defendant, his administrator cannot become a party
to the review. Thayer vs. Dudley, 3 Mass. 296; Otis vs. Bixby 4" al.
9 Mass. 520.
3. See notes to § 21, ch. 52, p. 280, of this volume.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.
fence of the same suit to final judgment. And if after a reasonable time, according to the discretion of the Court,

321
Cm. 59.
v-^v-w

granted* for this purpose, neither of them shall appear as
[*263]
aforesaid, or appearing shall afterwards become nonsuit, or
be defaulted, then the same proceedings and judgment shall
be had therein, mutatis mutandis, as would have been had
between the original parties.
Sect. 28. Be it further enacted, That whenever either Legal repro
of the parties to any judgment shall die before a review has par'ty'm^ £.
been granted, the legal representatives of such deceased "."on.101" «*n

'

.

Tiew in cerparty may petition for such review or become parties to the
same as respondents.
Sect. 29. Be it further enacted, That in the administration of oaths in this State, the ceremony of lifting up the
hand, as heretofore used, shall be practised, with such exceptions as to Mahometans and other persons, who believe that
an oath is not binding, unless taken in their accustomed
manner, as the several Courts shall find necessary in the ex
ecution of the laws.
Sect. 30. Be it further enacted, That no actions shall
be sustained in any Circuit Court of Common Pleas within
this State, where the damage demanded does not exceed
'
°
twenty dollars, unless by appeal from a Justice of the Peace,
J

.

.

**"* case8Manner of ad"'^^"urn
*«•

Actions not
c'com. pleas
wherc ad cJa"1'
num nooB not
•*c«eii Jr'20.
fMass. Stat.

saving such actions wherein the title to (e) real estate may Mar. n. 1784,
be concerned ; and if upon any action originally brought be- 1808, § 2.]
fore the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, judgment shall be
recovered for no more than twenty (/) dollars debt or dam(e) 1. Aa in actions of trespass quart clausum fregit title to real estate
may be concerned, this provision does not extend to such actions. Dummervs. Foster, 7 Mass. 476; See Butterfield vs. Pearson, 10 Mass. 410.
2. Nor to actions of the case for an obstruction of a private way. Crocktr vs. Black, 16 Mass. 448.
{/) I. If the plaintifffs damages are reduced below twenty dollars by an
account filed in offset, he is still entitled to full costs—such a case not being
within the meaning of the provisions of § 30. Hathorne vs. Cate, 5 Glf.
74 ; See note <r, 3, below.
2. Where in an action commenced in the C. Pleas the plaintifff obtained
a verdict and judgment for more than twenty dollars', and upon an appeal by
the defendant, and a trial in the S. Court the plaintifff recovered less than
twenty dollars, it was held that he was entitled to no more costs than one

Vol. i.

41

322

Ch. 59.
-^-^~*^
Costs
in that
Court when
not exceed
ft 20
p "
[Mass. Stat,
§C3.]1 ' ? '

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

age ; in all (g) such cases the plaintifff shall be entitled for
his costs, to no more than one
quarter
part of the debt or
.
■*
damage so recovered : Provided always, That where judgment shall be rendered upon the report of-referees, full costs
*
shall be taxed for the party recovering notwithstanding the
judgment be under twenty dollars, unless a different adjudicali°n respecting the costs shall be made by the report (h)

itself.
„.
,
,.
,
Sect. 31.
Be it Jfurther enacted,. . That all penalties and
Debt to he for
_
penalties
forfeitures incurred under the provisions of any statute of
where no pro_

.

.

vision ismade. this State, for the recovery of which no mode is prescribed,
Feb*22Si794 s^^ ^^ m>J be sued for and recovered by action of debt
5 8-J
in any Court proper to try the same.
_ ,.
Sect. 32. Be it further enacted, That all penalties and
Penalties may
t
"
.
.
be recovered forfeitures given or limited by any act of this State, in whole
by indictment

.

where State is or tn part to the use of this State, may be recovered by in
dictment in any Court proper to try the same.
[*204]
Sect. 33*. Be it further enacted, That the printed copPrinted copies ies of the private acts and resolves of this State, which now
»n/rreMives,U are' or hereafter shall be printed by and under the authority
by authority, 0f the Legislature of this State, shall be admitted as good eveood evidence

in Courts.

°

°

idence thereof in all courts of law, without any further proof
whatsoever.
quarter of the damages recovered by him. Lakeman vs. Morse, 9 Mass.
127; See Lincoln vs. Colliding, 3 Mass. 234.
(g) 1. This will apply to actions of replevin, by a fair construction of stat.
1822, ch. 186, § 2, vol. 3, p. 5. Ridlon vs. Emery, 5 Glf. 261.
2. For a case of taxation, under this provision, See M'aite vs. Gar"land, 7 Mass, 452.
8. If the plaintifff's damages are reduced below twenty dollars by an ac
count in offset, he is still entitled to full costs; but nnt, if be proved that the
items of the account in offset were delivered in part payment of the plaintifff's
account. Barnard vs. Curtis, 8 Mass. 635.
4. This provision is applicable to actions under the trustee-law.

Senham vs. Lyon tf Trus. 1 Mass. 15.
(ft) 1. Costs arising before referees and the costs of witnesses on the ques
tion of accepting their report, are taxable by the party recovering judgment,
although the report of the referees be not accepted. Tinkham vs. Meigs,
16 Mass. 450.
2. When referees award concerning writs, judgment must conform to
their award. Nelson vs. Andrews, 2 Mass. 164.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

323

Sect. 34. Be it further enacted, That upon the judg- Ch. 59.
ment for debt, damages or costs, which has been, or which ^~*~*T! .
'
=>
'
J,
ActioD of debt
shall be rendered and recorded by any (i) Court of record, or may be
any Justice of the Peace of this State, and remaining in force judgment"™and unsatisfied, an action of debt may be brought in the same set!^ ,D thl"
Court, or before the same Justice where such record re
mains, or in any Court of record, or before any Justice of
the Peace, holding Pleas for the county in which either of
the parties to such judgment, their executors or administrators shall dwell and reside at the time of bringing such acpeb. 26, 1796,
' '*
in what couny or

tion, and proper to try the same. And such judgment may
be certified by the Clerk, for the time being of the Court,
or by the Justice of the Peace, with whom such record re
mains.
Sect. 35. Be it further enacted, That upon the judg- Action of debt
ment for debt, damages or costs which has been, or which ^judgment'
shall be rendered and recorded by a Court of record in any ™nde0^crln
other (j) of the United States, or by a Court of record of State;
(t) 1. A judgment rendered in Massachusetts against a citizen of Maine, be
fore the separation, may be revived in the same court by scire facias though
the defendant is not resident in that commonwealth; the jurisdiction of both
Courts as to processes brought to eiecute such judgments, remaining unaffect
ed by the separation, by slut. 1819, ch. 161, § 1, art. S, adopted into the
Constitution of Maine, art. 10, § 5. Mitchell vs. Osgood $■ ah. 4 Glf. 124.
Such judgment will be received by the Courts of this State as conclusive
•vidence of debt. lb.
3. An action of debt on a foreign judgment, where the plaintifff is not a
citizen of this State, may be brought in any county in the State. lb.
(j ) 1. A court of another State must have had jurisdiction of the parties, as
well as of the cause, for its judgment to be entitled to the full faith and
credit mentioned in the Constitution of the United States. Bissell vs.
Briggs, 9 Mass. 462.
2. Judgments rendered in tho courts of another of the United States,
when produced here as the foundation of actions, are not to be considered as
foreign judgments; because the jurisdiction of the courts being established,
the merits of the judgments are not to be inquired into. Neither are they
to be considered as domestic judgments, rendered in our own courts of re
cord; because the jurisdiction of courts rendering them is n subject of in
quiry. But so far as the courts had jurisdiction, they are to have full faith
and credit in our courts. They may thereforee be declared on as eviden
ces of debt, or of promise; and on the general issue the jurisdiction of the

324

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

the United States and remaining in force and unsatisfied, an
action of debt may be brought in any Court of record of this
State, holden for the county in which either of the parties
to such judgment, their executors or administrators shall
dwell and reside, or in which any valuable goods, credits,
or estate of any debtor, in such judgment shall be found at
Judgment to tnc l'me °f bringing such action : Provided, That such
cordhi'-l'to'1 *cl judgment shall be certified in the manner which is, or shall
ofCongreM. De presCribed by any general law of the Congress of the
United States.
In such action
Sect. 36. Be it further enacted, That in the action of
interest to be debt, which shall be duly maintained upon any judgment as
cast on ll.imaJ

'

J J

o

gciaad costs, aforesaid, lawful interest (A;) shall be allowed, as well upon
lib. § s.j

the costs as upon the debt or damages, or the balance thereof
due and recoverable, and judgment shall be rendered there
on accordingly.
[*S<55]
Sect. 37*. Be it further enacted, That all executions
tanare'to'be 'ssue^ uPon any judgment in civil causes, shall be made remad* returna- turnable at such times as are provided by the several laws of
this State ; and in all cases where a writ of execution shall
next chapter.] issue, there shall be expressed therein the time and place
when and where the same shall be returnable.
Clerks may
Sect. 38. Be it further enacted, That the Clerks of the
mons form«it- severa' Courts within this State, may, and are hereby respectnesseain civil ively empowered to grant summons for witnesses in civil
Tenaity for causes, directed to the persons to be summoned. And if
oUey't* slim- anv Person wnc- shall be served with lawful process, or sum
mons, 011iten- mons to testify, depose, or give evidence concerning any
cause or matter depending in any of the Courts aforesaid, or
before any Justice of the Peace, and who shall have a sum of
tendered. ° " money tendered to him which shall be equal to his legal fees
for travel to the place where the Court is held, and one day's
Court rendering them, is put in issue, but not the merits.
Hull, 12 Mais. 25; Com. vs. Green, 17 Mast. 545.

lb.; Jacob* vs.

3. Hall & al. vs. Williams & al. 6 Tick. 232.
4. A citizen of any other of the United States is not considered as a for
eigner in this State, in any courts of law.
Barrell vs. Benjamin, \i
Mas*. 354.
(ft) See note c, to ch. 19, ante, p. 104.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

325

attendance, do not appear according to the tenor of the process or summons, having; no reasonable let or impediment to
'

.

.

Ch. 59.
y-^*~**'
[Maw. Stat.

the contrary, such person shall be liable to the action of the Oct. 30, 1784,
aggrieved party for all damages by him sustained by such de
fault, and the Court or Justice of the Peace shall have power mattzehmmi
by attachment to bring such contemptuous witness into ilgi,™,s ,ucl'
Court, or before him, and to fine him at discretion, not ex
ceeding the sum of twenty dollars, and shall order him to
pay the cost of such attachment.
Sect. 39. Be it further enacted, That when any person
in whose favour a judgment is given at the Circuit Court of
J °
°
Common Pleas, shall appeal (l) therefrom, where an appeal
is by law allowed, because the damages given are too small,
he shall be entitled to a Jury at the Supreme Judicial Court
to inquire into the damages, without any further notice to the

Anneal allowcj} ''"V c' c
c. riem to
Sup. Judicial
[See voli 3>p18,J
o,!ta"0 ^"yj

appellee. And when in the Circuit Court of Common Pleas
judgment shall be given either upon abatement or demurrer,
the party against whom judgment is given, shall have the
privilege of appealing, in case the action is appealable with^8-l
be from judg^""abatemenT
or demurrer,

out any further proceedings had in the Circuit Court of Com
mon Pleas. Jlnd all agreements for waving pleas, and for repealed ; «co
amendments, and for making new (m) pleas at the Supreme J0j s T,'. ^94]
Judicial Court made and entered upon the records of* the *nd «*• ""•*• «
Circuit Court of
on the par- 286.][»200]
J Common Pleas shall be binding
.
ties throughout the whole process of the suit.
Sect. 40. Be it further enacted, That where any per- tnnjctment „,
son shall be feloniously stricken, poisoned or injured in one be found m the
J

' r

*

county wlicro

county in this State, and die of the same stroke, poisoning death hapjxm(/) 1. An appeal lies to this court, from the C. C. Pleaa, although they arrest
judgment after verdict. Betnin vs. Faxon, 2 Mass 141.
2. If the court below arrest tli9 judgment, or send the parties out of court
without giving any judgment, in cases where an appeal lies, the aggrieved
party may claim an appeal and the S. J. Court will sustain it, although tho
court below disallow it. Lamphear vs. Lamprey , 4 Mass. 107.
S. Purple vs. Clark ft al. 5 Pick. 206.
(m) 1. Tho new pica must bo filed at the first term of the Supremo Court.
Tyng vs. Prentice, 3 Mass. 299.
2. Such new plea must be to the country. Moody tr al. vs. Blake, 6
Mass. 459.

326

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

Ch. 59.
,V-*TV^/
ed,

or injury in another county thereof; that then an indictment
thereof, found by the Grand Jurors of the county where the

though

.

*

mortal wound death shall happen, before the Justices of the Supreme Judianothcr coun- cial Court there held, shall be as good and effectual in law
y"
as if the stroke had been given, or poisoning, or injury done
Feb.*i5, 1796,
* '
So if mortal
giv"n"onhiVh
"■*■

>n tne same county where the party shall die, or where the
said indictment shall be found (n).
Sect. 41. Be it further enacted, That where any person sna" be feloniously stricken, poisoned or injured, on the
high seas and without the limits of this State, and die of the

fib. §2.]

same stroke, poisoning or injury, in any county thereof, that

then an indictment thereof found by the Grand Jurors of the
county where the death shall happen before the Justices of
the Supreme Judicial Court there held, shall be as good and
effectual in law as if the stroke had been given, or poisoning
or injury done in the same county where the party shall die.
Proceeding*
Sect. 42. Be it further enacted, That if any person shall
^dieted stand. De indicted of any offense against this State for which the
mute>
punishment is or shall be declared to be death, and shall
[lb. § 3.]

stand mute, or refuse to plead, the Court shall proceed to
the trial of the person so standing mute in the same manner
as if he or she had pleaded not guilty, and shall render judg
ment accordingly (o). And no person who shall be indicted
for any such offense, shall be allowed to challenge peremp
torily above the number of twenty persons of the Jury.
Ifthe accused
Sect. 43. Be it further enacted, That when any perM.aaJ?' felon0f son indicted of any felony, shall be by the verdict of the Jury
charged and

0f trials upon such indictment acquitted from part of such inconvicted of

residue,

*

*_

*

dictment, and convicted of the residue thereof, any such ver
dict may be accepted and recorded in the Court where such
(n) Com. vs. Parker & al. 2 Pick. 550.

Constitution of Maine, ante, p.

19, § 6.
(o) 1. Where one indicted for a larceny stood mute upon his arraignment,
a jury was empannelled, who returned their verdict, that he stood mute fraud
ulently, willfully and obstinately; whereupon he was sentenced as upon a
conviction. Com. vs. Moore, 9 Mass. 402.
2. In capital trials tho prisoner may give his general character in evi
dence, after which the prosecutor may call witnesses to disprove such testi
mony. Com. vs. Hardy, 2 Mass. 317.

JUDICIAL PROCESS.

327

trial shall be ; and thereupon such person so indicted, may Ch. 59.
be adjudged to be guilty of the offense, if any, which shall ,,"T"*"''
appear to such Court to be substantially alleged in and by roent Court
the residue of such indictment, if the same shall amount
y
to* a felony, and shall be sentenced and punished accord[*207]
ingly.
Sect. 44. Be it further enacted, That any person who persons in
shall be held in prison upon suspicion of having committed a pic*""' "to" be
crime for which he may have sentence of death passed upon l)ai,en' or di»r

*

charged, unhim, shall be bailed or discharged, if he is not indicted at the less.
second term of the sitting of the Supreme Judicial Court in M
„
the county where the crime is alleged to have been commit- Mar- 16,1785,
ted, when there are two terms a year in such county. And
in such counties as have but one Supreme Judicial Court in
a year, the defendant shall be bailed or discharged, if he is
not indicted at the first term : Provided, Such person shall provided he
have been held in prison for the space of six months next ha? bccn. ln
*

r

preceding
the day
of the sitting3 of the Court.
r
°
J
.

prison six

And when months.
If in prison

any person shall be held in prison under indictment, he shall
be tried or bailed at the firstf term next after his indictment,
if he demands the same, unless it shall appear to the Court
that the witnesses, on behalf of the government, have either

and indicted,
bailed at 6ret
[fSeeaddition
al act« $ »•]

been enticed away or are detained by some inevitable acci
dent from attending. And all persons under indictment for ^The^ried
felony shall be bailed or tried at the second term after the or ba,iled at
■*

t

second term,

bill shall be returned, if they demand it.
Sect. 45. Be it further enacted, That in all informa- informations
tions to be exhibited, and in all actions or suits to be com- pe„ai"si'atmes™
menced against any person or persons, on the behalf of any °" llchalfof ,n*-*

*

l

l

J

informer, or on the behalf of the State, and any informer for
.
.
.
or concerning any offense committed or to be committed
against any penal statute, the offense shall be laid and alleg
ed to have been committed in the county where such of.
,
,
.
,
, .. .
lence was in truth committed and not elsewhere, and it the
defendant, in any such information, action or suit, pleadeth
that he owes nothing, or that he is not guilty, and the plaintifff
or informer in such information, action or suit, upon evidence
to the Jury that shall try such issue, shall not both prove the
offense laid in the said information, action or suit, and that

former, or

State and in.
former—where
to be brought
[Mass. Stat.
§ 2]

June 19, 1788,

328

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

Cii. 60. the same offense was committed in that county, the issue
v-*~>'-"»-' shall be found for the defendant or defendants.
Iu such inforluation or acSect. 46.
.

.

Be it further enacted, That if any informa.

,.,.,.

lion defendant Hon, suit or action, shall he brought or exhibited against any
cral 'issue «nd person or persons for any offense committed against the form
give special Qr* an,r penaj ]avv on behalf of any informer, or on behalf of
matter in eviface.

J '

J

'

t]le State and any informer, it shall be lawful for such defendants to plead the general issue, and give any special
matter in evidence to the Jury, which shall be as available
to him or them, as if he or they had sufficiently pleaded the
same matter in bar, or discharge of such information, suit or
action.
No person to
Sect. 47. Be it further enacted, That no person upon
be executed whom sentence or judgment of death shall be passed or given
but by warrant

J

°

r

o

from the Exe- by the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, shall be exe
cutive, &c.
,
cuted in pursuance of such judgment, before the whole reci^V's ^'i orc' °'" suc^ Proceedings or case be certified by the Clerk of
the same Court, under the seal thereof to the Supreme Ex
ecutive Authority of this State, nor until a warrant shall be
issued by the said Supreme Executive Authority, under the
great seal of this State, with a copy of the record thereunto
annexed, directed to the Sheriff of the county wherein the
trial of the person so convicted as aforesaid, was had, com
manding the same Sheriff to cause execution to be done upon
the person so convicted as aforesaid, in all things according
to the judgment against him. And the Sheriff to whom such
warrant shall be directed is hereby authorized and required
to execute the same in due form of law. [Approved March
19, 1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 180, Vol. 3, p. 5.

Chapter CO.
AN ACT respecting tlie Attachment of Property on Mesne Process, and directing
the issuing, extending, and serving of Executions.

Sect. 1. JL>K it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That all goods and

■'

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

329

estate attached (a) upon mesne process for the security of the

Ch. 60.

(a) 1. The right of attaching property, as security for the judgment a plain
tiff may finally recover, is a provision not known to the common law. Lind
say vs. Larned, 17 Mass. 196.
2. Property attached on mesne process may be sold with consent of partics, as on execution, by ch. 508, vol. 3, p. 356.
3. Estate holilcn by virtue of a bond to convey, is liable to attachment and
may be sold in the same manner as an equity of redemption, by eft. 431,
vol. 3, p. 274.
4. An actual entry, by the officer, on real estate, seems not to be neces
sary to constitute a valid attachment. Crosby vs. Allyn, 6 Glf. 453.
5. Nor need he enter a meeting house to attach a pew.
Leavitt, 13 Mass. 128.

Perrin vt.

6. To constitute an attachment of goods, the officer must have the actual
possession and custody of them. Lane $■ al. vs. Jackson, 5 Mass. 163;
Watson If al. vs. Todd fy al. ib. 271.
7. Where an officer, who had attached personal property on an original
writ delivered the same to a stranger, taking an accountable receipt for the
same, a return by him of an attachment of such property in a second suit
against the same person, without an actual seizure of it, does not bind the
property. Knap vs. Sprague, fl Mass. 258.
But in Luddon vs. Leavitt, 9 Mass. 104, and Perley vs. Foster, ib.
114, and Warren vs. Leland, ib. 265, the special property and constructive
possession, seems to have been considered as remaining in the officer after
the goods had been delivered over by him to the bailee; the bailee being con
sidered as his servant. So in Bond vs. Padelford, 13 Mass. 394, and Com
monwealth vs. Morse, 14 Mass. 217. And in Brownell vs. Manchester, 1
Pick. 232, where the goods attached were delivered to a bailee and after
wards came into the possession of the debtor, it was held, that the officer
had such possession as to maintain trespass against him, who took them from
the bailee and delivered them to the debtor. In Lyman vs. Lyman, 11 Mass.
319, it was held, in an action against the bailee on his promise to deliver the
goods attached, that it was not competent for him, or the debtor, to object
to the validity of the attachment for want of actual seizure or possession of
the goods by the officer. And in Whittier vs. Smith, 11 Mass. 311, in a
like action where goods attached had been delivered to the bailee, and be
fore the return day, were demanded to be taken on another suit; and after
wards the first suit was abandoned, and another instituted by the same plain
tiff, whereon the goods were attached and sold on execution, which issued
on the judgment in that suit; held that these facts furnished no defense to the
suit. So in Jewell vs. Tony, 11 Mass. 219, it was held in a like action that
the bailee could not orject to the wont of seizin or possession by the officer.
The only ground, upon which the case of Knap vs. Sprague can be supported
is that stilted in Cooper vs. Morey & al 16 Mass. 6, viz. that "the officer
bus no action against the receiptors, if he made no demand of the chattels

Vol. i.

42

330

Ch. 60.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

debt or damages sued for, shall be held for the space of
within thirty days after the judgment; where the goods shall have been in
the possession of the debtor." But such demand has been held not to be
necessary, where the debtor has sent the property out of the Commonwealth,
or where a demand would have been nugatory. Wtbtter vs. Coffin, 14
Mass. 196.
8. Where an officer attaches a debtor's cattle, the debtor is bound to
support them, after notice to him by the officer that they are attached. If
he neglects to do it, and they perish from that cause, the loss will be his.
They are at his risk. And the officer who attaches them is answerable to
the creditor for them ; and his apprehension in incurring expense in their
maintenance furnishes no excuse for his neglect. Sewall If als. vs. Maltoon,
9 Mass. 536.
9. Nor can the deputy in such case shew in mitigation of damages, that
the expense of keeping the cattle between the attachment and the execution
would have exceeded the value of the cattle. Tyler vs. {Timer, 1 2 Mass. 163.
1 0. The value ofthe cattle at the time the execution should have been levied ,
and not at the time of the attachment, forms the true measure of damages. lb.
11. When chattels have been attached by a deputy sheriff, it is not in the
power of another deputy of the same sheriff to make a second attachment of
the same chattels; although the amount first attached is more than sufficient
to secure the attaching creditor. Vinton vs. Bradford, 13 Mass. 114.
See below, 13; also onward, § 20, 21.
12. In such case no overt act of the first deputy is necessary to constitute
a second attachment. Turner vs. Austin, 16 Mass. 185.
1 3. Where a deputy sheriff attached goods, and within thirty days after
judgment seized them in execution but failed to sell them; another deputy
was justified in seizing them on another execution, in the hands of the bailee,
notwithstanding he had notice of the first seizure. Warren vs. Lcland, 9
Mats. 265; Gibbs vs. Chase, 10 Mass. 129.
14. If a deputy sheriff has attached goods on mesne process, and after
judgment has been recorded for the plaintifff, and execution has issued, the
latter require the deputy to deliver the goods attached to him, so that he may
procure his execution to be levied upon them, the deputy is not bound to de
liver them, he being alike accountable to the debtor for them as to the cred
itor, until sold on execution. Blake vs. Shaw, 7 Mass. 506.
15. Goods attached on mesne process may be lawfully sold by the sher
iff on execution, the judgment debtor dying insolvent after the judgment and
before the salo. Grosvenor vs. Gould, 9 Mass. 211; See § 32, of this
chapter, and notes thereto.
16. But when there was no attachment on the mesne process, and the
sheriff had not begun to execute the execution, the debtor having died after
the issuing the execution, the sheriff cannot seize goods thereon after such
death. Jewett vs. Smith, 12 Mass. 309.
17. Where two creditors caused the same land of the debtor to be attachATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

331

thirty days after final judgment (6), to be taken in execution ;
and if the creditor shall not take them in execution within

Ch. 60.
^*vw

thirty days after judgment, the attachment (e) shall be void (d) .
And the share or shares, or interest of any person in any
turnpike, bridge, canal or other company which heretofore
has been,' or hereafter may
" be
. . incorporated,
r
' with all the
rights* and privileges appertaining to such shares, may be
. .
.
attached on mesne process, and taken on execution ; and
the attachment of such shares or interest on mesne process

hold for 30
jujgmen"
oa'so^Tsi
511-]
Attachment
of
share* in companiea to bind
the same and
lends."8
[•260]

ed at the same time, and their several executions to be duly levied within
thirty days after judgment, each was adjudged to take a moiety of the land
so attached and levied upon. Shove vs. Dow, IS Mats. 629.
(o) 1. Judgment is presumed to be entered on the last day of the term, onless on notice it be in fact entered previously, in which case the time is min
uted; and the "thirty days" are to be reckoned accordingly. Herring If
ul. et. Polley, 8 Mass. 113.
2. The day after the last day of the term is the first day of the thirty.
Portland Sank vs. Maine Bank, 11 Mass. 204.
3. Where the " thirty days" expire on Sunday, the lien does not extend
into the following day. Alderman vs. Phelps, 15 Mass. 225.
4. If land attached on mesne process be seized on execution within thirty
days from the judgment, it is sufficient although the proceedings on the exe
cution are not completed until after thirty days have expired; and in such
case the officer may date his return as of the day of the seizure, to which
day all the after proceedings have relation. Heytcood vs. Hildreth, 9
Mass. 393. See onward, note j 2.
5. See note to § 8, ch. 67, in this volume.
(r) In real actions, no lien can be created by attachment. The provision
of § 1, does not extend to real actions. Holmes vs. Fernald, 7 Glf. 232.
(d) 1. The sheriff cannot retain goods attached on mesne process, after judg
ment is rendered for the defendant on an appeal, although the plaintifff re
views the action. Clap vs. Bell, 4 Mass. 99.
2. The submission of an action, and all demands existing between the
parties, to the determination of referees, dissolves any attachment of proper
ty made in that action; and this whether other demands are in fact exhibited
to the referees or not. Mooney If ux. vs. Kavanagh If al. 4 Glf. 277.
3. So where in an action of assumpsit a settlement of all accounts was
made by the parties and judgment rendered for the plaintifff on the balance due
him, which included some demands for which there was no proper count in
the writ, it was held that the lien created by his attachment was thereby dis
solved in toto, so far as the rights of subsequent attaching creditors wero
concerned. Clark vs. Foxcroft, 1 Glf. 348.

332
Ch. 60.
^*~*~y
Mar. 8,i&<i5,
' '
cd oTtakuTon
execution, copATTACHMENT OK HIC-PERTY.
shall hold the same, and also all dividends growing due after
such attachment, to respond the final judgment which may
be rendered thereon, until the expiration of thirty days after
the rendition of such judgment. And when any such shares
or mterest shall be attached on mesne process, or taken on
execution withoutsuch previous attachment, an attested copy

les lo be left

r

'

rJ

with clerk,&c. or copies of such writ of attachment or execution, shall, by
the officer holding the same be left with the Clerk, TreasRiehu. in equi- urer or Cashier of such company. And all rights in equity
tachmciit,Uaud °f redeeming lands mortgaged, reversions or the remainders,
execution.

shall be liable to attachment upon mesne process and to be
taken by execution upon judgment recovered for the payIn case of re- ment of the just debts of the mortgager or owner ; and when
ucnmg°rred!it- any right in equity of redeeming real estate which is morton "the" fee'' of gaSec*5 shall be attached on mesne process, and pending the
the estate.
attachment such mortgaged real estate shall be redeemed by
the mortgager, the attaching creditor shall have the same lien
on such estate as though the attachment had been of the fee,
and execution may be levied thereon accordingly.
Franchises of
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That the franchise and all
turnpikes, he. tne rights, privileges and immunities of any turnpike, bridge,
•d.

canal or other company incorporated by law with power
to receive toll so far as relates to the right of demanding
and receiving toll, as well as all other corporate property,
either real or personal, shall be liable to attachment on
mesne process ; and when such attachment shall be made
or other service of a mesne process shall be made on any
of the corporations aforesaid, the officer serving the same
Copy to be left shall leave an attested copy of said process, and his return

withClerk,&c.

,

. ,

,

„.

,

™

,

30 days before thereon with the Clerk, Treasurer, or some one of the di
rectors of said corporation, thirty (e) days at least before the
day (/) of the sitting of the Court to which the same may be
returnable.
Sect. 3. Be it fttrther enacted, That the party obtaining
Execution may . ,
.
.....
_
, _
...
i«ue 24 hour's judgment in a civil action, in any Court of Judicature within
(<-1 Ballard vs. Nantucket Bank, 5 Man. 100.
(/) Meaning the first day of the term. Anon. 5 Matt. 198.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

333

this State, shall be entitled to have his execution (g) thereon Ch. 60.
at* any time after the expiration of twenty-four (h) hours af- v-'-v-w
J

x

'

afterjudgment,

ter judgment rendered, and within one year next after the en- if no appeal.
[*270]
tering up of such judgment : Provided, That there be no ap- [Masg. Statpeal granted. And execution issuing from the Circuit Court Mar. n, 1784,
of Common Pleas, shall be made returnable (i) within three Executions
months, unless the Circuit Court of Common Pleas shall sit bie.
within that time, and in that case it shall be made returnable
to the next (j) Court ; and those issuing from the Supreme
Judicial Court, shall be made returnable at the end of six
months, unless the Supreme Judicial Court shall sit in the
said county within that time, and in that case it shall be re
turnable to the same ; and those issuing from a Justice of
the Peace shall be made returnable within sixty days from
the day of issuing them ; and when such executions shall
be returned without any satisfaction made, or satisfied only
.in part, the Clerk of the Court from whence, or Justice
from whom such execution issued, shall, upon application of
(«■) 1. An irregularity in issuing an execution does not make it void.

Ranlet vs. Warren, 7 Mass. 478 ; Young vs. Hosmer, 11 Mass. 89.
2. Where one of two or more judgment creditors die after judgment and
before execution issues, the execution ought regularly to issue in the name of
all the creditors; but if it issue in the name of the survivor only, it is not
thereforee void. Hamilton vs. Lyman, 9 Mass. 15.
(ft) A Justice of the Peace who issued an execution in two or three
hours after he had rendered judgment, was holden liable to the party against
whom such execution issued, and who was imprisoned thereon, in an action
of trespass. Briggs vs Wardwell, 10 Mass. 856.
(i) Bail were holden, notwithstanding the execution was made returna
ble at an earlier day than it should have been. Ranlet vs. Warren, 7
Mass. 477.
(j ) 1. After the time when an execution is to be returned, it cannot be exe
cuted by taking the body, goods or estate of the debtor. When it is return
able in three months, it may be executed on the last day of these months.
When returnable to a court to be holden at a certain day, it may be execut
ed at any time on that day, while the court is setting, but not after the court
is adjourned to the next day. Prescott vs. Wright, 6 Mass. 22.
2. But if the officer has begun to execute it at any time before it is re
turnable, he may complete the service after it is returnable, and retain the
execution to endorse the service thereon; the whole of which will have rela
tion to the time when it commenced. lb. See ante, note t. 4.

334
Ch. 60.
v-*~v"*-/

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.
the creditor, make out an alias (k), or pluries execution for
the whole, or the remainder, as the case, may be, till the

Not to ii»ue af- judgment shall be fully satisfied : but if the party shall neglect
wiikoina scire for the space of one year next after obtaining judgment, to
take out his execution, or shall not within one year next af
ter his execution shall be returned not satisfied, take out his
alias or pluries, he shall sue out his writ of scire facias (I)
against the adverse party, to show cause, if any he hath,
why execution ousht not to be done ; and upon his not
or may nave
* .
,
in
1
action of d«bt showing sufficient cause, the Court shall award execution,
mem!" J" 8 for what remaineth, with additional costs : or the creditor
may bring his action of debt on the judgment.
Officers to offSect. 4. Be it further enacted, That whenever it shall
•ct executions, happen that any sheriff, coroner or other officer authorized
[Mass. Stat, by law to serve executions, shall at the same time have sevF«b.26,lSll]. era] executions wherein the creditor in one execution is
debtor in the other, any such officer is hereby empowered
and directed to cause one execution to answer (m) and satisfy
(At) 1. Justices of the Peace may renew executions and make copies after
the expiration of their commissions, by ch. 441, vol. 3, p. 284.
2. Where bail has surrendered the principal upon scire facias, and ha
is committed, the plaintifffis entitled to an alius execution on which to charge
the principal, although more than a year has elapsed since the return of the
former execution. BartUtl vs. Falley, 6 Mass. 873.
(/) I. Persons and property are nude liable to attachment on scire facias,
by ch. 463, § 2, vol. 3, p. 304.
2. Mistakes in levying executions upon lands not belonging to the debtor
may be corrected on scirefacias under provisions of ch. 210, vol. 3, p. 41; '
[Mass. Stat. June 14, 1785. See Kendrick vs. Wentworth, 14 Mass. 57;
Gooch, ex. vs. Atkins, 14 Mass. 380; Greene, aim. vs. Hatch, 12 Mass195.]
(m) 1. No regard is paid to the origin or nature of the demands; whether
they arise ex maleficio or ex contractu, they are reduced to the same level
by the respective judgments, and will mutually compensate each other. Jarvis, adm. vs. Sogers, 15 Mass. 406.
2. Goodenow vs. Buttrick, 7 Mass. 140.
3. The Supreme Court will set oil" a smaller judgment against a larger
between the same parties, although the smaller judgment is on a demand
which had been assigned, the assignee having previous notice of the demand
on which the larger judgment was founded. Greene, adm. vs. Hatch, 12
Mass. 195.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

335

the other, so far as the same will extend : Provided always, Ch. 60.
That this act shall not be construed to extend to any judg
provided par
ments or executions wherein the creditor in one execution ties are in the
is not in the same capacity and trust, debtor in the other : same capacity.
And provided also, That nothing in this act shall be constru
ed* to affect or discharge the lien (n) which any attorney
[*2T1]
and that attor
has or may have upon any judgments or executions for his ney's
lien for
fees and disbursements, or to affect the rights of any person eosts, and as
signors' right*
to whom or for whose benefit the same judgments or execu shall not be
impaired.
tions, or the original cause of action thereof may have been
assigned, bona fide, and without fraud.
Sect. 5. Be it -further enacted, That when any goods Good's seized
or chattels (o) shall be taken to satisfy an execution issuing on execution
to be kept 4
upon a judgment obtained, such goods or chattels shall be oVys before
ale—
safely kept, by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, for
the space of four days next after they are so taken ; and % [Mass. Stat.
Mar. 17,1734,
within that time, the owner shall not redeem the same by oin- $ 5.]
ervvise satisfying the execution, such goods and chattels .iiall
4. Whether, where the creditor in one execution is joint debtor v<th oth
ers in another, the officer, having both in his hands, is bound to ma-'e an off
set, is doubted. Gould vs. Parlen, 7 Glf. 82.
5. Where upon application to the court to offset judgments 'he court re
fused after a full hearing, the officer holding the two executi'ns issued upon
such judgments is not liable to an action for refusing to sr 'hem off in the
same manner. But it is otherwise, when the court shoi-d decline to inter
fere at all in the matter. lb.
(n) 1. An attorney's lien on the cause for his fees ■oes not exist till judg
ment is entered. Potter, Judge, fyc. vs. Mayo, 3 Glf. 34.
2. The attorney's lien is upon the whole sum recovered. His receiving
money of the debtor and paying it to the credit r, does not destroy his lien.
Baker vs. Cook, II Mass. 238.
3. The court will not permit one jndgnvnt to be set eff against another
between the same parties, where it appear that persons other than the nom
inal creditors aro interested by assignment of the demand on which one of the
judgments is rendered.

Makepeace »4. Coates, 8 Mass. 451.

4. In case of set oris on executions, the fees in the two cross executions,
upon which there is an attcrney's lien, cannot bo offset. JJunklee vt.
Locke, 13 Mast. 525.
(o) A term in real estate for any number of years is a chattel, and may
be sold on execution as other chattels. Gay,adm. 5 Mass. 419; Chapman
vs. Gray, 15 Mass. 445. See onward, § 19.

33G

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

Ch. 60. be sold at public vendue to the highest bidder (j>), having first
"-"""""*-' been advertised (a) by the posting up notifications of the time
to be advcrti.r
i
r
• i i
L r
u
•
•
r
ed 48 hours and place of sale, forty-eight hours belore the expiration of
the four (r) days in the town or place where the sale is to be ;
and the money arising upon such sale shall be applied to the
paying charges and the satisfying the execution, and the offi
cer shall return the overplus, (if any there be) to the debtofficer to make or r$\
^nd the officer who is possessed of the execution
particular return—

v '

r

shall make return (t) of the same with his doings therein, par
(/>) If the highest bidder refuses to take and pay for the article he hat
bid off, tho officer may set it up again and sell it to the highest bidder at such
second attempt. Wilson vs. Loring, 7 Mass. 392.
(9) 1. If the goods are sold without being legally advertised, the sheriff is
liable in an action of the case for a false return; bat not in an action of tro
ver brought by the judgment debtor. Livermore vs. Bagley,3 Man. AST.
2. The return of service by an officer cannot be falsified by the defendan, whose remedy is by an action for false return against the officer. Slaytouv$. Chester, A Mass. 479; See WTtitaker vs. Sumner, 9 Pick. 308.
3 A sheriff, or his deputy cannot, either in pleading or by evidence, fal
sify hivown return. Gardner vs. Hosmer, 6 Mass. 327; Purrington vs.
Loringtf Mass. 392. See Boynton vs. Willard, 10 Pick. 166.
(r) Thk^flicpr is bound to sell at the expiration of four days after seizure;
and if he injects to do so, another creditor may seize the goods and cause
them to be sd^ for his benefit. Caldwell vs. Eaton, 5 Mass. 399.
(») A judging debtor, whose goods have been seized and sold on exe
cution, does not s»nr] jn t],e relation of vendor to the purchaser, and is a
competent witness V any suit between other persons respecting the goods.
Lothrop vs. Muzzy)K Glf. 450.
(01- It is necessary to\ valid title to goods purchased at a sheriff's sale
on execution, that the she^ff make a due and legal return of the execution.
Hammatl vs. fVyman Sf 0.9 Mass. 139. Vet—
2. In Lndd vs. Blunt, 4 A^ss. 402, Parsons, C. J. seems to have consid
ered a sale of goods upon execHion as valid, even in case tho officer should
neglect to make any rMurn npo\ the execution. And in Howe vs. Stark
weather, 17 Mass. 243, Parker, t\ J. on the authority of Titcomb vs. The
Union M. & F. Ins. Co. 8 Muss. 335, said "Generally a purchaser of chat
tels at a sheriff's sale having received the goods and paid for them, would
have the property notwithst«nding any irreg-ilarity of the officer making the
•ale. Purchases would not be made and the interests of debtor and creditor
would suffer, if sales made by onfi having lawful authority and appearing to
have exercised ii lawfully should be uvoided on account of some irregularity,
which could no! bo known at tho time." But ho added "even in such cases,

ATTACHMENT OP PROPERTY.

ticularly describing ihe goods taken and sold, and the sum
for which each article was struck off; and if any officer shall
'
he guilty of any fraud in the sale or in the return, he shall
be liable to the debtor to pay nim five times the sum defraud
ed, to be recovered by action of the case.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That an attested copy
or copies of the execution left with the Clerk, Treasurer
1
,
or Cashier of any turnpike, bridge, canal or other corpo.
,."
...
. ,
<• < i
ration, and an advertisement of the time and place of sale being once published within said thirty days after judgment,
shall be deemed a taking such shares or interests in execution,
pursuant to the attachment on the original writ ; and so many
of said shares, or so much of said interest may be sold on
said execution at public vendue to the highest bidder as shall

337

Ch. 60.
^""T"
penalty for
fraud therein.

Leavin
of. execution
with certain
officers of corporalions to be
a taking on
[M;ias. stat.
J1"^' 1805,
shares, &c. to
t;on, aft«r not,ce'

be sufficient to satisfy the same, and the charges of the sale,
after notice shall have been given of the time and place of
sale in manner as hereinafter provided ; and in case the offi
cer making* the sale, or the purchaser or purchasers of any
[*272]
such shares or interest do cause an attested copy or copies t0 '{£. k™^™,
of such execution, and the officer's return thereon to be left °aicer. of cor"
7

porntion.

with such Clerk, Treasurer or Cashier, within fourteen days
after the sale is completed, and pay for the recording of the
same, such purchaser or purchasers shall be thereby entitled
to such shares and interest, with all the privileges appertain
ing thereto, and the income and dividend which may have
accrued or been made on the same subsequent to the attach
ment thereof on mesne process ; and it shall be the duty of Cel.ti(i(,al„
the proper officer or officers of such corporation, to issue to shares to be
.
.
,
given to purthe purchaser or purchasers under such execution, such cer- chaser,
tificates as by the bye-laws and regulations of such corporation
however, the return of the officer ought to shew a compliance with the law,
or the purchaser would be unable to maintain his property." Why would
not as great or even greater inconvenience and mischief result from holdng
all sales to be a nullity where the officer should neglect to make a return in
due form upon the execution ? In Ingersol vs. Sawyer, 2 Pick. 276, the court
express a doubt whether even in the case of a sale of an equity of redemp
tion, the purchaser might not maintain a title under (he salu even without
any return whatever. See onward, note a, § 17, p. 342.

Vol. i.

43

336

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

Ch. 60. are the evidences of the shares or interest of a proprietor in
such corporation (tt) .
Sect. 7. Be it jwther enacted, That in making sale of
Mode of noti
fying sale of
any
such shares or interest, the officer holding the execution
shares.
shall give notice in writing of the time and place of sale to
lib. §3.]
the judgment debtor, by leaving the same at his last and usual
place of abode, if within the county in which the said officer
dwells, and public notice of the said time and place of sale,
by posting up notifications thereof in one or more public pla
ces in trfe town or plantation where such sale is to be made,
and also in one or more public places in the two adjoining
towns, thirty days at least before the time of sale, and further
shall cause an advertisement expressing the time and place of
sale, and against whom such execution shall have issued on
which such shares or interests have been taken, to be pub
lished three weeks successively before the day of sale, in
some public newspaper printed in the county where the sale
is to be made, if any such be therein printed, and in case no
such paper is therein printed, then such advertisement shall
be published in some public newspaper in the nearest county
wherein a newspaper shall be published ; and in case the
judgment debtor has at no time resided, or does not then
dwell in such county, the posting up such notifications, and
publishing such advertisements in manner aforesaid shall be
deemed sufficient notice of such sale ; and in case the shares
or interest so notified for sale, shall not for want of purcha
[*273]
sers, be disposed of at the time appointed* for sale, the offi
Vendue may cer shall adjourn the sale for a time not exceeding three days,
be adjourned
and from time to time, until the sale shall be completed ;
for 3 days.
and
the surplus monies (if any there be) arising from such
Surplus bow
to be disposed sale, beyond satisfying the contents of the execution and ne
of.
cessary intervening charges, the officer shall pay the debtor,
or deposit the same with the treasurer or cashier of the cor
poration, for the benefit of the debtor and subject to his or
der.
(u) These provisions apply to shares in a bank, where no mode is prescrib
ed in the act incorporating such bank, forlevying upon the shares. Huttey
t>«. M. If M. Bank, 10 Pick. 415.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

339

Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That whenever any offi- Ch. GO.
cer, having a writ of attachment or execution against any per- v-*-v-^-'
a

.

son interested in any such company, shall exhibit to the Clerk
or Cashier thereof, such writ or execution, and request a
certificate from him of the number of shares or amount of interest owned by the debtor in such company, it shall be the
duty of such Clerk or Cashier to give the said officer a certificate of the number of shares or amount of interest holden
and owned by the debtor in such company, and therein ex
press the numbers or other marks by which such shares or
interest are distinguished ; and in case such Clerk or Cashier shall refuse to make and deliver to the officer such certificate, or shall willfully make and deliver a false certificate
thereof, such Clerk or Cashier shall be liable to pay to the
creditor the full contents of such execution, and the con
tents of the judgment which may be recovered by the plain
tiff in such writ of attachment, and the same may be recov
ered by the judgment creditor in an action of debt, in any
Court proper to try the same.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That whenever any
judgment has been, or may hereafter be recovered in any
•> °
'
'
'
Court of Law against any turnpike, bridge, canal or other («)
company incorporated by law, with power to receive toll,
the franchise of such corporation, with all the privileges and
immunities thereof, so far as relates to the right of demanding and receiving toll, as well as all other corporate prop
erty, whether real or personal, shall be liable to the satis
faction and payment of such judgment, and may be taken
and sold on execution at public vendue ; the officer first giving notice of the time and place of sale, by posting up a notification thereof in any town or plantation, in which the
Clerk, Treasurer or any of the Directors of said corporation
may* dwell, thirty days at least before the time of sale, and
also by causing an advertisement, expressing the name of
the creditor, the amount of said execution, and the '.ime and
place of sale, to be inserted three weeks successively in
some public newspaper, published in any county in which
(») Tilcomb vs. M. & F. I. Company, 8 Mais. 833.

Clerk or cashier on request
givo him'ccrJharaf owned
b> lhe debtorlIl>- § *•]

Penalty for no8ect'

. .
Franchj»c of
cot0™11011 ofter notice, may
•» B?ld on cx^"os Usui
§ *•]

Mode of giving
notlcc'

\.*vt\]

340

ATTACHMENT OF Pnol'ERTY.

cither of the aforesaid officers of said corporation may dwell
(if any such newspaper shall be there printed) the last publi
cation to be at least four days before the day of sale.
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That in the sale of
Mode and ef
fect of such
such
franchise any person who will pay and satisfy said exe
sale.
cution and all legal fees and expenses thereon, in considera
[lb. §2.]
tion of being entitled to receive, to his own use, for the short
est period of time, all such toll as the said corporation may
by law be entitled to demand and receive, shall be consider
ed as the highest bidder, and the same shall be struck off to
Officer may
him accordingly ; and the officer's return on said execution
give possession
shall transfer to the purchaser all the privileges and immu
to purchaser.
nities which by law belonged and appertained to said cor
poration, so far as relates to the right of demanding and re
ceiving toll ; and the said officer shall immediately after
such sale, be authorized and empowered to deliver to said
purchaser, possession of all the toll houses and gates belong
ing to said corporation, in whatever county the same be
situated ; and the said purchaser shall thereupon be entitled
to demand and receive to his own use, all the toll which
may accrue, within the time limited by the term of his pur
chase, in the same manner, and under the same regulations,
as the said corporation was before authorized to demand
and receive the same : Provided however, That the said
corporation shall in all other respects, retain the same pow
ers, be bound to the discharge of the same duties, and liable
to the same penalties and forfeitures as before belonged to
and were required of them by law ; and provided also, That
Corporation
mav redeem
if the said corporation shall, at any time within three months
within three
months—
from the time of such sale, pay over or tender to said pur
chaser such sums of money as he may have paid in satis
on what terms. faction of said execution with twelve per cent, interest there
on, in addition to the toll which he may have received, then
the said franchise, and all the rights, privileges and immuni
ties thereof, shall revert to said corporation, and shall in
L'275]
all* respects belong and appertain to them, as if the same had
not been sold as aforesaid.
Warrant of
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That whenever any
diotress may
damages have been, or may hereafter be assessed to any per
CH. 60.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

son or body politic, either by the report of a committee, or
the verdict of a Jury, for any injury sustained in his or their
property, by the doing of any of the corporations aforesaid,
and the said damages shall remain unpaid for the space of
thirty days after the final acceptance of such report or ver34 1

Ch. 60.
^"^-^
gainst corporages assessed by
j™™"00 or

diet, such person or body politic, upon petition to any Court, .,
.
by which such report or verdict was accepted, shall be enti
tled to a warrant of distress against said corporation, for the
damages so assessed and the interest thereon, together with
his or their reasonable costs ; and the officers to whom such to ^ ^^j
warrant of distress may be delivered, may proceed to execute " cxecution,ithe same in the same manner as is herein before provided for
the levying and satisfaction of executions.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That the officer who
may levy any execution or warrant of distress by virtue of the
ninth, tenth, eleventh and thirteenth sections of this act, shall
be authorized to adjourn the vendue from time to time, not
exceeding ten days at any one time, until the sale shall be
completed.

i„ certain Ca
^ adjouriicay
10 daysLIb- § 5-l

Sect. 13. [Repealed by re-ennctinent, with slight variation, by ch. 519, §
19, and 38, vol. 3, pp. 384 and 394.]
Sect. 14*. [Repealed (to), in eame manner with preceding section.]
Sect. 15. [Repealed (to), in same manner with preceding sections.]
Sect. 16. [Repealed, in same manner with preceding sections*.

[*27GJ
[*277]

Sect. 17. Be it further enacted (x), That all rights in
equity of redeeming real estate mortgaged, shall be liable to
be taken in execution upon judgment for the payment of the
just debts of the mortgager or owner, and the officer having
such execution is hereby authorized to make sale of the same

Equities of rcbl^j0^, ^
cutlon$™e\ SJ^
§ 3> *•]

(to) The cases provided for in § 14, 15, are in which the bank is mort
gagee or assignee of a mortgage, and the debt secured is due at the time of
seizure and sale. Vote vs. Handy, 2 Glf. 332.
(x) 1. The act of March 4, 1833, ch. 87, provides for the attachment on
mesne process, and sale on execution of a debtor's right of redeeming an equi
ty that has been sold on a previous execution, and also his right of redeem
ing real estate set off on execution.
2. When an equity of redemption is attached on the writ, it is die duty
of the officer, upon receiving the execution within thirty days after the judg
ment, to levy on the equity, without waiting for particular instructions from
the creditor. It is otherwise, where the land itself is attached. Start vt.
Sherwin, I Pick. 521.

342

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

Cii. 60. at public vendue, and to make, execute, acknowledge and
v-*~"~"»-/ deliver to the highest bidder good and sufficient deed or deeds
of any estate so sold (y) , in manner as is hereinafter expressMode ofgiving ed. And the officer shall give notice in writing, of the time
""""'
and place (z) of sale to the debtor in person, or by leaving
the same at his last and usual place of abode, and public no
tice of the said time and place of sale, by posting up notifi
cations thereof in two (a) or more public places in the town
or plantation in which such mortgaged estate is situated, and
also in one or more public places in two adjoining towns,
thirty days at least before the time of sale ; and further shall
cause an advertisement of the time and place of sale to be
published three weeks successively before the day of sale
in some public newspaper printed in the county in which
such real estate lies, if any such newspaper shall be there
printed, and the notifications aforesaid, being given or post
ed up within the space of thirty days after judgment given
Attachment to whereon such execution shall issue, the attachment shall
ho unti e, j^jj ^e equity, attached as aforesaid, until the levy of such
execution can be completed in manner hereinafter described.
And in case the estate notified for sale as aforesaid, shall
bV^lijourned not ^e disposed of at the time and place appointed, the offi3 days.
cer shall adjourn the vendue, not exceeding three (6) days,
(y) 1. The purchaser of an equity obtains by such sale a legal seizin of the
premises, and may maintain a real action against any stranger, nnless such
stranger had in fact disseized the mortgagor before the sale of the equity.
Wellington vi. Gale, 7 Mass. 138.
2. So the sale gives him a right of action for the land against the mort
gagor himself, after payment or tender of the money duo on the mortgage.
Porter vs. Millet, 9 Mass. 102. Seo onward, note d, 1.
(z) Whitaker vs. Sumner, 9 Pick. 308; Atkins & al. vs. Sawyer, 1 Pick.
351.
(a) 1. If the land lies in more towns than one, it is necessary that the officer
should post up two notifications in every town where any part of the land is
situated. Grosvernor vs. Little, 7 Glf. 876.
2. A general return by an officer upon an execution, that, after advertis
ing as the law directs, ho had sold the debtor's right, &c. was holdcn insuf
ficient to pass such right to the purchaser. Davis vs. Maynard, 9 Mass. 242 ;
Wellington vs. Gale, 13 Mass. 488. See ante, noto t, 2.
(6) Sunday is not to be reckoned as one of the three.
4 Pick. 854.

Thayer vs. Felt,

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

343

and so from time to time until the sale shall bo completed.
And the surplus monies (if any there shall be) arising from
i
ii
j
■ r •
iji_
j
such sale, beyond satisiying the debt, costs and necessary
intervening charges, the officer shall return to the debtor (c).
Sect. 18*. Be it further enacted, That all deeds made
and executed as aforesaid, shall be as effectual, to all intents
and purposes, to convey the debtor's right in equity aforesaid,

Ch. CO.
*-»-v-*^
Disposal of
surplus.
[*278]
cers to be eforight". P<1SS

to the purchaser (d), his heirs and assigns, as if the same had [Mass. Stat.
been made and executed by such debtor or debtors : Provid- FeK16, 1816»
.
5 'J
ed, That every such debtor shall have liberty to redeem the De|Jtorma
right in equity so sold, within one (e) year next after the time decm with™
7.
.
.
on0 year* payof executing the deed or deeds thereof, in manner aforesaid, ing, &c.
by paying the sumf which may by such sale have been sat- [fAnd « legal
isfied on such execution, with the interest thereof, deducting ^^182, vol.
the rents and profits the purchaser or any under him may 3' P" 3-l
have received over and above the repairs and betterments
made by the purchaser or any under him.
Sect. 19. Be it further enacted, That the estate, right, possessory tititle or interest of any person, owned, holden or claimed in [a°tc maybe au
virtue of a possession, or improvement as expressed in " An ta»5ed and
r
'
r
r
sold on execuAct for the settlement of certain equitable claims arising in tion.
real actions^," shall be liable to be taken by attachment, on ch. 47.]
(c) Clark vs. Austin, 2 Pick. 531; Bacon vs. Leonard, 4 Pick. 281.
(d) 1. The purchaser of an equity can aver no seizin or title against any
other person than the execution debtor or his immediate tenants or assigns.
Forster vs. Mellen, 10 Mass. 421.
2, A mere disseizor, in possession of lands when a right in equity to re
deem the same is seized and sold upon execution, may avail himself of any
insufficiency of the officer's return, in an action by the purchaser of the equi
ty against such disseizor.
Wellington vs. Gale, 13 Mass. 483.
(e) 1. The day on which the deed is executed, is excluded.
Wilson, 1 Pick. 485.

Sigeloto vs.

2. Where the right in equity of redeeming lands was sold on execution
by the sheriff, and the purchaser forthwith brought his action against the
mortgagor to have possession of the lands; and afterwards, and within the
year, the mortgagor tendered to the demandant the purchase-money and in
terest, pursuant to the statute, but did not offer to pay the costs of the suit,—
it was holden that under the laws of this State the tender was no bar to the
action, unless it included the costs also. Jewett vs. Felker, 2 Olf. 339.
3. But in such case, the Court, on payment of the money and costs, will
stay further proceedings. lb.

314
Ch. CO.
<-*"v"*-/

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.
mesne process, and by execution (/). And when any such
right, title, interest or estate shall be seized and sold upon ex

ecution, such notice shall be given, and such proceedings
had, in every respect, as are required by law, in the sale of
Redeemable in an etllnty °f redemption ; and the debtor whose right, title,
-.MM.- manner interest or estate, is so taken and sold, shall have the right
as cf|Uiliea ol
°
redemption, of redeeming the same, within such time, and in such man
ner, as is provided in cases of sales of equity of redemption.
Surplus in offiSect. 20. Be it further enacted (g), That whenever an
bT applied9 to- officer shall have in his hands any money arising from the
oUwr ex«-u"g sa'e °^ tne snares or interest aforesaid, or from the sale of any
tions m his equity of redemption, or personal property, more than suf
ficient to satisfy the execution or executions on which such
ltarS,8 Si805 s^ares or interests, equity of redemption, or personal prop$ *]

erty were taken and sold, such officer shall apply the same
surplus money, or such part thereof as may be necessary
to the payment of any other (h) execution which he may have
in his hands, unsatisfied against the same debtor, or which
may be delivered to him before he shall have paid over such
surplus money, any thing in this or any other law of this
State to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided heneever,
That if such share or interest, equity of redemption, or per(*2T9]
sonal* rproperty,
shall,' before such sale,' have been attached
Or if such sur*
' '
plus be attach- on mesne process, other than that on which such execution
or taken on ' shall have issued, or shall have been taken on some other
Uon, e«amc<K:to execution, and the said officer is duly notified thereof, he
ject1iheretolb sna^ n0^ sucn surPms monies, subject to such attachment
or execution, and shall apply the same to the payment of the
(.f) By ch. 431, vol. 8, p. 274, estate holdon by virtue of abondorcontract in writing to convey, on conditions, is made attachable, and the obligor
is compelled to disclose by bill in equity the sum actually due.
(g) 1. The provisions of § 20 must be confined to cases where different at
tachments of chattels had been made by the same officer, but at the suit of
different creditors. Watton fy at, vs. Todd Sf at. & Matt. 276.
2. In case of a sale of an equity of redemption upon execution, the offi
cer is bound to pay over the surplus money arising from the sale, to another
officer having an execution against the same debtor, lb; Denny vt. Ham
ilton, 16 Mats. 402, also, § 21, above.
(70 Bacon vs. Leonard, 4 Pick. 281.

ATTACHMENT OK PROPERTY.

345

execution which may issue on the judgment that may be ren- Ch. 60.
dered on such mesne process, and delivered to him within *-*-"-»-'
thirty days after the rendition of such judgment, or to the
payment of the execution by which such shares or interest,
equity of redemption, or personal property had been taken
according to the priority in regard to time, of such attach
ment or taking in execution.
Sect. 21. Be it further enacted, That whenever any if second atSheriff, or Deputy Sheriff shall make sale of any share or in- ^cbemide
terest in an incorporated company, of any right in equity to 1,ef°re gale' bv
redeem mortgaged real estate, or of any personal property, Sheriff <™ nowhich shall before such sale, have been attached on mesne must hold suri
i
r\
i
i cm
plus for him.
process, or taken on execution by a Coroner, and such Sher
iff, or Deputy Sheriff is duly notified (t) thereof in writing, [Mass. Stat.
1820,

he shall hold the monies in his hands, arising from such sale, § 1.]
subject to such attachment or execution, in the same manner
as if he were authorized to serve the execution which shall
have issued, or may issue on such mesne process, or on which
said share or interest, equity of redemption, or personal prop
erty, may have been taken by said Coroner.
Sect. 22. Be it further enacted, That said Sheriff or sheriff, on noDeputy Sheriff, after being notified in writing by said Coro- ticeto pay over
r

*

'

3

o

J

Bucn surplus to

ner, of the execution in his the said Coroner's hands, on Coroner, &c.
which said share or interest, equity of redemption, or person- [lb. § 2.]
al property, shall have been taken, or which issued on the
mesne process whereon said share or interest, equity of re
demption, or personal property had been attached, of the
time of such attachment on mesne process, or taking on ex
ecution, and of the whole amount, including fees due on said
execution, shall pay over to the said Coroner the amount due
on said execution, or so much thereof as shall remain in his
hands, after satisfying all executions, in his own hands on
which said share or interest, equity of redemption, or per
sonal property had been taken, or which issued on mesne
process* whereon said share or interest, equity of redemp[*280]
tion, or personal property had been attached prior to the
(0 Sea note g, J., 2, to $ 20.

Vol. i.

44

346
Ch. GO.
v-*~v~*-'

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.
time of the attachment on mesne process, or taking on execution as aforesaid, by said Coroner,

in «imiiar caSect. 23. Be it further enacted, That whenever any
hoidCOaridCr 1° ^orouer suau" make sale of such share or interest, equity of
°v<h suf?'lus l0 redemption, or personal property, which shall, before such
sale, have been attached on mesne process or taken on exe
cution by a Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, such Coroner shall be
subject to the same duties and requirements, in relation to
such Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, as by the twenty-first and
twenty second ser lions of this act, a Sheriff, is, in like case
subject to, in relation to a Coroner.
in similar caSect. 24. lie it further enacted, That whenever any
to 'hold "and Constable shall make sale of any such share or interest, equity
MrpiuiTtosher- of redemption, or personal property, which shall before such
iff or coroner. sa]e nave Deen attached on mesne process, or taken on exe[Ib. § 4.]

cution by a Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, or by a Coroner, such

Constable shall be subject to the same duties and require
ments in relation to such Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, or Cor
oner as by the twenty-first and twenty-second sections of this
act, a Sheriff is, in like case subject to, in relation to a Cor
oner.
Shares held in
Sect. 25. Be it further enacted, That the shares and
feTttecheda'nd mterests held by any person or persons in any such company
sold in no other as aforesaid, may be attached on mesne process and taken
manner than

'

'

■

this act pro- and sold on execution, in the manner provided by this act,
vides.

[Mass. Stat,
Mar. 8, 1S05,
jji
In what counprTCee'din^T
may bo had.

i

•

i

and no other, any thing in the act incorporating such corn..
A . , .
,.
, ..
pany to the contrary notwithstanding (j).
Sect. 26. Be it further enacted, That all proceedings
under the authority of the second, ninth, tenth, eleventh and
twelfth sections of this act, may be had in any county in

which either the creditor, or the President, either of the Di
rectors, the Treasurer, or Clerk of said corporation may re
side or dwell.
Mode of levySect. 27. Be it further enacted, That when any person
o^reaT^itate* sna11 obtain judgment in any Court within this State, for
any sum of money, and the person or persons against whom
( ;') Thin provision is intended to have a retroactive operation,
Starkweather, 17 Mass. 242.

r

lloicen.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

347

the judgment is, does not satisfy such judgment, and the
creditor can find no (k) personal estate to his acceptance,

C»i. 60.
^-^-v-*wherewith* to satisfy his execution, and shall think proper to
[*28ij
levy(i) his execution upon the debtor's real estate (»i), then fM
„
the officer to whom the execution is directed and delivered, Mar. 17, 1784,
shall cause three disinterested and discreet men, being free
holders in the county, one to be chosen by the creditor (n)
or creditors, one by the debtor (o) or debtors, whose land is
to be taken, if they see cause, and a third by the officer ; and
in case the debtor or debtors shall neglect or refuse to choose
(&) 1. Although the creditor may have attached on the original writ suffi
cient personal property wherewith to satisfy his execution, he may neverthe
less levy on real estate of the debtor. Herring If ah vs. Policy, 8 Mass. 120.
2 . In the return of an extent it is not necessary for the officer to certify
that there was no personal estate belonging to the debtor, whereof the exe
cution might have been satisfied. Boyhton vs. Carver, 11 Mass. 515.
(/) A levy gives the creditor an actual seizin of the lands.
Brigden, 4 Mass. 150.

Wymnn vs.

(m) 1. An extent may well be of a chamber in a house or store, with a right
of ingress and egress by an outer door, entry and staircase. Buck vs. Har
dy, 6 Off. 162. See onward, note v, 2.
2. Land mortgaged and not entered upon by the mortgager, is not real
estate within the meaning of this provision, so as to be levied upon for a debt
due from the mortgager. Blanchard vs. Colburn, lee. ux. 16 Mass. 347.
3. Iron stoves
with the house on
7 Mass. 432.
4. Where the
itor as incident to

fixed to the brick work of chimnies of a house, will pass
an extent of an execution thereon. Goddard vs. Chase,
property set off is under lease, the rent will pass to the cred
the reversion. Montague vs. Gay, 17 Mass. 440.

5. The extent upon land conveys all the debtor's right in the buildings on
the land, whether their foundations arc sunk below the surface or not.
Waterhouse vs. Gibson If ah 4 Glf. 230.
(n) 1. Cutting & ux. vs. Rockwood, 2 Pick. 448.
2. The return of the sheriff as to the qualification of the appraisers, can
not be questioned in a subsequent action upon the judgment. Lawrence vs.
Pond, 17 Mass. 434.
3. Where the sheriff failed to certify in his return upon an execution, which
he had extended, that the appraisers were discreet and disinterested free
holders, the extent was holden void. Williams vs. Amory, 14 Mass . 20.
(0) The guardian of a spendthrift who is the creditor, may choose an ap
praiser for his ward Bond vs. Bond, 2 Pick. 382.

348

Ch. 60.
v-*~v"*-/

ATTACHMENT-OF I'ROPERTY.

as aforesaid, after being duly notified (p) by the officer, if the
debtor be living in the county (q) in which such land lies, the
officer shall appoint one for such (r) debtor or debtors, to be
sworn (s) before one of the Justices of the Peace of the same
county, faithfully and impartially to appraise (i) such real es
tate as shall be shown to them, who shall appraise the same,
to satisfy the same execution with all fees, and shall set(u)
(/>) 1. Where a judgment debtor was out of the State at the time of the ex
tent of an execution on his land, the appointment of an appraiser bjr his wife
wns holden valid. Russell If al. vs. Hook, 4 Glf. 372.
2. If one of two judgment debtors elect an appraiser to appraise land be
longing to both, nr to him only, it is sufficient; otherwise if the land belong
ing solely to the other debtor.

Herring vs. Polley, 8 Mais. 113.

3 . If the real estate to be extended upon lay in different parts of the counly, different appraisers may be selected and employed. Boylsten vs. Car
ver, 11 Mass. 515. Sec onward, note e, p. 352.
4. In levying upon these several tracts of land belonging to the debtor it
is not necessary that a several appraisement be made of each. Barnard vs.
Fisher, 7 Mass. 71; Bond vs. Bond, 2 Pick. 382.
(q) 1. Six hours notice to the judgment debtor, of an extent about to be
made, wns held sufficient, ho living within one quarter of a mile of the prem
ises. Buek vs. Hardy, 6 Glf. 162.
2. It is essential I* the validity of the return of an extent, that it should
«how that the debtor wns duly notified to choose an appraiser. Meant &
al. vs. Osgood, 7 Glf. 146.
3. If the judgment debtor is not in the county, i' is sufficient if the offtrer, who is about to extend an execution on his lands, should leave notice at
his last and usual place of abode. Cut whether any notice in such case is
necessary — Qucre. Buck vs. Hardy, 6 Glf. 1G2. See above, notep, I.
(r) When a sheriff returns upon an execution that he has appointed two
of the appraisers of real estate to be levied upon he must also return that the
debtor refused to choose one. Eddy vs. Knap, 2 Mass. 154; Whitman
vs. Tyler /,■ ah. 8 Mass. 284.
(.«) 1. Defects in the certificate of the Justice before whom appraisers were
sworn, will be disregarded, if the return of the officer be regular. Bamford
vs. Melvin, 7 Glf. 20.
2. Where the appraisers are justices of the peace, they may administer
the oath to each ether. Barnard vs. Fisher, 7 Mass. 71.
3. Or the oath may be administered by the judgment debtor, if he be a
justice, lb.
(I) If the appraisers view (lie land, without going upon it, it is sufficient.
Bond vs. Bond, 2 Pick- 382.

See Hammatt vs. Barrett, Jr. ib. 564.

4.11) 1. The three appraisers must certify, or if two only certify, a sufficient

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

349

out such estate by metes and bounds, (») and the officer shall Ch. 60.
deliver possession and seizin (w) thereof to the creditor or ^■v*-'
creditors, bis or their attorney. And when the real estate of
the debtor or debtors shall be held in joint (x) tenancy, in co
parcenary or tenancy in common with the real estate of other
reason must be given why the third did not. Whitman vs. Tyler & als. S
Mass. 2S4 ; Maffit vs. Jaqains & al. 2 Pick. 3S1. Where the officer's re
tain states that A. B. and C. were appraisers, and A. B. and D. were in fact
the persons who acted as appraisers, and whose names are signed to the ap
praisement, the return is invalid. Nye vs. Drake, 9 Pick. 35. But in Bar
rett vs. Porter, 14 Mass. 143, it was holden, that where it appeared on the
return of the officer, that three appraisers were appointed and sworn, and
that all the three had acted in the appraisement ; although the certificate was
subscribed by two only, and no reason given why the third did not subscribe,
the return might be sustained.
2. The power of setting oil' the estate comprehends the power of giving
access to it ; so where land of a debtor is set off, to which there is no access
bnt over other lands of the debtor, the sheriff and appraisers may set off to
tho creditor, a right of passage over such other lands, either separately or
with the debtor. Taylor vs. Townsend, 8 Mats. 411. See ante, m, 1.
O) 1. In the return of such an extent, a reference to deeds upon record
may bo a sufficient description of the lands. Boylston vs. Carver, 11 Mass.
516. See Carpenter If ux. vs. Sutton, 7 Pick. 49.
2. A reference for a description of land levied upon, to an inventory of
an estate, was held insufficient. Tate tr al. vs. Anderson, 9 Mass. 92. See
McGregor If al.vs. Brown, 5 Pick. 170.
(u>) 1. A return of the sheriff that he delivered seizin and possession of the
land taken, to the agent, instead of the attorney of the creditor, is sufficient.
Pratt & al. vs. Putnam, 13 Mass. 361.
2. An attorney for such purpose need not be constituted by deed. lb.
3. The neglect of the creditor for a month after the seizure and appraise
ment, to receive seizin, was adjudged an unreasonable delay, and such la
ches on bis part as amounted to a waiver of the previous lien obtained by the
attachment. Waterhousevs. Waite, 11 Mass. 210.
4. An execution duly levied on land of the debtor, and possession by the
creditor, is a satisfaction of the judgment, although the same be not recorded
in the registry of deeds within threo months as required by statute. McLellan vs. Whitney, 15 Mass. 137.
(a:) 1. A levy of an execution on an undivided half of the farm, as the
property of A. is void. JVye vs. Drake, 9 Pick. 35.
2. When a creditor would extend his execution on lands owned by his
debtor in common with others, he must levy on a part in common. Hasty
$- M*. vs. Johnson, 3 Olf. 288.

350

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

Ch. 60.
*~*~*^*'

persons, then the said officer may extend execution on such
debtor or debtor's real estate held as aforesaid, or part there
of, describing the same with as much precision as the nature
and situation thereof will admit of, and give the creditor or
creditors, his or their attorney, seizin and possession of such
debtor or debtor's real estate held as aforesaid, or part there
of, to hold in common with the said other persons ; which
.
.
execution being returned with the doings (y) thereon into the
corded in 8 Clerk's office, and before such return into the Clerk's office
Registry of or afterwards, and within three months (2), the same shall be
feet thereof* recorded in the Registry of Deeds in tire county where the
3. So if the debtor holds in severalty, the creditor mast levy on a part
in severalty. lb.
4. An ezecntion against one holding lands in joint tenancy or tenancy in
common, cannot be extended on a part of the lands ao bolden, by metes and
bounds. Burl lei I vs. Harlow, 12 Mass. 348.
(y) 1. If in the return of an extent, the land be described with such certain
ty that there could be no mistake ob to its location, it is enough. Buck vs.
Hardy, 6 Glf. 162.
2. Parol evidence is inadmissible to vary or modify the return of an offi
cer's extent. Waterhouse vs. Gibson Sf al. 4 Glf. 231.
3. If there are inherent defects in the return of an extent on land, or if
the land is appraised at too high a price, the creditor may waive the extent
at any time before acceptance of the land. Gotham vs. Slazo, 2 Glf. 232.
4. But tho creditor cannot waive the extent after acceptance of livery
and seizin from the officer lb.
5. If the officer's return have no date, it will be presumed to refer to the
date of the appraisement. lb.
6. The time of returning into the Clerk's office an execution extended on
land, is not material, if it has been recorded in the registry of deeds within
three months after the extent, Emerson vs. Towle, 5 Glf. 197.
(*) 1. The extent must be recorded within three months to avoid a tona
fide mesne conveyance of the land. Whitman vs. Tyler t[ als. 8 Mass.
284. See above, note to, 4 ; also, McGregor If al. vs. Brown, 5 Pick.
170.
2. The plaintifff's execution not being recorded, he can derive no title
under it by virtue of this act. Foster vs. Briggs, 3 Mass. 319 ; Ladd vs.
Blunt, 4 Mass. 402. See Prescott vs. Potter $■ al. 8 Pick. 881.
3. By ch. 309, vol. 3, p. 152, it is made the duty of the officer to cause
the levy to be recorded by the register of deeds, within three months after
such levy. [See Tobey vs. Leonard, 15 Mass. 200.]

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

laud lies, shall make as good title (a) to such creditor or
creditors, his or their heirs and assigns, as the debtor had
therein ; saving always to widows their dower (b) in all lands
taken from their husbands by execution.
Sect. 23. Be it further enacted (c), That when it so
happens that the real estate extended upon cannot be divided
and set out by metes and bounds as before prescribed, or by

351

Ch. CO.
^---»-'

Execution may
,", ^T extende^,°f"tsr.eata aIld

the description before mentioned, then execution shall be ex- .,
[Ib. § 3.]
tended upon the rents of such real estate, and the officer shall
give* seizin thereof to the creditor or creditors, his or their
[*282]
attorney ; and also in case of extending execution on rents as
aforesaid, shall cause the person in possession and improve
ment, to attorn and become tenant to such creditor or credit- Tenant to »t7

torn.

ors, and to pay the rent to him or them accordingly ; and
upon refusal thereof, to turn the person so refusing out of
possession and give seizin and possession of the same to the
creditor to hold and enjoy the same until it shall be redeem
ed, as by this act is provided : Provided always, That in Right of resuch case it shall and may be lawful for any debtor or debt
ors, his or their executors, administrators or assigns, at any
lime before the debt with interest is fully satisfied, to tender
and pay to the creditor or the tenant in possession under him,
the full remainder of his debt, interest and charges, to be
liquidated by three Justices of the Peace, and to recover the
possession of the same, in manner provided in this act.
Sect. 29. Be it further enacted (d), That whenever a
(a) The creditor ma; maintain a real action declaring on his own seizin,
or trespass against the debtor he shall continue his possession after the levy,
without the plaintifff's consent, or he may re-enter on him after the levy is
completed. Gore vs. Brazier, 3 Mais. 523.
(6) The dower is to be proportioned to the value of the lands us they ex
isted at the time of the set off. Copp vs. McDugall, 9 Mass. 8.
(e) 1. Property under lease is not within the provisions of this section.
Montague vs. Gay, 17 Mass. 441.
2. The estate of a tenant by courtesy may be taken on execution and
he rents and profits thereof
thcreo may be taken.
set off by metes and hounds, or the
Roberts vs. Whiting, 16 Mass-'

-I* fob

(d) We are not aware of any authority which one man has to covert the
sole tenancy of another into a tenancy in common except in the case provi
ded in § 29. Hasty $• ux. vs. Johnson, 3 Glf. 288.

352
Ch. 60.
v-"""v~*-'

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.
creditor in execution, shall think proper to extend and levy
the same on any saw mill, grist mill, or other mill, factory,

ing executions mill privilege, or other real estate, which cannot be divided
gHstamiii8T&c.' without prejudice to, or spoiling the whole, and where the
whole of such saw mill, grist mill, or other mill, factory, or
mill privilege, or other real estate, is not necessary for the
satisfying of such execution, the same may be extended and
levied in manner before prescribed, upon the same, or upon
any undivided part thereof, which shall be sufficient to satis
fy such execution ; and in case the estate is so situated that
the same cannot be set off by metes and bounds, the return
upon the execution shall describe the whole estate, with as
much precision as the nature of the case will admit ; which
execution being returned and recorded, in manner before pre
scribed, shall vest in such creditor in execution, as good and
valid a title thereto as the debtor had therein, when the same
was attached on mesne process, or taken in execution.
DebtormayroSect. 30. Be it further enacted, That when any tenetate™ taken on ment or lands in part or in whole, shall be taken in execution
executionwithfor debt, it shall and may be lawful to and for the execution
iu onee year,
p&"?'o i ' debtor, his heirs or assigns, executors or administrators, widi[lb. § S.J
'"
[*S83]
in* the space of one year next following the extending execu
tion thereon, to tender (c) the creditor or those claiming un
der him, the debt for which the same tenement was taken, with
interest from the time of the extending the execution, and the
reasonable and necessary charges and disbursements laid out
and expended thereon in repairing or bettering the same, over
Mode of act- anc| above what the rents, profits and improvements thereof
tling amount of

' ^

r

renu, profits, shall fall short of reimbursing such charges and interest, to be
to.
' accounted for by the execution creditor, or those claiming,
under him, which disbursements, expenses, rents, profits and
improvements may be settled by any three Justices of the
Peace in the county where the land lies, at the charge and
expense of the debtor, one to be chosen by the debtor, and
the other by the creditor, if he shall see cause to choose one,
otherwise they maj» both ic| chosen by the debtor, and the
third by the two ^usticWOTlchosen by the parties, or one of
(<) Where several parcels of land are set off", the debtor cannot redeem
one without redeeming all. Bond v$. Bond, 2 Pick. 882.

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

353

them as above directed, and which third shall be chosen before the other two proceed to a consideration of the business ;
.

,.

.

.

.

Cii. 60.
•~^^~^/
Creditor on reand if the creditor or the tenant in possession as aforesaid, ceiving payupon having a tender made of the sum certified under the cute release"^
hands of the said Justices chosen as aforesaid, or either two J^£,r of the
of them, to be due to him upon the execution, shall refuse to
execute a good and lawful deed of release to the debtor or
his heirs, (in case of his decease,) of the land or tenements so
taken in his execution, the debtor or his heirs, executors or
administrators who shall make such tender, may bring his ac- ?r'ome thTpration (/) of ejectment against the creditor or the person claim- ^'ment^of
ing under him ; and, upon lodging in Court the money ten- Voun.
dered, shall recover the title and possession of the land as
fully as the debtor held the same before the extending the ex
ecution upon it, together with his costs of suit : Provided nev
ertheless, That if the creditor, or the tenant in possession un
der him as aforesaid, shall, before the bringing the action,
have offered the debtor or his heirs, executors or administra
tors, to make and execute such deed of release, and shall
plead the same with disclaimer to the premises ; then and in
such case, upon the plaintifff's producing in Court the money
so tendered, judgment shall be given for the plaintifff to re
cover possession of the lands so taken in execution, and the
defendant shall recover his cost.
Sect. 31*. Be it further enacted, That whenever any ac[*28i]

tion(g) shall be commenced against any manufacturing corpo- Ra*^t m"nuration that may hereafter be created, or whenever any execu- facl"r.lnB c"r•i

>j

porations, it

tion may issue against such corporation on any judgment ren- not satisfied,
dered in any civil action and the said corporation shall not, rMas». Stat.
before the day on which the said execution is returnable after *Iar- ^'J8}^
demand thereof made upon the President, Treasurer or Clerk 14, isisj.j
(/) In auch action where the tender has been previously made, it is suf
ficient that the money be produced and lodged in conrt at any time befoie
«he rendition of judgment. Foss vs. Stickney, 6 Qlf. 390.
(») An aggregate corporation may be liable in an action of assumpsit.
Hayden If at. vs. M. T. Corp. 10 Matt- 5J7.

'

,

a

^

tChild vs. Coffin, 17 Mom. 64; Marcy vs. Clark, ib. 330.
JLeland vs. Marsh, 16 .Mass. 389.

Vol. i.

45

354

Ch. 60.
»«»•*'"*■'

ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

of such corporation by the officer to whom the writ or execulion against such corporation has been committed to be serv

ed, show to the same officer sufficient personal estate to sat
isfy any judgment that may be rendered upon such writ, or to
satisfy and pay the creditor the sums due upon such execu
tion, then, upon such neglect and default, upon the issuing of
[tAmended; an alias execution, the officer to whom such execution may be
vol V,' p. 50, committed for service, may serve and levy the same writ and
vol* 3Cl'p If?] execul'on uPon tne bodyf or bodies, and real and personal esmay be renew- tate or estates of any member or members of such corporaed and satisfied .
. , .
, ..
,
.
.
by taking the tion ; or upon the body or bodies, and upon the estate real
the members of an^ personal of any person or persons, who were members
the corpora- 0f said corporation at the time when the debt or debts accru
ed, upon which such writs or executions may have issued.
Attachments of
Sect. 32.
Be it further enacted, That when any goods
property not or estate are attached upon a writ or process which shall
dissolved by
L
l

death of either be pending, or may hereafter be pending in the Supreme Ju
[Mass. Stat.
Mar.17,1784.]

dicial Court or Circuit Court of Common Pleas, the same
shall not be released or discharged by reason of the death of
.

.

either party, but be held good to respond the judgment to be
given on such suit or process, in the same manner as by law
except in cases diey would have been if such deceased person had been livtation'tflnTOi- 'n§ : Provided (A) always, That where any estate attached as
yency.
aforesaid, shall, by the executor or executors, or administra(h) 1. This proviso will include only cases where there has been a repre
sentation of insolvency, and a commission actually issued. Grosvenor vs.
Gold, 9 Mass. 213. See Bockwood vs. Allen, ex. 7 Mass. 254.
2. Bullard vs. Dame, adm. 7 Pick. 239.
3. Insolvency of an estate cannot be proved by parol; nor can any thing
short of a commission of insolvency be competent proof of the dissolution of
an attachment on a mesne process against the deceased, according to the
provision of § 32. Maxwell vs. Pike, 2 Glf. 11.
4. A foreign attachment is dissolved upon the death of the debtor and
the issuing of a commission of insolvency noon his estate. Martin vs. Ab
bot, adm. If tr. 1 Glf. 333.
6. Where a judgment was recovered and an execution issued thereon
before the death of the plninjjlF, and the defendant was committed cm the
execution after the death of tfie plaintifff, the Court refused to discharge tho
prisoner upon the summary process of habeas corpus. Com. vs. IVhitney,
10 Pick. 434.
6. See note c, 1, ch. 51, § 25, ante, p. 233.

ATTACHMENT OF PUOPEUTY.

355

tor or administrators of the same, be represented as insolvent, Ch. 60.
and a commission of insolvency shall thereupon issue ; in all v^-v-^/
such cases attachments made as aforesaid, shall have no force
or efficacy after the death of the original defendant or defend
ants in the action.
Sect. 33. Be it furllxtr enacted, That upon any judg- Execution* in
ment in any Court of law in this State, in the name or for the *° the^'of
use and benefit of this State, for any sum of money, a writ the State, how
'

»

»'

of execution* in common form shall issue, and be directed to
the proper officer, and the lands of such judgment debtor
may be taken on such execution and sold at public vendue to
the highest bidder. And in every such case, the officer who
shall levy such execution, may and shall execute to the pur
chaser a good deed of any lands so by him sold. And every
such officer, before he shall proceed to sell any lands in man
ner above described, shall give notice in writing of the time
and place of sale to the debtor in person, or by leaving the
same at his last and usual place of abode, if he be an inhab
itant of this State, twenty days before such sale, and shall
also give public notice of the time and place of sale by post
ing up notifications in two or more public places in the town,
plantation or township, within which such land may lie, thirty
days at least before the time of sale, and shall likewise cause
an advertisement of the time and place of sale to be published
three weeks successively, in the newspaper employed by the
State to publish the laws, and in a newspaper printed in the
county where such land may lie, if any such there be, the
last publication to be not less than six days before the time of
sale. And the officer may, if he deem it necessary, adjourn
such vendue not exceeding ten days at any one time, until the
sale of such estate shall be completed : Provided however,
That the judgment debtor shall have the same right to re
deem the same, in the same time and manner, as judgment
debtors in execution have to redeem real estate set off on
execution.
Sect. 34. Beit further enacted (t), That when hay in a
(i) The lien created by § 34, on the articles attached, is not dissolved by
taking tiie security mentioned; and thereforee a subsequent sale of such arli

to be served.

[*885]

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

barn, sheep, horses or neat cattle are attached on mesne pro
cess at the suit of a bona fide creditor, and are suffered by
certain arti- the ofticer making such attachment, to remain in the posses^Iirfena'ant" 9"™ of the debtor, on security given for the safe keeping or
possession, still rfelivcrv thereof to such officer, the same shall not by reason
continued vatid.

J

'

0f such possession of the debtor, be subject to a second at
tachment, to the prejudice of the first attachment.
[Approv
ed March 15, 1821.]
Additional Act, cli. 431, Vol. 3, p. 270.

[*396]

Chapter 61.*
AN ACT concerning Foreign Attachment.

Sect. 1. JLjE it enacted by the Senate and House of
are liable to he Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That any person
trul™c".ed aS or persons, body politic or corporate, entitled to any person
al action, excepting detinue, replevin, actions on the case
Feb.2?,i795.] for slanderous words or malicious prosecution, or actions of
trespass for assault and battery against any person or persons,
or body politic or corporate ; having any goods, effects or
credits (a) so intrusted or deposited in the hands of oth
eles by the debtor, even without notice, gives the vendee no rights against Ihu
attaching creditor.
Woodman vs. Troflon, 7 Glf. 178.
(a) 1. Only goods deposited, or a debt due, and not contingent, can be the
subject of this statutory process. Davis tf al. vs. Ham If ah. 3 Mass. 33;
Frothingham If ah. vs. Haley tf ah. 3 Mass. 69; Willard vs. Sheafe Sf
Jr. 4 Muss. 235; Grant If al. vs. Shaw, 16 Afass. 341; Williams <$- al.
vs. Marston tf tr. 3 Pick. 65; Rundlet vs. Jordan, 3 Glf. 47; Sayward
vs. Drew tf tr. 6 Glf. 263.
2. Cut the contingency must relate to the debt itself, and not to the right
of the debtor to recover it.

Thomdikc vs. De Wolf $- trs. 6 Pick. 120.

:f. So where rent is payable quarterly, the lessee can be held as trosteo
of the lessor for so many quarters' rent only as are due at the time he is
summoned.

Wood vs. Partridge, 11 Mass. 488.

4. A debt contracted by an agent in his capacity as such, within the scope
of bis authority and binding upon his principal, is not a debt due from him
subject to this process.
Wells vs. Greene Sf trs. & Mass. 504. See Brig■

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

357

ers, that the same cannot be attached by the ordinary pro- Ch. 61.
den vs. GUIS,- al. Sf tr. 16 Mats. 522; Titcomb Sf al. vs. Seaver Sf tr. 4
Glf. S42.
5. "Credits" mean only debts due from the trustee himself to the princi
pal, and not debts due from other persons, the evidence of which is depos
ited with the trustee. Lupton vs. Cutler Sf al. Sf trs. 8 Pick. 303.
6. A promise to perform labor to a certain amount is not, nntil broken,
liable to this process. Wrigley vs. Geyer Sf tr. 4 Mass. 102.
7. A person cannot be charged in this process as the creditor of another,
on account of any receipt by him of money from the latter, on an usurious
contract, exceeding the debt of lawful interest. Soardman vs. Roe Sf trs.
13 Mass. 104. See Russell vs. Lewis Sf als. 15 Mass. 127.
8. A sheriff, having collected money upon an execution not yet returna
ble, nor demanded by the creditor, cannot be held as trustee of the judgment
creditor. Wilder vs. Bailey Sf tr. 3 Mass. 289. It is the same, even after
the execution has been returned, and before a demand has been made by the
creditor. Pollard vs. Ross Sf tr. 5 Mass. 319. But if the officer, by a sale
of property on execution, levy more money than sufficient to satisfy the exe
cution and costs, ho will be chargeable for the surplus as trustee of the exe
cution debtor. Watson Sf al. vs. Todd If al. If tr. 5 Mass. 271. See be
low, 11.
9. Where an attorney, in the exercise of his profession, has received
money in satisfaction of a demand in favor of his client, it may be attached
in his hands in a foreign attachment, though it was paid in bank bills, and
has not been demanded by his client. Staples vs. Staples Sf tr. 4 Glf. 532.
See Coffin vs. Coffin, 7 Glf. 298.
10. When property is placed by friends of a debtor in the hands of trus
tees for his support, to be appropriated at the discretion of the trustees, and in
such manner that the debtor has no legal claim for it against the trustees,
the law will protect it from attachment by his creditors. White vs. Jenkins
Sf trs. 16 Mass. 62; Brigden vs. Gill $■ al. If tr. 16 Mass. 522.
11. An auctioneer, selling goods by order from a sheriff, and receiving
the money for them, is accountable only to the sheriff, and cannot be held
as the trustee of those who may have claims on the sheriff for the proceeds.
Penniman If al. vs. Ruggles Sf tr. 6 Mass. 166. See comments on this
case, in Hawes Sf al. vs. Langton If tr. 8 Pick. 71 ; also above, 8.
12. The assignee of a bankrupt, after a dividend declared and ordered,
may be held as the trustee of a creditor of the bankrupt for the amount of
his dividend. Decostcr vs. Livermore, 4 Mass. 101. See Selfridge vs.
Gill Sf tr. to. 95 ; Jones vs. Gorham Sf tr. 2 Mass. 375.
13. The promisor in a note not negotiable, in favor of a married woman,
will be held as the trustee of her husband, even though the consideration be
wholly derived from her property. Shuttlesworth vs. JYoyes Sf tr. 8 Mass.
229.
14. Sailors' wages, unless the vessel has arrived at some port of unlad359

Ch. 61.
v-"~v~*-'

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

cess of law, may cause not only the goods and estate of the
person, against whom such action lies, to be attached in his
own hands and possession, but also all his goods, effects
and credits, so intrusted (b) or deposited to be attached in
ing, are sot within the meaning of the word "credits."
Whittemore 4- tr. 1 Mass. 471.

Wcntworth vs.

15. A judgment debtor liable to execution whether issued or not, is not
the trustee of the creditor within the meaning of this statute. Nor is a depu
ty sheriff, holding such execution. Sharp tr al. vs. Clark 4- tr. 2 Mass.
91; Prescott vs. Parker, 4 Mass. 170.
16. Neither choaes in action, norland or equity of redemption assigned,
in the hands of the assignee, are goods or effects, within the statute. Andrtws vs. Ludlow, 5 Pick. 28; Gore vs. Clisby 4" tr. 8 Pick. 555; Bissell
vs. Strong 4- tr. 9 Pick. 562. Nor notes of a banking company, negotia
ble by delivery. Perry vs. Coates & tr. 9 Mass. 537.
17. Nor where lands are fraudulently conveyed by a debtor. How, Jr.
vs. Field 4- tr. 5 Mass. 390; Ripley vs. Severance 4- tr. 6 Pick. 474.
18. Where lands had been so conveyed, and sold by the grantee, the sur
plus of the proceeds, or of rents without a sale, in the hands of the latter,
after paying the sum due him, are liable to this process. Pierson vs. Welter,
3 Mass. 564; Russell vs. Lewis 4- al. 4- tr. 15 Mats. 127. See Webb vs.
Peele It tr. 7 Pick. 247; Richards vs. Allen tr tr. 8 Pick. 405; Hazen
vs. Emerson, 9 Pick. 144; Bissell vs. Strong, 4- tr. ib. 562.
19. But there is no power to compel an assignee to execute a trust in
real estate, so as to enable the creditor to reach such surplus of sale, or rents
and profits. Gore vs. Clisby 4- tr. 8 Pick. 559. See Hotoard vs. Card
4- tr. 6 Glf. 352; Badlam vs. Tucker 4- al. 1 Pick. 400.
20. Bank and insurance stocks are liable to this process in the hands of
an assignee. JV. E. M. Ini. Co. vs. Chandler 4- tr. 16 Mass. 275. See
Maine F. Ins. Co. vs. Weeks 4- tr. 7 Mass. 439.
21. Where one has property of another in his hands of a nature not sub
ject to attachment on mesne process or seizure on execution, as hides in the
course of tanning, he is liable in this process as the trustee of the owner.
Clark vs. Brown 4- tr. 14 Mats. 271, See Ins. Co. vs. Weeks 4- tr. 7
Mass. 439.
(») 1. It is a general rule, that the goods and effects must either be in the
trustee's actual possession, (not constructive) or so within his control that lie
may be able to turn them out on execution. Andrews vs. Ludlow tr tr. 5
Pick. 31. See Swett 4- al. vs. Brown tr tr. ib. 178.
2. A partner in a commercial house, established in a foreign country, re
siding here, cannot be held as the trustee of the house on account of monies
advanced to the house, at the place of their domicil. Kidder tr al. vs. Pack
ard tr al. 13 Mass. 80.

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

359

whose(c) hands or possession soever they may be found, by an Ch. 61 .
3. A creditor, happening to have in his hands specific articles belonging
to his debtor, has no lien upon them without an attachment ; but he may be
charged as trustee of his debtor. Allen vs. Megauire 4' tr. 15 Mass. 490.
4. This process will lie, although it may not be physically impossible for
the officer to attach the specific property in the hands of the trustee. Burlingame vs. Bell, 16 Mass. 318. Sec Parker If al. vs. Kinsman 4" If8 Mass. 486.
5. If goods thus circumstanced are attached by another creditor after the
service of the trustee process, the attaching officer will hold them subject to
the lien of the creditor in the trustee process. Ib.
G. Dennie vs. Hart & tr. 2 Pick. 204 ; Donnels vs. Edwards & trs. ib.
617; Ward vs. Lamson & tr. 6 Pick. 358; Webb vs. Peele, 7 Pick. 247;
Gore vs. Clisby & trs. 8 Pick. 555; Howlaod vs. Wilson & tr. 9 Pick. 19;
Baxter vs. Wheeler & tr. ib. 21.
(<*) 1. Bodies politic and corporate, except counties, towns and parishes,
arc subject to this process, by ch. 442, vol. 3, p. 284.
2. A county treasurer, or any public officer, who has money in his hand*
to satisfy a demand any one has npon him as such officer, cannot be adjudg
ed a trustee. Chealey !r al. vs. Brewer If tr. 7 Mass. 261.
3. An executor cannot be charged as the trustee of one to whom a pecu
niary legacy is bequeathed by the will of a testator. Barnes vs. Threat 4*
tr. 7 Mass. 271.
4. Nor can an administrator be charged as tho trustee of a creditor of his
intestate. Brooks vs. Cook If tr. 8 Mass. 246.
5. One who has collected for an executor the amount due on a promisso
ry note made payable to A. B. executor, &c. is liable to a foreign attach
ment as the trustee of A. B. in a suit against him for a demand duo from him
personally. Coburn vs. Ansart If tr. 3 Mass. 319. See IVillard jr. vs.
Sturtevantlf als. If tr. 7 Pick. 194.
6. Whero a debtor holds a joint contract against two or more, and his
creditor would avail himself of that contract by a trustee process, he must
summon all the parties liable to discharge the contract, or the party omitted
may legally discharge it. Jewett vs. Bacon, 6 Mass. 60. Soe Parker Sf
al. vs. Danforth tf tr. 16 Mass. 802. In such case those summoned will
be allowed the benefit of such set-offs as their copartners not summoned are
entitled to against the principal. Goodnow vs. Buttrick, 7 Mass. 140;
Hathaway vs. Russell, 10 Mass. 473.
7. A creditor of one copartner, who wishes to apply by this process to
the payment of his debt, a debt due to the partnership, ought to summon as
a trustee one of the partners. Fisk If al. vs. Herrick fy tr. 6 Mass. 271.
See Hawes & al. vs. Lang ton If tr. 8 Pick. 70. [An interesting discus
sion of this topic may be found in the case of Lyndon vs. Gorham If al. If
tr. X Gallison's U. 8. Circuit Court Reports, p. 367.]

360
Ch. 61.
v""~v"*-/
Traces to be

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.
original writ to issue under tlie seal of the Circuit Court of
Common (d) Pleas, signed by the Clerk, and attested by the
T

■

r

■

teed by acred- first Justice of the said Court, not a party thereto, in the form
5cs.
prescribed by law. And the officer to whom such writ may
Mode of «n- ^ directed, shall serve the same by attaching the goods and
ce»s under dif- estate of the principal of the value required, if so much can
stances.

be found in his precinct, by reading the said writ to him, or
by leaving an attested copy thereof at his last and usual place
of abode, if he had been an inhabitant or resident within this
State at any time within three years nest before the suing out
such writ, and by reading the s ame to each of the trustees, or
by leaving an attested copy thereof, at such trustee's usual
place of abode (e) ; and in case the principal has not been an
inhabitant (/) or resident as aforesaid, a service made on the
supposed trustee or trustees, in manner aforesaid, shall be
Lien onprinci- deemed a sufficient service ; and the goods, effects and credfce'ereatedby i's °f the principal, in the hands and possession of his trusservice of pro- tee Qr trustees aj the time such writ was served upon him or
them, shall stand bound and be held to satisfy such judgS. A debt doe to a partnership is not effects or credits of one of the part
ners, unless the partnership be solvent and he not in debt to it. lb. Upham
Sr als. vs. JVaylor & als. 9 Mast. 490. See Pierce vs. Jackson, 6 Mass242, also, Thorndikevs. BeWolf & trs. 6 Pick. 124.
(rf) By ch. 275, vol. 3, p. 101, Justices of the Peace are invested with
jurisdiction in cases of foreign attachment, where the damages claimed are not
less than $5, nor more than $20. See also ch. 285, vol. 3, p. 125.
(e) 1. This does not intend the case of one absent at sea; bat was designed
to guard against the fraudulent avoidance of persons liable as trustees. To uro vs. Coatcs & tr. 10 Mass. 25.
2. A person who bag never been an inhabitant or resident within the
State, but who comes here occasionally iu the day time, is not liable to this
process. Ray & al. vs. Underwood & tr. 3 Pick. 302.
8. If some of tho joint debtors are within and others without the State,
a service of the trustee process upon such as are resident within, will be suffi
cient to hold the whole to answer as trustees. Parker al. rs. Danforth
& tr. 16 Mass. 303.
(/) Where the plaintifff and defendant, and the person summoned as trus
tee, being all inhabitants of another State, and the only service of the writ
being on the supposed trustee, the court dismissed the action ex officio.
Tingley vs. BatemanSl tr. 10 Mass. 348. See Gardner vs. Barker & tr.
12 Mass. 36.

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

ment (g) as the plaintifff shall recover against the principal ;
and when the trustees, named in such writ, do all dwell in

361

Cm. 61.
v-"-v"«-'

one (A) county, such writ shall be made* returnable in the
[*287]
county where all the trustees dwell, but when the trustees do tamable in the
not all dwell in one county such writ may be made returnable ^"'Za 'dwell
in any county in which any of the trustees dwell.
*cSect. 2. Be it further enacted, That in all such cases it piajntj,r ^y
shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff or his attorney to in- J," mes of"oilier
sert in the process, which may have been served on one or trustees at any
4

t iwe before sermore trustee or trustees, the name or names of any person or
...
,
.
persons, in whose hands or possession he or they may suspect that any goods, effects, rights or credits of the absconding debtor or principal are placed or concealed : Provided however, That no such name or names shall be inserted
after the said writ or process has been served upon the prin
cipal or absconding debtor or debtors.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted (i) , That if the principal

*

vice of the process on die
principal,

(,g) The plaintifff is entitled to judgment for costs against the defendant,
after a default, until the final decision, whether one sued as trustee shall be
held as such or not IVells Sf at. vs. Banister ty tr. 4 Mass. 514.
(A) Where all the trustees in a foreign attachment live in one county, and
the defendant in another, and the action is brought in the latter county, the
writ is abateable, within the provisions of § 1: and notwithstanding the de
fendant was regularly summoned in the action, and the plaintifff had discon
tinued as to all the trustees. In such case costs will be awarded to the defen
dant. Greenwood vs. Fales tf tr. 6 Glf. 405.
(t) 1. It is reprehensible to insert the name of a fictitious trustee, in order
to give to the court in one county a jurisdiction of the suit, the defendant and
other trustees living in another county. Barker vs. Taber If tr. 4 Mass.
81.
2. In such case the court will not stay proceedings on motion, but the
fact being found by the jury, the writ will abate. Davis vs. Marston If tr.
5 Mast. 199.
3. Where the name of a trustee is collusively inserted for the purpose of
giving jurisdiction, the defendant or other trustee may plead this matter in
abatement. Jacobs If al. vs. Mullen tf_ tr: 14 Mass. 132.
4. If one summoned as trustee out of his own county, he being the only
trustee summoned, appear to the writ and move to stay the proceedings
against him, or pray judgment whether he shall be holden, he will be dis
charged as of course, and will be entitled to costs, and perhaps to extra costs.
But if he does not appear and is defaulted upon the original process, he canVoL. I.

46

June 19, 1798,

362

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

Ch. 61 . shall be absent from the State when such writ shall be served,
v^~v-*^/ . the Court shall continue the action two terms, that he may
In case principal is absent
iimc of strike,
contlnued-Hmi^8'
o
[Mass. Stat.
Feb. 2S, 1795,

.

_

.

- .

.

have notice, unless the principal after the service of the wnt,
and before the sitting of the Court shall have come into the
State : '" wn>cn casei >l shall be in the discretion of the
Court whether to continue the action or not ; and when the
principal does not appear in his own person, or by attorney,

Trustee having to answer (j) such suit, the trustees, or any of them having (fc)
appear &pieati goods, effects or credits of the principal in his or their hands
principal.
or possession, may appear in his behalf, and in his name plead
and defend to final judgment and execution.
If trU8tefirsI>
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That if any supposed
term he shall trustee shall come into Court the first term and declare that he
recover his legal costs;

.

.

...

had (I) not in his hands or possession, at the time the writ
not plead the same matter in abatement to the scire facias, but must sub
mit to an examination; and if it appear that he bad no effects at the time of
the service, he will not be held to pay, but will recover his costs. Wilcox
vs. Mills, 4 Mass. 218. [In Flower vs. Parker %■ al. 3 Mason's U.
S. C. C. Rep. 247, it was decided that § 7, ch. 59, p. 307, of this volume,
is applicable to a judgment rendered in a trustee process. ]
(j) See ante, p. 307, § 7, note/. So where the principal defendant was
absent from the State when the writ was served and until after the judgment
was rendered, the judgment in the C. C. Pleas was recovered with costs,
because the uction had been continued only one term. Bullard vs. Brack
en, 2 Pick. 85.
(A) I. It is not a sufficient bar, by the principal debtor, that the person sum
moned as trustee had not, at the time of service upon him, any goods, &c.
of the principal in his hands. Dunning vs. Owen & tr. 14 Mass. 157.
2. A plea in bar that the defendant has had judgment against him as trus
tee in an action upon this statute is good; although no execution has issued
on such judgment, and although it does not appear that the trustee lias paid
on the judgment any part of the sum he had in his hands as trustee.
Per
kins jr. vs. Parker, 1 Mass. 117. See onward, § 11, note a, 2.
3. But where the principal defendant was not an inhabitant of this State,
and the service was made on supposed trustees and on another person as his
agent, it was holden competent for him to plead in abatement of the writ
that such supposed trustees never hnd any goods, &c. belonging to him, and
that no goods of his had been attached; and the facts so pleaded being con
fessed by demurrer, the writ was abated. Gardner vs. Barker fy tr. 12
Mass. 36.
(') 1 ■ Without a possession of defendant's goods, &c. one summoned as

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

363

was served on him, any goods, effects or credits of the principal, and shall thereupon submit himself to an examination upCh. 61.
N-<^^-»-/

on oath, and the said declaration (m) shall appear to the Court
to be true, the Court shall award him his legal costsf ; and if
such trustee shall, at the time of service of such writ, dwell
'
in any county, other than that in which the said writ is returnable, the Court shall allow him such further costs, as,
with his legal costs, shall, under all the circumstances of the
case, be a reasonable compensation to him for his time and expenses in appearing and defending himself against such suit ;

vts^o^fmPade
rape^'ng
costs, by ch.
882> vo1- 3, p.
and' if he lira
county, Court
JeSonabie'Um
compensation,

and every person resident in the county where such* writ

[*288]

trustee cannot plead for the principal in the absence of the latter.
Jones fy tr. 7 Mass. 28.

Blake vs.

2. Nor can he plead in his own name, except when he is personally in
jured by the process. lb.
3. But a trustee, having "goods" &c. of the defendant, may take any
legal exception in abatement. lb.
(m) 1. If the trustee, in whose knowledge the fact ought to be, is doubtful,
the court cannot make any presumption in his favor. Sebor vs. Armstrong
Sr tr. 4 Mass. 208. Bat when it appears by the answers of the trustees,
that time is wanted to ascertain the condition of the funds in the supposed
trustees' hands, the process will always be stayed until full information can
be obtained. Parker $- al. vs. Danforth $- trs. 16 Mass. 303. See Har
ris Jr. vs. Aiken If al % trs. 3 Pick. 1; Thorndike vs. De Wolf If trs. 6
Pick. 123.
2. The trustee must answer for all goods, effects and credits of the prin
cipal in his hands, without regard to the nature of the demands, or to the
form of action in which they would be recoverable by the principal; and on
the other hand, he is to be allowed to offset all his demands ugainst the prin
cipal, of which he could avail himself in any form of action, or any mode of
proceeding between himself and his principal—except claims for unliquidated
damages for mere torts. Hathaway vs. Russell, 16 Mass. 476.
3. Where the trustee owes the principal defendant n debt which is bar
red by the statute of limitations, he may rely on such bar in his answers.
Hazen vs. Emerson, 9 Pick. 144.
4. Where a minor son contracts to work for wages, on his own account,
and the father knowing it makes no objection, the son's employer will not
be liable as the trustee of the father for such wages, unless there is a design
to defraud the creditors of the father. Whiting vs. Earle 4" tr. 3 Pick. 201 .
5. The trustee is not obliged to disclose communication' made to him by
other persons, though it seems he may disclose them in his answers, if he is
satisfied of their truth. Hav:cs If al.vs. Langlon If trs. 8 Pick. 67.

364
Ch. 61.
v-*"v~*-'

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.
shall be duly returned, who, being summoned as aforesaid,
shall neglect to appear and submit to an examination, as to

paring "first*3 the supposed goods, effects or credits in his or her hands,
term liable to an(j 'iavjng n0 reasonable cause to the contrary, in the opinion

When plaintiiT
does not ™pof the Court where the suit shall be, shall be liable for all
costs afterwards arising in such suit, to be recovered and paid
out of his own goods and estate, in case judgment shall be
finally rendered for the plaintifff; and unless such costs shall
be duly recovered against the goods, effects or credits of the
rprincipal
r . in the hands of a trustee
, . (n).
, , And if several ,persons, resident in such county, being duly summoned as aforesaid, shall neglect to appear as aforesaid, judgment and execution against them jointly, shall be awarded for such costs,
^nd persons resident in other counties than where the writ is
1
returnable, shall not be liable for any costs arising on the ori
ginal process herein provided.
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That where the plain(iff doth not support his action against the principal, and

against principal, costs aVlowed to printecs.'*11
"
[Mass. Stat.
^eb. 28, i"9o,

judgment shall be rendered, that he take nothing by his writ,
...
. the Court shall award cost against him, as well in favour of
the principal as in favour of such of the persons summoned
as trustees severally, who have personally appeared in Court
an(j submitted themselves to an examination, upon oath as

Sevcral trustees dwelling
tv,not appearjofnt judgment
and execution
against them
for costs.

aforesaid, and several executions shall issue thereupon acWhenall trus- c°rdingly. And where all the supposed trustees, or any one
tees are dis- or more 0f them, come into Court, and are discharged upon
charged plain#
°
L
tirr may still examination on oath, as aforesaid, or when the suit shall be
gainst princi- discontinued by the plaintifff against them, or against any one
!
or more of them, the plaintifff may notwithstanding proceed
against the principal, to trial judgment ant! execution : Pro6. Evidence collateral to the trustees' answers is not admissible. Coinstock vs. Famum If tr. 2 Mass. 96; Hatves #• at. vs. Langton if trt. 8
Pick. 67; Barker vs. Taber Sf tr. 4 Mass. 81.
7. The answer of the trustee must be considered as true; and if it be not
so, the plaintifffs' only remedy is by special action of the case pursuant to
this statute. Whitman vs. Hunt .V tr. 4 Mass. 272.
(«) The manifest intent of the statute is to mulct a supposed trustee.
when by his negligence in submitting to an uxamination, the creditor has been
at expense in prosecuting a fruitless suit against his debtor. Cleavclandvs.
Clap !f a!. 5 Mass. 209.

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

365

vided however, That where all the supposed trustees shall be Ch. 61.
discharged, as aforesaid, or where the plaintifff shall discon- S"TT'T*"'
.

.

.

.

provided a sertinue his suit against all of them, or wherever it shall appear vice ha* been
,
iiii
made on such
from the record, that there is not any trustee in such suit ; principal, &c
in all such cases the plaintifff shall not proceed in his suit [Mass. Stat.
r

r

June 16, 1798,

against the principal, unless there shall have been such ser- § l.]
vice of the original writ upon the principal as would author- but principal
,

^

,

j.j

•,.

ize the Court to proceed to render a judgment against him,
in an action brought and commenced* in the common and ordinary mode of process (o) : but the principal in such case
may, if he think proper, come into Court and take upon himself
the defense of the said suit : And provided also, That costs

mayifhethink

proper appear
[*289]
Trustee not
costs unless
m^ta„^rana

shall not be awarded in favour of any trustee, against whom '" discharged
the suit shall be discontinued as aforesaid, unless he come into
Court the first term (p) , and declare that he had not in his
hands or possession, any goods, effects or credits of the principal, at the time of the service of the original writ, and there
upon submit himself to an examination upon oath, and such
declaration be adjudged by the Court to be true.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That when any supposed trustee shall, at the time of the service of the writ upon

Feb. 28, 1795,
* "'

Trustee dwell
c"un|i"ei>0nb0etr

him. dwell in any other county than that in which the writ is bound l° aD"
'

'

»

pear at Court

returnable he shall not be required to appear in person in the in person,
original suit, nor in any suit upon a writ of scire facias found(o) See ante, p. 305, § 2, note c.
(j») 1. Where one was summoned, while at sea, by a copy left at his house,
and at the first term after his return disclosed, and was discharged, he was
adjudged entitled to his costs. Turo vs. Coates 4* tr. 10 Mass. 25.
2. A trustee is not entitled to costs for appearing and pleading an insuffi
cient plea, effecting a continuance of the action against him; but he may
have costs for an appearance at a subsequent term, when examined and dis
charged, within the equity of the statute. Wilcox vs. Mills, 4 Mass. 507.
3. If the trustee appears at the first term, submits to an examination, and
is rightly adjudged trustee, but upon an appeal discloses new fucts upon which
ho is discharged, he is not entitled to costs. Lee vs. Sabcock Sf tr. 5 Mass.
212.
4. But if the court through mistake adjudge him trustee upon his first ex
amination, and on appeal upon the samo examination he be discharged by
the 8. Court, he will bo entitled to his costs.
ib. 208.

Cleaveland vs. Clap If al. 5

36G

Ch. 61.
v-*~v""»-/

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

ed thereon, but such supposed trustee may appear by attorney, and declare whether lie had any, and what goods, eflmt iu.1 v appear

bv attu'mey nud
e'liehad'any
Iw'andoflirfd
•uiimit in ex.

,,

fects or credits of the principal in his hands or possession, at
the time when the writ was served on him, and thereupon
om3r ,0 SUDmu himself to an examination on oath ; and if the
plaiutiff shall not see fit further to examine such supposed

animation—

l

[Mass. siat.

trustee, his declaration, so made by attorney, shall be deem' l

Feb. 20, 179S,

§ 2.]
may cave 'him
Id before™"1'
Judge or Justice of the

,'

,

,.,,,.

.«. ,

..

, • .

ed and taken to be true : and if the plaintifff shall think proper to examine such supposed tmstee on oath, the answers of
^,e trustee, upon such examination, may be sworn to before
any Juave 0f the Circuit Court of Common Pleas for the
J

1'eace in his county (o) in which the trustee may dwell, or before any Jusown county, at ...
_
. .
„
,
'
first or after- tice oi the Peace ; and in all cases, when any supposed trustee
shall have appeared in Court and submitted himself to an ex
amination on oath in the manner prescribed by law, his an
swers upon such examination, may be sworn to before any
Judge of the Circuit Court of Common Pleas for the county
in which the trustee may dwell, or before any Justice of the
tion filed in * Peace ; and such examination, being duly filed in the Court
kumcieiiu
'n which the writ is pending, shall in every case, have the
same effect, and shall be considered in the same manner, in
all respects, as if the same had been sworn to in the Court
in which the writ is pending.
[*290]
Sect. 7*. . Be it Jfurther, enacted.
whenever any perWhen
trustee
, , That,,,.,.
discloses an as- son summoned as trustee of any debtor, shall in his answers,
goods,e&c°
disclose an assignment to another, of the goods, effects or
credits of the principal in his hands, and the plaintifff in the
, ., , .
,
,
mem is object- suit shall object that the assignment ought not to have any elii'icnt, ra" " feet to defeat his attachment, and the Court shall think it just
and the assign[lb. 5 I.]

or convenient, that the assignee should become a party (r)
(j) By ch. 469, vol. 3, p. 311, persons summoned as trustees, who are
about to leave the Stato, may, after due notice to the parties, make a disclo
sure before a Justice of the Peace. By the same act, any person summoned
as the trustee of another, he may disclose in the same manner as a person
about to leave the State, if the plaintifff consent thereto.
(r) 1. Where the assignee has become a party pursuant to the provisions of
§ 7, the disclosure of the trustee may be read in evidence to the jury upon
the issue made. Morrell M. Rogers, fy tr. 1 Glf. 328.
2. An assignee being made party lo the auit, pursuant to the provision*

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

367

to the suit, the person so stated to be assignee, may for the
purpose of trying the validity and effect of the assignment,
,

....

....

Ch. 61.
<-*pv-^'
assignee may

become a party to the suit, upon his appearing voluntarily become a party
and claiming to be so admitted, or by coming into Court, up- untarily, or
on being notified for that purpose, by a summons, which the Court may
.

*

.

.

.

MIU11IIOU llilll tO

Court where the action is pending, is authorized to issue, to
be served and returned in such time and manner as the Court
shall think the circumstances of the case may require (s) ; and
if such supposed assignee shall not appear at the time and
place named in such summons, his non-appearance shall be enHis non-ap^^"^ol" recordtered on the record ; or the case may be continued to the next
term, for further notice to the assignee, at the discretion of
the Court ; and if the supposed assignee does not appear in
person, or by attorney, the assignment shall have no effect

And if assignee
at second term
°^e> "assign-0"
meut tobe inefto defeat the plaintifff's attachment ; and upon such assignee
of § 7, the trustee is bound by the result of the ulterior litigation in the suit
between the creditor and assignee, in the same manner as they are, though
he had no agency in making up the issue. Fisk 4' «'• vs. Weston 4" tr. 5
Glf. 410.
3. An assignee of a chose in action, iu order to avail himself of the as
signment, in case the debtor should be summoned as the trustee of the as
signor, must notify the debtor and exhibit to him the evidence of the assign
ment, that the debtor may be able to disclose the whole matter to the court.
Wood vs. ParlriJge, 11 Mass. 488; otherwise the trustee will be protect
ed in submitting to be adjudged the trustee of the debtor. lb ; Corns! nek vs.
Farnum 4- tr. 2 Mass. 97; Foster vs. Sinkler 4- tr. 4 Mass. 450.
4. It seems, that where a debtor is summoned as trustee of his creditor,
the court cannot compel him to disclose an assignment of the debt to a third
person, where the trustee does not know the fact of the assignment. Hawes
4- al. vs. Langton Sr trs. 8 Pick. 67. See Adams If al. vs. Cordis, ib.
270.
5. Whether the assignment is regarded as invalid, by the default of the
assignee to become a party, or in consequence of its being found so upon tri
al, it is not expressly provided that the trustee shall be no longer answerable
to the assignee. But this results necessarily from the proceedings. "And
we entertain no doubt that these proceedings, properly pleaded, would be
holden to be an effectual bar against any action, subsequently bronght by the
assignee against the trustee." Fisk 4* al. vs. Weston, 5 Glf. 412.
(s) Where'a trustee upon his examination discloses an assignment of his
debt to a third person, the court will not yield to a suggestion from the at
taching creditor that the assignment is fraudulent. For such a purpose the
assignee should have been made trustee. Garden vs. Webb Sf tr. 13 Mass.
215.

appear,

368
Ch. 61.
v-^v~*-/

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.
becoming a party to the suit, the validity of the assignment,
or its effect on the case, shall be tried by the Court, or by

pear, validity a Jury, as the case may require : in which trial, in addition
"hairbe'wfed t0 l^e usual evidence in other cases, the original defendant
by Jury.
may De admitted as a witness, upon the application of either
Original departy ; and the Court may award leeal costs for and against

fendant may be
'
.
....
...
witness for ei- any of the parties at its discretion ; and either party may apsucii case.y'
peal from any judgment of the Court, as in other cases.
How execution
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That when the plaintifff
is to he award- s])a]j recover judgment aeainst the principal, and there shall
ed against
J o
o
r
r •

principal, and be any trustee summoned, who shall not have come into
trustee who has -,,,..

not appeared,
[Mass. Stat.
55 128' 1795,
[•291]

.

Court and discharged himself upon oath, and against whom
tne saii shall not ^e discontinued ; the Court shall award execut'on against the goods, effects and credits of the principal, in the hands and possession of every such trustee,*

as well as against the body, goods, and estate of the prin
cipal ; and the execution shall be in the form prescribed by
law.
When execuSect. 9. Be it further enacted, That when any execued^maUsficd" t'011' issued as aforesaid, shall be returned not fully satisfied,
'TiiT suffi-X kv reason of the trustee not discovering and exposing suffi
cient goods,

cient (t) goods, effects and credits of the principal, or by

reason of the officer's not finding sufficient goods and estate
of the principal, to the acceptance of the plaintifff, to satisfy
Plaintiff may the same, the plaintifff may sue out against the trustees named
•ue scire facia* ....
.
.
, .
_
against tms- in such writ of execution, or against any one (u) or more of
them, jointly or severally, a writ or writs of scire facias (») , in
[lb. § 6.]

(0 Where the fund in the trustee's hand is on interest, and the trustee
continues to use it after the service of the writ upon him, he is chargeable
with interest up to the time when the money is demanded of him on execu
tion. Adams vs. Cordis tf tr. 8 Pick. 270.
(u) The reason for providing that the scire facias may be sued against the
trustees jointly or severally, undoubtedly was, that they would frequently
have no connexion with each other, and the creditor might find it expedient
to proceed against one, without the expense and delay of proceeding agains
all. Hathatvay vs. Russell, 16 Mass. 475.
(t>) 1. Scire facias runs against the persons and property of respondents, by
ch. 463, p. 304.
2. It lies against one adjudged trustee, or his executor or administrator,
notwithstanding the death of the prinoipal after judgment against him ; unless

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

369

due form of law, requiring tne defendants in such writs of scire Ch. 61.
facias named, to show cause why judgment for the suras re- ^~-^*~maining unsatisfied, should not be rendered against them ; and
if any one or more of the defendants, in such writs of scire fa
cias named, the same being returned duly served, shall come X"!? d"lr
into Court and declare, that he had not at the time of the ser
vice of the original writ upon him, any goods, effects or cred
its of the principal in his hands, or possession, and thereup
on submit to an examination, upon oath ; and if, upon such procecdines to
examination the supposed trustee shall appear not to be ^\ hadL°° ,uch
chargeable, the Court shall render judgment against him, if "hen trustee
resident in the county where the original process was return
able, as the case may be, for costs (te) only : and if not resi
dent in such county then the supposed trustee, so discharged,
shall have costs ; but if, upon such examination, it shall appear
to the Court that the said trustees, or any one or more of
them, had goods, effects or credits of the principal in his or
their hands, at the time of serving the original writ as afore
said, other than such as he or they have discovered and expos
ed to be taken to satisfy the execution on the first judgment,
then the Court shall enter up judgment against him or them to
the amount of the sums returned unsatisfied upon the said exe
cution, if there shall appear, upon such examination to have
been goods, effects or credits to that amount in bis or their
hands, not discovered (x) and exposed as aforesaid ; but if
not, then the Court shall enter up judgment against him or
his estate be represented insolvent. Patterson $ als. vs. Patten, ex. 16
Mass. 473.
3. Bat it does not lie in any case, until an execution has issued, and lias
been returned unsatisfied. lb.
[In Flower vs. Parker & al. 3 Mason's U. S. Rep. 247, it was holden that
omless the original execution be sued out or renewed within the year, it can
not afterwards be issued against the trustees, nor the plaintifff's right be re
covered by scire facias.]
(kj) For the costs of the scire facias, and not of the original process.
Cleveland vs. Clap & al. 5 Mass. 208; Rivers vs. Smith, I Pick. 104.
(*) If it appear that the defendant in scire facias had discharged himself
npon the original execution, he recovers his costs as the party prevailing.
Cleveland vs. Clap, 5 Mass. 208.

Vol. i.

47

370
Ch. 61.
-*"*-»-'
Proviso, where
trustee has been
examined on

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.
them to the amount(j/) of the said goods, effects or credits in
his or their hands,* not discovered and exposed, as aforesaid:
Provided nevertheless, That where any trustee has come into
Court, upon tlie original process, and been examined upon
7

*

or'

i

original pro- oath, as aforesaid ; and upon such examination, it has appearcess, judgment

*

lx

shall be ren- ed to the Court, that such trustee had goods, effects or credits
examination, of the principal, in his hands, at the time of serving the ori
ginal writ, such trustee shall not be again (z) examined upon
the scire facias, but judgment shall be rendered upon his exam
ination had as aforesaid.
Proceedings on
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That if any trustee,
when defend- upon whom the writ of scire facias shall be served, shall not
ant u default- appear, but shall be defaulted, he having never been examin
ed, not having rl
'
J
°
appeared, &c. e(j upon oath under the original process, he shall be deemed
process. °
[lb. § 7.]

and taken to have had in his hands and possession, at the time
of the service of the original writ, goods, effects and credits
of the principal, to the amount of the judgment rendered
against him, and judgment shall be rendered against the trus
tee accordingly. And where there shall be more than one
temp joint or defendant, in any such writ of scire facias, the Court may
ments; JU 8' enter up joint or several judgments, according to the circumand in "ud - s,ances 0l l^le case 5 an^ uPon a" judgments rendered upon
menu on scire such writs of scire facias, execution shall issue in common
facias execu
tion to issue in form against the goods and estate, and for want thereof, against
common form. .
, ,.
»
,
....
the bodies ot such person or persons against whom judgment
shall be so rendered.
Goods, &c. so
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That goods, effects
trustee shall and credits of any person so taken as aforesaid, by process of
from "the6 prin^ ^aw> out °' tne nar>ds of his trustee, shall forever acquit and
same"* *° the discharge such trustee from and against all suits, damages
[lb. § 8.]
and demands whatever, to be (a) commenced or claimed by
(y) But in neither case for costs.
208.

Cleveland vs. Clap $■ al. 5 .Mass.

(z) Not even for the purpose of correcting a mistake.
fy al. 1 Glf. 180.

Taylor vs. Day

(u) 1. It is established as a general rule, that a defendant in an action al
ready commenced, may be charged as the trustee of the plaintifff, in a suit
subsequently commenced, on account of the cause of such first action, if he
be summoned before the state of the proceedings or pleadings in the former

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

371

his principal, his executors or administrators of and for the Cii. 61.
same : and if any trustee shall be sued on account of any „ v""~v~*"'
Trustee may

thing by him done pursuant to this act, he may plead the gen. .
....
...
eral issue and give this act in evidence.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That any person, summoned as a trustee, as aforesaid, who shall upon his examina7

r

tion, had as aforesaid, knowingly and willfully, answer falsely,
shall upon .conviction thereof in the Supreme Judicial Court,
be adjudged to be guilty of perjury, and be liable and sub
ject to all the pains, penalties, forfeitures and disabilities*
thereto by law incident ; and shall also out of his own proper estate be liable and subjected to pay to the plaintifff in the
action, his executors or administrators, the full amount of
such judgment as he, they or any of them may have recovplead general
issue in suits
against him.
punismTM>nt of
V"usie.e for w""
ful false swear'"g[l"-§9-]
[*293]
Liability of
to pay out of
('h" ^"^"of
Pla,ntln"s . •le

ered aeainst
the principal,
in case the same be unsatisfied ;> principal
nnd
°
r
r i
joutic costs.
otherwise, such part thereof as may remain unsatisfied, toaction become such, that he cannot, by the rules of law, defend himself by
showing in it that the debt or property sued for is attached in his hands.
Thorndike vs. DeWolf, If trs. 6 Pick. 123. In this case, Parker, C. J.
stated the rale as abovo, and remarked : "This was settled in tho caso of
Howell vs. Freeman & tr. 3 Mass. 121. It had been better perhaps origi
nally, that the commencement of a sait against the debtor should havo ex
empted him from the trustee process, and it was so determined in the case of
Gridley vs. Ilarraden, found in the appendix of 14 Mass. p. 496. This case
was decided in the year 1780, under the old provincial trusteo act passed in
32 Geo. 2. Under the present existing statute, it has never been determined,
that the mere commencement of a suit for a debt prevents the operation of
the statute. On the contrary, this process has been maintained, after such
suit commenced, as in the case of Locke vs. Tippets & trs. 7 Mass. 14S;
Kidd vs. Shepherd, 4 Mass. 238, and Foster vs. Jones, 15 Mass. 185."
2. It is no cause to abate a writ, that the defendant has been sued as the
trustee of tho plaintifff, and that the process is still pending: but it is ground
for a continuance while the process is pending: and during such continuan
ces the plaintifff may not tax costs for travel and attendance. Winthrop vs.
Carlton jr. 8 Mass. 456. See ante, note k, 2, p. 362. Yet a trustee judg
ment is no protection to the trustee, against the claims of the person whoso
effects or credits were in his hands, unless it has been satisfied. Wise vs.
Hilton, 4 Olf. 435.
3. It is competent for one, whose debtor attempts to discharge himself by
shewing that ho has paid on a trustee process, or that he had discharged him
self from that action on oath, to prove thai tho debt still remains due. Groves
vs. Brown, 1 1 Mass. 334.

372

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

Ch. 61 . gether with the legal interest thereof, and double costs of suit,
*-*^~*-/ to be recovered in a special action on the case.
Where by disSect. 13. Be it further enacted, That in every case
closure it ap- where it shall appear, by the answer of the trustee, that he
pears that trustec u bound to
principal spe» future "ay!
he may deliver

"

same to the officer to satisfy
the execution
in whole or iu
1
[lb. § 10.]

'

»

was, at the time of the service of the summons on him holden
or bound to deliver to the principal at a future day (6), any
specific article or articles whatsoever, such trustee shall be
^j hereby is authorized and permitted on demand made by
J

*

*

the officer having any execution in his hands, issued upon
.
...
r , .
any judgment, recovered by virtue ol this act, to deliver to
him such specific article or articles, or so much thereof as
may De necessary to satisfy such execution, with the legal

Value of such fees thereon ; the value of such article or articles, as between
tT'oe'^osce" tne principal and trustee to be estimated and ascertained by
tained.
tne appraisal of three disinterested and discreet men, one to
be chosen by the trustee, one by the officer, and one by the
principal, if he see cause ; or if he neglect or refuse, then
the officer shall appoint two of the said appraisers, who shall
all be sworn before a Justice of the Peace in and for the coun
ty where such article or articles are to be delivered, faithfully
and impartially to appraise the same : and the said Justice
and appraisers shall make, on such execution, a certificate of
Proviso—in
their respective doings : Provided hotcever, That in all cases
case of special wnere by the terms of the contract between the principal and
agreement as

to value.

*

r

r

trustee any mode is pointed out for ascertaining the value of

such specific articles, the principal and trustee, or either of
them, may have their value thus ascertained and estimated :
Officer to sell and in either case, the officer shall proceed to sell such artiihe same as in

other cases.

[*204]
Where part
only is sold
trustee may

,

.

cles and conduct in the sale thereof as in other cases of sales
of personal property on execution, as is already by Jaw pro
vided ; the overplus monies, after satisfying the execution
and his fees, he shall pay over to the principal, if within the
precinct of the officer, otherwise to* the trustee. And in all
cases where a part only of such specific articles shall be taken
.
,
_
.
.
.
in execution as aloresaid, the trustee is hereby authorized to
(b) A debt payable at a future day upon a contingency , is not subject to a
foreign attachment within the meaning of § 13. Frothingham It ah. vt
Haley If at. 8 Mass. 69. See Jeieett vs. Bacon, 6 Mam. 60; Andrews
vs. Ludlow It tr$. 5 Pick. 28. See ante, note a, p. 856.

FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

373

deliver the residue to the principal, or make tender thereof
within thirty days after such execution shall have been satis.

Ch. 61.
^-v"*-'
deliver residua

fied, in the same manner as by law he might otherwise have to principal,
delivered the whole.
Sect. 14. Be it further enacted, That whenever any if u^ee aie
person who shall be summoned as a trustee as aforesaid, shall bef?re exam>i

'

nation, his ex*

die before (c) he may have been examined as aforesaid, his ecutpr or ad. .

.

.

executors 'or administrators may appear ; or if the plaintifff
think proper, be compelled to appear and make answer to the
suit, in the same way and manner executors and administra
tors are allowed or compellable to appear and answer to suits
and actions in other cases. And in case of the death of any
r
, .
.
.
,
■
.,_
i ■
trustee, after his examination, and previous to the rendering
of final judgment against the principal, the executors and administrator

may answer.
fib. § li.]

if trustee dia
tion and be^entfinaa'^f"

a//er examinaministrators of such deceased trustee shall be liable and an- principal—ex
ecutor or adswerable to perform whatever such trustee, by his answer, ministrator anwould have been liable to do and perform, in case he had
lived.
Sect. 15. Be it further enacted, That no person shall No persons liabe considered or adjudged to be a trustee, within the intent by'havinggi*!
and meaning of this act, by reason or on account of his hav- J"» n"d°t"^
ing made, given, endorsed, negociated or accepted any ne- securities.
.,,..,,

, n&

r

'

. gociable security whatever (a) .
(c) 1. If the trustee die after his examination and also after judgment against
the defendant, there seems to be no difficulty in the way of an execution be
ing issued as of a day or term where both parties were living. Patterson
If at. vs. Buckministcr tlf tr. 14 Mats. 144; Patterson If al. vs. Patten,
ex. 15 Mass. 473.
2. The death of llie plaintifff will have no other effect upon the trustee,
than what results from its effect upon the process generally; as if by his
death the action abate, in which case neither the defendant nor the trustee
will recover costs. Cults fy al. vs. Haskin.i, 11 Mass. 66.
3. If the defendant die in a state of insolvency, and his estate be co-rep
resented, the trustee will be thereby discharged whether such defendant die
before or after judgment in the process. Patterson If al. vs. Patten, ex.
15 Mass. 474. See Stanwood vs. Seovel, 4 Pick. 424; Martin vs. Abbot
4- tr. 1 Glf. 333.
(d) 1. An indorser of a promissory note after a verdict obtained against him
by the indorsee and before judgment, cannot be sued as the trustee of the in
dorsee. Emerson vs. Healy l( tr. 2 Mats. 32. See ante, note a, 1.

[lb. § 12.]

374

Ch. 61.
v-»-»-»-/
Judgment credFOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

Sect. 16. Be it further enacted, That (e) whenever
any judgment creditor shall discover goods, effects or credits
J *

°

°

'

iior* may have
thi» act—disprfncipaVs °
ot 'fifromnifiled) within
Mvon days, by
note hi writing,

of his debtor, that are not attachable by the common and ordinary process of law, he shall be entitled to the process provided in this act ; and upon the agent, factor or trustees be,n5 summoned in the manner this act directs, all the money,
goods, effects and credits in his hands shall be secured to re.
spond the judgment that may be given thereon, and he shall
answer thereunto, at the first term, in case his principal has
personal or other sufficient and legal notice of the suit, four
teen days before the Court's sitting : Provided always, That
upon a judgment creditor's pursuing such remedy to recov
er his debt, he shall, within seven days after the same pro
cess on the supposed agent is served, discharge the body
. of the debtor (in case he is taken in execution upon the
[*S95]
same* judgment) by a note or memorandum, in writing, di
rected and delivered to the officer who has him in custody,
stating the reason and occasion of the discharge of the perSu hdi«ha son °f tne debtor ; and such a discharge shall not annul, or
not
to injure o- |n any
manner injure
the original
judgment : but in case the
riginal judg'
J
.
.

ment.

judgment creditor shall not within the seven days discharge

Proce
^lc Pcrson °f lne debtor, in manner aforesaid, the process
bate.unieM dis- commenced as aforesaid, shall abate, and the debtor shall re- .
charged within

7d»yi.

cover treble costs.

[Approved February 28, 1821.]

Additional Act, ch. 275, Vol. 3, p. 101.
2. A promissory note to bearer payable in goods is not a negotiable se
curity within the meaning of § 16. Clark vs. King #• tr. 2 Mass. 524.
(e) If a debtor be committed in execution, and the creditor sne oat a for
eign attachment under the provisions of § 16, and release the body of the
debtor from prison, and the supposed trustee is afterwards discharged, hav
ing no effects of the debtor; the foreign attachment may still he prosecuted
to final judgment against the debtor, and the release of his body is no dis
charge of the debt; but he may be taken again in execution by virtue of the
judgment in ths foreign attachment. Cults vs. King, 1 Clf. 15S.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, *c.

Chapter 62.

375

Ch. 62.

AN ACT for tl»c Limitation of Actions real and persona], and of Writs of Error,

Sect. 1. _t>E it enacted by the Senate and House of Limitation of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That after the wr£,of right
fifteenth day of March, which will be in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, no person shall
sue or maintain any writ of right, or make any prescription,
title or claim, to any lands, tenements or hereditaments, or
to any rents, annuities, or portions issuing therefrom, upon
the possession or seizin of his or their ancestor or predeces
sor, beyond the term of thirty years, next before the test of
the same writ (a).
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That after the fifteenth
day of March, which will be in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and twenty -five, no person shall sue,
have or maintain any writ of entry, upon disseizin done to
any of his ancestors or predecessors, or any action possesso
ry, upon the possession of any of his ancestors or predeces
sors, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments, unless the
ancestor or predecessor, under whom the demandants shall
claim, shall have beeu seized or possessed of the lands, tene
ments or hereditaments demanded, within twenty-five years
next before the test of the same writ or bringing such ac
tion (a).
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That after the fifteenth
day of of March, which will be in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, no person or body
corporate* or politic, shall sue for, have or maintain any action for any lands, tenements or hereditaments, upon his or
their own seizin or possession above twenty years next be
fore the test of the same writ (a) .
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That all writs of formedon in descender, formedon in remainder, or formedon in
(a) 1. See a modification of § 1, 2 and 3 of this ch. by ch. 307, vol. 3, p.
150.
2. Statutes of limitation are beneficial statutes, made to qniet people in
their possessions, and to prevent suits at law, after an unreasonable delay in
commencing them. Eager If ux. vs. Com. in error, 4 Mass. 182.

j*'^" 1736%
{^"'/Vi' 3'

posswoiy ac^"!ca,r™,,ed '°
.. , _

—Of action on
0^n' scixin'M
?jb"§ 3 i
[*296]

Formodonsand
risht of entry376

Ch. 62.
•~~~*~*~'

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, fcc.

reverter, of any lands, tenements or hereditaments whatsoever, hereafter to be sued or brought, shall be commenced with

in twenty years next after the title or cause of action first descended, and at no time after the said twenty years. And
no person, unless by judgment of law, shall at any time here
after, make any entry into any lands, tenements or heredita
ments, but within twenty years next after his right or title,
first descended or accrued to the same, and in default there
of, such person so not entering, and his heirs shall be utterly
excluded and disabled from making such entry thereunto :
Proviso in fa- Provided always, That when any person that is or shall be encovert" infants' tilled to any of the writs of formedon aforesaid, or to make any
*°*
entry into lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall at the time
the said right or title first descended, accrued or fell, 4s ^ribin the age of twenty one years, feme covert, non compos,
imprisoned or beyond seas, or without the limits of the Uni
ted States, that then such person shall and may bring such
suit or make such entry at any time within ten years after the
expiration of the said twenty years aforesaid, and not after
wards (b).
Sect. 5. Beit Jfurther enacted, That if any
person shall
In certain caJ r
ses of entry in- make such entry into any lands, tenements or hereditaments,

[Ib. 5 4.]

tenant, having which the tenant or those under whom he claims, have had
,
.
.
V •
i_ r
more than six m actual possession lor the term of six years or more beiore
cover' ofayth™~ sucn entT) and withhold from such tenant the possession

had possession .

person entering thereof, such tenant shall have rieht to recover of him so enthe value of ira'

#°

provemeou.&c tering, in an action for money laid out and expended, the in
creased value of the premises, by virtue of the buildings and
improvements made by such tenant or those under whom he
claims ; such right and value to be ascertained by the same
principles as regulate such right and value under the act for
the settlement of certain equitable claims arising in real ac
tions (c) : Provided, Such entry so made by the proprie(6) When the statute of limitations has once began to run against the heir
in tail, no subsequent court can interrupt its progress; and- after it has run
twenty years, no formedon can afterwards be maintained. Dow vs. War
ren, 6 Must. 329.
(c) See ante, ch. 47, p. 201; also, ch. 844, vol. 8, p. 190, and cb. 897,
ib. p. 246.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, fcc.

377

tor* or owner, shall have been made while the tenant was in Ch. 62.
actual possession of the premises and against his consent.
^t»^ri
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted (d), That in any writ or Nature of ^
action which has been or may be hereafter brought for the possession and
■'
°
occupancy of
recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments, it shall the tenant
.......
,
, ,
.
, . which will bar
not be necessary for limiting the demandant and barring his the action of
right of recovery, that the premises defended shall have been
surrounded by fences or rendered inaccessible by other ob
structions, but it shall be sufficient if the possession, occu
pancy and improvement thereof by the defendant or those
under whom he claims, shall have been open, notorious and
exclusive, f comporting with the ordinary management of sim- ^f60^1'^0''
ilar estates in the possession and occupancy of those who 161.]
have title thereunto, or satisfactorily indicative of such ex
ercise of ownership as is usual in the improvement of a farm
by its owner ; and no part of the premises demanded and
defended shall be excluded from the operation of the afore
said limitation, because such part may be woodland or with
out cultivation.
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted (c), That all actions of
('/) I. § 6 was enacted to abolish the distinction, existing at common law,
between a possession nnder a deed recorded, and a possession withont such
title on record; attaching, as against the demandant, the same legal conse
quences to both. Prop. K. Purchase vs. Laboree If all. 2 Glf. 275.
2. So far as § 6 is retrospective, it is nnconstitntional, and cannot be
carried into effect, because it would impair vested rights. lb.
(e) I. Where the maker of a note denied his signature, declaring the note
to be a forgery; but said, if it could be proved that he signed the note, he
would pay it; and it was so proved at the trial; this was held sufficient to
take the case ont of the statute. Seaward vs. Lord, 1 Olf. 163.
2. This statute applies to civil actions at common law; and not to a claim
made before the Judge of Probate against an administrator for rents. Heald
adm. vs. Heald fr als. 5 Glf. 387.
3. To take a demand out of the statute, there must be either an absolute
promise to pay the debt, or a conditional one accompanied by proof of per
formance of the condition; or an unambiguous acknowledgment of the debt,
as still existing and due. Porter vs. Hill, 4 Glf. 41; Deshon $• al. vs.
Eaton, to. 418.
4. Proof that the defendant said, "If 1 owe you any thing I will pay
you; but I owe yott nothing,"—is not a new promise, that will avoid the
statute. Perley vs. Little, 3 Glf. 97.

Vol. i.

48

378

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, 4c.

Ch. 62. trespass quare clausum fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue,
yr~^T^ trover or replevin for goods or cattle, all actions of account
personal ac- and upon the case, other than such accounts (/) as concern
the trade of merchandize between merchant and merchant,
[Mass. Stat, their factors or servants, all actions of debt, grounded upon
5 l.i
' any lending or contract, without specialty, all actions of debt
for arrearages of rent, and all actions of assault, menace, bat
tery, wounding and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be
commenced and sued (g) within the time and limitation here5. It is not within the province of the jury to determine what acts or de
clarations amount to a new promise. Miller vs. Lancaster, 4 Glf. 159.
6. Where the acknowledgment is accompanied by circumstances show
ing an intention to insist on the benefit of the statute, no promise to pay can
be implied. Bangs vs. Hall, 2 Pick. 368.
7. In mutual dealings between party and party, if there be items on both
sides within six years, this statute will not attach to those of an earlier date.
Davis vs. Smith, 4 Glf. 337.
8. If there be an item in the defendant's account within six years, this
will take the plaintifff's account out of the statute, though the latter contain
no item within that period. lb.
9. A new promise by the maker of a note takes it out of the statute of
limitations only so far as he is concerned ; but will not afl'ec t any of the rights
of a collateral party to the note. Gardiner vs. Abutting If at. 5 Glf. 140.
10. The acknowledgment of a debt by one of several joint defendants, is
sufficient to take the case out of the statute of limitations as to them all.
Getchell adm. vs. Heald 4- als. 7 Glf. 26.
11. A fraudulent concealment by the defendant of the plaintifff's cause of
action, will take the action out of the statute. .Mass. T. C. vs. Field $r als.
3 Mass. 201.
12. An admission within six years of a promise or contract as undischar
ged, takes such promise or contract out of the statute. Baxter vs. Penniman, 8 Mass. 133.
13. A promise made on the first of November 1811, was sued on the first
of November 1817; and it was holden to be barred by this provision. Presbrey Sr als. vs. Williams, 16 Mass. 193.
(/) By 'h'9 word "accounts," is intended open or current accounts as dis
tinguished from stated accounts. Stated accounts are those which have been
examined by the parties, and where a balance due from one to the other has
been ascertained and agreed upon 09 correct. McLellan vs. Crofton, 6
Glf. 836.
(.g) 1. The time of the actual making of a writ, with an intention of service,

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, Ac.

379

after expressed and not after ; that is to say : the said actions Ch. 62.
upon the case, other than for slander, and the said actions of v-^~v"^'
account ; and the said actions of trespass, debt, detinue and
replevin for goods or cattle, and the said actions of trespass
quare clausum fregit, within six years next after the cause of
such actions or suits, and not after ; and the said actions of
trespass, of assault, battery, wounding, imprisonment or any
of them, within three years next after the cause of such ac
tions or suits, and not after ; and the said actions upon the
case for words, within two years next after the words spo
ken, and not after : Provided always, That if upon any of the of reversal of
said* actions or suits, judgment be given for the plaintifff, and JU |*298] cthe same be reversed by reason of error or a verdict pass
for the plaintifff, and for matter alleged in arrest of judgment,
the judgment be given against the plaintifff, that he take no
thing by his plaint, writ or bill, that in all such cases the par
ty, plaintifff, his executor or administrator, as the case shall
require, may commence a new action or suit, from time to
time, within a year after such judgment reversed or such judg
ment given against the plaintifff, and not after.
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That any action of the ^h^ Bhall ^
case or of debt grounded upon any lendine or contract, or decmed th«
°
*
#
°
commencefor arrearages of rent, which shall be actually declared upon ment of a suit,
in a proper writ, returnable according to law, purchased there- M
g
for, within the term of six years next after the cause of such Feb. 27, 1794,
action accrued ; shall be deemed and taken to be duly com
menced and sued (h) within the meaning of this act.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That this act shall not Limitation not
be understood to bar any infant, feme covert, person impris- feme?Pco»ert
oned or beyond
sea, without
any of the United States, or non nnt"
infapt5>
*?•
J
...
disability
compos mentis, from bringing either of the actions before is removed,
mentioned in the seventh section of this act,' within the term [Mass.
r„
c. .
otat.
before set and limited for bringing such action, reckoning Feb- 18> 1787>
from the time that such impediment shall be removed : and
is the time when an action is "commenced and sued," within the meaning
of this provision. Johnson vs. Farwell lr alt. 7 Glf. 370.
2. The date of the writ is not conclnsive evidence of the time when it
was sued out, so as to affect a plea of the statute of limitation. lb.
(h) See last preceding note.

390

Ch. 62.
^■"■v"*-/

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, *c.

if any person or persons against whom there is, or hereafter
shall be, any cause of suit, for every and any of the species

of action herein before enumerated in said seventh section
of this act, who at the time die same accrued was without the
limits of this State, and did not leave property or estate there
in that could by the common and ordinary process of law be
attached (i) ; that then and in such case, the person that is
entitled to bring such suit or action, shall be at liberty to
commence the same within the respective periods before lim
ited after such persons return (j) into this State.
Norto actions
Sect. 10. Provided(k) ahcays, And be it further enacted,
witnessed,1
That tliis act shall not extend to bar any action hereafter
byhp"ombuirefOT brought upon any note in writing, made and signed by any
his
executor or person or persons
and attested by any one. or more witnesses,
administrator. *
x
whereby such person or persons has promised, or shall prom
[lb. § 6.]
ise to pay to any other person or persons, any sum of money
[*309]
mentioned* in such note, but all actions upon such note or
notes, brought by the original promisee, his executor or ad
ministrator shall and may be maintained as if this act had
(i) This provision is general, and is not applicable to inhabitants of this
State only, bnt to all persons who are without the State, and have not at
tachable property within it. Dtnight vs. Clark, 7 Mass. 618. See Vans
vs. Iligginson, 10 Mais. 30.
( j) 1. The "return" must be such as will enable the creditor, using season
able diligence, to arrest his body as security. White vs. Bailey, 3 Mass.
271.
2. Foreigners, who have never been in the United States, are within the
exception, and may bring their action at any time within the limitation of
the statute, after their coming within the States. Hall vs. Little, 14 Mass.
203.
3. Having an agent here will not bring them within the statute.
vs. Appleton, 17 Mass. 180.

Wilson

(k) 1. A promissory note payable in specific articles is within the meaning
of this proviso. Gilman vs. Wells, 7 Glf. 25.
2. It is a material alteration of a note to cause the name of a person to
be placed on a note as a witness, when he was in no respect a witness to
any part of the transaction. Homer vs. Wallis, 11 Mass. 312.
3. It is a sufficient witnessing, although there be no words over the name,
indicating the intent of the subscription by the witness. Faulkner vs. Jones,
16 Mass. 290.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, &c.

381

never been made ; any thing herein contained to the contrary
notwithstanding.

Ch. 62.
>~^-v-»^

Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That any action which in case of foilshall be actually declared in as aforesaid, and in which the "J? °.f «fr¥'°«
»

'

of writ, &c. or

writ purchased therefore, shall fail of a sufficient service or abatement of
'

.

.

it, what roeasreturn by any unavoidable accident or by the default, negh- urea plaintifff
gence or defect of any officer to whom such writ shall be duly avoid the limidirected, or when such writ shall be abated or the action tatlonthereby commenced shall be avoided by demurrer or otherwise, for informality of proceedings ; then and in any such
case, the plaintifffs or plaintifff, or his or her executor or ad
ministrator, may commence another action upon the same
demand and shall thereby save the limitation thereof, any
thing in this act to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided,
That such second action shall be duly commenced by declar
ing in the same aforesaid and pursued at the next Circuit
Court of Common Pleas of the county in which trial of the
cause may be had, or within three months next after the Court
whereto such former writ was or shall be returnable, or where
in judgment of abatement or other evidence of such suit shall
happen and not afterwards.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That any action of the
case or of debt, grounded upon any lending or contract, or
for arrearage of rent, which might have been or which may

[Mass. Stat.
j 2.] '
'

if creditor or
^Jf^fght "hi!
™0U![ht within

be sued and prosecuted by or against any person deceased, before such
or who shall decease, at the time of his or her death, or with- limitation apin thirty days next preceding, shall and may be commenced p les"
by declaring in the same as aforesaid, and sued by or against [

* s'

the executorf or administrator of such deceased person, with- [fSeeante.ch.
'

r

'

52, § 26, p.

in two years after the grant of letters testamentary, or of ad- 283.]
ministration, and not afterwards, if otherwise barred by this
act, any thing which may be supposed herain to the contrary
notwithstanding (i).
Sect. 13. Be it further enacted, That in any action jn actions on
which shall be brought, for any debt upon simple contract, ,ilnPle contract
0

*

•*

r

l

'or promise in

or promise in writing, not under seal, the defendant therein writing, not
may give in evidence upon the general issue, his or her de- fondant may
(/) Codman, ex. vs. Rogers, admx. 10 Pick. 112.

382

Ch. 62.
v-""v"*-'

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS, &c.

mands* against the plaintifff, for goods delivered, monies
paid, or service done, whereof an account shall be duly filed

file account "».._.,,_

.

„

,

,

.

.

offset, 7 uayn in the Clerk s office of the Court whereto such action is, or
[•300]
shall be brought, seven days, and before a Justice four days,
[lb. § 4.]
at ieast preceding the time of trial. And in all cases of muIn such cases

> t

o

limitation as to tual demands as aforesaid, the account of the defendant, if
the account

will relate to any time of limitation shall be objected thereto by the plainment°oftheac- tiffj shall be considered and allowed as if an action had been
U0B'
duly commenced thereon, by declaring in the same, at the
time when the
any law, usage
Limitation of
Sect. 14.
actiom on pc- sujt3 bills or
ual statutes.

plaintifff's action was or shall be commenced,
or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.
Be it further enacted (m), That all actions,
informations which shall hereafter be had,

'

'

brought, sued or commenced, for any forfeiture upon any peiune*i»T788 na^ statute> made or to be made, the benefit whereof is or
5 *•]
shall be by the said statute limited in whole or in part to the
person or persons who shall inform and prosecute in that be
half shall be had, brought, sued or commenced by any person
that may lawfully pursue the same as aforesaid, within one
year next after the offense committed, or to be committed
against the said statute ; and in default of such pursuit, then
the same shall be had, brought or prosecuted for the State,
at any time within two years after the offense committed ;
and if any action, suit, indictment or information, for any of
fence against any penal statute shall be brought after die time
in that behalf limited, the same shall be void and of none ef
fect, any act to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided al
ways, That when any action, suit or information is or shall
be limited by any penal statute, to be had, sued, commen
ced or brought within a shorter time than is above mention
ed, in every such case, the action, suit or information, shall
be brought within the time limited by such statute.
Limitation of
Sect. 15. Be it further enacted, That no judgment in
[Feb 15
""y action or suit heretofore, or which hereafter may be ren1806.]
dered, shall be reversed or avoided for any error or defect
(»i) The provision of § 14, may bo given in evidence under the general

issue.

Moore vs. Smith. 6 Glf. 490.

FORMS OF WRITS, be.

therein, unless the writ of error (?») brought for reversing the
same be sued out within twenty years next after the rendi383

Ch. 63.
v-"-^~»»-'

tion of such judgment : Provided always, That if any person Proviso in fawho is* or shall be entitled to such writ of error, shall at the incapacitated,
time such title accrued, be within the age of twenty-one years,
covert or non compos mentis ; then such person, his or her
heirs, executors or administrators notwithstanding the said
twenty years expired, may bring a writ of error for the re
versing of any such judgment, as such person might have done
in case this act had not been made, so as the same writ of
error be sued out within five years after the coming of age,
discoverture, coming of sound mind, or death of such per
son, whichever shall first happen, and not afterwards.
Sect. 16. Be it further enacted, That all actions against Limitation of
_
.
.
.
.
actions against
Sheriffs, for the misconduct and negligence of their deputies, Sheriffs, for
shall be commenced and sued within four years next after the their deputies,
cause of action (o).

[Approved March 19, 1821.]

Additional Act, ch. 307, Vol. 3, p. 150.

Chapter 63.
AN ACT prescribing the Forms of Writs and other process in the cases therein
mentioned.
Sect. 1.

IjE it enacted by the Senate and House <>/" Forms of proRepresentatives, in Legislature assembled, That in all civil [Mam Stat,
actions, the original and final process in the following cases § 1.]
(n) 1. A writ of error need not be endorsed.
Mass. 74.

Grosvenor vs. Danforth, 16

2. It does not lie upon a judgment of a justice of the Peace from which
judgment an appeal lies to C. C. Pleas, nor upon a judgment of C. C. Pleas,
where an appeal lies to this court. Savage vs. Gulliver, 4 Mass. 171.
(o) 1. Such action survives to the administration of the judgment creditor.
Paine vs. Ulmer, 7 Mass. 317.
2. In such action for taking insufficient bail, the limitation of four years
commences only from the return of non est inventus upon the execution
against the principal. Rice lr als. vs. Homer, 12 Mass. 127.

r

384

FORMS OF WRITS, *c.

Ch. 63. betwixt party and party, shall be made out in the forms (a)
V-^N^*-' following, that is to say ;
Original nunmoot.
Seal.

S

ss.

[Summons.]
STATE OF MAINE.
To the Sheriff of our county of S

, or his deputy.
Greeting.
We command you that you summon A. B. of C. [addition] (if he may be found
in your precinct) to appear before our Justices of our
Court of
, to be
holden at B. within and for our said county of 9. on the
day of
then
and there in our said Court to answer to D. E. of R. within our county of M. [ad
dition] in a plea of (6)
; to the damage of the said D. E. (as be sailh) the sum
of
dollars, which shall then and there be made to appear, with other due dam.
ages. And have you there this writ, with your doings therein. Witness, E. IIEsq. at B. the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
A. D. Clerk.
[*302]
[* Capias or Attachment.]
Capias or at8TATE OF MAINE.
tiich inpnl

Seal.

C

ss.

Seal.

C

ss.

To the Sheriff of our county of C

or his deputy,
Greeting.
Wc command you to attach the goods or estate of R. F. of B. within our county
of C
[addition] to the value of
dollars ; and for want thereof to take the
body (f) of the said R. F. (if he may be found in your precinct,) and him safely
kaep, so that you have him before our Justices of our
Court of
; next to
be holden at B. within and for our said county of C
on the
day of
;
then and there in our said Court to answer unto D. S. of R. within our county of
H. [addition] in plea of
; to the damage of the said D. S. (as he saith) the
sum of
dollars, which shall then and there be made to appear, with other due
damages. And have you there this writ, with your doings therein. Witness, E.
H. Esq. at P. the
day of
, in the year of our Lord
A. D. Clerk.
Summonswhen
[Summons when goods are attached.]
goad* are atSTATE OF MAINE.
To A. B. of B. within our county of C

, [addition]
Greeting.
We command you that you appear at our next
Court of
to be holden
at B. within and for our County of C
aforesaid, on the
day of
, then
and there to answer to C. D. of R. within our county of M. [addition] in a plea
of
; which plea the said C. D. hath commenced against you, to be beard and
(a) Where the remedy cannot be obtained by any writ conforming, in its
outlines, to those prescribed by statute, it has been the ancient and constant
practice of the conrt to grant a writ by which the remedy sought may be ob
tained. Cooke vs. Gibbs, 3 Mass. 196 ; TVood vs. Ross, 11 Mass. 276.
See ante, p. SOS, note c.
(o) Upon a plea that a writ, when served, contained no count or declara
tion, and that no cause of action was therein set forth, the writ was abated.
Brigham vs. EsU,jr. 2 Pick. 420.
(c) See "Act for abolition of Imprisonment of honest debtors for debt,"
cb. 520, Vol. 3, p. 894.

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.

385

tried at the said Court; nod your goods or estate are attached to the value of
Ch. 63.
dollars, for security to satisfy the judgment which the said C. D. may recover upon
v^-v-^_/
the aforesaid trial. Fail not of appearance at your peril. Witness, E. H. Esq. at
B. the
day of
, in the year of our Lord
.
A. D. Clerk.
[Execution. (<?)]
Execution.
Seal.

S

is.

STATF. OF MAINE.
To the Sheriff of our county of S

or his deputy,
Greeting.'
Whereas C L of R within our county of S
[addition] by* the consideration of
[*303]
our Justices of our
Court of
, holden at B for and within our county of S
aforesaid, on the
day of
, recovered judgment against D T of B in the county of
M [addition] for the sum of
dollars and
cents debt or damage, and
■ dollars
and
cents costs of suitas to us appears of record, whereof execution remains to be
done . 'We command you thereforee, tha t of the goods, chattels or lands of the said debt
or within your precinct, you cause to be paid and satisfied unto the said creditor at the
value thereof in money, the aforesaid sum, being
dollars and
cents in
the whole, with
cents more for this writ ; and thereof also to satisfy yourself
for your own fees. And for want of goods, chattels or lands of the said debtor to
be by him shewn unto you, or found within your precinct, to the acceptance of the
said creditor to satisfy the sums aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the
said debtor, and him commit unto our gaol in R. in our county of S
aforesaid,
and detain in your custody within our said gaol, until he pay the full sums alwve
mentioned with your fees, or that he be discharged by the said creditor, or other
wise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ with your do
ings therein, [here insert the time and place of return as by law prescribed.!] [fSee ante, p.
Witness, E. H. Esq. at B. the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
' »
^
A D Clerk.

Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That the writ for put
ting such into possession of any land or tenements as shall
[lb. § 2.]
recover judgment for the same, and for levying the costs and
damages recovered upon such suit, commonly called a writ
of facias habere possessionem, and writ of fieri facias ; as
also the writ of scire facias, to be issued out of the Supreme
Judicial Court, or Circuit Court of Common Pleas, respect
ively, shall be from time to time granted and issued in the
form following, that is to say ;
[Writ of Facias Habere Possessionem, and Fieri Facias ]
STATE OF MAINE.
Seal. S
ss. To the Sheriff of our county of S
,or his deputy, Greeting.
Whereas A. B. of C. [addition] before our Justices of our*.
Court of
,
(d) 1. If the Clerk omit to affix the seal of the Court to an Execution, it
may be amended, even after the execution has been extended over lands, and
the extent recorded. Sawyer vs. Baker, 3 Glf. 29.
2. Where the judgment is in favor of Dan Y. and the execution is issued
in favor of Daniel Y., it may be amended. Young vs. Hosmer, II Mass.
90. See ante, p. 333, note g; also, Rowdoin If m. vs. Jordan, 9 Mass.
160.

Vol. i.

49

Hab. facias
poe.
[*304]

386
ClI. 63.
.—^-^.

Scire facias.

t*305]

[lb. § 8.]

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.
holden for or within oar county of S. aforesaid, at B. upon the
day of
,
by the consideration of our raid Court, recovered judgment for his title and posses
sion of and in a certain messuage or tenement, with thcappertenances,or
acres
of land, with the appertenancea and privileges, lying and being in the town of D.
against E. F, of G. [addition] who had unjustly withheld, put out or removed the
raid A. B. from his possession thereof; and also at the said Court recovered jadgraent for
dollars and
cents for costs and damages, which he sustained
by reason of the same, as to us hath l>ecn made to appear of record: We command
you thereforee that without delay, you cause the said A. B. to have possesion of and
in the said messuage or tcnemeut, or the said
acres of land, with the upperlo nances and privileges : We also command you that of the goods, chattels or lands
of the said debtor, within your precinct, at the value thereof in money, you cause the
said creditor to be paid and satisfied the aforesaid sum of
dollars and ——
cents, which to the said creditor was adjudged for his costs and damages with
cents more for this writ, and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own fees: and
for want of such goods, chattels or lands of the said debtor, to be by him shewn
unto you or found within your precinct, to the acceptance of the said creditor to sat
isfy the aforesaid sum : We command you to take the body of the said debtor, and
him commit unto our gaol in B. in our county of S
aforesaid, and detain in
your ruwtody within our said g-tol, until he pay the full sum almvc mentioned with
your fees : or that he be discharged by the said creditor or otherwise by order of
law. Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ with your doings therein, [here
insert the time and place of return as prescribed by law.] Witness, E. H. Esq. at
• day of B. the- in the year of our Lord A D Clerk.
[Writ of Scire Facias, (e)]
STATE OF MAINE.
To the Sheriff of our county of S ■
Seal.
. or his deputy.
Greeting.
Whereas C. D. of B. [addition] before our Justices of our* — Court of
holdcn for or within our said county of S. at B. on the——day of
, in the
year of our Lord
f by die consideration of our said Justices, recovered
against A. B. of E. [addition] the stun of
dollars and
cents, debt or
damage ; and also
dollars and
cents for costs and charges by him about
his suit in that behalf expended ; whereof the said A. B. is convict, as to us appears
of record ; and although judgment be thereof rendered , yet the execution for the said
debt or damage and costs doth yet remain to be made; whereof the said C D hath
made application to us to provide remedy for him in that behalf: Now to the end that
justice be done, wo command you, that you make known unto the said A. B. that he
be before our Justices of our said
Court of
to be holdcn within or for our
said county of S. at B. on the
day of
to show cause (if any he hare)
wherefore the said C. D ought not to have his execution against him die said A
B. for his debt or damage and costs aforesaid ; and further to do and receive that
which our said Court shall dien consider; aud there and dicn have you this writ,
with your doings dicrein. Herein fail not. Witness, E. II. Esq. at B. the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
A. D. Clerk.

Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That the several forms
of writs and process here under written, shall be, and hereby
(«) Perrons and property are made liable to attachment on scire facia*,
and the writ may be made accordingly, by cb. 463, vol. 3, p. 304.

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.

are established to be the forms to be granted and .used in civil
causes triable before a Justice of the Peace, that is to say,

387

Ch. 63.
^-•-v-*-'

[Summons for appearance.]
Si ii.
S
s». To the Sheriff of the said county of S
, or either of
his deputies, or the Constables of the towns within the said county, or to any or
either of them,
Greeting.
In the name of the State of Maine, you are required to summon and give notice gummons for
unto T P of B aforesaid, [addition] if he may be found in your precinct that lie appearance,
appear before me J D Esq one of the Justices of the Peace for the county afore
said, at my dwelling house in B. on
the day of
at
of the clock in
the
noon ; then and there to answer to E L of M [addition] in a plea of
, to the damage of the said E L (as he saith) the sum of
* as sliarll then
[*306]
and there appear, with other due damages. And of this writ, with your doings
therein, you are to make true return unto myself, at or before the said
day of
. Dated at B. aforesaid, the —— day of
in the year of our Lord
.
J D
[Capias, or Attachment.]
Real.
S
«b. To the Sheriff of the said county of S
, or either of
his deputies, or the Constables of the town of B within the said county, or to any
or either of them,
Greeting.
In the name of the State of Maine, you are required to attach the goon- or estate — . »
of T P of B aforesaid [addition] to the value of——; and for want thereof, to tadimeot.
take the body of the said T, P. (if he may be found in your precinct) and him safe
ly keep, so that ho may be had before me J D Esq one of the Justices of the
Peace for the county aforesaid, at my dwelling house in B. on
, the
day of
at
of the clock in the
noon ; then and there to answer to E. L. of M.
[addition] in a plea of
; to the damage of the said E. L. (as he saith) the
pum of
, as shall then and there appear, with other due damages. Hereof
fail not, and make due return of this writ, and of your doings therein, unto myself,
at or before the said
day of
. Dated at B. aforesaid, the —_ day of
in the year of our Lord
,
J. D.
Seal.

S

[Summons when Goods are attached.]
es. To T P of D in the county of S

, [addition]
Greeting.
In the name of the State of Maine, you are commanded to appear before mo J .
-,,.
, v t.
,
t ,-,
,.,
Summons when
D Esq. one of the Justices of the Peace for the County aforesaid, at my dwelling goods are athousc in B on
, the
day of
, at
of die clock in the
noon, tached.
to answer unto E L of M [addition] in a plea of
; which plea the said E
L hath commenced to be heard and tried before me ; and your goods or estate are
attached to the value of
for security to satisfy the judgment which the said E
L may recover upon the aforesaid trial. Fail not of appearance at your peril. Da
ted at B aforesaid, the ■
day of
, in the year of our Lord
J D
[Execution.*]
Execution.
Seal S
ss. To the Sheriff of our said county of S
, or either of his
[*307]
deputies, or the Constables of die t«\vn? within our said county, or any or cither of
them,
Greeting.
Whereas E L of M [addition] on the
day of
before J D Esq one of
our Justices of the Peace for our county aforesaid, recovered judgment against T
F of B [addition] for the sum of
debt or damage, and
dollars and
cents for charges of suit, as to us appears of record, whereof execution remains to

383
Ch 63

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.
** ^one! ^'e command yon, thereforee that of the money of the said debtor, or of
his goods or chattels within your precinct, at the value thereof in money, you cauxa
to be levied paid and satisfied unto the said creditor the aforesaid sums, being
dollars and
cents, in the whole ; and also that out of the money goods or chat
tels of the said debtor, you levy
more for this writ, together with your own
fees. And for want of such money, goods or chattels of the said debtor, to be by
him shown unto you, or fuund within your precinct, to the acceptance of the said
creditor for satisfying the aforesaid sums. We command you to take the body of
the said debtor, and him commit unto our gaol in B and we command the keeper
thereof accordingly to receive the said debtor into our said gaol, and him safely keep
until he pay the full sums above mentioned, with your fees'or that he be discharged
by thesaid creditor, or otherwise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make re
turn of this writ with your doings therein unto our said Justice, within sixty day*
next coming. Witness our said Justice at B the
day of
iu the year of
our Lord
J **

Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That the form of the
writ of scire facias aforesaid shall be the form of a writ of
scire facias upon a judgment recovered before a Justice of the
Peace, mutatis mutandis.
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That the writ of dower,
M*r?ii,1?S4, and the writ of seizin of dower, shall be sued out in the forms

[lb. § 4.]

following, to wit :
[*308]

[Form* of Writ of Dower,]
STATE OF MAINE.
Seal. S
ss. To the Sheriff of our County of S
or his deputy, Greeting.
Writof dower.
^ c command you that you summon
of
in our said county of S
, if
may be fuund in your precinct, to appear before our Justices of our Circuit
Court of Common Pleas next to be holdcn at
within and for our said county
of S
, upon the
(lay i.i
next; then and there in our said court to an
swer unto
of
, in a pica of dower, for that [here the declaration ; ] to the
damage of the said
■ as
saith the sum of
dollars, as shall then and
th=re appear. Witness, T N Esq. at B
, the
day of
iu the year of
our Lord
L M Clerk.
[Form of the Writ of Seizin of Dower.]
STATE OF MAINE.
Seal. S
ss. To the Sheriff of our said county of S
or his deputy, Greeting.
Whereas —— who was the wife of E D late of B in the county aforesaid, [adWrit of seizin dition] deceased, before our Justices of our
Court of
holden at B
for
of dower.
our County aforesaid, on the
day of
now last past, did recover seizin
against A B of B
aforesaid [addition] of one third part of a certain messuage
or tenement, with the nppcrtcnances, situate in B
aforesaid, in the posses
sion of the said A B [addition] as her dower of the endowment of the said E Dher
certain husband, by our writ of dower, whereof .she hath nothing; thereforee we
command you, that to the said
full seizin of one third part of the aforesaid
messuage or tenement with thenppertenances, you cause to be had without delay, to
hold to
in severalty by metes and bounds. We command you also, that of tbe
goods or chattels of the said A B within your precinct, you cause to be paid and
satisfied unto the said
at the value thereof in money, tbe sum of
for
damages awarded her by our said Court for her being held and kept out of her dower

"■
>

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.

389

aforesaid, aud costs expended on this suit, with
cents more for this writ;
and thereof also to satisfy yourself your own fees; and for want of goods or* chat
tels of the said A B to be by him shown unto or found within your precinct to sat
isfy the same, we command you to take his body, and to commit him to the keeper
of our gaol in B
in our county aforesaid, within the said prison, whom we like
wise command to receive the said A B and him safely to keep until he pay unto the
said
the full sum above mentioned, and also satisfy your fees. Hereof fail
not, aud make return of this writ, and how you shall have executed the same to [here
insert the time and place of return as prescribed by law.] Witness, E H Esxj at B
the
■ day of
in the year of our Lord
Clerk.

Sect. 6. Be it further enacted. That the trustee writs Trustee writs.
of attachment and execution shall be sued out in the forms Feb?2S 1795
following, to wit :
§ }1
[Form of Trustee Writ of Attachment-]
STATE OF MAINE.
ss. To the Sheriff of our county of

Seal. S
, or to either of his
deputies,
Greeting.
We command you to attach the goods and estate of A B of C within our county Trustee writ of
of D [addition] to the value of
dollars, and summons the said A B (if he attachment.
may be found in your precinct) to appear before our Justices of our Circuit Court of
Common Picas next to be holden at
within and for our county of——— on
the
day of
then and there in our said Court to answer unto E F of G
within our county of II [addition] in a plea of (J" )
, to the damage of the said
E F as he saith the sum of
dollars, which shall then and there be made to
appear, with other due damages: and whereas the said E F saith that the said A B
has not in hid own bands aud possession, goods and estate to the value of ■
dollars, aforesaid, which can be come at, to be attached, but has intrusted to, and
deposited in the hands and possession of J K of
, [addition] trustee of the
said A B, goods, e fleets and credits, to the said value; We command you thereforee,
that you summon the said J K if he may be found in your precinct to appear before
our Justices of our said Court to be holden as aforesaid, to show cause (if any he
have) why execution to be issued upon such judgment as the said E F may recover
against the said A B in this action (if any) should not issue against his goods, ef
fects or credits in the hands and* possession of him the said J K; and have you
[*310]
there this writ, with your doings therein. Witness, L 31 Esq at
the
day of
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred aud
N O Clerk.
[Form of Trustee Execution.]
STATE OF MAINE.
Seal. S* ■ -ss. To the Sheriff of our county of
, or his deputy, Greeting.
Whereas DSof ft within our county of S [addition] by the consideration of our Jus- Trustee cxecutices of our Circuit Court of Common Vleas holden at
, within and for our tion.
county of
aforesaid, on the
day of
recovered judgment against
RF of
in the county of
[addition] aforesaid, for the sum of
debtor
damage (as the case may lie) and
costs of suit; and whereas by the consideration
of the same Court, execution was likewise awarded for the same sums against the
goods, effects and credits of the said R F in the hands and possession of A B of

(/) In a foreign attachment, where the action was dismissed for want of
a declaration, the trustee waa allowed his coats. Brown vs. Seymour fy tr.
1 Pick. 32.

390
ClI. 63.
*_—__>

[*3l I]

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.
[addition] and C D of
[addition] Trustees of the said debtor, as to us appears
*>f record, whereof execution remains to be done : We command you, thereforee, that
of the goods, chattels or lands of the said debtor in his own hands and possession, and
of the goods, effects and credits of the said debtor in the hands and possession of the
said Trustees, jointly and severally, you cause to be paid and satisfied unto the said
creditor, at the value thereof in money, the aforesaid sums, being
in the whole,
with
more for this writ ; and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own fees ;
and for want of goods, chattels or lands of the said debtor, in his own hands and
possession, to be by him shown unto you, or found in your precinct, to the accept
ance of tlic said creditor; and for want of goods, effects and credits of the said
debtor in the hands and possession of the said Trustees, to be by them discovered
and exposed to you, to satisfy the several sums aforesaid, with your own fees: We
command you that you take the body of the said debtor, and him commit unto oar
gaol in
in our county of
aforesaid, and detain in your custody, within
our said gaol, until he pay the full sums aforementioned, with your fees, or that he
ijp discharged by the said creditor or otherwise* by order of law. Hereof fail not,
and make return of this writ and of your doings therein, [here insert the time and
place of return as by law prescribed.] Witness W C Esq at
the
day of
, in the year of our Lord
»
J S Clerk.

[Mass. Stat.
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted. That in proceedings in
§4.]
' audita querela the writ of attachment and summons thereon,
shall be in the form following, to wit :
[tSee onward,
cil* 65 1

[Form of Writ of Attachment in Audita Querelaf.]
STATE OF MAINE.

Seal.
ss. To the Sheriff of our county of
orhisdeputy, Greeting.
__ . .
,
We command you to attach the goods or estate of A B of
to the value
Writ ofattachment in audita °'"
-■■• dollars, and for want thereof to take the body of the said A B if he
querela.
may be found in your precinct, and him safely keep so that you have him before our
Justices of our
Court
next to be holden at
within and fur our coun
ty of
on the
day of
then and there in our said Court to answer unto
the grievous complaint of C D of
, who complaineth and sailh [here let the
declaration be inserted] by all which the said C D as he saith is damaged the sum of
dollars, as shall then and there be made to appear. And have you there this
writ, with your doings therein. Witness W C Esquire, at
, this ■
day of
, in the year of our Lord —— .
A II Clerk.
[Form of Summons in Audita Querela.]
STATE OF MAINE.
Seal.
ss. To A B of
Greeting.
We command you that you appear at our
• Court
next to be hoiden
Summons in at
, widiin and for our county of
, on the
day of
, then and
audita querela.
there to answer to the grievous complaint of C D of
* [here recite an abstract of
Lib. §6.]
the declaration] which complaint is to he heard and tried at the said Court; and
your goods or estate are attached to the value of
dollar- to satisfy the judgment
which the said C B may recover upon the aforesaid trial. Fail not ofappearance at
your peril. Witness, W C Esquire at — the
day of
in the year
of our Lord
.
A H Clerk.

1*312]
[lb. § 7.]

Sect. 8*. Be it further enacted, That where the writ
°f audita querela shall be issued, in the form of a writ of sum
mons, the form thereof may be as followeth :

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.

391

STATE OF MAINE.
Ch. 63.
Seal.
ss. To ihe sheriff of our county of
or his deputy, Greeting.
\^~v-^,^
We command you that you summons A B of
, if he may he found in your Audita querela
precinct, to appear before our Justices of our
Court
next to be holdcn in formofsumat
within and for our county of
on the
day of
then and mons*
there in our said Court to answer to the grievous complaint of C D of
who
complaincth and saith [here let the declaration he inserted] ; by all which the said
C D as he saith, is damaged the sum of
dollars as shall then and there be made
to appear. And have you there this writ with your doings therein. Witness W C
Esquire at
this
day of
in the year of our Lord
. A H Clerk.

Sect. 9. Be it further enacted. That in all proceedings [Mass. Stat.
in replevin, the writs in the following cases shall be in form §uJe] '
following, to wit :
[Form of a Writ of Replevin for liberation of Cattle Impounded.]
STATE OF MAINE.
l. s. S
ss. To the Sheriff of our County of S
, or his deputy, or lo
either of the Constables of the town of B in the said county,
Greeting.
We command you that you replevy [here insert a description of the beast or
beasts impounded] belonging lo P I) of B [addition] now distrained or impounded
by S P of B [addition] in the common pound in said B (or in such other place as
they may be restrained) and them deliver unto the said P D. Provided, the same
are not taken and detained upon mesne process, warrant of distress, or upon
execution, as the properly of the said P D and summon the said S P to appear be
fore J S one of our Justices of the Peace for our said county of S at his dwelling
house in B on the
day of
at
of the clock in the
noon,
to answer unto the said P D in a writ of replevin, for that the said S P on the
day of
al a place called A in B aforesaid,* unlawfully took and impounded
the said
, and the same unjustly detained to this day. to the damage of the
said P D as he saith the sum of
dollars, as shall then and there appear with
other due damages : Provided, he the said P D shall give bond, with sufficient sure
ty or sureties lo the said S P in the sum of
, being double the value of the
said beasts, to prosecute his said replevin to final judgment, and lo pay such dama
ges and costs as the said S P shall recover against him, and also to return the said
, in case such shall be the final judgment. And of this writ with your doings
hereon, and the bond you shall take, you are to make return to our said Justice on
or before ihesaid
day of
at
o'clock. Witness, J S our said Justice*
at B in the said county, this
day of
Anno Domini
.
J S
[Form of a Writ of Replevin for goods or chattels taken, distrained or attached,
which are claimed by a third person, when of the value of more than twenty dollars.]
STATE OF MAINE.
z.. 8. S
- — ss. To the Sheriff of our county of S
, or his deputy, Greeting.
[Or if the Sheriff or his deputy arc defendants, then it may be directed lo a Coroner.]
We command you that you replevy the goods and chattels following, viz. [here
enumerate and particularly describe them] belonging to P DofB [addition] now laken, detained or attached {as the case may be) by S P of B [addition] at
in B

,y .
,
p|evin for cattie impounded,

[ 313]

Writ of replevin for goods
token, &c.

aforesaid, and them deliver unto the said P D. Provided, the same are not taken [lb. § 4.]
■ and detained upon mesne process, warrant of distress, or upon execution, as the _„
.
..«
property of the said P D and summon the said S P that he appear before our Justices YO\m 3 p[ 2S5,j
of our Circuit Court of Common Pleas (g), next to be hotden at B within aad for our
(g) By ch. 443, vol. 3, p. 235, Justices of the Peace, and by act of Feb.
27, 1832, the Municipal Court in Portland, are invested with jurisdiction in

392
Ch

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.
63

counlv of S
ou the
— day of
to answer unto the said P D in a plea
of replevin, for that the said SP on the
day of
at said B unlawfully, and
without any justifiable cause, took the goods and chattels of the said P D as afore
said, and them unlawfully detained to this day, to the damage of the said P D as he
says, the sum of
dollars : Provided, he the said P 1) shall give bond* to the said
[*314]
SP with sufficient surely or sureties in the sum of
dollars, being twice (g) the
value of the said goods and chattels, lo prosecute the said replevin to final judgment,
and to pay such damages and costs as the said S P shall recover against him j ami al
so to return and restore the same goods and chattels, in like good order and condition
as when taken, in case such shall be the final judgment ; and have you ihere this writ,
with your doings herein, together with the bond you shall take. Witness S N Esq at
B this
day of
Anno Domini
.
E P Clerk.
[Form of Writ of Restitution on Judgment rendered before a Justice of the Peace.]
STATE OF MAINE.
L. s. S
ss. To the SherirTof our county of S
, or his deputy, Greeting.
Writ of restiWhereas P D of B in our county of S [addition] lately replevied the beasts followunion from a jng : [Here insert such description of them as they had in the writ of replevin] which
Justice of
g PofB in our county of S
[addition] had unlawfully taken and unjustly de
[lb. § 6.]

, ... . - .

tained, as the said P I) suggested, and caused the sai 1 S P to be summoned before J
S one of our Justices ofthc Peace, for our said county of S to answer unto the said P
D for such supposed unlawful taking and detaining, at a day now passed : and where
as upon the
day of
at B aforesaid, upon a hearing of the cause of taking and
detaining the said beasts, before our said Justice, it appeared that the same taking
and detaining was lawful and justifiable ; Whereupon it was then and there consid
ered, that the same beasts l>e returned, and restored lo the said S P irrepleviable, and
that the said S P recover against the said P I) the sum of
damages, for his taking
the same by the said process of replevin, and the further sum of
for his costs,
arisen in the defense of the said suit, as by the record of our said Justice, before him
remaining to us appears ; whereof execution remains to be done : We command you
thereforee, that you forthwith return and restore the same beasts unto the said S P.
And also that of the money ofthc said P Dor of his goods or chattels within your precinct, at the value thereof in money you* cause to be levied, paid and satisfied unto
the said creditor the aforesaid sums, being
in the whole, with
cents more
for this writ, together with your own fees; and for want of such money, goods or
chattels of the said debtor to be by hirn shown unto you or found within your pre
cinct, to the acceptance ofthc said creditor for satisfying the a foresaid sump; We
command you to take the body of the said debtor, and him commit unto our gaol in
B and we command the keejwr thereof accordingly, to receive the said debtor into
our said gaol, and him safely to keep, until he pay the full sums above mentioned,
with your fees, or that he be discharged by the said creditor, or otherwise by order
of law. Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ, with your doings thereactions of replevin where the value of the goods in dispute does not exceed
twenty dollars.
(ft) 1. It is no sufficient ground to quash a writ of replevin, that the officer
has taken bond for a larger sum than the writ directed. Clap vs. Guild,
8 Mass. 153.'
2. Where the bond was executed by the surety before the service of the
writ, but not by the principal until after the return of the writ and the entry
of the action, it was holden good in an action upon it. Cody vs. Eggleston
if ah 282.

FORMS OF WRITS, &o.
in, unto our Kiid Justice, within sixty days next coming. Witness our raid Juttic* at B the
the day of
in the year of our Lord
.
JS
[Form of Writ of Withernam.]

393
Ch

fi<?
'
v^-v-w

STATE OF MAINE.
t. s. S
n. To die Sheriff ofour county of S
, or his deputy, Greeting.
Whereas P D of B in our county of S 'addition] lately replevied the beasts fol- Withernam,
lowing, viz. [here insert such description of them as they had in the writ of replev
in] and which were at the time of the replevy, of the value of
which S P of [lb. § 7.]
B aforesaid had unlawfully taken and detained, as the said P D suggested, and
caused the said S. P. to be summoned before J S one of our Justices of the Peace,
for our saifl county of S to answer unto the said P D for such supposed unlawful
taking and detaining, at a day now passed ; and whereas upon the
day of
at B aforesaid, upon a hearing of the cause of taking and detaining the said
beasts, by our said Justice, it was determined, that the same taking and detaining,
was lawful and justifiable: Whereupon it was then and there considered, that the
beasts be returned and restored to the said S P irrepleviable, and for his damages
and costs; and afterwards on the
day of
our writ of return and res
titution issued, in due furm of law, directed to the Sheriff of our said county of S
or his deputy, to return the same accordingly; which writ of return and restitution
was delivered to C D to* execute accordingly; who on the
day of
re
turned thereon, [here insert the return made by die officer, of his inability to return
the beast.] And we being desirous that the said P D should not, by his false sug
gestions and pretensions any longer detain the beasts so by him replevied as afore
said, command you forthwith to take the beasts of the said P D of like kind and
value, if any he hath to be found in your precinct, in withernam, and in default
thereof any other of his goods and chattels to the full value, in withernam, and them
deliver unto the said S P to lie by him kept, used and improved, until the said P
D shall restore him the beasts he took from him, by our writ of replevin, as afore
said; and also that of the money of the said P D or of his goods or chattels to be
found within your precinct, at the value thereof in money, you cause to be paid and
satisfied unto the said S P
for this writ together with your own fees for ex
ecuting the same. Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ, with your doings
herein, unto our said Justice, within sixty days next coming. Witness, our said
Justice at B the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
J S

Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That the form of the
writ for the replevying of a person, and of original and alias Feb. 19, 1787,
■writs of Withernam shall be as follows, to wit :
5 1-]
[Replevying a person.]
[Form of the original Writ where any person stands committed by lawful authority.]
STATE OF MAINE.
L. s. S
ss. To the Shcriff(i) of our county of S
,
Greeting.
We command you, that justly and without delay, you cause to be replevied C D
.
who (as it is said) is taken and detained in our gaol in N within our said county pi™;™ aTxjrof S by the commitment of A B that he the said C D may be at our Supreme Judi- son lawfully
cial Court, next to be holden at
within our county aforesaid, upon the
committed.
day of
next, then and there in our said Court to answer to all such tilings as
shall be then and there objected against him, more especially for the offense for
(») This writ can be served bj the Sheriff only, or by the coroner when
the Sheriff is a party, but in no case by a deputy Sheriff. Wood, Jun. e.

Moss, 11 Man. 271.

Vol. 1.

50

394

FORMS OF WHITS, &c.
which he stands committed, unless, while tho writ of habeas corpus is suspended by
the* Legislature, he stands committed by the Supreme Executive Power of the
State, as dangerous to the public safety, or by the same or some subordinate au
thority of the government, for treason, the death of man, counterfeiting the com
mon currency, house burning, burglary, robbery or some other offense whereof if he
is convicted, he may suffer death or banishment; or unless he is holden under exe
cution upon judgment for debt, forfeiture or in withernam, or by distress for taxes,
or under sentence after conviction, for fine, or costs, or in punishment. Witness,
W C Esq at
the
day of
in the year of our Lord
. L M Clerk.

And where the plaintifff is held without order of law, the
writ shall be in form following, viz.

Writ for reSTATE OF MAINE.
L. s. S ■ ss. To the Sheriff of our county of S
,
Greeting.
We command you that justly and without delay you cause to be replevied C D
wn0 (a3 jt ja gaid) is taken and detained in a place called IV within our said counson committed *? °^ ^ ^y tnc ^uress °f *-" ^ tnat "c ^1C sa'** *-" ^ may aPI**ar at om" Circuit Court
without order of Common Pleas, next to be holden at
within and for our said county «>f S
of Law.
upon the
day of
next, then and there in our said Court to demand
right and justice against the said G II for the duress and imprisonment aforesaid,
and to prosecute his replevin as the law directs. Provided, that if he, the said C
D U held by die said G II as his ward, infant, or one to whose service he is enti
tled, or as a principal to whom the said G II is bail, and he shall make you secure
by good and lawful mainpernors for his appearing at our Court aforesaid to prose
cute his rcpleviu against the said G II and to have his body at the same Court, ready
to be re-dclivered if ordered thereunto, and to pay all such damages and costs, as
shall be then and there awarded against him; then and not otherwise you arc to
deliver him; and if the said C D is by you delivered at any day before the sitting
of our said Court, you are to summon the said G II by serving him with nn attest
ed copy of this writ, that he may appear at our said Court, to answer unto the said
[*3I8]
C D upon his replevin. Witness,* T N Esq at B the
day of
in the
year of our Lord
.
X Y Clerk.
[Original Writ of Withernam.]
STATE OF MAINE.
L. g. S
as. To the Sheriff of our county of S——,
Greeting.
Whereas we have heretofore, by our writ for replevying a person, commanded
[lb. § 6.]
you that justly and without delay [here the original writ for replevying a person
shall be recited] and you having returned thereupon [here the Sheriff's return shall
be recited.] We thereforee command you that without delay you take the body of
the said G H if he may be found in your precinct, and him safely keep, so that he
may be at our Circuit Court of Common Pleas, next to be holden at
within
and for our said county of S on the
day of
next, then and there in
our said Court to traverse the return aforesaid n|>on our original writ for replevy
ing a person, and that if he shall be found guilty of the elongation of tho said C D
he may l>e hold by our alias writ of withernam, until he shall produce the body of
the said C D that he may be delivered as the law directs. Witness, T N Esq at 1$
the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
X Y Clerk.

And the alias Writ of Withernam shall be in form follow
ing, viz.
W'lherni

STATE OF MAINE.
L, s, S
ts. To the Sheriff of our county of S
,
Greeting.
Whereas we commanded you, by our original writ for the replevying of a person
that [here the original writ for replevying a person shall be recited] upon which

FORMS OF WRITS, kc.
writ a return was made, that [here the return shall he recited] whereupon our writ
of withernam was duly issued commanding you that [here tho writ of withernam
shall be recited J and at our said Court the said G H [here all the consequent pro
ceedings shall be recited] whereupon it was considered and adjudged by our said
Court, that the body of the said G II should be taken and held, until he shall pro
duce the body of the said C D and until he shall pay the sum of
taxed in
costs against him. We thereforee command you, that you take the body of the said
G II into your custody, and* him there to hold irrcplcviably iu one of our gaols in
our said county of S
until he shall produce the body of the said C D or is
discharged by order of law. Witness,
Esq at B the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
Clerk.

395
ClI. 63.
v_^-v—^^

[*319]

Sect. 11. Be it Jurther enacted, That in all civil cau
ses, pending in any Court, the subpoena to witnesses shall be
in the form following, to wit :
[Subpoena for Witnesses.]
ss. To A B of C [addition]
Greeting,
You are hereby required in the name of the State of Maine, to make your ap
pearance before the Justices of the
next to be holdcn at B within and for the Subpoena
county of S on the
day of ——— to give evidence of what you know rela- witnesses.

S

for

ting to an action or plea of
then and there to be heard and tried betwixt A
B of C [addition] plaintifff, and D E of E [addition] defendant. Hereof fail not, as
you will answer your default under the pains and penalty in the law in that behalf
made and provided. Dated at B the
■ day of
, in the year of our
Lord
A D Clerk.

Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That in all proceed
ings in forcible entry and detainer, the warrant to summon a
jury, the summons to the party complained against, and the
writ of restitution shall be in the forms following, to wit :
[Forcible Entry and Detainer.]
[Form of Warrant to Sheriff to summon a Jury.]
STATE OF MAINE.
L. s. S
ss. To the Sheriff of tho county of S
,
Greeting.
Whereas complaint is made to us the subscribers, two of tho Justices of tho
Teacc for and within the county of S quorum unus, by A B of D in tho same coun- Form of war
ty, gentleman, that EF of
yeoman, upon the
day of—— at D afore- rant to summon
said, with force and arms, and with a strong hand, did unlawfully and forcibly en- y entr¥ a-j
ter into and upon a tract of land of him the said A B at D aforesaid, containing detainer.
acres bounded as follows, viz. (or into the messuage or tenement of him the
said A B as the case may be) and him the said A B with force and a strong hand
as aforesaid, did expel* and unlawfully put out of tho possession of the same, [or if
[*320]
it is a forcible detainer only, then the entry shall be described and the detainer in
serted as follows:] and him the said A B does unlawfully, unjustly, and with a
strong hand, deforce and still keep out of the possession of the same. You are
thereforee commanded in behalf of the said State, to cause to come before us upon
the
day of
at
, in the said county twelve good and lawful men
of our county each one of whom having a freehold of the yearly value of five dollars
to be empaunellcd and sworn to inquire into the forcible entry and detainer (or the

396
Cfl. 63.

FORMS OF WRITS, &c.
deuioer) afore described.

Given under our hands and seals the

dayof

RS) Justices of the Peace,
NOj
quorum uuuu.
[Forcible Entry and Detainer.}
[Form of Summons to the party complained against]
STATE OF MAINE.
L, $. g
M. To the Sheriff of our county of S
,
Greeting.
The oartv com^ c c°ramar|d you that you summon E F of
to appear before the subscriplaincd against bcrs, two of our Justices of the Peace, within and for our said county of S
quorum units, at a place called
in D
■ in the said county, at
o'clock
in the
noon, then anJ there to answer to, and defend against the complaint of
A B to them exhibited, wherein he complains that [here the complaint shall be re
cited] and you arc to make a return of this writ, with your doings therein unto our
said Justices, upon or before the said day. Witnesses, our said Justices, the
day of
in the year of our Lord
.
N O
R S
[Forcible Entry and Detainer.]
[Form of Writ of Restitution.]
STATE OF MAINE.
L. s. S— n. To the Sheriff of our county of S
,
Greeting.
,r
., of_ restiWhereas at a Court of Inquiry
« rit
" * of forcible entryJ and detainer, held at D in our
tution.
county of S upon the
day of
in the year of our Lord
, before R S and
N O Esquires, two Justices of the Peace for our said county of S quorum unus, the
[*321]
Jurors empannelled and* sworn by our said Justices, did return their verdict in
writing signed by each of them, that A B was upon the
day of
in the
rightful possession of a certain messuage or tract of land [as in the verdict return
ed] aud that &c. [as in the verdict] whereupon it was considered by our said Jus
tices, that the said A B should have restitution of the same. We thereforee com
mand you, that taking with you the force of the county, if necessary, you cause die
said E F to be forthwith removed from the premises, and the said A B to have
the peaceable restitution of the same; and also that you levy of the goods, chattels
or lands of the said E F the sum of
being costs taxed against him on the
trial aforesaid, together with
cenu more for this writ and your own fees,
and for want of such goods, chattels or lands of the said E F by you found, you are
commanded to take the body of the said E F and him commit to our gaol in L in
our said county of S there to remain until he shall pay the sum aforesaid, together
with all fees arising on the service of this writ, or until he is delivered by order of
law, and make return of this writ, with your doings therein, within twenty days
next coming. Witness, our said Justices, at D aforesaid, the ■■ - - ■■ day of
in the year of our Lord
R S
N O
[Approved March 19, 1821.]

WRIT OF HABEAS CORRUS.

Chapter 04.

397

Ch. 64.

AN ACT directing the Process in Habeas Corpus.
Whereas the writ commonly called the Writ of Habeas Corpus is a writ of right Preamble. to which the citizens of this State, by the constitution and the law of the land are
at all times entitled, to obtain relief from every wrungful imprisonment, or un
lawful restraint of personal liberty:

Sect. 1. _I5k it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That any person
imprisoned in any common gaol, or otherwise restrained of
his personal liberty by any officer or officers, or any other
person or persons for any cause or upon any pretense whatever, he, or any (a) person in his behalf, may complain, in
writing, to* the Supreme Judicial Court of this State, or to any
one Judge of said Court, in term time in any county, or to
any one or more of the Judges thereof in the vacation time
of the said Court ; and upon such complaint, and upon view
of the copy of the warrant, (if any there be,) by which such
person stands committed, or upon his affidavit certified by a
Justice of the Peace, or on the oath of the person applying
on bis behalf, or any other credible witness, or upon the affi(o) 1. If a minor is withheld from bis parents or guardians against their will,
the court willput him at liberty from such restraint, although the minor may
not wish it. Com. vs. Harrison, 11 Mass. 65.
2 . Where a female child, between eleven and twelve years of age, whoso
father was dead, was committed by her mother to the respondent, a member
of the society of Shakers, on a verbal contract for her support and education ,
and afterwards a guardian was appointed who claimed the custody of the
child, and obtained a writ of habeas corpus directed to the respondent, the
court refused to determine in this summary process, npon the rights of tho
mother and of the guardian, and ordered that the child might remain with the
respondent or go at large, at her election. Com. vs. Hammond, 10 Pick.
274.
3. A husband and wifo having separated, pursuant to articles previously
entered into, in which he had stipulated that in the event of such separation
the children should remain with her ; the court, on habeas corpus sued out
at bis request, ordered the children into the custody of the mother, pursuant
to the articles of separation; she living with her father, and they being of an
age to require her care. State vs. Smith, 6 Glf. 462.
4. Independent of such articles, the court in such cases, will exercise its
sound discretion, the father having no vested right, in any case, to tho ex
clusive custody of his children, lb.

who aroentihabeas corpus,
j^^fo"/^
Mar. 16, 1785,
[*322]

398

Cii. 04.
v-*"v"*-/

WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

davit of such witness, certified as aforesaid, if he lives more
than twenty miles from the Court or Judge applied to, that a

copy of such warrant- has been demanded and denied; the
Sup. J. Court, said Court or Judge in term time, and the said Judge in the
thereof may6 vacation, hereby are respectively authorized and required to
grant the writ, awar(j a writ of habeas corpus, directed to the officer or per
son imprisoning or restraining the complainant, returnable
forthwith to such Court or Judge who awarded the same, or
to any other Judge of said Court ; except the complaint be
in favour of persons committed for treason or felony, or for
Persona confi- suspicion thereof, or as accessary to the latter before the fact,
offenses,C&c.1Q plainly and specially expressed in the warrant of commitment,
returnable to
any Judge

writUowcd he or Persons convict or in execution by legal process, criminal
[tRiiey's case, or civil, f or committed by mesne process in any civil action
Cutting &2ux- f°r want °f reasonable bail, and persons with regard to whom
"• i^kwood. tne Denefit 0f tne said writ shall be suspended by the Legis

But said Court
bail for any ofc^'exa^ted.

Form of wriu
to bo issued in
dincrent cases.

[lb. § 2.]

[*323]

lature agreeably to the Constitution : Provided, That nothing
in this act contained shall be construed to hinder or restrain
the said Supreme Judicial Court, in term time, or any one or
more Judges thereof, in the vacation, from bailing any person
wherever and for whatever offense committed, at their dis
cretion, whenever the circumstances of the case shall appear
to require it ; persons committed by the Governor and Coun
cil, Senate or House of Representatives, agreeably to, and
for the causes mentioned in the Constitution, always excepted.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That such writ, when
awarded by the said Court, shall be signed by the Clerk, test*

.

ed by the first Justice who is not party thereto, and sealed
'
.
with the seal thereof ; but when awarded by any Judge, in
the vacation, shall only be under the hand and seal of such
Judge, and shall direct the place to which the complainant *
shall be brought ; and the form of such writ when awarded
by the Supreme Judicial Court, shall be as follows, viz.
STATE OF MAINE.
(l. s.) S
ss. To
,
Greeting.
Wc command you that the body of A B of
, in our prison, under your costody [or by you imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as the case may be] as it
is said, together with the day and cause of his taking and detaining, by whatsoever
name the said A B shall be called or charged, you have before our Justices of our
Supreme Judicial Court, holden at B
within and for the county of S
im
mediately after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said Justices

WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
shall then and there eonsider concerning him (or her) in this behalf, and hare there
this writ. Witness,
, Esq at B this
day of
— in the year of our
Lord
Clerk.

And the like form shall be used by the Judge, mutatis mu
tandis, when such writ shall be awarded by him.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That when any person
shall bring and offer such writ of habeas corpus to the officer
or person to whom the same shall be directed, he shall re_*
ceive the same ; and upon payment or tender of such charges for bringing the complainant from the place of imprisonment, as the Court or Judge who grants the writ shall order,
if the person complaining be confined in a common gaol, or
under the custody of an officer, otherwise without such pay
ment or tender, to the place mentioned in the writ, such offi
cer or person shall have the body of the complainant before
the Court or Judge before whom the writ is made returnable,
(unless committed and detained for some one or more of the
causes aforesaid,) at the place therein mentioned within three
days, if within twenty miles from the place of imprisonment ;
if more than twenty but within one hundred miles, then with
in ten days ; if above one hundred miles, then within twenty
days after the receipt thereof and shall then return the same,
and certify thereon the true and all the cause or causes of his
or her taking and detaining.
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That if after the awarding of such writ by any Judge of the said Supreme Judicial
Court,* in the vacation, but before the return thereof, the said
Court shall sit in any
county,
the said writ,' with the body
of
J
J '
'
the complainant and causes of taking and detaining, may be
returned, had and certified to the said Court by the Judge who
awarded the same ; but if after awarding such writ by the
said Court, in term time but before the return thereof,' the
said Court shall rise, or be adjourned, the same, with the
body of the complainant, and causes of taking and detaining,
shall be returned, had and certified before some Judge of the
said Supreme Judicial Court.
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That when any person
shall be brought by writ of habeas corpus as aforesaid before
o
J
r
the said Court, or any Judge thereof, such Court or Judge
,„.,.,
.
,
.
■
.,
shall withm three days after proceed to examine the said

399
C 1 1 . 64 .
\^-v-^x

D„tv Df those
wViitlTreaed
a,n<1 naU,re ?f
the return to be
made,
[lb. § 3.]

[*324]
^ if*writ be
bleJi,cfort""a"
Judge it may
be returned to
the Court; and
casc 0f ade^1™™6"1 of
... . . n
£lb. § 4.]

Qn return of
the writ, Court
or Judge must,
within 3 days,
proceed to examine, &c.

400

WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

Ch. 64. causes ; and if committed for an offense or cause bailable by
^~v-*-/ law, they shall bail him by recognizing him with sufficient
and bail or
'
.
•
commit,a< case surety or sureties in a reasonable sum having regard to his
quality and circumstances, and the nature of the offense, to
[lb. § 5.]
appear at such Court as shall have cognizance of the offense ;
and shall certify the recognizance into such Court ; if commit
ted upon mesne process in any civil action for want of bail
and the bail required shall appear excessive, it shall be as
certained what bail is reasonable, and he shall be discharged
on giving the same ; but if it shall appear that the complain
ant is imprisoned or restrained without due order of law, or
sufficient cause, he shall be discharged from such commit
ment or restraint.
Penalty, if offiSect. 6. Be it further enacted (fc) , That if any officer,
liver his pris- >n whose custody any prisoner shall be, shall not within six
Tela" ofwarl h°urs after demand made, deliver such prisoner a true copy
ram, &c. by 0f t]le Warrant or process by which he stands committed,
which he is
r
»
*
hoiden.
such officer shall forfeit to the party grieved, the sum of two
hundred dollars,
ifany minor be
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That if any minor, uns. army with- der the age of twenty-one years shall be hereafter enlisted
p^renLs°&c.of w>t«in this State, into the army of the United States without
j,>(jouSeofc' l'le consent m vvr'ting7 of his parent, guardian or master,
c. Com. Pleas
shall isptie habeas corpus on
therefore.
[•325]

either of the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, or of
,
the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, are hereby respectively
authorized and required on application therefore, to award a
writ* of habeas corpus returnable forthwith, directed to the

rMass Stat °fficer or person restraining such minor ; and such Justice
Feb. 27, 1815, or Judge is hereby authorized and required, after a full hear
ing of the parties who shall appear before him, to discharge
such minor so enlisted.
Proceedings to
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That the Justice or
be had on such Judge aforesaid is hereby authorized and empowered to inrib. s 4i

quire into the causes of the imprisonment or restraint of any
person brought before him, on such writ of habeas corpus,
((/) This section applies only to cases in which the commitment is by
warrant or process, a copy of which must be left with the Sheriff to oblige
him to receive the prisoner, and not to cases where no warrant or process
need be shewn to the Sheriff. Randall vs. Bridge, 2 Mass. 563.

WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

the return of the officer or person on said writ to the contrary notwithstanding (c) .

401

Ch. 64.
>-*-v~w

Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That if any officer or peBai,vogainit
person, to whom any writ of habeas corpus shall be directed person to whom
•

l

shall refuse to receive the same, or, after receipt thereof,
shall refuse or neglect to yield such obedience thereto as this
act requires (the complainant performing the conditions required) unless prevented by the sickness of the prisoner, or
other necessity, he, for such refusal or neglect, in each and

the writ is directed, for not
obeying it—or
remrnr
rMass gtnti
Mar. 16, 1785,

every particular shall forfeit to the party grieved the sum of
four hundred dollars ; and for any false return to such writ
shall be further liable to the action of the party.
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That the Court or Cortorjude
Judge respectively may further punish every disobedience to may further
.

punifili dmobesuch writs as for a contempt, and compel obedience thereto,
.
.
. - .
.
by process of attachment. And in order to prevent any attempts that might be made to deprive any prisoner of the
benefit of this habeas corpus, by shifting the custody of such
prisoner from one prison or officer to another or sending him
away :
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That every person
duly ordered to be committed for any criminal or supposed

dicnce to such
writ as a contempt.
rIb, $ 8.j

pers01I3 or(jer.
"*. t0 J*5.0^'

criminal matter, shall be carried as soon as may be, and carried to comconuned in some common gaol and not elsewhere, (except soon as may be
persons sent to the work bouse or house of correction for nncd elsewhere
due cause) and shall not be delivered from one officer to excePt—"
another, except for the more easy and speedy conveyance of tIb- 5 9-1
the prisoner to such gaol, nor be removed, without his con- penaity for re
sent from one county to another unless by habeas corpus, or j^'&c^wUhsome other legal writ under the penalty of forfeiting for eve- om llabeas corry* offense to the party grieved, the sum of four hundred
dollars.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That no person enlarted by habeas corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrain/
or
ed of his liberty for the same cause, unless he shall be in(r ) Upon a retnrn that '.he parly was not in the custody of the respond
ent, the court refused to hear evidence that the party was a minor, and had
enlisted into the army, on which it was desired that an order might pan de
claring the restraint unlawful. Com. vi. Chandler, 1 1 Mail. 88.

Vol. i.

51

£*3S6]
No „„„ di<_
charged to bo
again restrain
ed for same

402

WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.

Ch. 65. dieted therefore, or convicted thereof, or shall neglect to find
^~-*-*-' bail when ordered thereunto by some Court of record : Pro&"8e'
' vided, That no penalty established by this act shall be con
strued to bar any action at common law for false imprisonNo penalty to
'
piwiu recov- nient or unlawful restraint : and when any person shall be
kvv.a '
unlawfully carried out of the State, or imprisoned in a secret
Anv other per- place, any other person shall be permitted to appear for him
•on may appear in arly action brought in his name: Provided, Such person
for one eecreJ

°

■

ted, securing snall stipulate for the payment of costs as the Court shall
direct.

[Approved February 27, 1821.]

Chapter 65.
AN ACT relating to the Writ of Audita Querela, and the proceedings thereupon.

Sect. 1. _DE it enacted by the Senate and House of
how' ami from Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That in all cases
bo'iMucdT18 1° where by law a writ of audita querela (a) lieth, the same may
be sued out in the form of a writ of attachment, or a writ of
summons, at the election of the complainant : and in all cases
(a) I. This writ may be sustained in cases where there is another remedy.
Lovejoy vs. Webber, 10 Mass. 103.
2. But it does not lie where the party has had time and opportunity to
take advantage of the matter which discharges him, and has neglected it,
lb.
3. Yet it lies where a man satisfies a judgment, and is afterwards taken
in execution.

lb; Brackett vs. Winslow % al. \1 Mass. 153.

4. It seems such writ must contain an allegation of fraud and deceit, and
the case be one where legal process has been abused, and injuriously em
ployed, to purposes of fraud and oppression. Little vs. JVeicburyport Bank,
14 Mass. 443.
5. It may be sustained to prevent or recal an execution upon some ground
which occurred after the rendition of judgment; if the debtor had no oppor
tunity to plead it to the action, or to give it in evidence. Johnson vs. Har
vey, 4 Mass. 483; Thatcher $■ al. vs. Gammon, 12 Mass. 270.
6. If judgment be rendered upon the award of referees, and the party, in
whose favor the award is, should sue out an execution, contrary to the man
ifest intent of the referees, a remedy might be had by his process. Shillings
vs. Coolidge If al. 14 Mass. 43.

WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.

where the said writ is brought to set aside or annul any proceedings had upon a writ of execution, the said writ of audita

403

Ch. 65.
v*-v»^

querela shall be sued out of and be returnable to the Court to May 18, 17S1.
which the said writ of execution was returnable : and in all 5 ]
other cases the said writ shall be sued out of and be returna
ble to the Circuit Court of Common Pleas to be holden in
such county whereof one of the parties thereto is an inhabi
tant or resident, unless where the complainant is not an in
habitant or resident within this State ; and in such case the
said writ may be sued out of and returnable to any Circuit
Court of Common Pleas within this State, at the election of
the complainant.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That in all cases the Form ofwri,,
said writ of audita querela shall be under the seal of the Court [lb.
,_ §. Z.J
„,
out of which the same shall issue signed by the Clerk there
of, and tested by the first Justice who is not a party to the
same ;* and the said writ before the service thereof shall be
[*327]
endorsed by one or more of the complainants, or by his or
their attorney, by writing his or their names on the back there
of towards the bottom ; and such endorser shall be liable to
To bo endorspay to the respondent such cost as he shall have final judg- ed.
ment for, in that suit, to be recovered by action of debt.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That the said writ of Mode of „f.
audita querela may be served upon the adverse party in the Tice>
same manner as writs of attachment or scire facias are directed rib. $ s.)
by law to be served ; and upon default of the respondent after
such service without appearance, the Court may proceed to
bear and try the same suit, and thereupon to proceed to final
judgment and execution, in the same manner as by law they
are authorized when the respondent after appearance becomes
defaulted. And in all cases after the said writ is returned
served as aforesaid, the Court, in which the suit thereupon is
pending, shall have full power to hear and try the said cause,
and thereupon to proceed to judgment and execution accord
ing as to law and justice doth appertain.
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That where the said when issued as
writ of audita querela shall be issued in the form of a writ of wr" of attacn1

ment—form.

attachment with summons, or by original summons, they shall [See ante, p.
be in form prescribed by law.

404

WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.

Ch. 65.
•~~~^"^'

Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That the officer to whom
such writ of attachment is directed, shall have the same power

t> of officer,
[lb. 6 6.

and authority and be under the same obligations by virtue of
sa'd writ? t0 attach the body of the respondent or his goods,
or estate, as he hath or is under by virtue of any oilier writ
of attachment sued out pursuant to the laws of this State and
to him directed ; and in the same manner and under the same
restrictions and regulations, as are by law provided in other
cases, the body of the respondent shall be holden to bail and
the goods or estate so attached be liable to be taken in ex
ecution.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That where the com
. .
....
.
.
.
.
plainant in any writ of audita querela may, by other subsequent
action at law, recover of the respondent any recompense in
damages or otherwise, for the wrongs done him by the service
of* such execution for the setting aside and annulling of the
proceedings upon which the said writ of audita querela is
brought, in all such cases the complainant may have the same
remedy upon his writ of audita querela and in his declaration
therein may declare for the same recompense in damages or
otherwise, and judgment shall be rendered and execution issue
thereupon accordingly.
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That the general issue
in all actions prosecuted on writs of audita querela may be

Damage* may
be recovered in
certain case».
lib. § 9.]
[•329]

Form of plead%»•
[lb. { 10.]

the plea of not guilty ; and upon such plea being duly plead
ed by tho respondent, either party may give any special mat
ter in evidence by which the truth and justice of the cause
may be known : Provided nevertheless, That the respondent
may plead any special matter in bar or the said general issue
at his election.
Appeal allowed
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That in cases where tlie
Pleas to S J wr'1 °^ au(*'ta querela is returnable to the Circuit Court of
Court.
Common Pleas in any county within this State, and judgment
[Tb. § ll.]

given in said Court, the party aggrieved thereat may appeal
to the Supreme Judicial Court of this State, next to be holden within the same county, the said appeal to be granted and
prosecuted under the same regulations and restrictions as ap
peals in other actions from the judgment of any Circuit Court
of Common Pleas, are to be granted and prosecuted ; and

WRIT OF REPLEVIN FOR A PERSON.

405

when the appellant shall fail to prosecute his appeal with ef- Cu. 66.
feet, the Supreme Judicial Court may upon complaint filed *-~-*~*s
by the appellee affirm the judgment rendered by the Circuit
Court of Common Pleas with additional damages and costs,
and award execution accordingly.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That in cases where Court may h'bthe complainant in such writ of audita querela is in gaol by from prison, 'on
virtue only of such execution, the Court to which such writ "™m coudl"
is returnable, or the Supreme Judicial Court upon the appeal
may at their discretion, according to the circumstances of the
case, enlarge and liberate the complainant from gaol and ad
mit him to bail, upon his sureties (being sufficient freeholders
within the State to be approved of by the Court,) giving bond,
together with the complainant jointly and severally to the
respondent, in such penalty as shall be directed* by the Court,
conditioned, if final judgment be rendered for the respondent,
that the complainant shall within thirty days after the enter
ing such final judgment, surrender himself to the gaol keeper
to be detained in custody under the same execution, or with
in that time satisfy the same execution, and also such final
judgment as shall be rendered as aforesaid for the respondent.
And if the said complainant shall surrender himself to the gaol
keeper as aforesaid, he shall be in custody under said execu
tion, as fully and to all intents and purposes as if the said writ
of audita querela had not been brought nor the said complain
ant admitted to bail. [Approved January 23, 1821.]

[lb. § 12 ]

1*320]

Chapter 66.
AN ACT establishing ibe Right to the Writ for replevying a person.

Sect. 1. JjK U enacted by the Senate and House o/" who are entj.
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That every person Ued t0 the writwithin this State, who shall be imprisoned, confined, or held l?,,RS!gS?iiin duress (a) , shall be entitled as of right, to the writ for re- § 1]
(a) 1. An infant, in the keeping of the mother, is not in duress, within
the meaning of this Statute. Wright vs. Wright, 2 Mass. 110.

406

Ch. 66.
^"v~*-/

WRIT OF REPLEVIN FOR A PERSON.

plevying a person, and to be thereby delivered ; unless, while
the writ of habeas corpus is suspended by the Legislature, he

shall stand committed by the special order of the Supreme
Executive Power of the State as dangerous to the public
safety, or by the same, or by some subordinate authority of
the government, for treason, the death of man, counterfeiting
the common currency, house burning, burglary, robbery, or
some other offense, for which if he is convicted, he may suf
fer death or banishment, or unless he is held in execution
upon judgment of debt, forfeiture, withernam, or by distress
for taxes, or under sentence after conviction, for fine, costs
or in punishment. And where any person stands committed
by lawful authority for any crime for which he may not suffer
death, or otherwise than is above in this act specified, the
writ shall be in form prescribed by law.
Writ in cerSect. 2. Be it furtlur enacted, That if the plaintifff
issue from s.J. stands committed for any crime not before in this act men
tioned, or for any other offense, whereof if he is convicted,
[lb, § 2.]
jie may, nQt nave sentence of death or banishment thereof
[•330]
passed upon* him, he shall have his writ from the Clerk of ihe
Supreme Judicial Court fourteen days before the return day
of the same ; and the same writ shall be made returnable in
the same county where the imprisonment happens, and unto
the next Supreme Judicial Court, to be there holden : but if
in others, from he is held by any person without due order of law, he shall

Proeeedingi iu

„
..
.
c.c.c. Pleas,

Proceedings in

have his writ from the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Common
Pleas of the county wherein he is held returnable, fourteen
days at the least from the day of the date ; and where the
plaintifff is delivered by a writ returnable into the Supreme
Judicial Court, having been committed for any offense, and
from which commitment he is replevisable, he shall, before
he is delivered, recognise before the Sheriff of the county,
in person, with sufficient surety or sureties in a reasonable
sum for his appearance at the same Court, to answer, abide
and perform the order and sentence of the same ; which recognizance
shall be returned into Court by
the Sheriff;* and
°
' _
when the plaintifff shall be delivered by a writ returnable into
2. The mother of a bastard child is entitled to the custody of it against tha
putatire father. lb. See ante, p. 897, note a.

WRIT OF REPLEVIN FOR A PERSON.

407

the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, he shall before his de- Ch. 66.
liverance give bond to the use of the defendant with sufficient ^-*~*~**'
surety or sureties, at the discretion of the Sheriff, to appear
at the Court to which the writ is returnable ; and there to
prosecute his replevin against the defendant, to have his bodythere ready to be re-delivered, as the Court shall order, and
to pay all damages and costs that may be awarded against
him ; and the Sheriff shall be answerable, if the sureties shall
prove insufficient, unless they are such as the defendant
agrees to.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That if the plaintifff shall In what cases
not prosecute, or in prosecuting, shall be unable to support ,\^u not beset
his replevin, then the defendant shall recover his reasonable at ubenycosts ; and if it shall be found, upon the trial, that the plain- tIb- § 8-]
tiff is the ward or infant of the defendant, or that he the said
defendant is entitled to the service of the plaintifff, or that the
defendant is bail to the plaintifff, then the defendant shall have
judgment (6) against the plaintifff for are-delivery of his body
and for such damages as the Jury shall assess against the plain
tiff, with reasonable costs.
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That if the Sheriff shall if sheriff rereturn upon the writ, for replevying a person, issuing from Jj"™^*, 'eblnthe* Circuit Court of Common Pleas, that the defendant hath fd plaintifff's
'

body—what

eloined the plaintifff's body, so that he cannot deliver him, proceedings
then the plaintifff shall on motion to the Court, have a capias
[*33i]
in withernam to take the defendant's body, and to keep the [ib. § 4.]
same until he shall produce the plaintifff to be delivered ac
cording to the commandment of the original writ : Provided
nevertheless, That if the defendant shall give full and sufficient
bail for his appearance at the Court whereunto the writ is
returnable, then and there to traverse the return of the Sheriff
upon the writ for replevying a person, that the Sheriff shall
take such bail ; or if the defendant cannot procure such bail,
and is thereupon committed by the Sheriff, he may neverthe
less at the next term (and not afterwards) be allowed to trav
erse the Sheriff's return of elongation, or to plead any matter
(6) An appeal lies to this court, from judgments of the Common Pleas,
rendered npon writs de homint replegiando. Wood Jr. vs. Jtoss, 11
Mast. 271.

403

Ch. 67.
v-*~v~"*-/

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

of justification in the same manner as he might have done to
the original replevin : and if the Jury shall not find that he is

guilty of eloining the plaintifff as set forth in the return, or if
they find that the justification is supported, the defendant shall
be allowed his costs against the plaintifff; but if the defendant
will not traverse the return, and put himself upon the county ;
or if upon traversing the same, he shall he found guilty of the
elongation of the plaintifff; or if upon pleading a justification,
he shall not support the same, then the Court shall order him
into the custody of the Sheriff, and shall issue an alias writ of
withernam to hold him, until he shall produce the body of
the plaintifff, or until he can prove that the plaintifff is dead ;
which fact may be tried at any term of the same Court, and
in the same county, by a Jury upon the information and at
of the defendant. And the original
writ of with[tSee ante, p. the expense
r
°
393.]
ernam shall be in formf prescribed by law.
Any person
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That in any stage of
stipulating for j],e proceedings upon process pursuant to this act, any perdamages may

appeal- for
'' a'

s

.

son shall be permitted to appear for the plaintifff, who will
stipulate as the Court shall direct for the payment of all costs
and damages that may be awarded against the plaintifff, although
he, can produce no special power for that purpose. [Ap
proved January 27, 1821.]

[•332]

Chapter 67.*
AN ACT regulating Bail in Civil Actions.

Officer to re
turn bail bond

with writ.

Sect. I. JoE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That when bail
;s given in any civil action for the appearance of the party to
answer the suit and to abide the order and judgment of the
Court thereon, the officer who served the writ, shall return
the bail bond (a) taken by him, with the original writ to the
(a) 1. A bail bond was holden sufficient, although the christian Dames of
both the ptaintitfs were mistaken in the bonj. Colbum Sf al. vs. Votene*,
10 Ma$i. 20.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

409

Court or Justice before whom the same may be returnable, Ch. 67.
and if judgment be obtained against the defendant, in any ^*-v-w
such action, the Clerk of the Court or Justice of the Peace
who may issue execution on said judgment, shall on the mar- Name 0f bail
gin (b) of said execution insert the names of the persons who j° ^arguTcf
became bail in said action, with the places of abode, and ad- executiondition of said bail : Provided, The same be named in the bail
bond, and the officer who may receive said execution shall
notify (c) the bail personally, or by leaving a written notice
siened by said officer, at the usual places of abode of the bail, Officer to notiit living within the county in which said officer lives, at least days before refifteen days before the expiration thereof, certifying that he urn ay"
cannot find the principal debtor, nor whereof to satisfy said
execution, for which notice, said officer shall have a right to °fficer's feesdemand, recover and receive of, and from Said bail the usual
fees for service of writs, with travel from the officer's dwell
ing house to that of the bail, calculated on the road most usu
ally travelled, and shall minute in said notice the amount of
said fees, which the bail shall pay in twenty days, unless the
bail shall at least one day before the execution is returnable,
produce and deliver (d) to the officer the principal debtor for
2. But if the bond be not executed by the principal, the bail are not lia
Bean vs. Parker If al. 17 Musi. 591.
3. Bail are bolden, notwithstanding the execution is made returnable at
an earlier day than it should have been. Runlet vs. Warren, 7 Mats. 477.

ble.

4. Bail bond given at the gaol, must be returned by the gaoler to the
court, or Justice before whom the writ is returnable, by ch. 522, vol. 3, p.
413.
(6) This applies to bail taken by the gaoler, after commitment on mesne
process, as well as to bail taken by the officer who served the writ. Holmes
vs. Chadbourne & al. 4 Otf. 10.
(c) This provision does not excuse the sheriff from making diligent search
for the body and goods of the debtor, as otherwise required. Kidder vs.
Parlin, 7 Glf. 80.
(d) 1. A surrender of the principal debtor, to the officer holding the writ of
execution against him, is a discharge of the bail bond. Byan vs. Watson,
2 Glf. 382.
2. The administrator may surrender a principal, for whom his intestate
was bail; and this, after scire facias has issued. Wheeler vs. Wheeler, 7
Mass. 169.

Vol. i.

52

410

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Ch. 67. whom bail was given ; and it shall be lawful for the person,
^~~v*s who may have become, or may hereafter become bail, to>
Bail may com.
mit principal, commit to the common gaol in the county where such arrest
was made, or in that to which the writ is returnable, the prin[Mass. Stat, cipal for whom he has become bound, leaving with the gaoler
Or prison keeper of such county within fifteen days after such
commitment, an attested copy of the writ or process, where
by the arrest was made, and of the return endorsed ; and
[*333] such gaoler or prison* keeper is hereby authorized and reDuty of gaoler. q^eJ to receive the person so committed into custody, in

Proviso.

the same manner as if he had been committed by the officer
making the arrest ; and the person so committed shall be en
titled to the liberties and privileges of the prison limits upon
the same terms and conditions, and under the same restric
tions as are provided where the principal is committed by
order of Court. And the bail so committing their principal
shall ever after be discharged from the bail bond by them giv
en : Provided however, That no person shall have the benegt 0r tne foreg0;ng provision of this act, unless he shall have
committed his principal as aforesaid, before final judgment
upon scire facias ; and if the commitment shall have been
made after the writ of scire facias shall have issued he shall
pay the costs of that suit before he shall be discharged : Jlnd
provided, also, That any bail, who shall claim a discharge
under this section, shall have notified in writing the plaintifff"
3. It ia not a sufficient excuse for bail, who omitted to surrender their
principal, that he is confined in the State Prison. Parker vs. Chandler, 8
Mass. 264. Yet when the bail arrest the principal, who is already in prison
on a criminal charge, and notify the creditor of the arrest agreeably to the
statute, the bail is thereby discharged althongh the principal be thereafter
convicted of the crime charged and sentenced to confinement in the State
Prison, and before judgment is rendered in the civil action, Ligelow vs.
Johnson If als. 16 Mass. 21S.
4. Nor is the enlistment of the principal into the IT. S. service as a non
commissioned officer, and his being holden to duty as such, a sufficient ex
cuse for the bail. Sayward If al. vs. Conant If als. II Mass. 146; Barringtonvs. Dennie, 13 Mass. 93. See notes to § 3, of this chapter.
5. A submission by rule of court of the original action, and of all de
mands between the parties to referees, operates the discharge of the bail.
Bean vs. Parker If al. 17 Mass. 591.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

41 1

in the original suit, or his attorney of the time when and the
place where the principal has been committed, within fifteen

Ch. 67.
v-*"v-^

days from the time of such commitment.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That every person (c) Bail may bring
who shall thus become bail, may at any time before (/) final court? and"be
judgment upon the original suit, bring the principal into Court d,scharBedand deliver him into the custody thereof, and be thereby dis
charged of his suretyship. And in case of the principal's
avoidance and the return of non est inventus (g) upon the execution, the bail shall be obliged to satisfy the judgment out
of his own estate, unless he shall have discharged himself in
some one of the modes provided in this act. And no return
of non est inventus made by any officer on any execution shall
be considered as evidence of the debtor's avoidance so that
the bail may be rendered liable on scire facias, unless such
officer shall certify on such execution, that he has had the
same in his hands at least thirty days before the expiration
thereof.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That when the principal shall avoid, so that his goods, chattels or lands cannot be
1
'
°
'
found to satisfy the execution, nor his body found to be taken
therewith, the person for whom judgment was given shall be
(e) Bail may surrender the principal, by attorney.
Cary, 14 Mass. 115.
(/) It cannot be done after final judgment.
Mass. 490.

Coolidge 4* «'• <•'»■

Rice 4" <*'• vs. Carncs, 8

(g) 1. An execution delivered to the' Sheriff who served tho original writ,
and a return of non est inventus by him, is sufficient to maintain a scire
facias against tho bail, although the principal live in another county. Brown
vs. Wallace, 7 Mass. 208.
2. A return of an execution by the officer, that the judgment debtor had en
listed as a soldier in tho service of the U. States, is not sufficient to charge the
bail; it not being a non est inventus. Herrickvs. Richardson, 11 Mass. 234.
3. Where ono is arrested and gives bail to a constable in a county other
than that of his residence, a return of non est inventus by the sheriff of
such county is sufficient foundation for a scire facias against the bail. Crane
vs. Shaw, 13 Mass. 213.
4. The death of the principal at any time after the execution shall be re
turned, and non est inventus endorsed, will not discharge tho bail. Cham
pion vs. JVoyes, 2 Mass. 481 ; Rice *• al. vs. Carnes, 8 Mass. 490.

Bail liable if
fold?'

avoidance good
Jj"^ f^offi.
^r'" {jjjj?1^ ^°
turn dvpontiff may
h.ave "I™?"
ciaa against the
1)ail> and judgmeat,

412

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Ch. 67. entitled to his writ of scire facias (h) from the same Court"
v-*"v~*»/ against the bail. And in case no just cause is shown, judgrMa«s. Stat, ment shall be given against them for the damages and costs
52?]30' 178*' recovered against the principal, with additional damages and
costs, and execution shall be awarded against them accorduniess bail
mgly : Provided nevertheless, That if the bail shall bring his
brinci "\ be- principal into Court before judgment is given upon the scire
fore judgment, facias, and there deliver him to the order of the Court and
pay costs, Re. "
'
shall pay the costs (») which may have then arisen upon the
scire facias, then the bail shall be discharged ; and the prin
cipal shall be committed to gaol, there to remain for the space
eharMddr"" of fifteen ( j) days in order to his being taken in execution,
gaol unless ta- And if the creditor shall not, within fifteen days next after the
tion iu is " surrender of the principal take him in execution, the Sheriff"
y"'
shall discharge him upon his paying the legal prison fees.
(») 1. Persons and property are made liable to attachment on scire facias,
by ch. 463, § 2, vol. S, p. 304.
2. Upon a scire facias against bail, they shall not be permitted to deny
the arrest of the principal. Sean vs. Parker If at. IT Mass. 591. Bnt
they may show whatever will render the arrest unlawful, or ineffectual by
operation of law. Harrington vs. Dennie, 13 Mass. 93. So they may
show fraud on the part of the creditor, in procuring a non est inventus to
be returned on the execution, lb.
3. It is no bar to a scire facias against bail, where non est inventus has
been returned upon the execution, that the principal was abiding in the coun
ty of the sheriff, always ready and willing to render his body in execution,
and did not avoid. Jt'inchcll vs. Sfiles, 15 Mass. 230.
4. See note e, to § 1, of this chapter.
5. Plaintiff's proceeding against the bail is not to be considered as a waiv
er of his action against the sheriff for the insufficiency of the bail. Sparhawk vs. Bartlttt, 2 Mass. 188. See chs. 91 and 92, and notes thereto,
in this volume.
(»') 1. The costs must be paid before the surrender, or the bail will not be
discharged. Bartlett vs. Falley, 5 Mass. 374.
2. When bail are discharged, without surrendering the principal, no costs
are given to the plaintifff on the scire facias. Champion vs. jVoycs, 2 Mass.
481.
( j) If the sheriff permit a debtor, who has been surrendered by his bail
under this provision, and committed to the custody of the sheriff by the Court,
to go at large before the expiration of the number of days mentioned, he shall
be chargeable fur an escape although he was not furnished with a copy of the
order of court for commitment. Randall vs. Bridge, 2 Mass. 649.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That whenever bail
shall hereafter be taken on mesne process in any civil action,

413

Ch. 67.
v-"sr*"'.
Proceedings in

triable before any Justice of the Peace, and there shall have case of bail in
been a return of non est inventus upon the execution which 'a jU8tice.
issued on a iudement rendered on such process, the said Jusj ■ ur
i.
j- •
r
i. tMaw- Stattice may proceed, within one year Irom the rendition ot such Mar. 7, 1804
judgment, to issue a scire facias upon the same judgment * '
against such bail, which writ being duly served seven days
at least before the time therein set for trial and returned, the
said Justice may proceed to take cognizance thereof ; and if
ho just cause is shown to the contrary, to render judgment
against such bail for the debt or damage, and costs recovered
against the principal, with additional damages and costs and
to issue execution accordingly. And it shall be no bar to
such scire facias, that the debt and costs on the original judg
ment, when added together, exceed the sum of twenty dol
lars ; but the plaintifff shall be entitled to receive his costs of
suit as in other cases on such scire facias.
Sect. 5. Beit further enacted, That if the bail shall, Bail
^.
at any time before final judgment upon the original suit is ren- principal bedered against him, or upon the return of such scire facias, andprocurean
and before judgment thereon shall be rendered against him, tend:
bring his principal before such Justice, and shall procure rn,. § 2.]
the Sheriff of the county, or his deputy, or any Constable of
the town wherein such Justice may reside, to attend and re
ceive* him, said Justice shall thereupon order him into the
[*335]
custody of such officer ; and the principal shall be commit- commft iTim to
ted to gaol, and there remain and be proceeded with as is ^^ufjprovided in this act (fc) ; and upon the payment of the costs charged, paywhich may have arisen on such scire facias, the bail shall be
discharged from their suretyship as in other cases.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That when any princi- J|Lf,Cto<5ra
pal, surrendered as aforesaid, shall be ordered into custody, mittimus to ofthe said Justice shall make out, and deliver to the officer re- [lb. § 3.]
(k) Parole evidence is not admissible to prove a surrender by bail of his
principal, before a Justice of the Peace. The surrender must be of record ;
a mere order to the officer to take the principal into custody not being suffi
cient, as in cases of surrender in higher courts. Whitton vs. Harding, 15
Mais. 536.

•

414

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Ch. 67.
v-*"v~^-/

ceiving him, a warrant or mittimus, of the tenor following,
to wit :

STATE OF MAINE.
, is. To the Sheriff of the county of
, or his deputy, or to any Con
stable of the town of
, and to the Keeper of the gaol in said county, Greeting.
(seal.) Whereas A B of C in said county [addition] at a Court this day holdForm of mini
en before me, has been surrendered by D F. of F in said county
, who was
mui.
bail fnr the said A B in an action wherein one G H was plaintifff and the said A B
was defendant, you, the said Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, and Constable, are severally
required to receive the said A B into your custody, and him forthwith to convey to
the common gaol of said County ; and you the said keeper are hereby required to
receive the said A B in order to his Iicing taken in execution upon the suit afore
said. Hereof fail not; and of this warrant and your doings thereon, vou are to
make due return to myself, and as soon as may be. Given under my hand and seal,
the ——— day of
, Anno Domini
,
Justice of the Peace.

Debtor if not
And if the plaintifff shall not within fifteen days next after
taken in cxe- sucj, surrender, in case the same shall be made upon scire
cution in

15

7

l

days to be dis- facias, or if the same shall be made upon the original process,
then within fifteen days next after final judgment, take the
said principal in execution, he shall be discharged upon his
paying the legal prison fees.
Penalty for ofSect. 7. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the
fo^a'tten^fbc-8 ^ulY °^ any ou''cer as aforesaid upon the request of such perfore Justice. son or persons being bail as aforesaid, to repair to said Jus|lb. §4.]

lice's Court, in order to receive the principal as aforesaid ;
and such officer shall be allowed and paid by the bail for his
[*330]
receiving* and committing said principal on said warrant or
mittimus, the same fees as are provided by law for commit
ting any defendant to prison on mesne process. And all and
every such officer or officers, shall have the like power and
authority, and shall be under the like obligations in all re
spects and regards whatsoever, to execute and return such
warrant or mittimus, issued by such Justice, upon the surren
der as aforesaid, as he or they by law have and are under to
execute and return any writ or execution whatever ; and shall
be subject and liable to all the like action or actions, for any
fraud or falsehood and neglect of their duty, as is provided
by law in other cases.
[Mass. Stat.
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That no scire facias shall
June 80, 1784, oe servec[ Up0n the bail, unless it be done within one year next
after the entering up final judgment (Z) against the principal.
(/) 1. By the " liual judgment" is intended the first judgment, on which

BAILABLE OFFENCES.

415

Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That the bail may have Ch. 68.
their remedy by action on the case against their principal for
[lb. § 4.]
all damages sustained by their becoming his sureties. [Ap
proved March 19, 1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 522, Vol. 3, p. 413.

Chapter OS.
AN ACT respecting Bailable Offences.

XjE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives, in Legislature assembled, That any one or more of rajt persons to
the Justices of the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, or any ai '
two Justices of the Peace and of the quorum for any county,
on application made to them by any person who now is, or
hereafter may be, confined in gaol for a bailable offense, or
for not finding sureties, on recognizance, may proceed to inquire into the same, and admit any such person to bail ; and
for this purpose shall have and exercise the same power con
currently, which any one or more of the Justices of the Su
preme Judicial Court, may or can do ; any law, usage or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding. And the power
hereby given shall be considered to extend to taking the recognizance of any person, committed after conviction, where
the sentence is in part, or in whole, to find sureties for good
behavior. [Approved March 10, 1821.]
the plaintifff may sue out an execution ; whether such judgment be rendered
in the Common Pleas or Supreme Court ; and a judgment on review is not
intended. Swett 4" al. vs. Sullivan, 7 Mass. 342.
2. The action of debt on a bail bond is not taken away by § 8, if seems,
bat it must be brought within one year next after the entering up of final
judgment against the principal. M'Rae vs. Mat toon, 10 Pick. 49.

J^1I0jmay ^
J^f^ 1312 i

Extent of 1ile
power to bail,

434

COURTS OP SESSIONS....C. C. C. PLEAS.
Sect. 2, prescribed ibe times and places of their sittings.
Sect. 3, transferred all matters pending in the pre-existing Courts of Ses
sions,* to the jurisdiction and decision of this Court.
Sect. 4, prescribed the pay of the Court.
Sect. 6, authorized leas than a quorum of the Court to adjourn, in the ab
sence of the rest.
Sect. 6, repealed all laws inconsistent with this act.]
[Approved Jane 27, 1820.]

Additional Act, ch. 202, Vol. 3, p. 22.

Chapter 74.
AN ACT to alter the time for holding the Court of Sessions fur the county of
Oxford.
[Repealed by re-enactment, by ch. 306, § 2, vol. 3, p. 147.]
[Approved March 19, 1821.]

[•3*2]

Chapter 79.*
AN ACT determining the times and places for holding the Circuit Court of Con
mon Pleas in the county of York.
[Repealed by ch, 193, § 11, 14, vol. 3, pp. 16, 17.]
[Approved March 17, 1821.]

See Act, Feb. 27, 1833, ch". 65.

Chapter 76.
AN ACT describing the power of Justices of the Peace in Civil and Criminal
Cases.

Gtntral jurisSect. 1. J3E it enacted by the Senate and House of
UceTof the™*" Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That it shall be
their d'uty'in within the power, and be the duty of every Justice of the
criminal cases, peace within his county, to punish (a) by fine not exceeding
(a) In a proceeding before a Justice of the Peace for an offense, the fact
must be strictly charged, but a rigid adherence to forms will not be required.
Com. o». Messenger, 4 Mast. 462.

POWER OP JUSTICES.

435

five dollars, all assaults and batteries (6) that are not of a high C h. 76.
and aggravated nature, and to examine into all homicides, ^•v»»'
murders, treasons, and felonies done and committed in his trying, recogcounty,* and commit to prison all persons guilty, or suspect- committing
ed to be guilty of manslaughter, murder, treason or other cap- offe[.|53j
ital offense ; and to cause to be staid and arrested, all affray
ers, rioters, disturbers or breakers of the peace, and such Margie, 1784,
as shall ride or go armed offensively, to the fear or terror ' 1-'
of the good citizens of this State, or such others as may
utter any menaces or threatening speeches ; and upon view
of such Justice, confession of the delinquent, or other legal
conviction of any such offense, shall require of the offender
to find sureties (c) to appear and answer for his offense, at
the Supreme Judicial Court, or Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, next to be held within or for the same county, at the
discretion of the Justice, and as the nature or circumstances
of the case may require ; and for his keeping the peace, and
being of good behavior, until the sitting of the Court he
is to appear before ; and to hold bail (d) all persons guilty or
suspected to be guilty (e) of lesser offenses which are not
cognizable by a Justice of the Peace ; and require sureties
for the good behavior (/) of dangerous and disorderly per
sons ; and commit (g) all such persons as shall refuse so to
(i) A feme covert is not indictable for an assault and battery, committed
in the company and by the command of her husband. Com. vs. JVeil $r ux.
10 Mass. 1S2.
(c) Cli. 242, vol. 3, p. 72, prescribes the form of a recognizance in such
case.
(<i) Offences which may be prosecuted as well by action or information
qui tarn, as by indictment, are not comprehended by § 1, and where tho
regular commencement of the qui tarn prosecution will defeat a prosecution
by indictment subsequently commenced. Com. vs. Cheney, 6 Mass. 349.
(e) The words " guilty or suspected to be guilty," are equivalent to, ac
cused or charged with crime. And the jurisdiction of Justices under this
section does not extend to a person who has escaped imprisonment after con
viction. Com. vs. Otis, 16 Mass. 199.
(/) A Justice cannot require ono to find sureties to keep the peace only
until the next Court. Com. vs. Ward, 4 Mass. 497 ; Com. vs. Morey, 8
Mats. 78.
(#) A mittimus or warrant of commitment from a Justice of the Peace,

r

436

Ch. 76.
v-*-v~w

POWER OF JUSTICES.

recognize, and find such surety or sureties as aforesaid ; and
take cognizance of, or examine into all other crimes, matters
and offenses, which by particular laws are put within his ju

risdiction (A) .
Sf.ct. 2. Be it Jfurther enacted, That all fines and forthe bye-laws of feitures accruing for the breach of any bye-law, in anv town
town* may be
.,
proraruteii be- within this Slate, may be prosecuted for, and recovered hefore Justices of r v
c a « ■
l j
i
the Peace.
fore any Justice of the Peace in the town or county where
[Mass. Stat. tue offense shall be committed, by complaint or information.
Mar. 3, 1S02.J ^, jj,e sam0 ,vay anu* manner other criminal offenses are pros
Breachcs of

ecuted before the Justices of the Peace within this State.
Perrons ng.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That any person agapMa|d to"atiie Srlcv,,tl at tne sentence given against him, by any Justice of
i.. Coun of the Peace, may appeal therefrom to the next Circuit Court
Com. Pleas,

'

rl

.

.

of Common Pleas to be held within the same county, and
»i**"i'6 ^rrei sniu^> before his appeal is granted, recognize (t) to the State
§8.]
in such reasonable sum, not less than twenty dollars, as the
Justice shall order, with sufficient surety or sureties for his
prosecuting his appeal ; and shall be held to produce tlie
t*354]
copy of the* whole process, and of all writings filed before the
c"i>ic»rofllcase Justice, at the Court appealed to. And if he shall not there
Pleas' C' C°IU Pr°secute his appeal, and produce the copies as aforesaid, the
Failing to pro- Court shall order his default to be noted upon their record.
secntc 1)H ap*

peal, hij de- And the said Court may order the same case to be laid befault to be en- tered.

,

„,

, ,

...

„

„ .

.

,

fore the Grand Jury, or may issue an attachment against the
bod)- of such appellant, and cause him' thereby to be brought
ought to recite the complaint on which it is founded.

Com. vs. IVard, 4

Mats. 497.
(h) A pica of an acquittal by h Justice of
sufficient bar to an indictment for the same
leges that the life of the person beaten was
ningham, tf ats. 13 Mass. 245 ; Com. vs.

llie Peace, was liolden lo be a
assault and battery, which al
put in danger. Com. vs. Cun
Godilard, to. 455.

(i) 1. A recognizance for the appearance of the party in a criminal prosecu
tion, should state in substance all the proceedings which show the authority
of the magistrate or court to take it. Slate vs. Smith, 2 Glf. 62 ; Com'.
vs. Downey, 9 Mass. 520 ; Com. vs. Daggett, 16 Mass. 447.
2. Ch. 242, vol. 8, p. 72, prescribes the form of a recognizance in soch
ease
3. See onward, § 10, note /.

TOWER OF JUSTICES.

437

before them, and when he is so in Court, shall affirm the sentence of the Justice against him, with all additional costs.

Ch. 76.
'~*~J-**'

Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That each Justice shall j„sticBS ma_
have authority to command the assistance of every Sheriff, c.nm,nant1 j18*

J

' Bistnnre of

Deputy Sheriff, Constable, and all other persons present at sheriff, depu,

ties and ronany affray, riot, assault or battery, and may fine any person stables at riots,
refusing such assistance, in a sum not exceeding six dollars ;
'
to be disposed of for the use of the town where, the offense i • * J
shall be committed ; and levied by warrant of distress on the
offender's goods and chattels, and for want thereof On his body.
Sect. 5. Be it further enaeted, That any Justice of justices may,
the Peace for the preservation thereof, or upon view of the vie<v,lel('in°abbreach thereof, or upon view of any other transgression of deputies3''*"1''
law, proper to his cosnizance, done or committed by any constables). rc1 *

*

°

'

J

J quire any perperson or persons whatever, shall have authority, (in the ab- 8on t0 appre,

hend offenders.

sence of the Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff or Constable,) to require any person or persons to apprehend and bring before
him such offender or offenders. And every person so required, who shall refuse or neglect to obey the said Justice,
shall be punished in the same manner as for refusing or neg
lecting to assist any Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff or Constable in
the execution of his office as aforesaid. And no person who
shall refuse or neglect to obey such Justice, to whom he shall
be known, or declare himself to be a Justice of the Peace,
1

[Mass. Stat.
ij o';26' 1796,
penaity for re
^hSusticc'*

be *noton or
„f ignorance of
'",s ?"■„ "ot

' admissible.

shall be admitted to plead excuse on any pretense of igno
rance of his office.
• ,
Sect. G. Be it further enacted, That Justices of the jaatices may
Peace within their respective counties, bo, and they are here- s"bi"lna »"r

J

by authorized and empowered to grant subpoenas for witnesses in all criminal causes pending before the Supreme Judicial Court and Circuit Court of Common Pleas, and before
themselves* or any other Justice : Provided, That no Justice of the Peace shall grant subpoenas for witnesses to appear in any Court, except before himself, to testify on behalf of the State, unless by the request of the Attorney Gen,,,_._._

ncsses in crim«nal cases:
[Mass. Stat,
§ 2!] '
'
[*355]
haifoftheStaTe
"n|'|"'"f Attor
ney General,
»r County Atoral or County Attorney. And all Sheriffs, Constables and tomey, except
other officers arc directed and empowered to serve any war
rant issuing from a Justice of the Peace. ■ •
Sect. 7.

Beit further enacted, That the Justices of the

438

Ch. 76.
x■^'v'■*fc■'

POWER OF JUSTICES.

Peace shall account annually with the Treasurer of the State,
the Treasurer of their respective counties, and the town

count annually Treasurer, as the case may be, for all fines by them received
ty and'Tovra or imposed, upon pain of forfeiting the sum of thirty dollars,
fin'et&T8 f°r t0 be sued for and recovered by the Treasurer of the State,
kf^ifi^rei
§ 4.]
Justice's urisdiction in civil
actions,(where
title to real esqu«tion)to ex
lars. °
°"
liiarTii Sm*
$ »•]
Justires may
issue summons,
meutlS&ct.taC

tne county or town Treasurer for the time being, to which
the said fines may respectively belong.
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That all (f) civil aci\ons wherein the debt or damaze does not exceed twenty
t
"
...
dollars (and wherein the title of real estate is not in question,
and specially pleaded by the defendant) shall, and may be
heard, tried, adjudged and determined by any Justice of the
Peace within his county ; and the Justices are severalJy empowered to grant summons, capias and attachment, at the re, .
,
.
«.
quest of any person applying for the same, directed to some
proper officer within the same county, empowered by law to

execute the same. And such summons or capias and attachseven days be- ment shall be duly served by such officer, seven days at the
'""' '" '
least before the day therein set for trial, otherwise the party
Proceedings sued shall not be held to answer thereon ; and if after such
process shall be duly served, the party sued, after being duly
called, shall not appear to answer to the same suit, the charge
against him in the declaration shall be taken to be true, and
Judgment, &c. the Justice shall give judgment against him for such damages
va?l. '
as he shall find the plaintifff to have sustained, with costs ;
and if the person sued shall appear to defend the suit or op
pose the same, the Justice shall award such damages as he
shall find the plaintifff to have sustained : Provided, That no
Damages not
to exceed 20 more damages than the sum of twenty dollars, shall be award
ed in any action originally brought or tried before a Justice
Judgment in of the Peace ; but if the plaintifff shall not support his action,
case defendant .,,«.••
.
•
, t
•
i nprevail.
shall fail to prosecute, or become nonsuit, the Justice shall*
[
award to the party sued, his reasonable costs, taxed as the"
—to l)c served

( j) An action for nn injury done to real estate, if the damage does not ex
ceed twenty dollars, may be brought beforo a Justice of the Peace in the
county where the wrong doer may be found, although the estate injured does
not lie in that county ; and upon a plea of title, the action may be carried to
the Court of Common Pleas for the same eonnty. Sumner vs. Finrgan. I i
Matt. 280 ; Pitman vt. Flint, 10 Pick. 604.

POWER OF JUSTICES.

439

law directs. And upon all judgments given by a Justice of
the Peace in civil actions, he shall award execution (k) thereCh. 76.
v-*_v~»-'

on in form by law prescribed.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That the amount of the
,
.« j
»
j . i_
sum or several sums, specified, expressed or supposed to be
demanded by die plaintifff in his declaration, shall not be considered as any objection against the Justice's jurisdiction,

Justice's jurisdiction not to
exceed 20 dollarsJuij)?22 Siwr,

provided the ad damnum, or damage is not laid or stated to § 2-]
exceed twenty dollars.
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That any party aggrieved at the judgment of any Justice of the Peace, in a civil
action, where both parties have appeared and plead, may appeal therefrom to the next Circuit Court of Common Pleas

Party aggrievto c. c. Com.
[Maw. sut.
Mar n, 1784,

to be held within the same county ; and shall before his ap- _Must reC0K.
peal is allowed, recognise with a surety or sureties (Z), in nise ,0 P™8"5"
such reasonable sum as the Justice shall order, not exceed
ing thirty dollars, to pay all intervening damages and costs,
and to prosecute his appeal with effect ; and shall be held to copies at c. c.
produce a copy of the whole case, at the Court appealed to, * easand both parties shall be allowed to offer any evidence upon thaTcourt? m
the trial at the Circuit Court of Common Pleas, in the same
manner as if the cause had been originally commenced there.
Ik) The writ of execution is not essential to the judgment, or to tho right
of the party established by the judgment. McNeil vs. Bright, 4 Mats. 289.
(/) 1. It is not necessary that the party appealing should personally enter
into recognizance for the appeal. If it be done by sureties, it is as if done
"with sureties," within the meaning of this statute. Vallancc vs. Sawyer,
4 Glf. 62.
2 . A writ of scire facias on a recognizance to prosecute an appeal should
be issued originally from the Court appealed to. lb.
3. In debt upon a recognizance to a party taken before a Justice of the
Peace, conditioned for prosecuting an appeal, it must be shewn that the Jus
tice had jurisdiction of the action, and that the recognizance has been entered
of record in the C C. Pleas : and the condition must be set forth, and the
breach alleged. Bridge vs. Ford, Jr. 4 Mass. 641 ; same vs. same, 7
Mass. 209. So in scire facias, State vs. Smith, 2 Glf. 62.
4. It is the duty of the Justice to transmit the recognizance to the Court
appealed to, that it mny be entered of record. lb.
6. A Justice of the Peace was fined for not returning a recognizance ta
ken by him, until the second day of the term. JVeal, ex parte, 14 Mass.
205.

440

Ch. 76.
v-"-"~«"-'
No further appeal.
trapes failing
ward 'ti?e «ction according

POWER OF JUSTICES.

And no other appeal shall be had on such action after one
trial at the Circuit Court of Common Pleas. And the Cir.

_

,

_,.

cuit Court of Common Pleas, when any person recognized
as before mentioned to bring forward an action of trespass,
doth neglect to do it, upon complaint thereof made in writing
D , (|]e p]ajntiff s]iau g-ive judgment for such sum iii damages,

to his recogni- J
r
o
J
5
»
sauce.—Plain- as the plaintifff hath declared for, together with all reasonable
tilTtohave hi*
r .
rt

damages.
costs which accrued both in the same Court and before the
„
...
Justice.
And the Circuit Court of< Common Pleas shall,'
Appellant failing to prose- when any appellant thereto shall fail to prosecute his apcute, ou complaint jmigathrmed.

peal (in), or if he shall neglect to produce a copy of the case,
affirm the former judgment upon the appellee's complaint,
and award such additional damages as shall have arisen in
consequence of the said appeal, and cost,
in trespass
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That when an action
pieadt'titiSto °f trespass (n) shall be brought before any Justice of the
modc"fa''~o- Peace> atJd tne defendant shall plead the general issue, he
ceeding before shall not be allowed* to offer any evidence that mav bring
Justice.

[*307]
[lb. § 2.]

'

the title of real
in any (o) such
other person in
plea (p) plead,

'

"

estate in question. And when the defendant
action shall plead the title of himself or any
justification, the Justice upon having such
shall order the defendant to recognise to the

(ro) See ante, p. 383, note n, 2.
(n) Such an action, having been tried upon review in the C. C. Fleas,
may be brought into the 3. J. Court by appeal, though no plea of soil and
freehold was filed before the magistrate, the defendant having been accident
ally defaulted. Murray vs. Ulmer, 5 Glf. 126.
4 Pick. 169, onward, § 11.

Sue Blood vs. Kemp,

(o) This provision comprehends all actions of trespass, as tie bonis asportatis, &c. and not merely trespass quart clausumfregil. Blood vs. JCemp,
4 Pick. 169.
(p) 1. Such plea, without any replication from the plaintifff, pnta an end to
the magistrate's jurisdiction over the cause ; except that ho must take the re
cognizance of the party for its prosecution in the Court of Common Pleas,
where the pleadings aro to bo closed, iotc vs. Boss, 3 Glf. 256.
2. When defendant pleads that he entered his adjoining close and erected
a fence, the plea is not within the statute, and tho justice has jurisdiction.
Wood vs. Prescott, 2 Mass. 174.
8. A right of way, either public or private, over another's land, '» real

POWPJI OF JV9TICES.

adverse party in a reasonable sum, with sufficient surety or
sureties to enter the said action at the next Circuit Court of
Common Pleas to be holden within the same county, and to
prosecute the same in the,same manner as upon an appeal
from a Justice's: judgment ; and if such pleader shall refuse
so to reqognise, the Justice shall render judgment against him,
in the same manner as if he had refused to nlake answer to
the same suit. And either party in such cause, shall be al*
r
J
'
lowed to appeal
from the *judgment
of tlie Circuit
Court of
1 *
CT
#
Common Pleas, in the same manner as if the suit had been
originally commenced there.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That in all (q) civil
actions triable before a Justice of the Peace, except such ac7
* *
tions of trespass wherein the defendant means to avail himself, by pleading the title of himself or any other person imder whom he claims in justification of the trespass or trespasses alleged to be committed on real estate ; the defendant shall be entitled to all evidence, under the general issue,
which by law he might avail himself of under any special plea
in excuse or justification (r), any law, usage or custom to
the contrary notwithstanding.
estate within the meaning of the statute.

441

Ch. 76.
«-*-»-^'

App011 -Uo,ve"
f'om 9/ .
Pica* to b. J.
Court,

ed in bucu caGeneral issue
mr>>' .J10 p,."al1
in all nrtton*
before Justices
matter given in
c(.pt where re
(a'8'?g ^j-e/on
by defendant,
rib. § 7.i

Spear vs. Bieknell, 5 Mass. 129;

Strout t( al. vs. Berry, 7 Mat). 387.
4. In an action thus carried to the Common Picas, the plaintifff had leave
to amend his declaration, by alleging any other torts on the same close, or by
giving a more accurate description of the close. Cummings vs. Rawson,
1 Mass. 440.
5. If tho Justice refuses to receive such plea when offered, the defendant
ought to appeal from such refusal ; but where, instead of appealing, he plead
ed the general issue, and after a trial and judgment against him, appealed
from this judgment, and the Court of Common Pleas, upon motion, gave him
leave to file his plea of title, it was held that the proceeding of that Court
was correct. Blood vs. Kemp, 4 Pick. 169. See ante, § 8, notej.
6. In an action of trespass, brought before a Justice of the Peace and remov
ed into the Court of Common Pleas by a plea of title to land, an appeal lies
from the Court of Common Pleas to this Court, such action being, within the
intent of the legislature, a real action, for the purposes of an appeal. lb.
(q) Replevin is not a civil action within a reasonable construction of this
section. Coses within this section must be those where a verdict rinding tho
general issue, and a judgment on the verdict, will do justice to tho parties.
Holmes vs. Wood, 6 Mass. 9.
■ .,
(r) Under this provision tho defendant may aruil himself of the statute of

Vol. i.

5C

'

442

TOWER OF JUSTICES.

graot aubpaeaction*.
' ''
^
H>; adjourn
proclamation '
No justice to

beof counsel in
himself! °rC

Sect. 13. Be it further enacted, That each Justice of
the Peace may grant subpoenas for witnesses in all civil actions and causes pending before the Supreme Judicial Court,
Circuit Court of Common Pleas, Court of Sessions, and before him or any other Justices, and in all civil actions and
causes pending before arbitrators or referees. And every
Justice of the Peace shall have power by public proclamation
to adjourn the trial of any action brought before him, from
.
.
.
.
.
.
. ..
time to time, when equity may require it; but he shall not
be OI" counsel to either party, or undertake to advise or assist

any party in suit before him.
Sect. 14. Be it further enacted, That when an execIn case of
'
'
waste by exec- utor or administrator shall be guilty of committing waste,
istrator, Ju»- whereby* he is rendered unable to pay the judgment recovc«»iaai$.C>.C~ ered before any Justice of the Peace, against the goods and
^i^J^I m estate of the deceased in his hands, out of the same, the Jussucll cage*.

'

*

[*358]
[lb. 6 4.1

tJce may proceed against the proper goods and estate of such
executor or administrator, in the same manner as the Circuit
Court of Common Pleas are empowered to do.
. .
.
Sect. 15. Be it further enacted, That each Justice of
Justice to keep
.
, „ .
record of his the Peace shall keep a fair record (s) of all his proceedings ;
When Justice m^ wnen any Justice of the Peace shall die before a judgthall die.before ment given by him is paid and satisfied, it shall be in the
a judgment

°

J

r

given by him is power of any Justice of the Peace in the same county to trant
Hilt i sdoii

wlri I

proceedings to a scire facias upon the same judgment, to the party against
whom such judgment was rendered up, for him to show cause
l • * •!
if any he hath, why execution should not be issued against
him. And although the costs and debt awarded by the de
ceased Justice when added together, shall amount to more
than twenty dollars, it shall be no bar upon such scire facias,
but judgment shall be given thereon for the whole debt and
cost, together with the cost arising upon the scire facias.
limitations by pleading the general issue; the words " excuse or justification,"
mean every matter which may bar the plaintifff's rjght to recover, whether
requiring a special plea by the common law, or not.
IVilliams 4r al. vs.
Root, 14 Mass. 273.
(s) If the record of a judgment of a justice refer to the writ on file, the
court, on error to reverse the judgment, will consider the declaration in such
writ as a port of the judgment. Clap vs. Clap, 4 Mass. 520.

:

POWER OF JUSTICES.

443

Provided aheays, That either party may appeal from the judgment as in other personal actions, where judgment is given
by a Justice of the Peace. And every Justice of the Peace
who shall have complaint made to him, that a judgment given
by a Justice of the same county then deceased, remains unsatisfied, shall issue his summons to the person in whose pos'

r

r

Ch. 76.
^-<^>^*-'
ed to either
justice to
Jjjjj?" j,0^,
ln *uch case*«
may summon

session the record of the same judgment is, directing him to the person pos, .

Bessing the rebring and to produce to him the same record ; and if such cord to properson shall contemptuously refuse to produce the same rec- Punishment for
ord, or shall refuse to be examined respecting the same, upon re
soto
oath, the Justice may punish the contempt by imprisonment,
until he shall produce the same, or until he submits to be ex
amined as aforesaid ; and when the Justice is possessed of
such record, he shall transcribe the same upon his own book
of records, before he shall issue his scire facias ; and shall
deliver the original back again to the person who shall have

Duty of the
^ record is
t^^Ibe it
int0 jj» own

produced it, and a copy of such transcription, attested by copy of such
the transcribing Justice, shall be allowed in evidence in all £?j^* to •"
cases, where an authenticated copy of the original might be
received.
Sect. 16*. Be it further enacted, That all Justices of
i*359]
the Peace before whom actions may be commenced under commissions'*6
former commissions, and such commissions shall expire be- exPlre before
'

*

judgment or

fore judgment shall be rendered thereon, or judgment being satisfaction,
....

.

._,

rendered, the same remains in whole or in part unsatisfied,
such Justices of the Peace who shall hereafter have their said
commissions seasonably renewed, and being duly qualified
agreeably to the Constitution of this State, to act under such

may proceed,

under a new
seasonably 'ob^ jrixamt,
&ccommissions, be and they hereby are authorized and empow- [Mass. Stat.
ered to render judgment, and issue execution on all such ac- j5j
1788'
tions, commenced as aforesaid, in the same manner as if the
commissions under which such actions may be commenced,
were in full force. [Approved March 15, 1821.]
See ch. 244, vol. 3, p. 74, and ch. 448, ib. p. 292.

444

RECOVERY OF DEBTS.

Ch. 77.

Chapter 77.
AN ACT providing a speedy Method of recovering Debts, and for preventing un
necessary costs attending the same.

Sect. 1. 15 K it enacted by the Senate and House of
tako'rlcOTn3!- Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That every JusITbtT f°r
l'cc °^ tne Peace m l'lls State shall have power within his
county to take recognizances (a) for the payment of debts of
any person who shall come before him for that purpose :
which recognizance may be in substance as follows :—
Form of rccocnuance.

Koow nil men, that I, A B of
, in the county of
, do owe unto C D of
, the sum of
, to be paid to the said C D on the
day of
; and
if I shall fail of the payment of the debt aforesaid, by the time aforesaid, I will and
grant that the said debt shall be levied of 1117 goods and chattels, lands and tene
ments, and in want thereof of my body. Dated at
, this
day of
,
in the year nf ntir I.nnl

,

Witpcss. my llanfl mid Will

ss. Acknowledged the day and year last abovesaid.
tice of the Peace (6).

A B.

Before E F Jus

Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That every Justice of
ed°by the Jus^ the Peace taking any such recognizance, shall immediately
record the same at large in a book to be kept by him for that
[*360] purpose ; and after the same is recorded, may deliver it to*
the Conusee
: and upon ...
the Conusee's lodging the same with
Execution may
.
/
issue thereon the said Justice, at any time within three years from the time
within 3ycars.
.
,
.
. .
.
.
.
,
when the same is payable, and requesting a writ of execution,
it shall be the duly of such Justice to issue a writ of execu
tion (c) thereon for such sum as shall appear to be due on the
same ; which writ of execution shall be in substance as fol
lows :

Forra ofe
tion.

STATE OF MAINE.
(SEAL.) To the Sheriff of the county of
, or his deputy, or cither of the
Constables of the town of ——, in said county,
Greeting.
Because A B of
, in the county of
, on the
day of
, in the
year of our Lord
'" before E F Esq. one of the Justices of the Pence for the
said county of
, acknowledged that he was indebted to C D of
, in the
(a) A Justice of the Peace, in taking a recognizance, and in issuing an
execution, exercises no judicial power, bat acta merely as a ministerial offi
cer.

Mbeev: Ward, 8 Mas$. 84.

(4) Debt lies upon sack a recognizance.
493. See noto to § 3.

Green vs. Dana, 13 Mass.

(c) Tho execution which issues upon a recognizance, as to the power which
it confers and tho duty which it imposes, is of the same nature as an execu
tion which issues from the highest court of record. Morton vs. Chandler,
7 Glf. 46.

RECOVERY OF DEBTS.

445

county of
in the mm of —— which Ik ought to have paid on the
day of
, and
remains unpaid as it is said
: We command you thereforee, thai
of the goods, chattels or real estate of the said A B within your precinct, you cause
to be paid and satisfied unto the said C D at the vulue thereof in money, the sum
last abovesaid, with
, for this writ; and thereof also to satisfy yourself your
own lawfnl fees; and for want of goods, chattels or real estate of the said A B to
be found within your precinct to the acceptance of the said C D to satisfy the sums
aforesaid and your said fees ; we command you to take the body of the said A B
and him commit unto our gaol in our county of
aforesaid, there to be de
tained in the said gaol until he pay the full sums aborcsaid, with your said fees ; or
that the said A B be discharged by the said C D the creditor, or otherwise by or
der nf law: Hereof fail not and make due return of this writ with your doings
therein unto the above named Justice within sixty days next coming. Witness,
the said Justice at —— , the
day of
, in the year of our Lord —, E F

ClI. 77.
y^~^-^,

J u *l in- of thp Ppat*

Which writ of execution the said Justice is authorized to poweranj ,]„_
direct to any proper officer or officers in any county in this ty °r. ofl?ccr in
* *

r

*

J

serving it.

State ; who are hereby required to execute the same accord
ing to the precept thereof. And all such officers are here
by* declared liable for any malfeasance or misfeasance of [*3Ci]
which they may be guilty in relation to any such execution
which may be delivered to them ; which execution said Jus- Renewable in
tice is authorized to renew at any time within one year from onc ycar"
the time the last execution was returnable.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That whenever three en,,**, mayears
shall have elapsed
(d)
after the time of payment
limited 8Ue
on inrcco8•
i
\ /
M. J
nisa>K'<' in
cernisancc
cerby any such recognizance without any execution having been tain cascsissued on the same, or whenever the Justice who took the
same shall have deceased or removed from the State or bocome otherwise disqualified, the Conusee may have his ac
tion of debt on the same, in the same manner as a creditor is
entitled to have his action on any judgment of any Court of
record in this State. [Approved January 27, 1821.]
(</) Debt lies on a recognizance taken pursuant to this statute as well In
jure as after the expiration of the three years mentioned in § 3. Cutis vs.
King, 1 Glf. 168.1
•, •
\.

. - ". .. *' .'. . '■
•<

. -ii i*j

» ' i

446

REFEREES.

Cir. 78.

Chapter 78.
AN ACT tar readeriag the decision ofC'ml Causes as speedy and as little expen
sive as possible (a).

.
Persons ,bavins;
matter in d«the «ame by
tic* of tbe"*^
Peace.

Sect. 1. 15 E it enacted by
•* the Senate and Howe of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That when any
persons who may have a dispute, of what nature soever, shall
agree to have the dispute determined by referees mutually
chosen by the parties for the purpose, it shall and may be

July*? ^736 'a«'ful f°r lne person or persons making the demand in the
§ l and 2 ]
action, to make out a particular statement (fc) thereof under
Demand in
signed.

his or their hands in writing, and to lodge the same with some
one Justice of the Peace (c) ; and the said Justice of the
Peace, upon application of the parties for the purpose, shall
make out an agreement to be annexed (d) to the aforesaid
(a) 1. Though the power of referees appointed under this statute, does not
extend to cases in which the title to real estate conies in question, [Fowler
vs. Bigelow If at. S Matt. 1.] yet a claim of damages occasioned by the
making of a canal, not being of that character, comes within the scope of
their authority. Fryeburg Canal vs. Frye, 5 Glf. 38.
2. The submission of an action, and all demands existing between the
parties, to the determination of referees, dissolves any attachment of proper
ty made in that action ; and this, whether their demands are in fact exhib
ited to the referees or not. Moonty !f ux. vs. Kavanagh tf al. 4 Glf. 277.
See onward, note c, 7.
3. Such submission also operates as a waiver of all exceptions to the forms
of process, or may be considered as a release of errors, or as an estoppel to
the assignment of errors, in the proceedings anterior to such submission.
Fursuit h vs. Shaw, 10 Muss. 253.
(o) 1. Where a submission is of divers subjects distinctly enumerated, if it
appears from the whole award that all matters submitted have been adjudica
ted upon by the arbitrators it is sufficient, though each particular is not speci
fied in the award. Dolbearvs. IVing, 3 Glf. 421.
2. A submisson, once made a rule of court, is no longer countermandable by either party. Cumberland vs. JV. Yarmouth, 4 Glf. 459.
(c) The justice who takes the acknowledgment of the parties to such rule
cannot himself be one of the referees. Drew vs. Canady, 1 Mass. 158.
(rf) 1. The demand must be annexed to the rule, or it will be void.
lard vs. Coolidge, 3 Mass. 324.

Bui2. So, if the demand annexed is not subscribed by the persons making it
Mansfield vs. Doughty, 3 Mass. 393. But a demand annexed to a rule is
sufficient, if in the hand writing of the party making it as "A. B. demands,"

^

REFEREES.

447

demand, and to be by them or their lawful agents or attornies, Ch. 78.
subscribed, and acknowledged in substance as follows :—
v^-v-w
Town of A
in the county of S
, 182 . Know all men, that A B
of —— in the count; of —— [addition] and C D of
in the county of —
[addition] have agreed to submit the demand made by the said A B against the
said C D which is hereunto annexed, (and all other demands, as the cause may be,)
to the determination of E F, G 11 and 1K(«) the report of* whom, or the major
part of whom, being made as soon as may be to any Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, to be holden in and for the said county of S
, judgment thereon to be
final. And if either of the parties shall neglect to appear before the referees, after
proper notice being given them, of the time and place appointed by the referees, for
hearing the parties in this action, the referees shall have power to proceed ex parte.
A B, C D.—S
ss —182 . Then the above named A B and C 1) personally
appeared, and acknowledged the above instrument by them subscribed to be their
free act. Before me, L M Justice of the Peace.

Form of sub
mission,

[*3G2]

amj acknowlcdgment.

Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That the determination Repon to be
of the referees who may be appointed agreeably to this act, ™a^e c°Pieas!
shall be made to the next (/) Circuit Court of Common [lb. § 3.]
*c. without being subscribed by liim. Humphrey vs. Strong, 14 Mas*.
262. So, where a demand on which a writ had been sued out and endorsed
by the plaintifff, was referred, the annexation of the writ to the rule was holden a sufficient demand in writing, &c. Jnman vs. Wheeler, 1 Pick. 50 1.
3. If a copartnership demand be signed by one of the copartners, it is a
sufficient compliance with the statute. Shillings vs. Coolidge $■ at. 14 Mats.
43.
4. The report of referees cannot be made respecting any matters not con
tained in the agreement of submission. Tudor vs. Peek, 4 .Mass. 242.
5. The statement of the demand must shew on what account and for
what cause it is made, or the report will be void. Junes vs. Haekir 5 Mass.
264.
6. Where demands made by one party only are submitted to arbitratora, if a sum be awarded to the other party, no remedy lies on such award.
Worthen If al. vs. Stevens, 4 Mass. 448.
7. When parties have submitted all demands, and judgment has been en
tered on the report of the referees including all the demands submitted to
them, it is still competent for one of the parties to show that a particular de
mand, not being in dispute, was not laid before the referees, and to maintain
an action on such demand. Webster vs. Lee, 5 Mass. 334.
(f ) The reference must be to three referees.

Monosiet vs. Post fy al.

4 Mass. 532.
(f) 1. If the report be not made to the next court after the award, it will
be void. Molt vs. Anthony, 5 Mass. 489 ; Southworth vs. Bradford,
ib. 524 ; Bacon vs. Ward, 10 Mass. 142.

If the court had commenced

its session previous to making the award, the report of the referees cannot be
returned to and accepted at that term ; and if it be, and judgment is render443

Ch. 78.
v-*~v~»-'

REFEREES.

Pleas, to be holden in and for the county in which the Justice of the Peace may have lived at the time he issued the
agreement as aforesaid ; and the Circuit Court of Common
Pleas to whom the report of the referees may be made as
aforesaid, shall have cognizance thereof in the same way and
manner, and the same doings shall be had thereon (»), as
u

'

ed thereon, such judgment will bo reversed on writ of error.
Merrill, 1 Mass. 411.

Durrell vs.

2. Bat if the report be seasonably made, and recommitted, it may be re
ceived again either with, or without an amendment, at the same, or any sub
sequent term. JVhitney, atlm. vs. Cook, 5 Mass. 142 ; Buardmom vs.
England, 6 Mass. 71.
•' • ■
3. If the referees agree upon their report during a session of the court,
sne.h report is regularly to be returned at the next succeeding term of the
court. Walker vs. Melcher, 14 Mass. 148.
4. Where the referees agreed npon their report before the sitting of the
court to which it was returned, but had signed and dated it on the second
day of the term, they were not allowed to airuind, by altering the date so ns
to make it returnable at the time intended. A'oyes vs. JVoycs, 1 Pick. 269.
See Gerrishvs. Morss, 2 Pick. 625.
(g) 1. It is no valid objection to a report of referees, that one of them had
formed a previous opinion upon the case submitted to them, if his mind ap
pears to have been still open to conviction, and no imputation of unfairness
rests upon him. Graves vs. Fisher if al. 5 Olf. 69. Nor is the partiality
of a referee a valid objection, if known and not objected to by the party be
fore the hearing was had. .Foartif. Hazelton, 10 Pick. 275.
2. Reports of referees, whether made under a rule of court, or under a
submission before a justice, pursuant to the statute, may be recommitted by
the court at their discretion, as well for the revision of the whole case, as for
the amendment of matters of form. Cumberland vs. A1". Yarmouth, 4 Gff.
459.
3. If the report be recommitted the referees are not obliged to alter it,
but may again return it, without hearing the parties ; if they are fully satis
fied of the correctness of it. May $• al. vs. Haven, 9 Mass. 325.
4. If a report made by three referees be recommitted, and one of them
neglect or refuse to sit again, the other two are competent to make a newaward similar to the former, with additional costs. Peterson vs. Loring,
1 Off. 64.
5. If the referees, or one of them in case of a recommitment, should re
fuse to re-examine the subject, the court may enforce obedience to the order
of recommitment, by mandamus, or attachment. Cumberland vs. A'orth
Yarmouth, 4 Glf. 459.
6. After the recommitment of a report, it is not competent for two of the

REFEREES.

449

though the same had been made by referees appointed by a
rule of the same Court.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That where the parties
shall agree that the determination of the referees may be
.
'
made known, prior to its being made to the Circuit Court of
Common Pleas as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for
the referees to make known the determination to the parties,
without its affecting in any degree the validity thereof ; and
if the determination shall be so made known to the parties, it
shall and may be lawful for the party who may be found indebted agreeably to the determination aforesaid, to discharge
him or themselves therefrom, and thereby prevent any further
process thereon, by paying the same unto the person or per
sons to whom it may be so awarded.
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That the referees who
may be appointed in pursuance of this act, shall be vested
with all the authority, which is possessed by referees appointed by a rule of Court. And witnesses (h) shall be summoned
to appear before them, and be sworn in the same manner* as
witnesses before referees appointed by a rule of Court as
aforesaid.
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That upon any report
of referees returned into any Circuit Court of Common Pleas,
• ,.
, .
in pursuance ot this act, and also upon any report made by
referees, in the absence of the third, to revise the essential merits of the
ease. Ib ; Short vs Pratt, 6 Mass. 496.
7. If arbitrators erroneously refuse to consider a particular demand laid
before them, on the mistaken ground that it is not within the submission, the
bond and award are no bar to subsequent action upon the demand thus re
jected. Sixby vs. Whitney, 6 Glf. 192.
8. A report of referees may be good in part, and bad in part.
P. Proprietors, 7 Mass. 420.

Com. vs.

9. If the court refuse to accept a report for defect of authority in the re
ferees, they cannot award costs, but must order the parties to go thereof with
out day. Jones vs. Hacker, 5 Mass. 264.
10. An award that the defendant recover the costs of action, is a suffi
cient determination of the matter submitted ; and warrants a judgment that
the plaintiffftake nothing by his writ. Buckland vs. Conway, 16 Mass. 396.
(A) Referees may examine an interested witness.
10 Pick. 135.

Vol. i.

57

Fuller vs. Wheelock,

Ch. 78.
s-#»v*/
p^ t
by F0Ment of
parties be
made known to
Court;
[ib. $ 4.]

and mm .wardsd paidpower of rrf.
9ree"tIb- 4 ••]
[*363]

Jod
report* of
referees to
final.

bo

450

REPLEVYING OF CATTLE, fcc.

Ch. 80.
Mv^~*T^t

referees appointed by a rule of any Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, wherein it is agreed, at the time of entering into such

i. »r. 3, 1792.]

ru]e, that the report of said referees shall be final, the judg
ment of said Circuit Court of Common Pleas, shall be final
accordingly(i) . [Approved January 27, 1821. J
Additional Act, ch. 262, Vol. 3, p. 91.

Chapter 79.

..
„
June 30, 1784.1
[*364]
[*365]

AN ACT directing the proceedings against Forcible Entry and Detainer, (a)
[Repealed, by ch. 268, § 5, vol. 3, p. 96.
Sect. 1, Provided that two Justices of the Peace, quorum unus, may inquire
a"d decide cases of forcible entry and detainer, by jury.
Sect. 2,* Provided mode of procedure by complaint.
Sect. 3,» Provided for verdict to be signed by all the jurors. Took away the
right of appeal, but left the proceedings open to removal by certiorari.
Sect. 4, Hade tenants holding over their terms, liable to this process]
[Approved February 5, 1821.]
(») 1. A bill of exceptions will not lie [Dean vs Dean, 2 Pick. 25,] nor a
writ of review, npon a judgment rendered on report of referees under a sub
mission before a Justice of the Peace. Dickenson vs. Davis, 4 Mass. 620;
Borden vs. Brown, 7 Mass. 93. See Stone 4* als. vs. Davis tr als. 14
Mass. 360. Bat a writ of error lies in such case
Short vs. Pratt tf al. 6
Mass. 496; Lyman vs. Arms -V al. 5 rick. 213. See .Miller vs. Miller,
2 Pick. 570.
2. It is not erroneous for the conrt to enter judgment for less than the
award of the referees, the party in wlioso favor the award is made, having
released the difference. Phelps vs. Goodman, 14 Mass. 252.
(a) 1. A mere refusal to deliver possession of land when demanded, is not a
foundation for this process. There must be some apparent violence, in deed
or in word, to the person of another, or some circumstance tending to excite
terror in the owner, and to prevent him from maintaining his right. Com.
vs. Dudley, 10 Mass. 403.
2. See ante, ch. 53, note c, p. 289; also, ch. 268, vol. 3, p. 95.

REPLEVYING OF CATTLE, &c.

451

Chapter 80.*
AN ACT directing the mode of process, to be adopted in replevying of Cattle or
llcasla distrained, and also of goods and Chattels.

Sect. 1. J>K it enacted by the Senate and House of omter or cutRepresentatives, in Legislature assembled, (a) That when any mayhTewrU
person shall have his cattle restrained or impounded, in order ?»Ireplcvln'
to obtain satisfaction for damages they may have committed,
or to obtain a forfeiture, supposed to have been incurred for
their going at large out of the enclosure of the owner, in vio
lation of law, in order to have the legality of such distraint
or impounding determined, he may have and prosecute a
writ (b) of replevin for the liberation of the cattle thus im
pounded, in the form prescribed by law.f
Sect. 2. Be it *further enacted,' That when it shall ap£
pear from the plea of the defendant in replevin, that the cattle

[tAnte,p.89i.]
TIn certain
, • ca"*■ judgment

1

for defendant's

r

r

'

June 25, 1789,

were taken and impounded, damage feasant, or for the re- damages may
covery of a penalty incurred for their being found going at gteaf'of'relarge, out of the enclosure of the owner, in violation of law ; ,"£"„' ee" y
and upon the issue it shall be determined that the cause of rll . « .
taking and detaining was lawful and justifiable, judgment shall,
instead of a return of the cattle, be rendered for the defend
ant in replevin, to recover such reasonable damages, as upon
a consideration of the circumstances of the case, the Justice
(or a Jury in case it comes before one,) shall assess, togeth
er with his costs of taking and impounding, and costs of
defense : but if upon the trial of the issue, it 6hall appear, if illegally tathat the cattle were taken or detained without sufficient and J^j) halfe'damjustifiable cause, the plaintifff in replevin shall recover such a8csreasonable damages for the taking and detaining, as the Jus
tice, for Jury, in case it comes before one,) shall assess,
.
.
,
In certain catogether with his costs : but when, from the matter of the se» defendant
(a) 1. This statute has so far altered the common law, that an action of re
plevin may be maintained for goods unlawfully detained, though the original
taking was lawful. Seavcr vs. Dinghy, 4 Glf. 806; Marstin vs. Bald,
win, 17 Mass. 606.
2. One deputy sheriff, may have replevin against another deputy of the
same sheriff, for goods which ho claims by virtue of a prior attachment made
by him. Gordon vs. Jenny, 16 Mass. 465.
(6) The writ must be endorsed. And if the defendant pleads the want of
an endorser in abatement, without any suggestion entitling him to tho pos
session of the goods, and the writ is abated, judgment shall be for costs only,
and not for a return. Gould vs. Barnard, 3 Mass. 199.

452

Ch. 80.
v-^v"*^

REPLEVYING OF CATTLE, &c.

plea of the defendant in replevin, damages with propriety
cannot be assessed, or that a restoration of the property re

turn instead of plevied is the best recompense the parties can have, and upon
ages'
the issue it shall be found, that the cattle were taken and

[*36T]
When from

detained lawfully, and for justifiable cause, the judgment shall
be rendered, that the cattle be returned and restored to the
defendant, irrepleviable, and for costs, and he be entitled to
a writ of return and restitution accordingly.
Sect. 3.* Be it further enacted, That when it shall
appear fr0m the plea or avowry of the defendant in replevin,

that the dama- that the sum demanded in damage for the taking and detainges demanded
, ,_
.
.
_ .
exceed $20, ing exceeds twenty dollars, or that the property of the beast
lib. § 3.]
taken, is the question between the parties (in case the value
exceeds twenty dollars) or that the right to soil and freehold
what proceed- is coming in question in every such case, the Justice shall
iJjj! are t0 * not proceed to try the issue, but shall order the defendant in
replevin to recognise in a reasonable sum, with sufficient
surety or sureties, to the adverse party, to enter the said ac
tion at the next Circuit Court of Common Pleas or the Su
preme Judicial Court, to be held in the same county, as the
plaintifff in replevin shall then and there elect and choose,
and to prosecute the same to effect ; and if such defendant
in replevin shall neglect or refuse thus to recognise, the Jus
tice shall render judgment against him in the same manner as
if he refused to make answer to the same suit. And in case
such defendant shall, after recognizing fail of entering or pros
ecuting the same action, the plaintifff may enter and prose
cute the action, or have his remedy on the recognizance, at
his election.
When gooda
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That when any goods
trained^itaJht or chattels shall be taken, distrained, attached, or unlawfully
ed or detained, detained, which shall be claimed by a third person, and the
and claimed by

third person,
ceeding.
[lb. § 4]

J

r

'

person thus claiming the same, shall think proper to replevy
them, in case such goods and chattels are of the value of more
than twenty (c) dollars, he may take out and prosecute his
(<) 1. The jurisdiction of the C. C. Pleas in such case is regulated by the
real value of the goods, not by such price as the plaintifff may choose to affix
to them:—and if an excessive value be alleged in the writ for the purpose of
giving jurisdiction, the defendant may avail himself of it in abatement. Small

REPLEVYING OF CATTLE, &c.

453

writ of replevin from the Clerk's office of the Circuit Court Ch. 80.
of Common Pleas, in the county where the goods and chat- ^-v-*^
tels are thus taken, distrained or attached in form prescribed
by law. And in case the plaintifff in replevin shall neglect to
enter and prosecute (d) the suit, the defendant may upon
complaint have judgment for a return and restoration of the
goods and chattels replevied, and the damages for the taking
to the amount of six per cent, (e) on the bond, with reasona
ble costs, and a writ of return and restitution thereupon
accordingly. And if upon a trial of the issue, judgment shall Mode of assesbe rendered for a return and restitution, the interest of six in different *
per cent, upon the penal sum of the bond, shall be taken as case*'
a rule for estimating the plaintifff's damages, in case they
were* taken on execution. And if the taking shall have been
upon execution, the goods and chattels returned shall be held
responsible for the space of twenty days after the return ;
vs. Swain, 1 GIf. 133. See ch. 443, vol. 3, p. 2S5, investing Justices of
the Peace with jurisdiction in actions of replevin in certain cases; also, stat
ute passed Feb. 28, 1833.
2. The action of replevin is local in its nature, and must be brought in
the county where the goods and chattels are taken or attached. Robinson
vi. Mead, 7 Mass. 353.
3. It is no sufficient plea to a writ of replevin, that the chattels replevied
had been before delivered to the defendant upon his writ of replevin against
a third person; nor that the same officer, from whom they were taken by
such writ, executed the writ of replevin against the defendant, llsley If al.
vs. Stubbs,5 Mass. 280.
((/ ) 1 . If the plaintifff becomes nonsuit, the defendant recovers damages to the
amount of six per cent, on the penal sum of the bond, as well when the taking
was on mesne process, as on execution. Pike vs. 11ut chins, 1 Mass. 421 ;
Wood vs. Braynard, 9 Pick. 322.
2. In debt on a replevin bond, the plaintifff is entitled to recover the value
of the goods replevied, with the damages, and costs recovered, and interest
on such damages and costs from the date of the judgment in replevin to the
time of recovering judgment on the bond. Arnold vs. Bailey tf als. 8 Mass.
145.
(<•) This provision was made to save the defendant the expense and delay
of going to a jury to secure his damages and to mulct the plaintifff for abasing
a legal process. Bruce vs. Learned, 4 Mass. 617; Mattoon vs. Pearce If
als. 12 Mass. 407. See Cody vs. Eggleston If al. 11 Mass. 282, tran
scribed in note h, to ante p. 392; and Chandler If als. vs. Smith, 14 Mass.
813; Purple vs. Purple If al. 5 Pick. 226.

[*308]

454

Ch. 80.
v-^^*-'

REPLEVYING OF CATTLE, fcc.

and if on mesne process, until thirty days shall have expired,
afier final judgment thereon, in case judgment shall not have

inCTnc proccs» been given ; but if final judgment on the mesne process shall
ce"ta°n ™«£. have been given before the return, then for the space of
twenty days only after the return, to the end, the creditor,
at whose suit they were originally taken, may have a complete
Damages re- remedy, and the benefit of his attachment. And the monies
fic-crTo 'be "to recovered by way of damages, by any officer who has taken
uw of creditor. or attached any goods or chattels, at the suit of a creditor
sbalJ be considered and taken as recovered to the use of the
creditor ;—and when received, be paid over to him accordCourt may isSect. 5. Be it further enacted, That when the Sheriff
withernam, in or other officer, unto whom the writ of return and restitution
shall be directed, shall not be able to find the beast or other
[lb. § 7.]
property in his precinct, which shall, by the same precept,
be directed to be returned and restored irrepleviable, and the
same shall appear in writing by the return of the officer there
on, the Court from whence the same issued, may, upon
motion, grant a withernam against the plaintifff in replevin, to
compel a complete and specific performance of the judgment,
which writ of withernam shall be in form prescribed by law.
_
Sect. 6. Be it "further enacted,' That when the writ of
Court may varyformof writs return and restoration or writ, in withernam, shall issue from
in certain ca»e».
[lb, § 8.]

.

any other Court of law, or for any other property than beasts,
the Court from whence the same shall issue, shall so vary
the form as to them shall appear expedient to carry the same
into full force and effect, as the nature and circumstances of
the case shall require. [Approved January 27, 1821.]
( /) In all cases where the damages are not prescribed hv the stature, dama
ges are to be assessed by the jury, according to the magnitude of the injury,
without regard to the penalty of the bond. Bruce vs. Learned, 4 Mass.
617; Mattoonvs. Pearce fy al. 12 Mass. 408.
2. Where issue is joined upon the plaintifff 's property in the chattels, and
the jury find the property of part in the plaintifff, and part not, each party is
entitled to damages and costs. Potoell vs. Hindsdale, 6 Mass. 343. See
ch. 186, § 2, vol. 3, p. 5, on this point; and Harding vs. Harris, 2 Glf. 162.
3. A third person who is part owner of the property in dispute is a com
petent witness to disprove the plaintifffs title to the property. Page vs.
Weeks, 13 Mass. 200.

RECOVERY OF FORFEITURES.

455

Chapter 81. •

Ch. 81.

AN ACT prescribing the mode of recovering Forfeitures of Personal Property
liable thereto by law.

[»309]

Sect. 1. x5E it enacted by the Senate and House of when personal
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That whenever any jedPa"yfo'rfeitpersonal property shall be liable to forfeiture for any offense, 'jj> ,,
any person or persons entitled thereto, or interested therein § l.]
in whole or in part, may seize and shall safely keep the same till
a final decree be had thereon, unless the owner or person from
whom it was taken, claiming; the same for himself, or some il may •» na

.

stored to the

other person, shall give bond, with sufficient surety to the owner, he giv. .
.
*
i
i
i
r
i
i >ng bonds, &c.
party seizing, to pay the appraised value thereof, when and for appraised
if it shall be finally decreed forfeited ; which value shall be T ue'
appraised upon oath by three judicious and disinterested men,
mutually chosen by the parties, or (in case of disagreement tobeascertainrir.

.

.

.

.

, .

T-rie(^Dy men ott

or refusal of the party seizing) appointed by a Justice of the oath, chosen by
Peace in the county where the property was seized ; but appounedVa
upon the giving or tendering such bonds, the property shall be Juatlcedelivered to such owner or claimant, and if no claimant shall
appear, the party seizing shall be held to cause an inventory And ;f no „,.
and appraisement of the property seized, to be made by three '""i^f^ro'"
disinterested persons under oath, who shall be appointed by erty, it must be
a Justice of the Peace in the county where the property shall
be seized ; which appraised value shall be the rule by which
to determine where the libel shall be commenced.
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That if the property sei"'
.
.
zed exceed twenty dollars in value, the party seizing the same
shall within twenty days after the seizure, but not afterwards,
file a libel in the Clerk's office of the Circuit Court of Common Pleas in the county where the offense was committed,

on oath.

„
If property sei
zed exceed in
party seizing
£ 20 'dayt in
£: c- Comstating the cause of seizure, and praying for a decree of for
feiture ; whereupon the Clerk shall make out a notification to
. all persons to appear at such Court, and show cause, if any
they have, why such property should not be decreed forfeit notice,
for such cause of seizure ; which notifications the libellant
shall cause to be inserted in some newspaper printed in the Manner.
same county, if there be one, otherwise in some newspaper
printed in the next or nearest county, or in Portland,* fourteen days at least before the sitting of the Court at which the

[*sto]

456

RECOVERY OF FORFEITURES.

Ch. 81 . libel is to be tried ; and upon entry of such libel, at the time
v-*~v"*^ . when civil actions are to be entered in such Court, the Court
rUimrti, Court shall have power to hear and determine the cause by a Jury,
cmL by Ju'ry, where there is a claimant, but without one, if, upon proclacauM°decr«>d mat'on made, no claimant appears, and to decree the forfeitforfeiture.

ure an(j disposition of such property according to law, and

may decree a sale and distribution of the proceeds, deduct
ing charges where they think proper, and may also award
costs against the claimants : and if such libel be not support
ed, or be discontinued, restitution of the property shall be
If Jury find the decreed to the claimants, with costs. And if the Jury on
lesa^fmagea' tne lr'a'> wnere tr,e libel is tried by a Jury, find the seizure
t^cl^mML**1 groundless and without probable cause, they shall assess, and
_.
,
the Court shall decree reasonable damages
for the claimant
Either party
°
m»y appeal, with costs. And either party aggrieved at the decree of such
Court, may appeal therefrom to the Supreme Judicial Court
next to be holden in the same county ; who shall have power,
upon such appeal, finally to hear and determine the cause,
and decree thereupon in manner aforesaid.
In case propSect. 3. Be it further enacted, That when the property
umlerffH)1 the se'zed shall not exceed the value of twenty dollars, the libel
proceedings
shall be preferred to some Justice of the Peace in the same
must be had

'

before a Jus- county where the offense was committed, within the time
aforesaid ; who shall have power to hear, determine and de
cree thereupon as aforesaid, having first caused a like notifi
cation to be posted up, and which the libellant shall be held
Appeal allow- to do at some public place in the same county, seven days
Fleas. ' ' ' before the time of trial ; saving to either party aggrieved
liberty of appeal from the decree of such Justice to the next
Circuit Court of Common Pleas to be held in and for said
county ; who shall have power finally to hear, determine and
may0be10used decree in the cause aforesaid ; and depositions taken for legal
as m other ca- causej anf] according to law, may be used on the trial, as well
. ,
. before said Justice as before said Courts. And if any such
;*
costs, &C. on appeal is not entered and prosecuted, the Court to which the
complaint for
,
, .
_
,
,
affirmation,
same was made, upon complaint, may affirm the decree ap
pealed from, with additional damages and costs, or with ad
ditional costs only, as the case may require. [Approved
March 5, 1821.]
Judgments for

JURORS.
t

[Sec addilioniil act. J

In audi rase
prisoner must
give, under
oath, a sched
ule nflits prop
erty, tic.

[•371]
Penalty for
giving false
b.-lu'ilule.

has lain in prison for the term of three months, for fine and
costs only, and that he stands committed for no other cause,
and that he has not estate sufficient to pay said fine and costs:
upon condition, however, that the Court shall order said con
vict to give his own note for the amount of said fine and cost,
payable to the Treasurer of said county, to the use of said
county. And upon condition that before the Justices of the
Supreme Judicial Court and Circuit Courts of Common Pleas
shall liberate such poor convict, they shall require of said
convict a schedule in writing signed by him or her, stating
the particulars of the property by him or her owned, together
with an oath in writing by him or her signed, that the sche
dule contains a true account of all property of which he or
she is the owner in possession, reversion or remainder, to his
or her knowledge and belief. And that he or she has not
sufficient wherewith to support him or herself in prison or to
pay prison charges. And has not directly or indirectly sold,
conveyed or intrusted to any person since the sentence pass
ed by which said convict was committed to prison, any goods,
effects or credits, nor any real estate, with intent to evade*
the performance of the sentence against him or her. And if
any such convict shall knowingly and willfully make any false
schedule or oath in relation to the matters aforesaid, or any
of them, and be thereof convicted in the Supreme Judicial
Court, he or she shall receive no benefit from the said liber
ation, but shall be liable to be again imprisoned till he or she
performs the original sentence. [Approved March 20, 1821 .]
Additional Act, ch. 190, Vol. 3, p. 8.

Chapter 84.
■■
AN ACT regulating the Selecting, Empaimelling and Serricc of Juror*.

Sect. 1. JL>E it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That the Selectteb."»7Si8i3 wen> m each town in this State, on or before the second

Selectmen to
keep a Jury
box.

5i J

Monday of September next, shall provide and at all times

JURORS.

465

cause to be kept in tlieir respective towns, one Jury box ; Ch. 84.
and shall, once at least in every three years afterwards pre- „s"*"Y~'*r'
J

J

r

Once in thre«

pare a list of such persons, under the age of seventy years, years prepare
in their respective towns, as they shall judge best qualified to
serve as Jurors, being persons of good moral character, and
qualified as the Constitution directs, to vote in the choice of
Representatives, excepting the Governor, Counsellors, Judges
and Clerks of the Common Law Courts, Secretary and ^Xd" from
Treasurer of the State, Loan officers and Revenue officers, 3e"iaS »» J»rors.

Judges and Registers of Probate, Registers of Deeds, settled
Ministers of the Gospel, officers of any College, Preceptors
of Incorporated Academies, Physicians and Surgeons regu
larly authorized, Cashiers of incorporated Banks, Sheriffs
and their Deputies, Marshals and their Deputies, Counsellors
and Attornies at Law, Justices of the Court of Sessions,
Criers of the Judicial Courts, Constables and constant Fer
rymen (a) ; and having written their names upon tickets, they
shall cause them to be placed in the Jury box, and shall then
lay the whole of their doings before the town for a revision,
who may confirm the same, or make such alterations therein
as they may deem proper: and the said box shall be held Box tobe kept
and kept by the Town Clerk ; and the persons whose names by town eler '
shall be continued in said box, shall be liable to be drawn,
and* serve on any Jury, at any Court for which they may be
drawn, once in every three years, and not oftener (6).
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the
....
.
duty of the several towns, to provide and nave constantly
kept in said box, ready to be drawn when required, a number
of Jurors, not less than one, and not more than two, for
every hundred persons, which said tow-n may contain, com
puting by the last census which may have been taken, next

1*379]
Number liable
each town,
rIb. $ 2-l

to be drawn in

before the preparing the box.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That if any person vicled, *c.
(a) See ch. 132, § 12, vol. 2.
(i) 1. See note to § 6.
2. After an indictment has been received and filed by the court, no ob
jection of an irregularity in the cmpannelling of the grnnd jury can be received
a* a plea to such indictment. Com. vs. Smith, 9 Mast. 104.

Vol. i.

59

4GG

JURORS.

Ch. 84. whose name shall be in the box aforesaid, shall be convicted
v-*-v-w 0f any scandalous crime, or be guilty of any gross immorality,
u ikTfrM his name shall be withdrawn from the box by the Select
the box
men.
Sect. 4. Be it further enacted, That the Courts of
Court of Ses
gions to divide Sessions jn the several counties in this State, within one
counties into
Jury districts. year next after every new census, and as much oftener as
[Mass Stat. anv considerable change in the state of population shall renMar. 12, 1808, ^er useful and necessary, shall divide their respective coun
ties into at least four Jury districts, and more if it shall be
found in practice convenient, not exceeding twelve, each to
contain so many adjoining towns as shall make the number of
inhabitants in each division as nearly equal, according to the
last census for the time being, as may be, without dividing a
town ; and such Jury districts shall be numbered and distin
guished numerically ; and the said Courts of Sessions shall
Rule
to be ob- cause copies
of such divisions
to be delivered....
to the Clerks of
served by
r .
.
Clerks in send- the respective Courts at which the course of trials is or may
mg venu-es. ^e ^ Juries, who shall issue their venire facias, in due form,

[•380]
Grand Jurors
Pleu ^0 ^™j
the year.

sheriff to dinaires'0 *he Ve

directed to the respective Constables of as many towns in one
such Jury district, and for as many Jurors as shall be, as
near as may be in proportion to the number of Jurors sent
for in the other districts, to serve at the same Court, always
collecting the grand and traverse Jurors so far as shall be
practical and convenient as uniformly from all parts of the
county, as the situation of towns, the number of their inhabi
tants, and a practical rotation and equalization of the service
of Jurors will permit ; never taking more than two grand and
two traverse Jurors from the same town, to serve at the same
Court, unless from necessity, some extraordinary occasion,*
or to equalize their services on the principles aforesaid.
Sect. 5.
Be it further enacted, That the Grand Jurors who shall be returned to serve at the Circuit Court of
Common Pleas, shall serve at every term of said Court,
which shall be held throughout the year. And venires for
such a Jury, shall be issued forty days at least, before the
second Monday of September annually. And the Sheriff of
eac^ countv> s0 s00n "s he shall receive the venires for
Jurors, from the Clerk of either Court, shall without any

jurors.

467

delay, forward the same to the Constables of the towns to Ch. 84.
whom they shall be directed ; and the Constables of their „ N""""yr*T',
.

Constables* durespective towns, on the reception thereof, shall, in the usual ty, &c.
form, notify. the freeholders
and other inhabitants,
in .their ._
. .,
.
_
Lib. § 4. ]
towns, qualified to vote in the election of Representatives,
and particularly the Selectmen and Town Clerk, to assemble
and be present at the drafts and selection of the Jurors called
for ; which meeting shall be held at least, six days, and not
more (c) than twenty days, before the sitting of the Court
to which the venire shall be returnable.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That when any town Mode of drawshall be duly assembled, in pursuance of a venire facias, for the
purpose aforesaid, the Town Clerk, or in his absence, one [Mass. Stat.
iVIiir. 12, loOSf
of the Selectmen, shall carry into the meeting the box con- § 5.]
taining the names of those persons who have been selected
to serve as Jurymen, at the Court from which the venire is
sued ; 'which box shall be unlocked in the meeting, and the
tickets mixed by the major part of the Selectmen, who are
to be present ; and one of the Selectmen shall draw out as
many tickets as there shall be Jurors required by venire.
The persons whose names shall be thus drawn, shall be re
turned to serve as Jurors, unless from sickness, absence be
yond sea, without the limits, or in different parts of the State,
they shall be considered by the town a3 unable to attend the
Court for which they had been drafted ; or had served on
a (d) Jury within three years from that day. In either of
these cases, or in case of a Coroner's being drawn at a time
when the duties of a Sheriff shall be devolved on him by
reason of a vacancy in that office, the persons' names being
returned into the box, others shall be drawn in their stead ;
but* any person being thus excused, or who shall be return- [*381]
(e) It appeared upon the face of the venire and officer's return, that a juror
was drawn more than twenty days before the sitting of the court, but the fact
did not come to the knowledge of a party, until after a verdict against him.
Held that this was no cause for setting aside the verdict upon motion, and
that it could not sustain a writ of error. Amherst vs. Hadley, 1 Pick. 38.
(<i) One having served as a juror in the courts of the U. States within
three years, is not liable to be returned as a juror in the courts of the State.
Cast of Swan, 16 Mass. 220. See Brown, ex parte, 8 Pick. 504. Also
additional act.

46S
Ch. 84.
v^^"^/

JURORS.
ed, and shall not appear at Court, or appearing, shall be there
excused, shall not be considered as serving, or be excused on

another draft, should it happen within the term of three years,
the minute on his ticket notwithstanding.
Constables to
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That the Selectmen
notify Jurors ^q gjjjjj draw from the box the ticket of any person to serve
who have been

* r

drawn.
[lb. § 6.]

ag a Juror, and who shall not be excused by the town, for
either of the causes aforesaid, shall endorse thereon the date
of the draft, and then return the same into the box ; and it
shall be the duty of the Constable to notify the persons thus
designated to serve as Jurors, four days at least (e), before
the sitting of die Court, on which they are to attend, either
by reading to them the venire, with the minutes of their
having been drafted as aforesaid, thereon ; or by leaving at
their usual abode, a written notification of their having been
so drawn, and also of the time and place of the sitting of the
Court, and when they are to attend.
And he shall make a
seasonable return of the venire to the Court to which it is
returnable, with his doings thereon.
And whenever there
shall be a renewal, or an exchange of any of the tickets in
the box, for others, of the same persons, the Selectmen shall
transfer from the back of the old tickets to the new ones, the
minutes of such draft3 as has been made within the three
preceding years.
Sect. 8.
Be it Jfurther enacted,' That when by
Iu ease of de.
' a defi6cicnry of
ciency of either of the grand, or traverse Jurors of any Court,
grand or Irav- .
,
',....
erse Jurors, «t cannot conveniently proceed in its business, it may cause
suc^enTrcs re- wr'ts °f venire facias for the drawing and returning so many
withlblc forth" Jurors ^ sna" De deemed necessary, to be forthwith issued,
and directed to the Constables of such towns in the counfy
as the Court, under the existing circumstances, shall judge
most proper ; conforming as far as the business of the Court
will permit, to the principles by which, under this act, Ju
rors are to be selected, and their services equalized : and
the Jurors so drawn, shall be notified by the Constables to
Sheriff or Cor- attend on the Court immediately.
And when from chaloner may re-*

turn Jurors dt lenges or otherwise, there shall not be a Jury to determine
(«) Com. vs. Swan, I rick. 198.

jurors.
any civil or criminal cause, which may be called on for
trial, the Sheriff or his deputy, or in case of an interest or
'

469
Ch. 84.
v^-v-%^
talibua eirrelationship* in him, to a party in the suit, a Coroner, or such mnutantibus.
other disinterested person as the Court shall appoint, shall,
by order of the Court, return Jurymen de lalibus circumstantibutff)-, sufficient to complete the panel : Provided, No ProTi«o.
person shall be considered as competent to be returned,
whose name shall not, to the satisfaction of the Court, ap
pear to be contained in the box aforesaid, unless the parties
consent, and also provided that there shall be seven at least
on the panel, of the Jurors returned by the venire.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That the Justices of jurors may be
the respective Courts aforesaid, shall on motion from either 'athaato their
party, in a suit, put any Juror upon oath, whether he is any interest> &cway related to either party, or hath formed or given any
opinion, or is sensible of any particular interest or prejudice
in the cause ; and if thereupon, it shall appear to the Court,
that such Juror does not stand indifferent in the cause, anoth
er Juror shall be called or returned, and be placed for the
trial of that cause in his stead (g) .
Sect. 10. Be it further enacted, That from the return
on the venires, the Clerk of each Court shall prepare, or have
prepared, at the opening of every Court, separate alphabet[lb. § 9.]

clerk of court
p°hateMcaT list
ofJurorsical lists of the names of the persons who shall be returned [Ib- § 10-1
as grand or traverse Jurors, respectively. And each Court, Modc of em_
in empannelling the grand Jury, shall cause the two persons Panne|yn8
who shall stand first on the grand Jury lists to be called and
sworn, and after them the others, in succession, as they shall
be named in said list, and in such divisions as has been usual,
or as by the Court may be deemed proper.
Sect. 11. Be it further enacted, That the respective
(/) It is irregular for a talisman to set in any cause, except the one for
which he is returned; hut the objection must be made before verdict. Amherst vs. Hadtey, 1 Pick. 38.
(g) 1. The court will not set aside a grand juror, because he has been the
prosecutor of a person accused of a capital crime, whose case may probably
be brought before the grand jury. Tucker's case, 8 Mass. 286.
2. The party must avail himself of this provision when the jury are be
ing empannelled. Jeffries If al. vs. Randall, 14 Mass. 206. See also,
Amherst vs- Hadlcy, 1 Pick. 88.

470

Ch. 84.
Mode of empaanelliug
traverse Jury.

[ib. § no

[*383]

JURORS.

Courts in empannelling the traverse Jurors, shall cause the
names of the two first persons which shall stand on the list of
Jurors of trials respectively, to be called, who shall be first
sworn, and then the others in succession, as they shall be
named in said list, and in such divisions as has been usual, or
as the Court may deem proper. And the first twelve per
sons, thus empannelled, shall be the Jury ; and when there
shall have been venires, and returns for two Juries, shall be
called the first Jury ; and the next on said list being called
and sworn, as aforesaid, to the number of twelve shall form
the second Jury : Provided, And in case of the Court's* ex
cusing for cause, any person of either of said Juries, and there
being any supernumeraries, the vacancy shall be supplied, and
the pannels be filled and completed, on the above mentioned
principles, in the same manner as if the person excused,
had not been named in die Jury list ; and provided, also,
in case of supernumeraries, on request, the Court may ex
cuse individuals of either panel, who may not have suffi
cient reasons to exempt them from serving, so far as their
places can be supplied by the supernumeraries, and by their
consent.
Sect. 12. Be it further enacted, That the oaths which
shall be administered to the grand and traverse Jury, respect
ively, when they shall be empannelled, shall be in the forms
following, namely :

[Grand Jurors' oath.]
You as Grand Jurors of this inquest for the body of this county of S, solemnly
Grand Jurors' swear that you will diligently inquire, and true presentment make of all such mat
oath.
ters and things, as shall be given you in charge ; the State's counsel, your fellows',
and your own, you shall keep secret ; you shall present no man for envy, hatred or
[Ib. § 14.]
malice; neither shall you leave any man unpresented, for love, fear, favour, affec
tion, or hope of reward ; but you Bhall present things truly as they come to your
knowledge, according to the best of your understanding. So help you God.
[The other Grand Jurors' oath]
The same oath which your fellows have taken, on their part, you and each of you,
on your behalf, shall well and truly observe and keep. So help you God.
Traverse Ju
rors' oath.

Oatli in crim
inal causes.

[The form of the traverse Jurors' oath in civil causes. ]
You, and each of you swear, that in all causes betwixt party and party that shall
be committed to you, you will give a true verdict therein, according to the law and
the evidence given you. So help you God.
[Form of the oath in criminal causes, not capital.]
You swear, that you will Well and truly try the issue between the State and the
defendant or defendants, (as the case may be) according to your evidence. So help
you God.

JURORS.
[Form of the oath in capital causes.]
Tou swear, that you will well and truly try, and true deliverance make, between
the State, and the prisoner at the bar,* whom you shall hare in charge, according
to your evidence. So help you God.

471
Ch. 84.
\^-*-^s
[*384]

Provided, That any person conscientiously scrupulous of Affirmation irf
taking an oath, shall instead thereof be allowed to make af- ^"it°f "cru"
firmation, substituting the word, "affirm, " instead of the word
"swear," and also the words, "this you do under the pains
and penalties of perjury," instead of the words, "So help you
God."
Sect. 13. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the Grand jury t0
duty of the Grand Jury, who shall be thus sworn, empannell- ule^if°reman
ed and instructed by the charge from the Court, so soon as
they shall retire for the purpose of discharging the duties of
their office, first to elect by ballot their foreman, and to noti
fy the Court, by the officer who shall be appointed to attend
on them, of the person who shall have been thus elected,
and who shall be thereupon foreman of the Jury for the then
existing term, and as such be recorded by the clerk accord
ingly. But in case of the absence of such foreman, by sick
ness, or any other cause, it shall become necessary during
the same session of the Jury, to appoint another foreman,
they shall proceed in a similar manner to elect, and to an
nounce to the Court the choice of another foreman in his
stead. And the foreman of each grand
Jury,
°
' * in the presr
ence of the Attorney General or County Attorney , shall have
...
power to swear any witness to testily before such grand Jury, and it shall be his duty to return to the Court which em„Foreman may,
in presence of
Attorney for
State swear
w' nesS€t"

pannelled them, a list of all witnesses so sworn, before said
grand Jury be discharged from their attendance upon the said
Court ; which list shall be filed and entered of record by the
Clerk thereof. And the traverse Jurors being thus empan- Traverse Ju....
.
,
rors to choose
nelled, shall respectively, either retire and choose by ballot foreman by
their respective foreman, or shall make such a choice on their
retiring with the first cause with which they shall be charged,
as may best accommodate the arrangements and business of
the Court, of which choice, the Court shall be notified on the
Jury's return.
Sect. 14. Be it further enacted, That if at any time,
....
- ,
,
Provisional
from the existing state of the country, the nature or quantum Jurors may be

472

JURORS.

Ch. 84.
v-^~v~^'

of the business pending, or from any other cause, the Courts
respectively, shall be of opinion that it will be a hardship

reodired to do

drawn.
[lb. § 12.]

on* one set of traverse Jurors to serve the whole of the term,
and that it would best meet the interest of the public and of
individuals, to have a second set of- Jurors to serve a part of

the term, it shall be in the discretion of the Court to direct
their Clerk, when they shall issue their venires to the Con
stables, in manner before directed, for the usual number of
Jurors, to require in the same venire, that a second draft of
an additional number, equal to the first number, shall be made,
which shall be called provisional Jurors, and shall form the
second set, so far as they shall be needed, and especially sent
for by the Court. And the Constables shall also notify these
Jurors four days before the sitting of the Court, of their be
ing drawn as provisional Jurymen, in the same manner as is
provided for the notification of the first set of Jurors. And
L^'mxifiedlnd sucn Provis'onal Jurors shall hold themselves in readiness,
re*d>' w,vn and if called for by the Court, shall attend and serve, at any
time in the course of that term. And in all cases, when proCourt may exr use Jurors of visional Jurors shall be drawn as aforesaid, it shall be in the
discretion of the Court, at any time during the session, to
excuse, on request, from further attendance, any individual
of the first set of Jurors, on the condition of his giving sea
sonable and personal notice to such a provisional Juror or
Jurors, for his or their immediate attendance, as shall be de
signated and called for, by the discretion of the Court.
Powers and
Sect. 15. Be it further enticted, That it shall be the
duties of grand

and traverse
' ''

^

.

itii

rr

business of the grand Juries to present all crimes, offenses,
and breaches of the law, cognizable by the respective Courts
at which they shall attend ; and of the traverse Juries, re
spectively, to try, according to the established forms and
principles of law, all causes which shall be committed to them,
and to decide at their discretion by a general verdict, both
the fact and the law, involved in the issue ; or to find a spe
cial verdict, or a general verdict, subject to the opinion of
the Court, on a case or point stated and reserved by agree
ment of the parties, or their counsel, under the direction of
the Court, as making a part of the record, to be entered as
such ; and in case such Jurors, after a due and thorough

JURORS.

473

deliberation on any civil cause, with which they may be Ch. 84.
charged, shall return into Court without having been able <-*^-*^
to* agree on a verdict, it shall be in the discretion of the
[*386]
Court explaining to them its understanding of questions of
law, if any should be proposed, and re-stating what any wit
ness had testified, should that be requested by the Jury, to
send them out again for further deliberation ; and if the Jury
should return a second time without being able to agree on a
verdict, they shall not be liable to be sent out a third time,
unless they shall state some legal difficulties for explanation,
which had not been previously attended to by the Court.
And if any person obtaining a verdict in his favour in any Party prcvaiiCourt in this State, shall, during the session of the said Court, the Jury,
in which such verdict shall be obtained, give to any of the
Jurors in said cause, knowing him or them to be such, any
victuals, drink or entertainment (h), or other article by way
of treat or gratuity, whether before or after such verdict, on
due proof thereof, it shall be a sufficient reason, at the dis
cretion of the Court, to set aside the verdict, at the election
of the adverse party, and award a new trial of the cause.
Sect. 1G. Be it further enacted, That in all cases re- in real actions
lating to real estates, either party may have a Jury to view £a1^w may
the place in question, if the Court shall be of opinion, that
such view is necessary to a just decision : Provided, The
.
party moving therefore shall advance such a reasonable sum to costs,
the Jury, as the Court shall order to be taxed against the ad- rrl) , g ,
verse party in the event of a decision of the cause against
him, on its merits, or through the default of the adverse party.
Sect. 17. Be it further enacted, That the Justices of
(ft) 1. Where the prevailing party, previous to the trial, but during the same
term of the court, conveyed one of the jurors several miles in his own sleigh,
to the house of a friend, where lie was hospitably entertained for the night;
the verdict for this reason, was set aside. Cottle vs. Cottle, 6 Glf. 140.
2. A verdict will not be set nside because the jury at their own expense,
being fatigued and exhausted with the length of the trial, were furnished with
some refreshments. Purringlon vs. Humphrey, 6 Glf. 379.
3. But l'f ardent spirits constitute a part of such refreshments, and appear
to have operated upon any juror so far as to impair his reasoning powers,
inflame his passions, or leave an improper influence upon his opinions, the
verdict would probably be set aside. lb.

Vol. i.

60

474

JURORS.

Ch. 84.
^""v"*-'
roremaybered^a5.e°cw[
may direct.
Town meetjng8 for Jurors,
how to be nolified.
^V § 13.]

either of the Courts aforesaid shall have power to order the
writ of venire facias, which may be issued either for the grand
or traverse Jurors, to be returned on such day of the term,
as they may judge will best serve the purposes of justice, and
facilitate the business of said Court.
Sect. 18. Be it further enacted, That the manner in
whiCQ Constables, upon the receipt of venires for Jurors, shall
' r
*
.
notify the qualified inhabitants of their respective towns to
assemble, and to be present at their drafts as aforesaid, shall,
unless otherwise ordered by said towns respectively, be the
same as has been or shall be established therein for notify[*38T)
ing* and warning their annual town meetings. But if any
town shall, at a legal town meeting, have ordered that the
notifications shall be by the Constables, giving notice to the
Selectmen or the major part of them, and the town Clerk,
or by any other mode, such notification shall be sufficient.
Compensation
Sect. 19. Be it further enacted, That the grand and
ofJurora.
traverse Jurors who shall attend at the Supreme Judicial
[ib. § 16.]
Court, and Circuit Court of Common Pleas, shall each be
[tlncreased by allowed one dollar and twenty-five centsf a day for their atch. 363, vol. 3,

.

.

p. 213.]

tendance, and six cents a mile for their travel out and home ;
to be paid out of the county treasuries respectively.
Penalty on any
Sect. 20. Be it further enacted, That the Selectmen,
iftT/dmyf Town, Constable, Clerk of the town, Clerk of the Court,
and appropria- Sheriff or Juror, who having no justifiable cause therefore,
[lb. § 17.]

shall neglect to discharge the duties incumbent on them, him
...
or it, respectively, by this act, shall be subjected to the re
spective fines and amercements named to be assessed, order
ed and imposed by the Court, in reference to whose Jurors
such neglect or failures may have taken place ; namely, a fine
not exceeding twenty dollars, at the discretion of the Court,
on any Selectmen or town Clerk, who shall so neglect to
perform his or their duty herein prescribed, as by means
whereof the Jurors called for from his or their town shall not
be returned ; a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, at the dis
cretion of the Court, on any Constable, who shall so neglect
to perform the duties devolved on him by this act, by means
whereof there shall be a failure of the Jurors called from his
town as aforesaid ; a fine or amercement not exceeding one

jurors.

475

hundred dollars, at the discretion of the Court, on any town Ch. 84.
which shall so neglect the duties herein enjoined on it, as v-*-v-»-'
thereby to occasion a failure of the Jurors called for from
such a town ; a fine at the discretion of the Court, not ex
ceeding fifty dollars, on their Clerk, or the Sheriff, who shall
so neglect the duties enjoined on them, respectively, by this
act, as to prevent a compliance with any of its provisions ; a
fine on any Juror drawn, notified and returned, in the manner
as above described, who shall unnecessarily fail in his attend
ance, and not being an inhabitant of Portland, not exceeding
twenty dollars, and if an inhabitant of that town, not exceed
ing forty dollars, to be divided equally* among the Jurors t*388]
who shall attend and serve ; and a fine not exceeding eighty
dollars, on any town Clerk or Selectman, who shall be guilty
of any fraud, either in practising on the Jury box previously
to a draft, or in the drawing a Juror, or in returning the name
of any Juror into the box, which had been fairly drawn out,
and drawing or substituting some other one in his stead, or in
any other way whatsoever ; and all such fines which the Se
lectmen, Constable, town Clerk, Sheriff or Clerk of a Court,
shall incur by virtue of this act, for any neglect, shall be to
the use of the county in which the offender dwelt at the time
of the neglect, to be recovered by indictment, information,
or an action brought by the Treasurer of the county, before
any. Court
having
..... of
,
° Jjurisdiction of the offense : Provided,' The Limitation
action shall be brought within twelve months after the offense aclioi» for
penalty.
shall have been committed ; such fines or amercements as
shall be ordered or imposed on towns for any neglect of their
duties as before specified, shall be to the use of the county
in which the offending town may be ; and all fines and for
feitures for any of the frauds, by Town Clerks or Selectmen
as above mentioned, shall be recovered by action of debt, in
any Court having jurisdiction thereof ; one moiety thereof to
be and enure to the State, the other moiety to him or them
who shall prosecute and recover the same. [Approved Feb
ruary 14, 1821.]
Additional Act, ch. 214, vol. 3, p. 42.

476

DEPOSITIONS.

Ch. 85.

Chapter 85.
ATI ACT prescribing tb« mode of taking Depositions.

In wfat j-tju
Sect. 1. JL>E it enacted by the Senate and Howe of
and cimEn- Rtpresentatires, in Legislature assembled, That when any
Raxes t-eposj_ \

°_

_

*

u -^ n-ij be civil cause shall be pending in any Court, or before any Juslice of the Peace in this State, and the writ, original suni[Mm. Stat, mons, or complaint therein shall have been served on the de4 !•]

fendant, or be pending before Referees or Arbitrators, and
either party in the cause shall think it necessary to have the
testimony therein of any person who shall live more than thirty
miles from the place of trial by a Court, Jury, Referees or
Arbitrators, or shall be bound on a voyage to sea before, or
I»399]
be* about to go out of the State, and not to return in time
for the trial ; or shall be so sick, infirm or aged, as not to be
able to travel and attend at the trial ; then the deposition of
such person may be taken before any Justice of the Peace
not being of counsel or attorney to either party, or interested
in the event of the cause : Prodded, Notice be given, and
proceedings be had as hereinafter directed.
On application
Sect. 2. Be it further enacted, That when either party
notice
to be in the cause. .shall apply
(a) . to a Justice of the Peace to take
giTen to adrr
verse party if such deposition, he shall give notice to the adverse party, if
[lb. § 2.]
m this State, in substance as follows, to wit :
Form of nouce'

(t. ».)
n.
Whereas A B of
the deposition of

To

of
, in the county of
[addition.] Greeting.
in the county of
[addition] has requested roc to take
(6) of
in the county of
, [addition] to be used in an

action of
pending between you and the said A B and the house of
in
,
and the
day of
in the year of our Lord
at
of the clock in the
noon are appointed the time and place for the said deponent to testify what he
knows relating to the said action : You are hereby notified that you may then and
there be present, and put such interrogatories (c) as you may think fit.—Given un
der my hand and seal at
, on the
day of
in the year ofour Lord
.
Justice of the Peace.
(a) Haskell vs. Haven & al. 3 Pick. 407.
(4) A deposition cannot be used unless the name of the deponent is con
tained in the notification of the magistrate to the opposite party. Miaot vs.
Bridgcwater, 15 Mass. 492.

1 -"iv-'! . h I — t (c) A leading interrogatory, in a deposition taken when both parties are
present, must be objected to at the time it is put to the witness, if at all.
Woodman vs. Coolbroth, 7 Glf. 181.

DEPOSITIONS.

477

Provided nevertheless, That the notification to the adverse
party may be issued by the Justice before whom the deposiCh. 85.
^*~v~*"'l„

tion is to be taken, or by any other Justice of the Peace withn
•
t
i
i
•
r i
in the State, mutatis mutandis, at the election oi the party,
at whose request such deposition is to be taken ; and Provided further, That notice may be given verbally, by the Justice

issued by the
Justice taking
the deposition,
ju^"*. °
Justice may

taking said deposition, or notice may be dispensed with, if
the adverse party or his attorney shall, in writing, waive the
same. And when the adverse party is not present at the
.
1-1
L 11
taking of such deposition,- the Justice taking the same shall
certify (d) that he was duly notified. And the service of this
notification on the said adverse party, or his attorney, by leavtice, or it may
writing,
J""''06 mu"

certify notice.
Manner of giv,n8 notlc»ing an attested copy thereof at his last and usual place of
abode, allowing time for his attendance after being notified,
not less than at the rate of one day, Lord's days* exclusive,
[*390]
for every twenty miles travel ; and such service being proved
by the affidavit of a disinterested witness, or by the return on
said notification of the Sheriff or his deputy of the county,
or of the Constable of the town where the said adverse party
or his attorney shall live, shall be deemed sufficient notice.
But no person for the purposes of this act, shall be consider- who to be
ed as the attorney of another, until such attorney shall have anTtiorney To
endorsed the writ ; or endorsed his name on the summons to ** notifiedbe left with the defendant in the cause ; or until he shall have
appeared for his principal in the cause, before the Justice of
the Peace, Referees or Arbitrators, or in the Court where
the said action shall be pending, or shall have given notice in
writing, stating he is attorney in the cause, to the other party where there
or his attorney. And where there are several plaintifffs or afain^ra0'r
defendants in any action, such notice to one of them, or the defendants, poP

....

.

tice to one

notice aforesaid to be given by the said Justice, given to one good.
of them, shall be deemed sufficient.
Sect. 3. Be it further enacted, That every person de- Depone,,, to
posing as aforesaid, shall first be cautioned and sworn or •* .cautioned
i

i

a

'wo™ beaffirmed to testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but fore being exthe truth, and being afterwards carefully examined shall sub- [lb. § 3.]
(J) 1. The certificate of the magistrate is not conclusive. Minot vs. Bridgewater, 15 Man. 492. See Barnes vs. Ball t( at. 1 Mass. 75.
2. Welles vs. Fish & al. 3 Pick. 74.

473

Ch. 85.
*-*---»■-'
Deposition to

DEPOSITIONS.

scribe the testimony by him or her given, after the same shall
be reduced to writing, which shall be done only by the Jus......

ill

lie written by tice taking the deposition, or by the deponent, or some disnent'or a °di£ interested person in the presence of the said Justice ; and
interested per- tne deposition so taken shall be retained by such Justice un
til he deliver the same, together with a certificate of the reaJostice to hand sons f°r takJng sucn deposition, and of notice, if any, with his
it into Court, own hand to the Court, Justice, Referees or Arbitrators, for
which it may have been taken, or shall, together with such
or make a for- certificate as aforesaid, be sealed up by hirh, and directed to
inal caption,

a ■ .

and seal it up. such Court, Justice, Referees or Arbitrators, and remain un
der his seal until opened in Court, (e) or by such Justice,
Referees or Arbitrators : which certificate shall be in sub
stance as follows, to wit :

[*391]

a*.
On the
day of
, in the year of our Lord
, the
■foresaid deponent was examined and cautioned, and sworn (or affirmed) agreeably
to law, to the deposition aforesaid by him subscribed, taken at the request of
,
and to be used in action of'
now pending* between him and
before [here
name the Court, Justice, Referees or Arbitrators] ; and the adverse party was, or
was not present (as the case may be) the said deponent living more than thirty
miles from the place of trial, or being about to go out of the State and not to return
in time for the trial, or being bound on a voyage to sen, or being so sick, or being
so infirm, or being so aged as to be unable to travel and attend at the trial, is the
cause of taking this deposition.
Justice of the Peace.

Form of sumSect. 4. Be it further enacted, That such Justice when
mm. ° ep° requested by the party applying as aforesaid, shall issue his
' *

summons to the deponent in substance as follows, to wit :
(L. s.)
ss. To — of— in the county of
[addition] Greeting.
Whereas A B of
in the county of
[addition] has requested me to take
your deposition, to be used in an action now pending between him and
, aud
the house of
in
and the
day of
in the year of our Lord
at
of the clock in the
noon, are appointed the time and place for taking
the same deposition: You are hereby required in the name of the State of Maine,
then and there to appear to testify what you know relating to the said action. Here
of fail not. Given under my hand and seal at
the .
day of
in the
year of our Lord
.
Justice of the Peace.

Manner of
serving such

Which summons when served, and the service thereof
proved as before prescribed, in the case of the said notificasummons, to be

effectual.

tion, shall be deemed good and sufficient ; and if any depo
nent so summoned shall neglect to appear at the time and
(e) A deposition, opened by mistake out of court, may be received and
filed, ou affidavit of the fact, and that it had not undergone any alteration.
Law vs. Late, 4 Olf. 167.

DEPOSITIONS.

place appointed in the summons, and having tendered to him
or her thirty-four cents for his or her time, and four cents a
mile for his or her travel, computing from the deponent's said
place of abode to the place of caption, and back, such deponent shall be subject
to like actions forfeitures and attachment
J
as are provided by law where witnesses are summoned to
Court and do not appear (/).
Sect. 5. Be it further enacted, That if on the trial of
. .
in,*
ill
i_
any cause, either party shall make it appear probable to the
Court, that it will not be in his power to produce the witnesses, there testifying on the appeal or review of the cause, and
shall move that their testimony be taken down in writing, it*
shall be done by the Clerk of the said Court, or by such Jus
tice of the Peace as the Court shall appoint ; and if any ap
peal or review be had, such testimony may be used, if it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the Court that the witnesses are
then living more than thirty miles from the place of trial, or
dead, or gone out of the State, or on a voyage to sea, or so
sick, infirm or aged as then to be unable to travel and attend
at the trial and not otherwise. And in every case (as oral
...-,.
testimony examined and cross-examined in open Court is to
be preferred to depositions, when it can be reasonably had)
where the deposition of a witness shall have been taken, it
shall not be used in the cause at the trial, by the Court, Jus
tice, Referees or Arbitrators, if the adverse party shall then
make it appear that the reasons for taking the said deposition
no longer exist ; but that the witness is within the said dis
tance, and able personally to appear.
Sect. 6. Be it further enacted, That all depositions
taken out of this State before any Justice of the Peace, Publie Notary or other person legally empowered to take depositions in the State or County where such depositions shall
be taken and certified, may be admitted as evidence in any
civil action, or rejected at the discretion of the Court: Provided nevertheless, That if the adverse party or his attorney
shall live within twenty miles of the place of caption, no deposition shall be admitted, unless it shall appear by the cap(/) See further provisions on this subject, in act passed March 4, 1833,
ch. 85.

479

Ch. 85.
^*~v~*-'
FaaU fornon
attendance
of
such witness.

in certain cases testimony
may be taken
J" ^"used"^,'
rFf03.*^?'
[*3»2]

But not to be
uoed >f file
witnesses can

Depositions
the State may
rej^^"^ the
^q0"™ of
[lb. § 6.]
provided ad"^jef^ b"
with'" 20

480

Ch. 85.
v-^v~*^

DEPOSITIONS.

tion or affidavit, that such adverse party or his attorney was
notified of the time and place of caption.

Judicial courts
Sect. 7. Be it further enacted, That the Justices of
dcrfimusTur
the Supreme Judicial Court and of the Circuit Court of ComUon»g on" «irh mon Pleas> mav grant a dedimus potestatem (g) to have depterms »» they ositions taken, either within or without the State, in any acmay deem

proper.

*

tion, suit or controversy pending in said Courts respectively,

on such terms and conditions as they from time to time shall
prescribe (/i) .
Depositions iu
Sect. 8. Be it further enacted, That where any depoKo^TtaTc'o'aud sition shall be taken in perpetual remembrance of a thing, it
certified.
sna]| De done by two Justices of the Peace, quorum unus (i) ,
ise'c ch 2]1 and they shall cause such as they know to be interested, to
vol.
3, p. 41; De July
notified of the time and Lplace of the caption,
if withalso ch. 24S,
*
1
toI. s, p. 78.] in twenty miles thereof, or in this State ; and if without that
[*393]
distance,* their attorney, if any they have ; and the deposi
tion being reduced to writing by one of the Justices or by the
deponent in their presence and subscribed, the said Justices
shall administer the oath and certify the caption and the names
of all persons, whom they notified of the taking thereof, in
substance as follows, to wit :
Form of Uis
caption.

STATE OF MAINE.
SS- Town °f
,m"
day of
iu the year of our Lord
personally appeared before us, the subscribers, two Justices of the Peace in
and for the county of
quorum unus, the aforesaid deponent, and after being
carefully examined, and duly cautioned to testify the whole truth and nothing bat
the truth, made oath, or affirmed, that the foregoing deposition by him subscribed
is true. Taken at the request of
to be preserved in perpetual remembrance
(g) Where a commission issues to any judge or magistrate of another State,
to take depositions in a cause in the S. J. Court of this State, the official cer
tificate of the judge or magistrate is received as p rima facie evidence of his
authority. Clement vs. Durgin, 5 Glf. 9.
(S) Where a commission issnes to "any" magistrate (none being named)
in another State, to take depositions of witnesses, none of whom are named,
and the adverse party desires that his agent (naming him) living at the place
of caption, may have notice to attend the taking, it is reasonable that such
notice should be given. Bryant vs. Com- ins. Co. 9 Pick. 485. See ch.
48, vol. 3, p. 78.
(>') Where a statute confers certain powers upon, or requires certain du
ties to be performed by, any two justices quorum unus, it is only necessary
that one should bo of the quorum. Gilbert vs. Swcctsir, 4 Glf. 483.

DEPOSITIONS.

481

of the thing. And we duly notified A B, C D, E F, being all the persons liv- Cjj. 85.
ing within twenty miles of this place of caption, or in this State, we knew to be v^-v-*^
interested in the property to which the said deposition relates; and
attend
ed [if any person so notified did attend] or
we not knowing any persons,
living within twenty miles of said place of caption, or within the Slate, interested
in the property whereto the aforesaid deposition relates, did not notify any persona
to attend.
And the same deposition and caption shall within ninety (j) Deposition to
days be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the within 90 days
county where the land lies, if the deposition respected real wncreXmi
estates ; and if the same respected personal estates, then in 0'rSwnerc nerthe said office of the county where the person lives for whose
"*
L
use such deposition was taken ; and such certificate shall be
.-.,,..
, ,
...
.
certined on the deposition, and the same deposition so certified, or a copy of the said record, may in the case of the death

eon lives for
whom taken if
it relates only
to personal est„te.
ofCsuc'h depol?of such deponent, absence out of the State, or inability to at- tion to be legal

*■
'
'
J
tend the Court as aforesaid, be used as evidence in any cause
to which it may relate.
Sect. 9. Be it further enacted, That every person who
shall be conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath and who
J
r
°
on any lawful occasion shall be required to take an oath as a
witness in any cause, shall instead of the usual form be permitted to affirm in these words, to wit : "I, A. B. do affirm
'

'

proof, it deponent cannot atpc,.sons scrn_
pulo,,s of ,:'king an oath
may affirm.
'
F°™°fa»»-mation.

under* the pains and penalties of perjury," which affirmation
[*30l]
shall be deemed of the same force and effect, as his or her
oath would have been on the same occasion, taken in the usual
form. And if any person making such affirmation shall be w..f . .
convicted willfully, falsely and corruptly to have testified in fofee affirma.
rr
.
l'on punished
any matter or thing, he or she so offending shall incur the as perjury,
same penalties and forfeitures as by the laws of this State are
enacted against persons convicted of willful and corrupt perjury.
Sect. 10. Be it Jfurther enacted, That if any...
person Same penalties
shall willfully, falsely and corruptly swear or affirm, in giving for false swear1 •

,

..

„.,..,.

-l,

'nn '" giv'ug

or making any deposition or affidavit in this act provided to depositions as
(j) I. A deposition taken in perpetuam cannot be used in evidence unless
recorded within three months from its caption. Bradstreet If at. vs. Bald
win, 11 Matt. 229.
2. Nor in an action commenced before the taking of such deposition.
Oreenfield vs. Cushman, 16 Mass. 393. Altered— see additional act.
3. This statute has reference only to such depositions as are taken within
this State. Anonymous, 3 Pick. 14.

Vol. i.

61

482

DEPOSITI0N3....WITNESSES.

Ch. 87.
v-*~v-»-/

be taken, he or she shall incur the same penalties, as if the
testimony had been taken in open Court, and willful perjury

for false swear......

ing in open

committed in giving the same.

[Approved March 15, 1821. J

Court.

[lb. § 10.J

Additional Act, ch. 211, Vol. 3, p. 41.

Chapter 86.
AN ACT for the relief of Persons who are scrupulous of taking Oaths.

Certain rSect. 1. X>E if enacted by the Senate and House of
sons, scrumi- Representatives, in Legislature assembled, That whenever any
an oath, may person shall be required to take or subscribe any oath, before
scribe an q/fir- he enters on the discharge of any office, place or business, or
on any other lawful occasion, and such person shall be con[Mass. Stat, scientiously scrupulous of taking or subscribing an oath, he
5 ij '
' or she shall be permitted to make or subscribe affirmation,
instead of the oath which is or may be by law prescribed,
changing such parts of any such oath as ought to be changed,
conformably to the Constitution of this State.
False and corSect. 2. Be it further enacted, That if any person
«on,t<fbepun- shall willfully, falsely and corruptly, make or subscribe any
ished asperju- sucn affirmation as aforesaid, he or she shall be liable to the
rib. § 2.1

same pains and penalties as are or may be by law provided
against persons who willfully, falsely and corruptly take or
subscribe the oath for which such affirmation is substituted.
[Approved February 19, 1821.]

[*3»5]

Chapter 87."
AN ACT for admitting Inhabitants of Towns and certain other Corporations as
Witnesses.

inhabitants of
Jfc»E it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatowns^p'ubiic 'tres' *n Legislature assembled, That in all suits at law
corporations, whether of a civil or criminal nature, now depending;, or that
&c. may be

,

admitted as

hereafter may be depending in any Court, or before any Jus

.

r


