av‘“

4’" //-¢&Lul\’

CHANCERY RULES.

RULE 1. Every Solicitor shall have an agent at the countyseat in Everypsouci, _

each county of this State where a Circuit Court is established, except 222,112. hm

in the county where such Solicitor keeps his oHiee. The Register,
Deputy Register and practising Solicitors, or any other person specially authorized by the Court, may be such agents: but the agent
must have an oiiice, or a regular and known place of business, within
two miles of the Register’s oiiice in the city or town for which he is
appointed ‘agent. The appointment of an agent shall be in writing, How appoin.
signed by the solicitor, and specifying his place of residence. It shall ted'
be filed with the Register at the place for which the appointment is
made, who shall keep in his oHice a list of such agents, with the names
and residence of the Solicitors appointing them.
RULE 2. When the Solicitors for adverse parties do not reside in When 53,.

the same county, service of papers may be made on an agent. If the Zif‘ih‘é‘i’gé’fi
Solicitor does not' reside at the place where the court is holden, in the '

circuit in which the cause is pending, and has no agent there, service If no agent,
of a notice or other paper may be made by putting it into the post 333:3: brgar
oilice at that place, directed to such Solicitor at his place of residence, Mi"

to be ascertained according to the best information and belief of the

person making the aHidavit of service. Notice of the filing of all Notice of
pleadings shall be given to the adverse party, except when otherwise $215 NM
provided by these rules, within the time limited for filing the same.

But no service of notice in the ordinary proceedings in a cause, shall

be necessary to be made on a defendant who has not appeared therein.

RULE 3. When the service is on an agent, or by putting in the post Double time
oiiice for want of an agent, it must be double the time of service 3,1322: 2,?
which would be requisite if the service was on the Solicitor in person. 33°“

Digitized by 600816

4 CHAN CERY RULES.

And if the Solicitor resides more than one hundred miles from the
agent or oiiice where the service is made, the time of such service shall
in no case be less than fifteen days. Notices and other papers may,
Notices and in the absence of a Solicitor or agent from his office, be served by

papersnhow . . . . .
“Wed "1 ca: leavmg the same mth h1s clerk or law partner m such office, or With

 ab. a person having charge thereof; and if no person is found in the oHice,
by leaving the same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine
in the evening, in a suitable and conspicuous place in such oiiice; or
if the oiiice be not Open so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving
the same at the residence of the Solicitor or agent, with some person
of suitable age and discretion.
' RULE 4. All bills and petitions hereafter to be filed in any of the

#fldressdoge Circuit Courts, shall be addressed: “ To the Circuit Court for the
1 san ‘ '

titions- “county of , in Chancery ;” and the caption of decrees shall be
Caption of as follows, viz: “State of Michigan, the Circuit Court for the county
dec'm' “ of , in Chancery—At a session of said Court held at , on
“the 7 day of , in the year one thousand eight hundred
“and iifty- ‘ .
“ Present—Hon.
“Circuit Judge.”
The caption of orders made by Circuit Court Commissioners shall
be as follows:
Caption of “State of Michigan, Judicial Circuit, in Chancery—“den “Suit pending in the Circuit Court for the county of , in
“ Chancery; at on the day of ,A. D. 185 ,

l “ It is ordered,” &c.

‘ RULE 5. In all cases motions shall be made and petitions presenMotions to ted on the day for which they are noticed, if the party has an opporbemade on . . .
the day for tumty to be heard on that day, unless the Court or Circult Court

Which the” . . . . . . .

a“ 1mm“: Commissioner shall otherwrse direct. And if there 1s not. suiiiclent

M time to iinish the business noticed for any day, it may be continued

.ay be con- . . . . .

“nued' from day to day until 1t 1s completed; or it may be adJourned to some
subsequent day. And motions made for a day in term, and which
cannot be heard on the day for which they are noticed, shall stand
continued from day to day, without any special continuance.

Nommddent RULE 6. In all cases where the complainant or complainants are

igapézigm not residents of this State, before process shall issue, a bond in the

security for

costs. penal sum of one hundred dollars shall be filed with the Register, to
be approved of by him, conditioned to pay all such costs as shall be

Digitized by 600816

CHANCERY RULES. . I 5

decreed against the complainant in such case; and the Court or the
Circuit Court Commissioner may, upon motion, upon suilicient cause Security
may be re.

shown, require a new bond to be filed, in the same or an additional quired of
residents on

amount; and may also require security where complainants are resi- cause shown.
dents of this State, if the justice of the case demand it.

RULE 7. Bills, in which the answer of the several defendants on Bins tobe
oath is not waived, may be verified by the oath of the complainant,
or in case of his absence from the State, or other suilicient cause

shown, by the oath of his agent, attorney or solicitor.
RULE 8. In bills, answers and petitions which are to be verified by Manfner of
veri ying

the oath of the party, the several matters stated, charged, averred, bills, a:
swers, c.

admitted, or denied, shall be stated positively, or upon information or
belief only, according to the fact. The oath administered to the

party shall be, in substance, that he has read the bill, answer or peti- Substance of

tion, or has heard it read, and knows the contents thereof, and that igesiglgdtin

the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which jum'
are therein stated to be on his information or belief, and. as to those
matters, he believes it to be true; and the substance of the oath shall

be stated in the jurat.
RULE 9. All process, unless otherwise directed, shall be made re- Process.

turnable on a day certain (except Sunday) either in vacation or in
term, not less than ten days from the issuing thereof, and if process
is not executed before the return day, new process may be taken out,
of course, as often as may be necessary, or an alias, or pluries may be

issued.
RULE 10. The names of _ all the defendants in a cause shall be inserted in the subpoena. It may be served by delivering a my of the 13133133325.
writ subscribed by the complainant, his solicitor, or the officer or person serving the same, and inscribed “copy,” and showing the original,
under the seal of the court, at the time of such delivery to the defendant, or in case of his absence to his wife, or servant, or some
member of his family, at his dwelling-house or place of abode. The

service may be on or before the return day mentioned in the subpoena.

RULE 11. Upon the return of the subpoena served, as directed in Subpqena
serve prothe preceding rule, the defendant shall cause his appearance to be en- oeodinzlo
tered in twenty days from the return day of said writ, and if he does

not require a copy,of the bill as hereinafter provided, he shall answer To appear in
twenty days

or demur within the same time, or in default thereof his appearance 3fter gm?
ay 0 an

may be entered by the register and the bill of complaint taken as poem,Digitized by 600816 ,

c i ‘ CHANCERY Bums.

Answer is: confessed. If a copy of the bill is required he shall answer in twentwenty ays

spar lervfice ty days from the service of such copy, or the bill may be taken as
0 copy 0

bill. confessed.

RULE 12. When the subpoena has been personally served, and the
defendant shall fail to appear and plead, answer or demur, within the
time limited for the same, the complainant. may upon filing an affidavit that a discovery as to the matters charged in the bill is necessary,

:{mgt and service thereof with notice move the court for an attachment '
against such defendant or defendants.

A defendant RULE 13. If the defendant appears personally, or is brought into

brought in court by the sheriff, on the return of an attachment for not appearing

on attachggitifag? or not answering, he shall enter his appearance or put in his answer,

{flz'gggbs‘ig and pay the costs incurred by his contempt, instanter, or within such
time as the court shall appoint, or be committed until .he complies.

Order that RULE 14. When the defendant has appeared, he may have an orthe complai- . . .
nant deliver der of course, that the complalnant deliver a copy of the blll to the

a copy of the bm- defendant or his solicitor in hfteen days, and if such a copy is not delivered within fifteen days after the service of notice of such order, or
within such further time as may be allowed for that purpose, the defendant, on filing an affidavit of the service of such notice, and that
no copy of the bill has been served, may have a decree dismissing the
suit, without costs, for want of prosecution.
RULE 15. If the complainant requires a copy .of the defendant’s
answer, he may have an order of course, that he put in his answer,
gpgtggesn- and serve a copy thereof in twenty days after notice of the order, and
Wed- if the defendant does not file his answer and serve a copy thereof
within the time prescribed in such order, or such further time as may
be allowed him for that purpose, the complainant, on filing an affidavit
showing the default, may have an order to take the bill as confessed,
.or may move for an attachment against him. .
93:33:23,}, d RULE 16. b When a bill has been taken pro confesso against a
a pm, efendant, even although he may have entered hrs appearance, it shall
$352313: not be necessary in any further proceeding in a cause, for the camjmo' plainant to serve such defendant with any of the notices contemplated
by any of the rules of practice of this court for any object or purpose whatever, but he may proceed exparte.
pgceeghf. RULE 17. The order to take the bill as confessed against an absent
as no 2.

mt 035011. or concealed defendant, and for a reference under‘ the provisions of
cooled env

dents. chapter ninety, title twenty-one of the revised statutes may be entered

Digitized by 600816

 

CHANCEBY RULES. 7

of course, on filing the proof of publication or notice, and an affidavit
that the defendant has not appeared. But the order requiring the defendant to appear, and designating the paper in which it shall be published, or a direction to the commissioner to receive the testimony of the
complainant as evidence on the reference, can only be obtained by a
special application to the court or circuit court commissioner.

RULE ‘18. Exceptions to an answer shall not prevent the dissolu‘ . . . . o E co ti ns
tron of an injunction or the discharge of a m mat; but upon every n31 £139.

application for such dissolution or discharge, made upon answer be- §€o¥§éii?’“f
fore exceptions are filed, or before the validity of exceptions filed has Jumh‘m’ ac
. been determined, the suiiiciency of the answer in all points material
to the allowance of such application, shall be considered in the deci-.
sion thereof.

RULE 19. If the complainant waives the necessity of the answer Waiver of
being made on the oath of the defendant, it must be distinctly state 32§§$§3M
in the bill. When the answer is put in without oath, it may be ex- “pm”

If the answer

cepted to for scandal and impertinence; but the complainant shall 3?:

not be at liberty to except thereto for insuiiiciency; but all material £33333}?
allegations in the bill, which are not answered and admitted, may be ,in““m°l°n°"
proved by him in the same manner as  they were distinctly put in ‘ .
issue by the answer; and if no replication is filed, the matters of de- $15312“
fence set up in the defendant’s answer, will, on the hearing, be considered as admitted by the complainant, although the answer is not on

oath.

RULE 20. The plea or answer of the defendant may be sworn to Mm",
before any officer authorized by the laws of this State to administer 3:36:33
oaths or take anidavits. It may also be sworn to before any Judge
of any Court of record in the United States; but if sworn to before
such Judge in any other State or Territory in the United States, his
certificate shall be accompanied by the certificate of the clerk or deputy clerk of such Court under the seal thereof, showing the oHicial
character of such Judge and the genuineness of his signature. Such
plea or answer may be sworn to in any foreign country before any
Minister or other diplomatic agent or Consul of the .United States,

or any Notary Public; but the certificate of such Notary shall be The def,“

made under his notarial seal. $0313”
RULE 21. When a cross bill is filed, the complainants therein who 33%;?‘112’ 1i:

0 o o ‘ o o ‘o .  t
are defendants 1n the original b111, shall put 1n and perfect then an- gill to 

swer the

swer to the original bill before they shall be entitled to an order to cross bin.

'  u
" Digitized by 600816

8 CHAN OERY RULES.

compel an answer to the cross bill, unless the court shall otherwise
specially direct. .

RULE 22. If the bill has not been sworn to, the complainant may
$35;de amend it, at any time before the plea, answer, or demurrer is put in, of
Eating“ course, and without costs. He may also amend, of course, after anowed' swer, at any time before he replies thereto, until the time for replying expires, and without costs, if a new or further ‘ answer is not _

thereby rendered necessary; but if such amendment requires a new

or a further answer, then it shall be on payment of costs to be taxed.

He may also amend sworn bills, except injunction bills, in the same ,

manner, if the amendments are merely in addition to and not inconsistent with what is contained in the original bil; such amendments

A d being verified by oath, as the bill is required to be verified. But no.
men ments not of amendment of an injunction bill shall be allowed without a. special

course in in- . .
junctionhiu. order of the court, and upon due notlce to the adverse party, if he

Amend- has appeared in‘ the suit. Amendments of course, may be made withm uts of

gagggitfhjr out entering any rule or order for that purpose; but the registers

3:33:33?“ shall not permit any amendments to be made, unless the same appear
The manner

to be duly authorized. And in every case of an amendment of course,
33mm, the complainant’s solicitor shall either file a new engrossment of the
32;: "° bill with the register where the original bill is sled, or furnish him
with an engrossed copy of the amendments, containing the proper references to the folios and line, in the original bill on file, where such
service or a- amendments are to be inserted or made. But no amendment shall

mendments, . . .
when 11% be considered as made, until the same is served upon the adverse

my. party, if he has appeared in the cause.

Amend, RULE 23. If the defendant demure to the bill for want of parties,
332.22%?” or for any other defect which does not go to the equity of the whole
demurrer.

bill, the complainant may amend of course, on payment of costs, at
any time before the demurrer is noticed for argument, or within ten
days after the receiving a copy of the demurrer; and in all cases of
demurrer for causes not within the former part of this rule, the complainant’s right to amend, and the terms on which amendments may
be permitted, shall be in the discretion of the court.

I

gamma. RULE 24. Where the answer is excepted to as insuilicient, and the
ed . ' . o
msiiheisaziier defendant submits to answer further, or the answer on reference 18
tumor. .

‘ found insuiiicient, the complainant may amend the blll of course, and

without costs, at any time within ten days after the defendant, sub.

" Digitized by 600816

CHAN GEBY RULES. 9

mits to answer any of the exceptions, or after confirmation of the
Commissioner’s report, if the defendant does not submit to answer any

of the exceptions; and the defendant shall answer the amendment and it
exceptions together. If a plea or demurrer to the bill be overruled,

the complainant may within ten days thereafter amend his bill of “mm”

ant may a. . - - ' mend ten
course, and Without costs, and in all cases where the complamant 18 a,” “to,

permitted to amend his bill, if the answer has not been put in, or a  d°‘
further answer is necessary, the defendant shall have the same time mmm‘
to answer, after such amendment as he originally had. But no
amendments of Course of injunction bills, are to be allowed under this

or the preceding rule, nor any amendments which are inconsistent with
the original sworn bill.

RULE 25. Orders to which a party, by the rules and practice of the common or.
court, is entitled of course without showing special cause, shall be de- 33:33." Oh.
nominated common orders; and orders made on special application to
the court, or circuit court commissioner, shall be denominated special
orders. All common orders and orders by consent of the parties, such
consent being in writing. and signed by such parties or their solicitors and filed, may be entered with the register, in the common rule
book kept in his oiiice, at the instance of the party or his solicitor, at the
peril of the party taking such order; and the day on which the order is
made shall be noted in the entry thereof, and all special orders made by Order. of

the special direction of the court, or circuit court commissioner, shall stoma?

be entered  the record of the proceedings of the court as here~ tmd'
tofore has been usual.

RULE 26. When the defendant pleads or demurs to a bill, the come Each party

may notice a

. . . . l d
plamant shall have twenty days to file a repllcation to his plea, or gum: f;

amend his bill, and if he does not take issue on the plea or amend argument!
the bill within that time, either party may note the plea or demurrer
for argument, at the next or any subsequent term. If the plea is allowed,

the complainant may within ten days after notice of such allowance,
take issue on the plea, upon payment of the costs of hearing thereon.

RULE 27. If a plea or demurrer is overruled as frivolous, or a plea If: defend' ant putl in a

upon issue thereon is found to be untrue, the complainant may unless fallse orl my.
0 one p on or

the Court otherwise direct, have an order to take the bill as confessed, she-gagirlrlogq

or he may compel the defendant to answer the bill, at his election. he “ken *5
confessed.

In all other cases, if the plea or demurrer be OVerruled, neither a
further plea nor demurrer shall be received; and the defendant shall

answer the bgl and pay the costs of the hearing, within twenty days

Digitized by 600816

10 ' CHANCERY RULES.

Afftgra plea after notice of the order overruling the plea or demurrer, or such
0 emurrer

finefgzzrgtlefé other time as may be prescribed by the Court in such order. If he

gaging“- fails to put in his answer and pay the costs within the time prescribed

dm- the bill may be taken as confessed, and the matter thereof decreed
' accordingly; or the complainant may have an attachment to compel
an answer. ’

Exception, RULE 28. When the answer is to the whole bill, the complainant

353123;: shall have twenty days, after notice that such answer is put in, to except to the same, or if the answer is to part of the bill only, he shall
have twenty days after the plea or demurrer to the residue of the bill '
has been allowed or overruled, to except to such answer; at the expiration of which time, if no exceptions are taken, and no order for
further time has been granted, the answer shall be deemed suiiicient.
Defendant If the complainant excepts to the answer for insuiliciency, the defendmay submit

3351;;ng6 ant may within eight days after service of a copy of the exceptions,

WWW“ give a written notice of his submission to answer any or all of such'
exceptions; and he shall be liable for the costs of the exceptions
which he submits to answer. a '

galaxy Runs 29. When exceptions to an answer for insuHiciency are not
exceptions submitted to within the time prescribed by the preceding rule, the
in ten days. . . . .
complamant at any time Within ten days thereafter, may have an order
of course to refer-the exceptions not submitted to by the defendant
to a Circuit Court Commissioner. If the exceptions not submitted
to are not referred and notice of such reference given within the
' time speeined, they shall be considered as abandoned, and the answer
as to such exceptions shall be deemed suilicient.

pp refer-(cince RULE 30. If a complainant refers a second or third answer for insecon or

gird tunmet suificiency on the old exceptions, -the particular exceptions to which
eexcep2:23:30 be he requires a further answer shall be stated on the order of reference.

And if he does not refer such second or third answer for insuiliciency

i within ten days after the same is put in, such answer shall be deemed
suilicient.

Exceptions RULE 31. Exceptions to any pleading, or other matter pending bef . . .
.Z‘iifgtfél fore the court for scandal and impertinence, shall be taken m the

lighteielix, same manner as exceptions to an answer for insuiliciency; and may be
submitted to in like manner, and within the same time. If they are
not submitted to, the party excepting shall refer them in the same
manner, or they shall be considered as abandoned; and if such exceptions are to an answer, the answer thenceforth shall be deemed suliioient.

Digitized by 600816

*I

CHANCERY RULES. ll

RULE 32. Whenever an answer or other pleading or proceeding is Common.

. . . . . er's re rt
referred for insuiiiclency, scandal or impertinence, the exceptions shall on 8.02;;

be considered as abandoned, if the party obtaining the reference shall t?3%i§?na

within fif. not procure and file the Commissioner’s reportiwithin fifteen days from teen days.

the date of the order of reference ; unless the Commissioner shall, within
that time, certify that the party obtaining such reference has not been
guilty of an unreasonable delay, and that further time, to be specified
in the certificate, is necessary to enable the Commissioner to make a satisfactory report; in which case the exceptions shall be considered as
abandoned, if the report be not obtained Within the further time so
stated. And if the exceptions were to an answer, it shall thenceforth
be deemed suilicient.

RULE 33. If on a reference of exceptions to an answer, or the ref- oommimon.

. . . er to 6x time
erence of a second answer on the old exceptions, the Commissmner shall for putting

in further

find the answer insuiiicient, he shall fix a time for putting in a further answer.

answer, and specify the same in his report.
RULE 34. The Commissioner’s report on exceptions, shall be delivered Report to

to the party obtaining the reference, who shall forthwith file the same iffgaeeigi?
in the proper oliice; and if he does not except to the report within days'
eight days thereafter, it shall become absolute as against him. But

the adverse party shall have eight days after service of notice of filing

the report to except to the same; and if he does not except within

that time, it shall become absolute as against him, without any order

for that purpose. If none of the exceptions to an answer are submitted to by the defendant,or allowed by the Commssioner, the answer shall

be deemed suilicient from the time such report becomes absolute as

against the complainant.

RULE 35. If the Commissioner reports that any thing contained in any
pleading or proceeding is scandalous or impertinent, the party excepting on filing proof that the report has become absolute against the

i . . rd .
adverse party, may have an order of course, that the Commissmner mak- 3mg???

- . . ertment
mg the report, expunge the scandalous or 1mpertment matter; and gutter.

that the adverse party pay the costs of the exceptions and the pro‘ ceedings thereon, within twenty days after the service of a copy of

such order and of the taxed bill on him or his solicitor. When the

adverse party submits to the exceptions, the same order may be ob- Commission.

tained on filing the notice of submission. If the Commissioner disallows 35333338

an exception for scandal and impertinence, his report shall be final, and 3:533:10;no exceptions to the report in that respect shall be allowed ; but it 33.2%?

.f 4
Digitized by 600816

l2 CHAN CERY RULES.

shall not preclude the party upon the hearing of the cause, or upon the
taxation of the general costs in the suit, from insisting that the matter excepted to was in fact impertinent.

om, for. RULE 36. On exceptions to answer for insuiiiciency, if all the ex3%?“ "1° ceptions are submitted to by the defendant, or a part are submitted
to, and the rest abandoned, or are disallowed on reference, the complainant may have an order, of course, that the defendant put in a
further answer and serve a copy thereof within twenty days after notice of'the order, and pay the costs of the exceptions.

giggeioin- RULE 37'. If, on a reference of exceptions, or the reference of a
:zfgrmagggf second answer upon the old exceptions, the answer is found insufficient

and the Commissioner’s report has become absolute against the defendant, the complainant may havc a similar order of course, to put in a
further answer, and pay the costs, within the time specified in the
Commissioner’s report. ‘

Costs to be RULE 39. In the cases specified in the two preceding rules, the deserved ten

days Wm fendant shall be entitled to a my of the taxed bill of costs at least

expiration
of time to

answer. ten days before the time for putting in the further answer expires, or

he may put in such answer without paying the costs. But the complainant may afterwards proceed by execution or attachment to compel payment thereof, if they are not paid within twenty days after
service of a copy of the taxed bill on the defendant or his solicitor.

Aftegdaitniiid And if the complainant has amended his bill, so as to require an anmen e 0

  swer to the amendments as well as the exceptions, the defendant shall

swer- have the same time to answer the amendments and exceptions together,
as he originally had to answer the bill; and the order to answer shall
be varied accordingly.

Order to RULE 40. If the defendant does not put in a further. answer and

tak bill . . . . . . .
confessed“ pay the costs Within the time prescribed, or Within such further time

for neglect .
gmger. as may be allowed by the court for that purpose, the complainant, on
filing an affidavit showing such default, may have an order of course,

to take the bill as confessed, or may move for an attachment against
the defendant.

RULE 41. The argument of exceptions to a Commissioner report on
E t. ’ i . 0 o o .
toxiigiigf: exceptions shall be heard as a special motion. Either party may notice
on excep ’ns

to beheard the same for hearing, and the party excepting to the report shall fur301%“ nish the necessary papers for the court; and if he neglect to do so,
the report may be confirmed. But if both parties have excepted to

the report, each shall furnish copies of his own exceptions, and the

Digitized by 600816

CHANCERY RULES. 13 '

party obtaining the reference shall furnish such other papers as may

be necessary. The costs of the hearing on exceptions to a report gusts of tfhe
earlng 0

upon exceptions shall be in the discretion of the court; but neither gxclfptions
o e reporparty shall be entitled to costs as against the other, unless he suc- tedceeds as to the major part of the exceptions to the report. And
where the party succeeding as to the major part does not succeed as

to all the exceptions to the report, his costs of the hearing, to be allowed against the adverse party, shall not be taxed at a sum exceeding ten dollars.

RULE 42. When exceptions are taken to an answer for insuiiiciency, Costs 01’ rteference no

. _ - ' ' to be allowed
or to any pleadlng or proceeding for scandal or 1mpert1nence, the unless 8110,.

Party excepting shall be entitled to the costs of the exceptions which we exceP'

tions are sus—

are submitted to, and those which are finally allowed after reference to “mm

a Commissioner; but neither party shall be entitled to costs upon the
reference of exceptions unless he linally succeeds as to all the exceptions

which are referred. The costs on exceptions shall not be taxed until

all exceptions are submitted to, abandoned, allowed, or finally disposed
of ; and then the whole costs to which the exceptant is entitled shall

. . . . Costs inclube included 1n one bill, and the adverse party may oifset any costs to ded in one

bill , offset.
which he is entitled. I
RULE 43. N o demurrer or plea shall be held bad, and overruled Demurrer

and plea. not

1 ecause such demurrer or lea shall not cover so to be 0791'upon argument, on y b P ruled for not

much of the bill as it might by law have extended to.——(Rule 36, U. gigiigssgd
S. Cir. Court.)

bill as it
might.
RULE 44. N o demurrer or plea shall be held bad and overruled liemurzetr I:
peano 0
upon argument only because the answer of the defendant may extend Overrulethcause answer

to some part of the same matter, as may be covered by such demur- 2:33:33,“
rer or plea—(Rule 37, U. S. Cir. Court.)

covered by

plea or de‘

RULE 45. A defendant shall be at liberty, by answer, to decline $221,]:

. - ' ' ' - art to deanswermg any Interrogatory, from answering Wthh he mlght have pro digs an”?

tected himself by demurrer, and he shall be at liberty so to decline, 

notwithstanding he shall answer other parts of the bill from which £31“???

he might have protected himself by demurrer—(Rule 44, U. S. Cir. mm“
Court.)

RULE 46. i It shall not be necessary on any bill of revivor or sup- No: nectessary 0 se

plemental bill to set forth any of the statements in the original suit girdtlggvilzgr

unless the special circumstances of the case require it.—-—(Rule 58, U. mental “15'

8. Cir. Court.)

 Digitized by 600816

_.
a».

.t‘
i
.4

 

' If complain14 ' ‘ CHAN CERY RULES.

am, at ,9 RULE 47. Every cause shall be deemed at issue on filing a general
“8 °n mug replication to the answer, and no special replication shall be filed but

replication.
If the complainant does- not reply to the

Cause to by leave on cause shown.
stand for

hearing if no defendant’s answer within twenty days after it is deemed to be suilireplication

‘ healedinzo' cient, he shall be precluded from replying, and the cause shall stand
ays. ,

for hearing on bill and answer; and either party may notice it for
hearing as soon as it is in readiness for hearing against the other defendants, if any there are.

RULE 48. In any suit against several defendants, if the complainant does not . . . . . .
use due dili- ant does not use due dillgence in prosecuting such suit, any of said

.b'll . . . .
33:23: dis— defendants may apply to dlsmlss the blll for want of prosecution, and
on such application, further time shall not be allowed to complamant,

unless on good cause shown for the delay.
Proceedings RULE 49. When a cause is at issue, if neither party has given noto take testimony- ties as contemplated by law, of his intention to claim the right of an
' examination of witnesses in open court, either party desirious of taking testimony, may at any time within thirty days after the expiration of the time of claiming the right to such examination in open

(Mertoka court, enter an order of course, and give notice thereof to the opposite
Pmm’ party for the taking of testimony within sixty days from the service

of notice of such order, and either party under such order, may at
Proof, t, be any time within the said sixty days take the testimony of his'wit “my nesses, upon giving ten day’s notice to the opposite party, of the names
and places of abode of the witnesses to be examined, and cf the time
and place of such examination, and the person before whom the same

' Proofs to be Will be taken.

closed in sixgtdayts fpgm filing an aiiidavit of the service or receipt of such notice, may enter
0 0 0 er

an order of course, that the proofs be closed. If neither party shall

At the end of the said sixty days, either party, on

If order for ' ' ' ' ’ ' '
taking obtain an order for tak1ng testimony as aforesaid, or g1v1ng notlce of

$3333?" his intention of claiming an examination of witnesses in open court,
$133 tfgr the cause shall stand for hearing on pleadings, and may be noticed
h ' .

piiisizgg? by either party.

May appoint RULE 50. If a party wishes to examine witnesses residing out of

minim. the State, or more than thirty miles from the residence of a Circuit

Court Commissioner, or when all the Circuit Court Commissioners
are interested, living within that distance, as counsel or otherwise,
either party may, at any time after issue is joined, and before proofs
are closed, as prescribed in the preceding rule, present a petition to
the register where the suit is pending stating the names and residenDigitized by 600816

CHAN C'ERY RULES. ' l5

sea of the witnesses and of the person or persons proposed as commissioners, and praying that a commission may be issued to take the
examination of such witnesses; and ten day’s notice of the applies.tion shall be given to the adverse party. If the adverse party does
not appear and join in the commission, or object to the persons named
as commissioners, a commission shall be issued agreeably to the prayer
of the petition. ‘
RULE 51. If the adverse party wishes to join in commission, he Adverse pu. . . . . t t 1’ 15h
must at the time of presenting the petition, furnish the names and res- nigesud?

idence of the witnesses on his part, and they shall be inserted in the mum"
commission. If he is not satisfied with the commissioners named
in the petition he may name Commissioners on his part; and the
register to whom the petition is presented, after hearing the allegations of the parties, shall designate a suitable person or persons, to
execute the commission, and issue the same accordingly; but any of
the commissioners named in the‘commission may execute the same, '
in case the others neglect or refuse to join in the execution thereof,
or they are, from any cause, prevented.

RULE 52. Witnesses to be examined out of the State, shall be examined on written, direct, and cross interrogatories, to be allowed by

a Circuit Court Commissioner and annexed to the commission. Howtopm.

RULE 53. If it shall be necessary to have a commission to take the mall?»

examination of witnesses in any case not provided in the preceding 322:3? "it.
rules, the party may present a petition to the Circuit Judge, or Circuit
Court Commissioner, acting as an injunction master for that purpose, .
setting out the facts which entitle him to- a special commission, and
the usual notice of the application shall be given to the adverse party.
RULE 54. To every commission, for the examination of witnesses Commis. ' .h
out of the State, a copy of this rule shall be annexed as instructions 22,631“:an

to the commissioner on the execution of the commission. returned.
lst. Any one of the commissioners may execute the commission:
2d. The witness before he is examined, must take an oath or affirmation to be administered by the commissioner, that the answers to

be given by him to the interrogatories annexed to the commission,
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

3d, The examination of the witness must be reduced to writing by
the commissioner or by some one in his presence, and under his direction, and must be signed by the witness, and certified by the commissioner, as follows:

I

Digitized by 600816

16 CHANCERY RULES.

“ Examination taken, reduced to writing, and sworn to (or amrmed)
this day of , A. D. , before me, A. 3., commissioner.”

4th. Exhibits must be annexed to the deposition of the witness and
be signed by him and the commissioner.

5th. The commissioner must subscribe each sheet of the deposition,
annex the deposition and exhibits to the commission, and endorse his
return on the back of the commission.

“The execution of this commission appears in certain schedules
hereunto annexed. A. B. Commissioner.

6th. The commissioner must enclose the commission, interrogatories, depositions and exhibits in a packet, and bind it with tape, and
set his seal at the several meetings or crossings of the tape, and direct it “ To the register of the Circuit Court for the county of

, in Chancery, at , State of Michigan.”

7th. He must then deposit the commission in the post odice, unless
there are written directions on the commission to return the same in
another way.

gamut?“ RULE 55. The register, on the commission being returned shall
0113

3 said and open it, and endorse thereon the time and manner of receiving it, and
_ e y regmer. then file it.

be tsigieon RULE 56. No deposition will be suppressed on the hearing of a
no 0

gppgmgi. cause for irregularity or mformahty 1n the taklng of the same, but

De onitions the question must be brought before the court on a special motion for
to esuppmgzld that purpose, before the cause is brought to a hearing.

°n' RULE 57. When a party wishes to examine a defendant as a wit. f t ' o l .
gangs; ness against a co-defendant, or against the complainant, he may, at

f t o I a . .
35,133,? “a any time W1thm twenty days after he has received or served a notice

of the rule to produce witnesses, on filing an aiiidavit that suchvdefendant is a material witness, and is not interested in a matter to
which he is to be examined, have an order of course, for the examination of such defendant as a witness, as to any matter in which he
is not interested, subject to all just exceptions. And such defendant
53:11;ch shall thereupon be examined to such matters, in the same manner as
octed &t the other witnesses; but the adverse party, at the hearing, may object to

caring.
the competency of his testimony.

Mnmmiftx? RULE 58. Documents which are of themselves evidence without

him“ M further proof, shall not be read on the hearing, unless they have been

Digifixed by 600816

CHAN CERY RULES. 17

made exhibits, before the commissioner; and no deed or other writing pg:- «23’;
prov '

shall be proved at the hearing except on an order previously obtained 0111;158:3118.
0 M y
after due notice to the adverse party. ‘ permissionRULE 59. Process of subpoena to compel the attendance of witnesses saw to

. . Q . t.
before a Commissloner shall issue of course, and the t1me and place $12.31;“

of attendance shall be specified in the writ; and such witnesses may 'itnm'
be punished if they fail to attend and submit to an examination. But
no witness shall be compelled to appear before the Commissioner
more than forty miles from his place of residence, unless by special

order of the Court. .
RULE 60. Within ten days after notice of the order to close the Em."

proofs, the Commissioner, on being applied to for that purpose by 233,113.“ th.

either party, shall cause the depositions and exhibits, taken or pro- 3,3“t52’t;
duced before him, to be returned and filed with the register. And he  i'
shall not be entitled to receive pay for taking any depositions, or

making any exhibits, which are not returned and filed with the proper odicer, within ten days after service of a notice of such order.

Neither shall a copy of any deposition or exhibit be read on the

hearing, unless the original has been returned and filed in the proper
oiiiee.

RULE 61. An order to enlarge the time for the examination of We" to
enlarge the

witnesses may be granted, on suiiicient cause shown, without notice time to pro,
to the adverse party; but an ex parte order shall not be granted af- 22;" “um”
ter the time for the examination of witnesses has actually expired,
nor shall a second order be granted to the same party, except on the

usual notice of the application to the adverse party, and upon such

terms as the Court may prescribe. .
RULE 62. After the proofs are closed, either party may notice the Mb
1 er party
carise for hearing at the next or some subsequent term. It shall not may notice ~

the cause for

be necessary in any case to obtain an order to set a cause down for hearing~hearing; but when a cause is in readiness for hearing, on plea or dea
murrer, bill and answer, pleading and proofs, exceptions to a Commissioner’s report, or on the equity reserved, either party may notice
the same for hearing and have the cause entered on the calendar of
causes for the term.

RULE 63. All notices of hearing, or of special motions, or of the Rom, a.
presenting of petitions, when required, shall be notices of at least
eight days, if the solicitor of the adverse party resides over one hun3

Digitized by 600816

18.

Case and abbreviation of ‘

pleadings.

Calendarand
the order in
which causes
are to be V
heard.

CHANCERY RULES.

dred miles from the place where the court is to be held; if over hfty
and not exceeding one hundred, six days notice shall' be given; and in
all other cases, at least four days. And a copy of the petition, affidavit or certificate, on which any special application is founded, shall
be served on the adverse party the same length of time previous to
making the application to the Court. ‘
RULE 64. When a cause is submitted or heard, on bill, answer and,
replication, or on the pleadings and proofs, if the parties do not agree
upon a case to be signed by them, containing, with all requisite brevi-i
ty, a statement of the pleadings and proofs, the complainant shall
furnish the Court with a case, stating the time of filing the bill, and
of the answer and other pleadings respectively, the names of the original parties in full, the change of parties, if any has taken place pending the suit, and a very brief history of the proceedings in the cause;
and containing an abbreviation of the pleadings, not exceeding one~
sixth of the number of folios contained in the original pleadings respectively. . A
RULE 65. In making up the calendar, causes to be heard on bills
taken as confessed, shall have a preference, and shall be entered according to priority, from the date of the order to take the bill as ecu.
fessed. Pleas and demurrers shall constitute the second class of
causes, and have priority from the time when the plea or demurrer
was filed. Causes to be heard on bill and answer, shall occupy the
third place on the calendar, and have priority from the time when the
answer was put in. Those which are to be heard on the pleadings, or
on pleadings and proofs, shall form the fourth class, and have priority from the time when the replication was filed. Causes to be heard
on exceptions, or upon the equity reserved in a decretal order, 'shall
be placed in the class to which they belonged before the decretal or- I
der or reference, and according to their priority as it then existed;

‘ and causes for rehearing shall be arranged in the same manner. But

the court, in the hearing of the calendar causes, may, in its discretion, '
give a preference to any particular cause, or description of causes,
over othersin the calendar. ' And mortgage cases of the fourth class
shall be entitled to a preference over any other causes of the same
class, unless the defendant, before the cause is heard, shall file with the
register, an aiiidavit that he has a good and meritorious defense, and that
his answer was not put in for the purpose of delay; the filing of which
aiiidavit he shall have noted on the calendar.

Digitized by 600816

CHAN CERY RULES. . l9

RULE 66. Causes shall be noticed for hearing for the first day of am” .1131;
the term, or for as early a day in term as practicable. The notice to 33-11???“
the register specifying the class to which the cause belongs, and the my Of term'
time from which it is entitled to priority, shall be delivered to the
register, who is to make the calendar, four days previous to the commencement of the term. But if the cause is not in readiness for
hearing in time to notice it for the first day in term, it may be placed
at the foot of the calendar; and if the bill has been taken as confessed,

may be heard out of its regular order.

RULE 67. When a cause is heard or submitted on plea or demur- Rpm“, be
rer, or on bill and answer, (except in mortgage or partition causes, Kingfggn‘:
where the complainant’s rights are not contested,) the Court shall be
furnished with copies of the pleadings, and an abbreviation thereof
not exceeding one-sixth of the number of folios contained in the originals. . If it is heard on bill, answer and replication, or on pleadings
and proofs, in addition to the case required by the sixty-fourth rule,

the court shall be furnished with 00pies of the pleadings and of the
depositions, if any, and with short abstracts of the exhibits. On a
rehearing, a copy of the decree or order. reheard, shall be furnished, on a, rehab

and copies of the pleadings, abstracts, case, depositions, &c., on which “‘3'
the same was founded. Upon exceptions to a Commissioner’s report,
copies of the order of reference, report, and exceptions, and of such
part of the evidence before the Commissioner, and of the pleadings

as are material for the decision of the exceptions, shall be furniShed.
And in all cases the necessary papers shall be delivered to the Court,
when the hearing of the cause shall commence.

RULE 68. If the cause is heard or submitted on plea or demurrer, By whom”.
or on exception to a Commissioner’s report, or on a rehearing, the ne— maxed
cessary papers shall be furnished by the party pleading, demurring, or
excepting, or who obtained the rehearing. In all other cases the papers shall be furnished by the complainant; except that on an origi:
nal hearing upon pleading and proofs, each party shall furnish copies
of the testimony and abstracts of the exhibits on his part only. And
each party shall deliver to the Court and to the adverse party, a copy
of the points on which he relies; and may also deliver to the Court
and to the adverse party, a draft of the minutes of the decree to
which he conceives himself entitled.

Burn 69. All bills, answers and other proceedings, and copies

Digitized by 600816

 

20 CHANCERY RULES.

fl“, ‘3, y' t° thereof, shall be fairly and leginy written, and if not so written,

mpg? register, shall not file such as may be offered to him for that purpose;

ant’s name

to momma and in the ' entitling and endorsement of papers by either party, the.
£13.}; 3min chi: complainant’s name shall be placed first. '
or g.

. new,“ ,, RULE 70. If the cause is noticed for the hearing on the part of the

a” hm" defendant, and the complainant does not appear to argue on his part,
or does not furnish the necessary papers, agreeably to the preceding
rules, the bill may be dismissed with costs. If noticed on the part of
the complainant, and the defendant does not appear at the hearing,
and furnish the necessary papers on his part, the complainant may
have such decree as he is entitled to by the defendant’s default, according to the usual course and practice of the court.

The manner RULE 71. All submissions shall be in writing, signed by the necesr b 't— . . . . .
gaging. sary parties or their solicitors, and shall be delivered to the register

with the necessary 'copies and papers. On special motions and petitions, as well as in calendar causes, he shall mark the papers and note
them in his minutes, as on a hearing; and he shall not enter the sub.
mission until all the necessary cOpies and papers are furnished, as required by the rules of the Court.

Regulations RULE 72. When a matter is referred to a. Commissioner, to examof the pro:zgdsgggs inc and report thereon, on bringing the-decree or order into his oilice,

30m" 0" he shall assign a day and place for hearing the parties, and give to
ce. .
the party bringing in such decree or order, a summons for the adverse
party to attend at the day and place so appointed. ' The summons

$iiclzeop§lls§b shall be served on the adverse party or his solicitor, such time, previous

summons» to the day. appointed for hearing,as the Commissioner may deem reasonable and direct, taking into consideration the nature of the matter to

be examined, and the residence of the parties. But the time of service, unless otherwise ordered by the Court, shall not be less than
two days, when the solicitor of the adverse party resides in the city
or town where the hearing is to take place; and not less than four
days, when he resides elsewhere not exceeding fifty miles from the
place of hearing; not less than six days, if over nfty and not exceed

ing one hundred miles; and not less than eight days, when he resides
more than one hundred miles from the place of hearing.

may one. RULE 73. If the party who is entitled to prosecute such decree, or

“ed to NS' , o o
acute a: or- order of reference, does not procure and serve such summons mthm
der of refer- . .1emito 1p- thirty days after the decree or order is entered, any other party or
.0 n 1‘ty days. person interested in the matter of reference shall be at liberty to apDigitized by 600816

CHANCEBY RULES. 3!

ply‘to the court, by motion or petition, to expedite the prosecution of

the. decree or order; and after the proceedings have been commenced,

by the service of- a summons to attend before the Commissioner,‘if the

party entitled to prosecute such decree or order does not proceed with

due diligence, the Commissioner shall be at liberty, upon the application of any other person interested, either as a party to the suit, or as

coming'in to prove his debt, or establish a claim under the decree or

order, to commit to him the prosecution of the reference. .
RULE 74. At the time and place appointed in the summons for the Commiuion.

hearing the parties, the Commissioner shall proceed to regulate, as fit?

. . i i and k
. far as may be, the manner of its execution; as, for example, to state tllgc'time for

what parties are entitled to attend future proceedings, to direct the 253.3%?”
necessary notices, andito point out which of the several proceedings
may properly be going on part) passu‘; and as to what particular matters interrogatories for the examination of the parties appear to be
necessary ; and whether the matters requiring evidence shall be proved
by affidavit or by the examination of witnesses ; and if the Commissioner
shall think it expedient so to do, he may then, or upon any subsequent attendance, and from time to time, as circumstances may require: ml the time Within or at which any proceedings before himshall °°mmi“i°“'

era may robe had; and he may proceed de die in diem, or by adjournment from #:0363152.“

time to time, as he may think proper.

RULE 75. Where, by any decree or order of the Court, books, pa- Common,
pers or writings, are directed to be produced before the Commissioner 33%.
for the purpose of such decree or order, it shall be in the discretion of 323;?“
the Commissioner to determine what books, papers or writings, are to produced'
be produced, and when and for how 10ng they are to be left in his
odice, or, in case he should not deem it necessary that they should be
left or deposited in his oilice, then he may give directions for the inspection thereof by the parties requiring the same, at such time and
in such manner as he may deem expedient.

RULE 76. Where some, or one, but not all, of the parties, do at- 1: mm or

tend the Commissioner at the time and place appointed, the Commis- in!" cot t?

. . . . . . . n “1
sioner shall be at liberty to proceed ex parte, 1f lie thmks 1t expedi- mum”.

ent so to do, considering the nature of the case; and if he has pro- 
ceeded- ea: parts, such proceeding shall not in any manner be reviewed

by him, unless, upon special application to him for that purpose, by
the party who was absent, the Commissioner shall be satisfied such

party was not guilty of willful delay or negligence, and then only

i

Digitized by 600816

as CHANGER]! RULES.

upon payment of all costs occasioned by his nonsattendance; and such
cost to be certified by the Commissioner at the time and paid by the

party or his solicitor, before he shall be permitted to proceed on the
warrant to review; and every summons to attend before a Commie-1

sioner shall be considered peremptory.

Commisgpm RULE 77. The Commissioner shall be at liberty to examine any
Wow 3: witness or party, or any creditor or other person. coming in to claim
0.808

uponwirlggr- before him, either upon written interrogatories or vim ,once, or in both

{Effigy modes, as the nature of the case may appear to him to require; the

325m "3' examination or evidence being taken down at the time by the Commissioner, or by his clerk in his presence, and preserved, in order that

the same may be used bythe court if necessary.

AOommis- RULE 78. If a party wishes to complain of any matter introduced

. $33338, into any state of facts, affidavit, or other proceeding before the .0011?

t ted , , . . a . .
t2? Keep missioner, on the ground that it is scandalous or impertinent, or that

any examination of a party before him is insufiicient, such party shall

be at liberty to file exceptions thereto with the Commissioner ;‘ andthe Commissioner shall have authority to expunge any such matter

which he shall find to be scandalous or impertinent. And where the
7. r matter is excepted to as scandalous or impertinent, if the Commisif (:1 grudgi- sioner disallows the exceptions, his decision thereon shall be dual as

i?“ exqep- to the exceptions which are disallowed; but this shall not preclude
one, his degimfglto the party from insisting upon the impertinence at the hearing of i the

$22.1”? cause, or upon any subsequent proceeding founded on the Commissioner’s, report upon the reference, or upon the taxation of the general costs of the cause, or of the reference. And in deciding on the

magi-mitt}: sufiiciency or insuhiciency of the examination of a party, or of an an0 ema

ter 150 be 13- swer .to a bill, the Commissioner shall always take into consideration
ken into con“dmtm- the relevancy or materiality of the statement or question referred to

parties to be in the exception. On exceptions to the Commissioner’s report, or to

  O o o o o O O
objections his certificate of the suiiiciency or msufliciency, of the examination,

t k b f . o 0
time30:13:23 the parties shall be confined to the objections taken before the Com81011613

missioner.
Amuntsbe, RULE 79. All parties accounting before a Commissioner, shall
fore the Com

madam, to bring in their accounts in the form of debtor and creditor; and any

331% dlfdebt- of the other parties who shall not be satisfied with the accounts so

grind mm. brought in, shall be at liberty to examine the accounting party upon

' interrogatories as the Commissioner may direct. On any reference
to take or state an account, the Commissioner shall be at liberty to

Digitized by 600816

 

CHAN CERY RULES. 23

allow interest as shall be I just and equitable, without any special did Commissioner may allow

reotion for that. purpose, unless a contrary direction is contained in 213:3;
the order of reference. And every charge, discharge, or state of cialdirections.

facts, brought in before a Commissioner shall be verified, by oath, as Eggs, 2:true, either positively, or upon information and belief. {)0 be Verified
y oath.

.S-RULE 80. In all matters referred to a Commissioner, he? shall be Commissioner may make

at liberty, upon the application of any party interested, to make a 86p-“szptarate rearate report or reports, from time to time, as he shall deem expedient; p '

the costs of such separate reports to be in the discretion of the court.

And where the Commissioner shall make a separate report of debts

or legacies, he shall be at liberty to make such certificate as he thinks

lit, with respect to the state of assets; and any person interested shall

thereupon he at liberty to'apply to the court as he shall be advised.
.; :BULE 81. After the report is filed, either party may have an order om, to con.
of course to confirm the same, unless cause to the contrary thereof mm “pom
be shown in eight days after notice of its being filed; and if no exceptions are filed and served within that time, the order shall become
absolute of course, without further order; or either party may file
exceptions, and have an order of course, to confirm the report, so far
as the‘same is not excepted to, and with the like effect. . . 7

: RULE 82. N 0 process shall be issued, or other proceeding had, on No as

. . on ecree beany final decree, untll the same is duly enrolled. And such process, fore enrolment. ‘ '

unless otherwise specially directed by the court shall be sealed and ‘
issued by the register who shall not suffer any process to pass his seal, goggle”

o lo 7 . . .   Of'
if it does not, appear to be duly warranted. If a Commissmner ls pie ghere is
. 8 cores

.directed to sell real estate under such decree, he may give the requi- enrolled.

site notice of sale previous to enrollment ; but to protect the title of ,

the purchaser, the party for whose benefit the sale is made shall cause

the decree to be enrolled, and produce a certificate thereof, before nedmeto‘m
, . enrolled bot

any conveyance shall be executed by the Commissmner. And where ggrégefesg:

any previous decree or decretal order disposes of any part of the con'éiil'mi‘

merits of the cause, or is necessary to exPlain the final decree, it shall

either be recited therein, or enrolled therewith, as a part of the final
decree in the cause.

RULE 83. A petition for a rehearing shall state the special matter 3mm. of

or. cause, on which such rehearing is applied for and the particular 2% mg for.

, points in which the decree or order is alleged to be erroneous, but it I

shall. not be necessary to state the proceedings anterior to such decree
or" order sought to be reversed; and the facts, if they do not appear

Digitized by 600816

'6.
9'0
 24 CHANCERY RULES.
 from the records of the court, shall be verified by aiiidavit of- the '
 Gamma of party, or of some other person. It shall also be accompanied by the
' 33,3333“ certificate of two counsel, that they have examined the case, and that
in their opinion the decree or order is erroneous in the particulars
mentioned in the petetion. And a copy of the petition, with the
usual notice of presenting the same, shall 'be served on the adverse
party, but the rehearing shall not be considered as a matter of course
in any case.
0m“, to RULE-84. Where a party is entitled to an order to stay proceedings,
mfg?“ or for temporary relief until he has time to give regular notice of a
obmed' motion, or of presenting a petition for a rehearing, or for any other
purpose, he may make an ea: pane application to the court or Commissioner acting as injunction master, for an order that the adverse
party show cause why the motion, or the prayer of the petition, should
not be granted, and to stay proceedings, or for other temporary relief
Papers tube in the mean time. And the adverse party shall be served with 3
served on . . . . .
gyms par- copy of the order, and of the petition, affidav1t or certlflcate on which
_ L it is founded, the same length of time before the day for showing
3_ cause, as is required in the ordinary case of special motions, unless
i the court or Commissioner shall specially direct a shorter notice to
_ be given. I
 Deposit n. RULE 85. If a rehearing is granted, the petitioner shall lose the
i ié‘t‘éi‘sig‘.“ benefit thereof, unless he shall within ten days thereafter, deposite
?‘ with the register nfty dollars, to answer the costs and damages of the
." adverse party, if the decree or order shall not be materially varied.
: If the cause is reheard, the party obtaining the rehearing shall have’
E ' the right to open and close the argument.
i Agreements RULE 86. No private agreement or consent between the parties, in
: Eggtgzoiii: respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be alledged or suggested
 in writing. by either of them against the other, unless the same shall have been

reduced to the form of an order, by consent, and entered in the book
of common orders; or, unless the evidence thereof shall be in writing,
subscribed by the party against whom it is alledged or suggested, or
by his solicitor or counsel.

‘ Tina on. RULi: 87. All rules to take eii'ect nisi, 660., unless otherwise specially
$3.” and or. directed, shall be rules of eight days; and the time on all rules, orders, ,_

notices and proceedings, where a time is given or stated, shall, unless
otherwise expressly provided, be deemed and taken to be, one day in 

i’ " Digitized by  _ I .

. _'-_.l-_'I1 Lama—LIKE

 

OHANCERY RULES. ' 25

elusive and one day exclusive; but if the time expires on Sunday, the
whole’of the succeeding day shall be included.

“RULE 88. The court or Commissioner acting as injunction master, Time my“,

upon special cause shown, may extend the the for putting in or serv- 33°33“

. . . . . . ma be set
mg any pleading, or exceptions, or for any other proceedmg which 18 gale on
‘ m8.

required by the rules of the court, to be done within a limited time;
and may set aside any order or decree, obtained by default or otherwise, upon such terms as 'may be deemed just and proper.
RULE 89. The accounts of the register with the banks in which the Mane, in

. . r . . ~ . which acmonies‘are directed to be deposited, shall be kept m such a manner, counts arm
monies p

that in the cash books of the banks, and in the bank books of the into tgcigrt

register,it shall appear in what particular suit, or on what account, kept.
the several items of money, credited or charged, were deposited or
paid out. '
RULE 90. Orders upon' the banks for the payment of monies out pom of or,

ders for

of court, shall be made payable to the order of the person entitled; moge‘ys tofbe
. pai onto

thereto, or of his solicitor, or his attorney, duly authorized, and shall court.
specify in what particular suit, or on what account, the money is to be
paid out, and the tMe when the decree or order authorizing such payment, was made.

RULE 91. The Circuit Court Commissioners and registers of each Tums of
Circuit Court shall have power to tax costs, and where costs have °°""
. been taxed, upon hearing of the parties, an application for a re-taxation may be made directly to the court.

RULE 92. In a bill of costs oifered for taxation, by or on behalf of Bin of com

any solicitor, or of any party who prosecutes and defends by a soli- 3,3?”

citor, or by or on behalf of any oliicer of this court, who prosecutes

and defends in person, the several items of disbursements, and of the
hes of oliicers of the court, shall be particularly specified therein,

and not charged. in gross, or they shall be disallowed on taxation;
and when witnesses’ fees are charged, the names of the witnesses shall

be specified, and the number of days, travel and attendance of each.

The affidavit of the solicitor, or the odicer who prosecutes or defends “issuing
annex

in person, shall also be annexed to the bill before it is taxed, stating, to bill of

costs previaccording to the best of his knowledge and belief, that the several totuttion,
verifying the

disbursements charged in the bill have been actually and necessarily grating;incurred, or paid; and before any emcer or party shall be entitled to 8""

demand payment thereof such costs or fees shall be taxed by a taxing 33:: t3. 1;“

oiiicer of this court, but no oiiicer whatever shall tax his own costs or demanded.
4

Digitized by 600816

26 GHANCERY RULES.

Notice of fees; and the same notice of taxation shall be given to the party to
taxation ne- _

cessary- be charged therewith, if such party has appeared in the cause or proceedings, as is required by the rules of this court. The following costs

shall be allowed to the prevailing parties, viz: In all cases deter- .

mined by hnal decree. on pleadings and proofs, thirty dollars. In all
cases determined by final decree on bill and answer, plea or demurrer,
twenty dollars. In all foreclosure cases where decree is taken on
the bill taken as confessed, fifteen dollars. Upon all special motions
such sum not exceeding, ten dollars, as the court shall deem just.
Bin, ,0 fore. RULE 93. In a bill for foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, it
3:333:30 shall not be necessary to set out at large the rights and interest of

set out the .
rights of (19- the several defendants who are purchasers of, or who have liens on,

fendants un- . . .

necessarily- the equity of redemption 1n the mortgaged premises, subsequent to
the registry or recording of complainant’s mortgage, and who claim
no right in opposition thereto; but it shall ‘be sufficient for the complainant, after setting out his own right and interest in the premises,
'to state generally, that such defendants have, or claim, some interest
in the premises, as subsequent purchasers, or encumbrancers, or otherwise.

A reference RULE 94. If a bill to foreclose a mortgage is taken as confessed, or

2352.3? "° the right of the complainant, as stated in his bill, is admitted by the

33:33:33: answer, he may have an order of course, referring it to a Commissioner to

saw compute the amount due to the complainantand to such of the defendants as are prior encumbrancers of the mortgaged premises; and
if the defendant is an infant, and has put in a general answer by his
guardian, or any of the defendants are absentees, the complainant may
have a similar order of course, referring it to a Comissioner to take proof

To take of the facts and circumstances stated in the complainant’s bill, and

,i’jcifagggi‘: to compute the amount due on the mortgage, preparatory to the hear.

:35311‘3126 ing of the cause. But every such cause shall be regularly brought to

bm' hearing at term,after the coming in of the Commissioner’s report,before a
final decree is entered therein 5 and if the bill has been taken as confessed, the complainant shall show to the Court, at the hearing, by
affidavit or otherwise, that the proceedings to take the bill as confessed have been regular, according to the rules and practice of the Court.
He shall also show whether the bill has been taken as confessed
against all of the defendants, upon service of subpoena, or after an

appearance, or whether some of them have been proceeded against as
absentees.

Digitized by GOOSIG

 

 

 

CHANGERY RULES. 27

RULE 95.- On the coming in and confirmation of the Commission— If tillereis
15qu us raiser’s report of the sale of mortgaged premises, 1f 1t shall appear there :31ng ftllfo rt,

gaged premises, the subsequent indue the complainant, any defendant, upon filing an aiiidavit that such cumbmncer,

surplus has been paid into court, and that he is entitled to the same, $3,333”

0 I t .
or some part thereof, may have an order of course, referrmg 1t to a 31?; 33mm

Commissioner to ascertain and report the amount due to such defend—
ants, or to any other person and which is a lien upon such surplus
monies, and to ascertain the priorities of the several liens thereon;
to the end, that on coming in and confirmation of the report, such
further order and decree may be made for the distribution of surplus
monies, as may be just; and every defendant who has appeared in
the cause, and every person who has left a written notice of his claim
to such surplus monies with the register or assistant register, where
the same are deposited, shall be entitled to notice to attend the Commissioner on such reference.- And any person making a claim to such Person
8 masurplus monies, and who shall fail to establish his claim, on the hear— “"3 “‘11me
ded claims to

, . . _ o surplus mon1ng before the Commlssmner, may be charged wrth such costs as the other 9,8 liable for

parties have been subjected to, by reason of such claim; and the m“
parties succeeding on such reference may be allowed such costs as the
Court or Commissioner acting as injunction master may be deemed
reasonable; but no costs unnecessarily incurred on such reference, or
previous thereto, by any of the parties, shall be allowed on taxation,

or paid out of such surplus.

RULE 96. The petition for the appointment of a guardian ad Zitem Guardians,
shall be by the infant in person, if he is of the age of fourteen and 3333:3132?"
upwards; but if he is under fourteen, it shall be presented by his next
of kin, or some other friend of the infant. But if an infant defend— When 39.
ant, or some disinterested relative or friend, in his behalf, does not Egiifceftiiiia

. . . . . . 01' complainprocure the appomtment of a guardian ad lztem,W1thm the usual time ant.

for appearance, as prescribed by the rules of this Court, the adverse

party may apply to the Court or Commissioner acting as injunction

master to appoint a suitable person as the guardian for such infant;

and such party in his petition, shall briefly state the age and residence“

of such infant, the general object of the suit or proceeding and the

nature the infant’s interest therein. I

RULE 97'. N o guardian ad Zitem, for an infant defendant, or next Security 136
friend of an infant complainant, unless he has given security to the gu‘rdian’

infant according to law, shall, as such guardian, receive any money Or

is any surplus monies remaining in court, after satisfying the amount

Digitized byGoogle I

n—hrx... '.

28‘ - CHAN CERY RULES.

property belonging , to such infant, or which maybe awarded to him
in the suit, except such costs and expenses as may be allowed by the
Court to the guardian, out of the fund, or received by the infant in
the suit. Neither shall the general guardian of an infant receive any

part of the proceeds of the sale. of real property belonging to such
infant, sold under a decree or order of the Court, until the guardian

has given such further security for the faithful discharge of his trust,
as the court may direct. . .

Bills for di- RULE 98. All bills for the purpose of obtaining divorce, wheth

vorce to be

also on oath. the husband or wife is complainant, shall be duly verified by oath, in
the usual manner of verifying bills, where by the course and practice
of the Court an oath is required. In a bill for a divorce on the ground
of adultery, the complainant must also positively aver, that the adul-‘
tery charged in the bill, was committed without his consent, connivance, privity or procurement; and that he has not voluntarily cohabited with the defendant since the discovery of a such adultery.

Begum to RULE 99. If any such bill is taken as confessed, or the facts charged

:g‘ftnggg therein are admitted by the answer, the complainant may,pupon. due

“1' . proof by aiiidavit of the regularity of the proceedings to take the
bill as confessed, or upon the bill and answer, have another of course
entered for a reference to. a Commissioner to take proof of all the

material facts charged in the bill, and to report such proof to the
Court, with his opinion thereon.

Adultery or RULE 100. The defendant in the answer may set up the adultery
$3331?" of the complainant, or any other matter which would be a bar to a
may no

up in the an- divorce, seperation, or the annulling of a marriage contract; and if
BWGI‘.
an issue is taken thereon, it shall be tried at the same time and in the
same manner as other issues of fact in the cause.

an sentence RULE 101. N o sentence “or decree of nullity, declaring void a marof nullity or .

decree for nage contract, or decree for a divorce, or for a separate or limited
d vorco orfa

separation divorce, shall be made of course, by the default of the defendant; [or

by consent . .
orby dtf-nlt 1n consequence of any neglect to appear at the hearing of the cause,

or by consent. And every such cause shall be heard after the trial of
the feigned issue, or upon the coming in of the Commissioner’s report, at
a stated term of the Court.

Payment“ RULE 102. When a party is ordered to pay the costs of anyininterlocuto,, mg, ,1,“ terlocutory proceedings, and no time of payment is speciiied . in the
comp lee.

. order, he shall pay them within twenty days after the filing of the
taxed bill, and aiiidavit and. service of a copy of the order of such

Digitized by 600816 ‘

‘ 'OHANcERr RULES. s9

taxed bill; or if a gross sum is specined in the order, within twenty
days of service of a oertilied copy of the order. And if he neglects
‘or refuses to pay such costs within the time prescribed as aforesaid,
ornpecihed in the order, the adverse party, on an aiiidavit of the per.
sonal service of such copies, and a demand of payment, and that such
 have not been paid, may have an execution therefore, or move "for
an attachment against the delinquent; . ~ A i '  v .
:RULE 103. On filing a bill of review, or other bill in the naturefof much...

a bill of review, the complainant shall make the like deposit or give {1°53 5:31.;

o . . out loan
security to the adverse party in the same amount which is or would $30323;
be required on an appeal from an order or decree complained of ; and
no such bill shall be filed, either upon the discovery of new matters,
or otherwise, without special leave of the court first obtained, nor un- /
less the same is brought within the time allowed for bringing an ape
pea], except upon newly discovered facts or evidence.  ‘

a RULE 104. Where a creditor, by judgment or decree, files a bill in Creditor’s

o a o o o . .  to reach
this court against his debtor, to obtain satisfaction out of the equita- equitable interests.mut ‘

ble interests, thin-gain action, or other property of the latter, after the mg 211;“:
return of an «execution unsatisfied, he shall state in such bill, either ‘
‘ positively or“ according to his belief, the true sum actually and equitaA bly due on such judgment or decree, over and above all just claims of

the defendant, by way of offset, or otherwise. He shall also state that

he knows, or has reason to believe, the defendanthas equitable inter- ? mm}:

1 d t’
eats, things in action, or other property, exceeding one hundred dollars gigs.»

in value, exclusive of all prior claims thereon, which the complainant
has been unable to discover and reach by execution on such judgment
' or decree. The bill shall likewise contain an allegation that the same
is not exhibited by collusion with the defendant, or for the purpose of
psotecting the property or effects of the debtor against the claims of

other creditors; but for the sole purpose of compelling payment and
satisfaction of the complainant’s own debt. i ‘

~ RULE 105. Every such creditor’s bill shall be verified by the oath Such mu. ‘

of the complainant, or in case of his absence from the State, or other aggrom’;

suHicient cause shown, by the oath of his agent or attorney. Such bills :mm 2;
may be amended of course, in the same manner as bills not sworn to, “m

y if the amendments are merely in addition to, and not inconsistent with

what'is contained in the original bill. But all such amendments shall

be verified by oath in the same manner as the bill is required to be
verified. i ' ‘

Digitized by 600816

I

89 CHANCERY RULES.

Jmm‘ RULE 106. In suit by judgment. creditor’s bills, in case the defend;‘rg‘cthg-y ant has been duly served with process, and he is in default for want
“mam in of answer, the complainant shall be entitled. to the like orders and

default for
We“ of W proceedings in regard to receive as he would-be, in case he should take

3701'.
the bill as confessed by the defendant.
Debtor need RULE 107. The debtor against whom a creditor’s bill is filed, shall
1: er . . . .
iiie billrbut not be subJect to the expense of putting In an“ answer thereto 1n

may consent

‘lt‘hat it beta- the usual manner, if he shall cause his appearance to be entered with311 as con{giwias $153130, in twenty days after the return day of the subpoena, and shall within
£33231" the time allowed for an answer, deliver to the complainant, or his solicitor, a written consent that an order may be entered taking the bill
as confessed; and for the appointment of a receiver, and for a reference to take the examination of the defendant, in conformity to this
rule. Upon presenting such written consent to the Court, the complainant may have a special order, founded thereon, directing the bill
to be taken as confessed against the debtor, and referringit to such Commissioner as the court may designate in such order, to appoint a receiver,
with the usual powers, and to take from him the requisite security.
Eactrthcgror- The order shall also direct the defendant to assign, transfer and dezggiaiest liver over to the receiver on oath, under the direction of the Commissioner, all his property,equitable interests, and in action, and effects ; and
that he appear before the Commissioner, from time to time, and produce such books and papers and submit to such examination as the
Commissioner shall direct, in relation to any matter which he might
have been legally required to disclose, if he had answered the bill in

the usual manner. The expense of taking down such examination by

 

the Commissioner, shall be paid by the complainant, in the first in- '

stance, and may be taxed and allowed to the latter as a part of his
necessary cost-s in the suit. The complainant shall also be at liberty
to examine witnesses before the Commissioner, as to the preperty of
the defendant, or as to any other matter charged in the bill, and not

copy of mle admitted by the defendant on such examination. And the complaind 1' to . . .
ii: 523333.. ant shall cause a written or printed copy of this rule to be served on

gift-ii??? the defendant at the time of the service of the subpoena, with a no " re. tice to the defendant that an entry of his appearance and an answer
on oath is required; or such defendant shall not be answerable to the
complainant for the costs of the proceedings to compel an appearance
and answer.
RULE 108. Every receiver of the preperty and eifects of the debtor,
.

‘ CHANCERY RULEBt 3e!

appointed in a suit upon a creditor’s bill, shall, unless restricted by the '1'!“ '°°°"'

ers powers
special Order of the Court, or circuit court commissioner, have general “‘4 “m” ~

power and authorityto sue for and collect ‘all the debts, demands and
rents belonging to‘ such debtor, and to compromise and settlesuch as i
are unsafe and of a doubtful‘character. He may also sue in the name'
of the debtor, Where it is necessary or proper for him to do so, and he
may apply for and obtain an order of course, that the tenants of any
real estate belonging to the debtor, or 'of ' which he is entitled to the.
rents and proiits, attorn to such receiver and pay their rents to him.
He shall also be permitted to make leases from time to time, as may
be necessary, for terms not exceeding one year. And it shall berhis
duty without unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal estate
and eii'ects into money ; but he shall not sell any real estate of the debtor, without the special order of the Court or circuit court commissioner.
He is not to be allowed for the costs of any suit brought by him Wm M.
against an insolvent from whom he is unable to collect his costs, 1111- 
less such suit is brought by order of the Court, or by the consent of u"
all "persons interested in the funds in his hands. But he may sell Receiver
such desperate debts, and all other doubtful claims to personal pro- wugf‘m‘
perty, at public aution, giving at least ten day’s notice of the time “m
and place of such sale. ‘
RULE 109. ‘Where several bills are filed by diiferent creditors Th. mm.

against the same debtor, no more than one receiver of his property 333:“:m.

and sheets shall be appointed, unless the first appointment has been 3:61:11“ m

obtained by fraud or collusion, or unless the receiver is an imprOper
person to execute the trust. The receiver shall give security sumlcient to cover the whole property and eii'ects of the debtor, which may
come in his hands by virtue of his oiiice; and he shall hold such pro‘perty and eii‘ects for the benefit of all creditors who have commenced,
or shall commence similar suits during the continuance of his trust,
to be disposed of according to their legal or equitable priorities. He
shall not pay over the fuhds in his hands to the parties, or to any 3mm, mt

other person, without being especially authorized to do so by an order $2555 :3;

or decree of the court; nor shall he be discharged from his trust :tliout Ipe-s’d

without a special order, to be obtained upon a written consent of all cm 9rd”.

the parties interested in the property in his hands, or upon the notice
of the application.

RULE 110. When another suit is commenced after the appoint.‘
ment of a receiver, the same person may be appointed receiver of such

0

Digitized by 600816

82 CHANGERY RULES. '
subsequent suit, and shall give such further security as 'the 

The main, shall direct. He shall keep a separate account of any property or

to kee scla- . . .
rate adh’td. eii'ects of the debtor, WlllCll may have been acquired smcc the commencement of the first suit, or which may be assigned to such receiver under the appointment in the last cause.

Ell'ect of the
injunction

Eggnbigrsedit- be construed to prevent the debtor from receiving and applying the

RULE 111. N o injunction issued upon any such creditor’s bill, shall

proceeds of his subsequent earnings to the support of himself, or of his
family, or to defray the expenses of the suit, or to prevent him from
complying with any order of this Court, made in any other cause, to
assign and deliver his prepert-y and effects to a receiver; or to restrain
him from making the necessary assignment to obtain his discharge
under the insolvent laws, unless an express provision to that effect is
contained in the injunction.

RULE 11:2. When two or more special motions, or applications in

Orders 'upon

Erwin] "10' the same suit are decided at the same time or on the same day or
tionsdemded a p

at the same ' ‘ ' ' ' . '
time’m be several directlons are given by the court m relatlon to the suit, the

33m?” Whole shall be entered together as one order, unless the court shall

1:10 or liners otherwise direct. And when a party is entitled to enter two or more
0 81‘80 J

coprse in cer orders of course, in a suit at the same time, or on the same day, they
tam cases to

3: 31:13:36.1 as shall be entered together as one order.

Commission- RULE 113. The “ Act to provide for the discharge of the duties

Eggiglgdeaj? heretofore performed by injunction masters,” approved June 27th,
1851, (S. L. 1851, p. 277,) is construed to confer upon the Circuit
Court Commissioners designated in pursuance thereof the same powers in Chancery cases within their respective counties, as may be properly exercised by a Circuit Judge at Chambers, subject to such restrictions and regulations as the Supreme Court may prescribe. I

Restriction

or powers, restricted in the following particulars. :

l. N e such Circuit Court Commissioner shall be empowered to vacate any order, or decree of the Circuit court, or any order made by
a Circuit Judge: '

2. Nor shall he grant any injunction to stay proceedings at law,
unless reasonable notice of the the and place of hearing the application therefore shall have been previously given to the adverse party:

3. Nor shall he grant any other injunction without such notice,

unless in his opinion the peculiar exigencies of the case require it, for .

manifest reasons to be shown by aiiidavit.

RULE 114. The general powers conferred by said act are hereby ‘

CHAN CERY RULES. 33 ‘

“RULE 115. The rules and practice of the Circuit 'COurts inCii‘ah- gm“
eery, shall govern the proceedings before such Circuit Court Commie: away!!!sionelrs, asfar as they may be applicable. ‘ ' ' _ 'VRULE 116. The first Tuesday of every month is assigned for hear-‘ Motion days.
ing and disposing of business before eVery such Circuit Court Come ' '
missioner, at the Court House of the pr0per county-for in Wayne
county, at the Supreme Court council room in the city of Detroit;
but such Circuit Court Commissioners may also discharge the duties
Of their respective oiiices at such other times as may be necessary.

 Ruth: 117.’ “It shall be the duty of every such Circuit Court Com- Regine, of
missioner to procure and keep in his oiiice a register, in which he shall proceeding

enter the title of each cause or proceeding in which he shall make any
interlocutory order or decree, and a brief memorandum of his doings.
therein. A ‘

RULE 118. Any person conceiving himself aggrieVed by any inter- Aw,m

locutory order, or decree made by any such Circuit Court Commis- m"
sioner, in any suit in Chancery, may appeal therefrom to the Circuit
Court of the county in which such suit is pending: Providai, (1.)
That such appeal shall be claimed and entered within fifteen days
from the time‘of making such‘order or decree; and (2.) That the
appellant shall within that time execute a bond to the appellee in such
penal sum, not less than one hundred dollars, as the Commissioner
shall prescribe, with sujiicient surety, to be approved by the Commissioner, conditioned to pay, satisfy and perform the decree or order
which by the Circuit Court may be made in the premises, and to pay
all costs in case the order appealed from shall be adirmed. But
no such appeal shall operate as a stay of proceedings, unless a special
order to that effect shall be made by the Circuit Judge or by such
Circuit Court Commissioner on proper cause shown. 1

RULE 119. The appeal bond mentioned in the preceding rule, shall Am bond,
be filed with the Circuit Court Commissioner approving the same and
shall remain with him subject to’ the order of the court in which the
suit is pending. ‘ ‘

RULE 120. It shall be the duty of the. appellant under these rules, may
to file with the Circuit Court Commissioner within the time above gaffe“ aplimited for claiming and entering his appeal, his reasons for such ap-' 
peal. Whereupon it shall be the duty of such Commissioner within
twenty days thereafter, to transmit to the clerk of the Circuit Court

all papers upon which the motion or proceeding may have been
5 .

Digitized by 600816

a”

a

34

Commissioner to act, unless unable.

Fees of Commissioner.

Customary
practice of
the court to
govern in cases not otherwise provided for.

CHANCERY RULES.

founded, or which may have been used on such motion or proceeding,
certified by him, or in case the original pleadings or files shall have

been used he shall certify such fact to the court, with a description
of the original papers so used.

RULE 121. All appilcations within the scope of the powers and duties of such Circuit Court Commissioner, in any county, shall be made
to such Commissioner except in case of his absence, sickness, or other
disability. '

RULE 122. Such Circuit Court Commissioners shall be entitled to
the following fees for their services, to be paid by the party requiring
such services, on the performance of the same, viz:

For entering any cause on the register required to be kept by such
Commissioner, nfty cents.

For hearing a. motion for injunction, when opposed, three dollars;
when heard experts, one dollar.

For attending at the time and place assigned for the hearing of
any special motion, and adjourning the same upon request or on reasonable cause, one dollar.

For attending and hearing every argument, upon any special motion, when contested, three dollars; if not contested, one dollar.

For certifying papers, when an appeal is claimed from the Circuit
Court Commissioner, to the Circuit Court, two dollars.

For approving and filing appeal bond, fifty cents.

For granting stay of proceedings when an appeal is taken, fifty cents.

For allowing a Commission to take testimony in a cause, fifty cents.

For settling and allowing interrogatories under a commission, one
dollar. I

For appointing a receiver, when the question is contested, three
dollars and fifty cents; when (ax-parts, one dollar and fifty cents.

If any Commissioner shall perform any other duties than those
enumerated in the above fee bill, he shall be entitled to such fees
therefore as shall be allowed him by the Circuit Judge.

RULE 123. In cases where no provision is made by statute, or by
these rules, the proceedings of this court shall be according to the
customary practice, as it has heretofore existed in cases not provided
for by statute or the written rules of the court.

These rules shall take eii'ect on the twentieth day of April next.

Adopted and allowed by the Supreme Court, Detroit, March 10th,
1853.

Dlgliléed by \J aldgie

L2“ ’

..I._

 

 

  
 

INDEX TO CHANCERY RULES.

Absent defendants, reference in case of, Rule 17
Abstract of pleadings, 650., ' 67
Accounting before master, 79
Address of petition and bills, 4
Affidavits to be annexed to costs to be taxed, 92
to obtain an attachment when a discovery is prayed for, 12
Agreements between solicitors to be in writing, 86
Agents to be appointed by solicitors, 1
when service may be on, 2
double time of service on, \ 3
Amendment of creditors bills of course, 105
Amendments to bill when allowed, 22
after demurrer, ' 23
after exceptions allowed or submitted to, 24
to be of course, without order, 22
not to be of course to injunction bills, 24
service of necessary, 22
to sworn bill how verified, 22
statement of to be filed, 22
Answers on overruling plea, &c., 27
how to be verined, 8
on oath how waived, 19
before whom they may be sworn, 20
when deemed suiiicient, 32
to cross bill, when demandable, 21
effect of when not replied to, 19
taken out of state, how verified, 20
to be put in within 20 days, 11
further time for, on exceptions submitted to, 36
to amendments and exceptions, ' 39
to amendments on exceptlons allowed, 37
_ to amendments to be fixed by the Commissioner, - 33 Appeals from Commissioner, 118
when to stay proceedings, 118
Appearance, when and where entered, 11
on return of attachment erved, 13
penalty for refusing to enter, 13

Digitized by 600816

aha-L... _

r“

36 INDEX.
Argument of exceptions to answer, to be heard as a motion, Rule 41
Attachment for not appearing when to issue, 12
neglect to appear on, penalty for, 13
proceedings on to compel appearance, 13
Bank, accounts with, how kept, 89
orders on, how drawn, 90
Bills to be addressed to the circuit court, &c., _ 4
to be-sworn to when, ' 7
how to be sworn to, 8
by creditors what to state, 104
may be amended, [05
manner of stating matters in, 8
of non-residents, not to be filed without security for costs, 6
of revivor what unnecessary to state, 46
dismissal of, if papers not furnished, 70
not sworn to, amendable of course, 22
may be amended after demurrer, 23
may be amended on exceptions allowed, 24
may be dismissed for want of prosecution, 48
of review, not to be filed without leave, 103
for divorce, &c., to be sworn to, 98
for divorce, to contain special averments, 98
for foreclosure of mortgages, how to state encumbrances, 93
Caption of orders and decrees, form of, 4
to state where made, 4
Calendar, how made up, 65
cause may be entered on in term, 56
Case to be furnished at hearing, 64
to be not more than one—sixth as long as pleadings, &c., 64
Charges and discharges to be sworn to on accounts, 79
Circuit Court Commissioner, powers as injunction master, 113, 121
fees as injunction master, 122
may tax costs, _ 91
reference of exceptions to, 29
report on, 32, 35
exceptions to his report how heard, 41
may fix time for further answer, 33
proceedings on ordinary reference, 72
to issue summons and £2: time of service, 72
may allow another party to proceed on reference, '75
may settle order of proceeding, . - 74
may direct as to production and custody of books and papers, 75
when may proceed ex-parte, 76
how examinations to be made, 77
exceptions for impertinence or insuiiiciency of papers, 78
may examine accounting party on oath, 79
may allow interest, I 79
may make separate report, 80
- sale and conveyance of land by, 82
Court bills to be addressed to, . 4
Commissions to examine witnesses, how obtained, 50 '
to examine witnesses, adverse party may join in, 51

Digitized by 600816

.“W.

——‘_.__..._‘_i- 4-._—.a——-—_—.____.____

 

 

 

_,._—_——__—_ _.. “‘-—_ _ _ . - ___._._..__.'.r.___,___._ I—-. ‘. ., _.. _. . \___‘—_

INDEX. 37

Commissions, how executed, Rule 54
how Opened and filed, 55
special may be granted, 53
Common orders, how obtained, 25
Complainant’s name to be placed first in title of cause, 69
Complainant when to give security for costs, ' 6
to deliver a copy of bill in 15 days if required, M

may waive answer on oath, ’ 19

to refer exceptions in ten days, 29

to serve a c0py of rule in creditor's suit, 107
examination of, 17
Conveyances not to be executed before enrollment, 82
Copy of bill, order to deliver in nfteen days, 14
rule to be served in creditor’s suit, ' 107i
Cepies of pleadings to be furnished to the court on hearing, 67
by whom furnished, 68

Costs of amendment after answer, 22
security for, . 6

of exceptions for scandal or impertinence, 31, 35

of exceptions submitted to, to be paid by defendant, 28

of exceptions when disallowed, 35

order for further answer and for costs, 37

taxed bill to be served before time of answering expires, 39

of exceptions, penalty for not paying, , 40.

of exceptions to be all included in one bill, 42
regulated in certain cases, ’ 92

may be taxed by Commissioner or re ister, ' 91;

not to be paid until taxed bill and a davit filed, 92

of false claims to overplus on sales, to be paid by claimant, 95

to be veriiied by oath on taxation, 92
interlocutory to be paid in 20 days, 102

notice of taxation of, 92

when to be paid, 102
Creditor’s bills, form of ' 104
to be sworn to, 105
submission of defendant on, . 107
powers of receiver on, ' 108

may be amended of course, 105

rule to be served with subpoena in, 107
receiver on when appointed est-part6, 106

- injunction on, effect of, 111
Cross bill when to be answered, - 21
Date of issue, to give priority on calendar, ' 65
Debtor, when excused from answering, creditor’s bill, 107
Deeds, §Lc., not to be read on hearing without order, a 58
Decrees, caption of to state when made, 4
to be enrolled before execution. - .82

for divorce, &c., not granted by default without proof, 101
by default at hearing, 70

of course, of dismissal for not serving copy of bill, 14
Defaults may be set aside on terms, ' .88
Defendant, when excused from answering creditor’s bill, 107

 

d»...I. J—_‘-._

9i
i

Digitized by 600816 



1

38 INDEX.
Defendant to appear in 20 days after service of subpoena, Rule 11
' _ arreste on attachment, to enter his appearance, 13
may submit to a part of exceptions, 28
to nle and serve cepy of answer, 15
proceedings on examination of as a witness, 57
may decline answering certain interrogatories, 45

Demurrer for want of parties, amendment of course on, - 23
overruled as frivolous, or otherwise order on, 27
either party may notice it for hearing, 26
how placed on calender, and in what class, 65
when not to be held bad, -43, 44
Deposit to be made on rehearing, 85
to be made on Eling bill of review, 103
Deposition to be returned and filed in ten days after proofs closed, 60
suppression of, not made except on special motion, 56
how taken on reference to Commissioner, 77
Discovery from defendant, how obtained, 12
Dismissing bill for want of prosecution, 48
Divorce, bills for to be sworn to, - 98
bills, reference of, 99
matters set up in bar of, how tried, _ 100
decree of not of course on default, 101
Documentary evidence not to be read without order, 58
Deuble time when service on an agent, 3
Enrollment of decrees to be made before execution, 82
1 of decrees no process to issue without, 82
Entitling of papers, complainant’s name to be placed first, 69
Examination of parties, &c., before Commissioner, ‘ 77'
accounting before a Commissioner, 79
Exceptions not to prevent dissolution of injunction, 18
for insufficiency, not allowed where oath is waived, 19
to answer, to be filed in twenty days, ' 28
not submitted to, to be referred in ten days, 29
for scandal or impertinence, how taken, 31
Commissioner’s report on, when conclusive, 35
to be stated on reference of 2nd and 3rd answer, 30
Commissioner’s report on, when to be procured, 32
when to become absolute, 34 ,'
to a report on, to be heard as a special motion, 41 ,»
costs on regulated, 41
costs on not allowed in certain cases, 42
limited to objections taken before Commissioner, 78
costs on, to be one bill, . 42
not to prevent motion to dissolve injunctlon, 18
Execution-of commission, 54 I
for costs when, 102 I
Exhibits to be produced before Commissioner, 58 :
to be returned and filed before hearing, 60 .‘
Fees to be detailed on bill of costs, 92
allowed in certain cases, 92
Foreclosure suits, proceedings in, 93
‘ bill, what rlghts to state, 93

Digitizer; .‘>y 3.-.. L)  I u

 

.2—=.

 

INDEX. 39

Foreclosure bill, reference in suits of course to compute, Rule 94
suits, proof as to infants and absent defendants, 94
aii‘idavit of regularity, 94
reference as to surplus, 95
Further answer, order for a submission to exceptions, 36

on report of Commissioner, 37
Guardians ad Zitem, how appointed, _ 96
do petitions for, by whom presented and what to state 96

do not to receive infants preperty, . 97

Hearing may be noticed by either party, - 62
on bill and answer, if no replication is filed, 47

time of notice of, how regulated, - . 63

case to be furnished on, in certain cases, - 64

of the exceptions, to report on exceptions, 41

deeds not to be read on, without order, 58
calendar of causes for, how made up, 65

to be noticed for first day of term, 66

papers to be furnished on, 67

who to furnish papers for, 68
decrees by default at, 70
Impertinence, report on, when to be iinal, - 35
Impertinent matter, order to expunge, 35
Incumbrances, not to be stated at length in foreclosure suits, 93
Infants, guardians, ad Zitem of, 96
guardians not to receive property of, 97
Injunctions, eifect of on creditor’s bill, 111
Interrogatories, to examine foreign witnesses, 52
Issue on iiling general replication, 47
note of, to be delivered to the register, 66

what causes to have priority from date, 65
Interest, on accounting before Commissioner, 79
Money, order for payment of, 90
Motions when to stand over, 5
to be made on the day of notice, ' 5

special notice of, how to be given, 63

to dismiss bill for want of prosecution, 48

for reference in divorce causes, 99

to be made before Commissioner, 113, 121

’ Mortgage cases, proceeding regulated, 94
to have preference, ' 65
reference of course, to compute amount, 94
reference as to surplus monies, 95

Ne sweat, when may be discharged, 19
N on-resident complainants to give security, 6
Note of issue, when to be delivered, . 66
Notice, when it may be served on agent, 2
how served in absence of solicitor, 3

when double time required, _ 3

when to put in post-office, 2

of application for a commission, 50, 53

of examination of witnesses, 49

of hearing and special motions, 63

= i
{av-w

 

Digitized by 600816

D ' U
sag—"uh,- —

40 INDEX.
Notice to attend on reference, time of regulated, Rule 72
' of hearing, to be for first day of term,;: 66
of claim to surplus, may be filed, 95
not necessary after pro confesso, 16
Nullity of marriage, bill for, to be verified by oath, 98
- of marriage, reference to take proofs, 99
Oath to bills and answers, ' 8
Orders of course, when to be entered together, 112
Order to take bill as confessed for neglect to appear, 11
that defendant answer in twenty days, 15
for absent defendants to appear, 17'
that defendants appearance be entered on attachment, 13
to deliver a cepy of bill in fifteen days, 14
to answer cross bill, 21
of course, to amend, not necessary, 22
of course, how entered, . 25
to answer on overruling a plea or demurrer, 27'
to refer exception to answer, if not submitted to, 29
to second or third answer on old exceptions, 30
to exceptions for scandal or impertinence, 31
to expunge impertinent matter, 35
for a further answer on submission to exceptions, ' 36
for on report of commissioner on exceptions, 37'
on default in answering exceptions for insufiiciency, 40
to dismiss bill for want of prosecution, 48
to examine winesses before Commissioner, 49
for special commission to examine witnesses, 53
to examine defendant as witness, 57
for leave to prove exhibits at hearing, ' 58
to enlarge time for examimation of witnesses, _ 61
of hearing calendar causes at term, 65
to dismiss bill for default at hearing, . 70
of reference, application to expedite proceedings on, 73
to confirm Commissioner’s report, unless cause, 81
aii'ecting merits to be included in enrolment, 82
\to stay proceedings, and to show cause, how obtained, 84
nisi, to be orders of eight days, 8'7
to extend time, by whom allowed, . 88
upon banks for payment of monies deposited 1n court, 90
of reference to compute amount due on mortgage, 94
of as to surplus on mortgage sales, 0 95
for guardian, ad litem, by whom granted, 96
to pay costs how enforced, 102
for leave to file a bill of review, deposit required on, 103
form of caption of, l 4
caption of, to state truly where court was held, 4 I,
several, when to be entered as one, 112 ;'
by Circuit Court Commissioner, 4
Papers to be furnished for hearing, 67'
' ' furnished on a rehearing, 67'
Parol agreements between solicitors not alowed, 86
Petitions to be addresed to the circuit court, 4

 

Digitized bycoogle   

_.,_

INDEX. 41

   

Petitions, how to be verified, Rule 8 
for a rehearing, 83 J
to appoint guardians ad Zitem, 96
Plea overruled as frivolous, proceedings on, 27'
if allowed, may be replied to within 10 days, 26
not to be held bad for certain causes, 43, 44
Pleadings to be fairly written, 69
to be abbreviated for the court on the hearing, 64
by whom to be furnished on hearing, ‘ 68 .
Process, when returnable. 9
may be renewed of course, if not served, 9
upon decrees, by whom to be sealed, 82
pro confesso after service of subpoena, 11
pro confesso for want of answer, 15
‘ pro confesso against absent defendants, 17
Receivers, how appointed on creditor’s bills, 107
powers of, on creditor’s bill, 108
not to pay money to parties without order, 109
to keep separate accounts, 110only one to be appointed, 110
Reference of exceptions to answer for insufiiciency, 29
of second and third answers on old exceptions, 30
of exceptiOns for scandal or impertinence, 31
proceedings and notice required, 72
to compute amount due on mortgage, 94
as to surplus on mortgage sales, 95
in divorce cases, how obtained, 99
by consent on creditor’s bills, 107
Register to keep list of agents in his oiiiee, 1
to issue commissions to take testimony, 50
69

not to file irregular papers,
Rehearing petition, certificate of counsel, &c., on application for, 83

    
  
  
 
  

deposit on to be made in 10 days, 85
Replication, when to be filed, ' 47
Report, objections to, must be made before Commissioner, 78

separate when, 89

on exceptions for impertinence, when filed, 34

order to confirm nisi, 81

on exceptions, to specify time for further answer, 33

on exceptions, when to become absolute, 34
Retaxation to be granted by the court in certain cases, 

. 1

Rule to be served in creditor’s suits,

when to take effect, 87'

to be annexed to commission, 54
Security to be given by non-residents before bill filed, 6
required of special guardians, 97
required on bill of review, 103
Separation bill, how verified, 38'
reference to take proof on bill for, 99

not granted of course, in any case, 101
Several orders when to be entered as one, 112
2

Service may be on agent in certain cases,
6

I"
Digitized by 600816

J

42 INDEX.

Service, when on agent, double time required, Rule 3
by putting in post oHice, 2
not required when defendant has not appeared, 2
of subpoena, how made, 10
Solicitors to have agents in each circuit, 1
to verify bills of costs before taxation, 92
Submission of causes, how made, 7.1
to answer exceptions, 28
Subpoena to contain names of all the defendants, 10
how to be served, 10
for witnesses, to specify place of appearance, 59
Substance of oath to be stated in jurat, 8
Summons, time of service required on, 72
to be served upon encumbrancers who have filed claims, 95
Supplemental bill need not set forth original unless, &c., 46
Surplus on sales, distribution how made, 95,
Statement in bill of review and supplemental, 46
Stay of proceedings, how obtained, 84
Taxation of costs, regulated, 92
of costs, by whom, 91
Testimony to be returned and filed before hearing, 60
when and how taken, &c., 49
before Commissioner to be taken and preserved, . 77
Term, notice of hearing to be for first day, 66
Time, for taking testimony, 49
when proofs to be closed, 49
for entering appearance, 11
for suppressing depositions, 56
for 61mg depositions, 60
for proceeding in reference, 73
on rules and orders, how computed, 87
may be extended in all cases, 88
for service of Commissioner’s summons, — 72
for service of notice of hearing, - 63
for service on agent, &c., - 3
for filing notes of issue, 66
Witnesses out of state to be examined on interrogatories, 52
not compelled to travel over forty miles, 59
how examined on reference, ' 77
order to examine defendant as, 57
subpoenas to compel attendance of, 59
examination of, 49
Writing, submissions to be in, 71
agreements to be in, 85

   

.5

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

LAW RULES.

RULE 1. Applicants for admission to practice at the bar as attor- Examination
neys and counsellors shall be examined, if entitled thereto, in open 0f Attorneys
Court, upon the principles of common law, and practice generally, as

well at law as in equity.

RULE 2. To entitle an applicant to an examination, he must make Form and re.
quisites of

application by petition, addressed to the Court, verined by his own $323313“

oath ; in which he must state, that he is a citizen of the United States, :ion to prise100.

twenty-one years of age, and a resident of the judicial circuit in which

.he so applies. To such petition, before it shall be acted upon by the

Court, there must be annexed the certificate of at least one reputable
member of the bar, or some other reputable person known to the
Court, certifying to the good moral character of the applicant, and in
a manner satisfactory to the Court.

RULE 3. In every case of apphcation and admissmn to the bar, the Proceedings
on admission

applicant shall take the proper oath, sign the roll of attorneys to be “attorney,
provided and kept by the clerk for that purpose, and pay to the clerk
a fee of two dollars; and he shall thereupon be entitled to a certificate from the clerk, under the seal of the Court, of his examination

and admission.

RULE 4. Every attorney shall have an agent in each place where Every mar.

there is a circuit court held in this state, except in the city or town 33:13“

where such attorney keeps his office. N 0 person shall be an agent‘agent, duo.

unless he be an attorney of the Court, clerk of the Court, or deputy

clerk. The appointment of agents shall be made in writing, signed Appointment
’ to be in wriby the attorney, and filed in the clerk’s oiiice; and the clerk shall keep ting.

a. catalogue of the appointments nled in the oiiice, with the attorneys’ 2.13%? of

names, alphabetically arranged. agents.

Digitized by 600816

2 LAW RULES.

Service of RULE. 5. When the attorney for the adverse party “resides more
a ers,on . .
idiom and than two miles from the place of holding court, service of papers conho mull.
w templated by these rules may be made on an agent; but if he has 11.0
such agent, such service may be made by mail.

Notice. to Row 6. All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the

be served on . . . '.
the attorney attorney 1n the cause, or his agent; and where a party, who 1s also an

or agent, and

on pzrty pro- attorney of this Court, shall prosecute in person, or is a defendant, ‘
secu mg n ‘

person- shall give notice that he is an attorney,and will defend in person, all
notices and other papers shall be served on him in like manner; and

Servicedtotobc when the object is to bring the party into contempt for disobeying
n

mam any rule or order of the Court, the service shall be on such party per122p?” sonally, unless otherwise specially ordered by the Court.

Notice and RULE 7. Notices and papers may be served on an attorney orhis

ttpféfvt‘ftn agent, by leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in

giggtfnrgey his office, or with a person having charge thereof; or when no person
is to be found in the office, by leaving the same, between the hours of
six in the morning and nine in the evening, in some suitable and conspicuous place in such office; or if the oiiice be not open so as to admit' of service therein, then by leaving, the same at the attorney’s
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion. .
Service on RULE 8. When a party, other than an attorney of this Court, proseparty when

t' ° t ° sma be on such art .
gaming cutes or defends 1n person, he servme of paper y P 3'

how Inade- personally, or by mail. And no service of notice or papers in the orNo notice dinary proceedings in a cause shall be necessary to be made on a deneces ' A o c o o

ghepEen-t fendant who has not appeared therein and glven notice to the plaman no

fpsgemptg: tiiPs attorney of his intention to defend the suit, except where the

dy- defendant is returned imprisoned for want of bail, in which case a copy
of the declaration shall be delivered to him, or to the sheriff or jailor
in whose custody he shall be; and when an exception is entered to
bail, and no notice of retainer of an attorney to defend is given, notice of such exception shall be delivered to the sheriff or one of his
deputies.

soryioe by RULE 9. In case of service by mail, such service may be made by

how putting the notice or papers into the post-oiiice with postage prepaid,
directed to the attorney or party at his place of residence, to be as.
certained according to the best information and belief of the person
making such service. And in such case, the time of service must be
increased one day for every fifty miles distance, between the place of

the deposit and the place of address.

I

Digitized by 600816

LAW RULES. 3f
RULE 10. A defendant shall be deemed to have appeared in an ac- What to be

. . . . (1 ed
tion, when he pleads, demurs, or gives the plamtiii‘ written notice of arm.

his appearance, or when his attorney gives the plaintiii~ written notice ‘
of appearance or retainer generally. And” the plaintifff on filing such
notice of appearance or retainer, may have the appearance of the defendant entered as of the time when such notice was served.

RULE 11. N 0 private agreement or consent between the parties or Ageementtl.
an 00118811

their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be bind- all: 

ing unless the same shall have been reduced to the form of a rule by enteied. Mconsent,‘ and entered accordingly in the book of common rules; or
unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party or ~
his attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.

RULE 12. Original writs may be issued in vacation or term time, 0,, m1

and made returnable on the first Tuesday of every month, and also on :2, 5:11;?“

. . . . . . sued and
any day 1n term‘; and wnts of execution may be issued in vacation when return. bl .
or term time, and made returnable on the first Tuesdays of May, giautions,
en ma
August, November and February, in each year, or on the first day of gleereturni

the next ensuing term of the Court.
RULE 13. Every rule to which a party would, according to the 3,119., com.

practice of the Court, be entitled of course, without showing special ‘c‘i‘Zi‘fi'é‘l‘th:
. 11 mm

cause, shall be denommated a common rule; and every other rule shall 0

be denominated a special rule. All common rules, and all rules by Common

consent of parties, shall be entered with the clerk at his oiiice, in a gig: bubonsent, w on

book to be provided by him for that purpose, to be called the “ com- and where to
. . . be entered.
mon rule book,” and may be entered at any tune, as well in vacation

as during term; and the day when the rule shall be entered, shall be

noted therein, and the party may enter such rule as he may conceive
himself entitled to, of course, but at his peril. ‘

RULE 14. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, Timeme

notice, pleading or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation  on

of the time for complying with the exigency of such rule, order, or 335%.“
notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a compliance therewith is required shall be included, except where it shall fall on a Sunday, in which case the party shall have the next day to comply therewith. When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours. '
RULE 15. In all suits commenced by original writ, the plaintifff shall gig; 311.1% f

file his declaration within twenty days after the return day of the pleadingwrit. Within ten days after the time limited for filing the declaration

Digitized by 600816

4 ‘ I LAW RULES.

the defendant may cause notice of his appearance or of retainer to be
served on the plaintifff. The plaintifff shall within ten days after the
time limited for serving such notice, serve upon the party.giving such
notice a copy of the declaration filed. The defendant on suits so
commenced shall plead to the declaration, and serve a copy of his
plea upon the opposite party or his attorney, within twenty days after
service of a cepy of the declaration. All subsequent pleadings or
notices in suits so commenced, as well as in suits commenced by service of declaration under the statute, shall be respectively nled, and
00pies served on the opposite party within ten days each after the
other, until issue in fact or in law be joined.

Noticeto be RULE 16. To any notice of special matter of defense interposed

given of special matter by a defendant in pleading, the plaintifff shall be at liberty to reply by
h ' u a o a o a
an?“ W notlce; and 1n order to entltle hill to give any new or spec1al matter

in evidence on the trial, either in bar or avoidancc'of such special
matter of defense, he shall give notice thereof. And every notice of
special matter shall briefly state the precise nature of the matter relied on, and otherwise contain all the requisites in matter of substance
of a special plea: and it shall be competent to demur to any such
notice as to any other pleading.
RULE 17. The general issue may be made in the following form:
General is- “The defendant comes and demands a trial of the matters set forth

f f. . . . - '
aue’ omo 1n the plaintlif’s declaration ;” and the form of a demurrer may be as

hammer, follows: “The said defendant says that the said declaration, (or nor r. . . . . . .
am 0 tree, &c.,) 1s not sufficient in law,” shewmg the special cause of demurJoinder in rer, if any, and a joinder in demurrer may be made as follows: “The

i333?” plaintifff (or defendant) says that the said declaration (or notice, &c.,)

is sufflcient in law.”

English . RULE 18. The forms of declarations adopted under the new Eng! I U 0 O .
é’gtttirt 11sh rules, so far as they are not inconsistent w1th either the statutes
18 0011

agrfscom or the peculiar organization of said Circuit Court, may be used, or
n C

the same may be drawn according to the forms heretofore in use, in
said court.
When 6,. RULE 19. All exceptions to the report of the clerk of the court in
apiiza‘ilie. assessing damages, must be nled on the day succeeding that on which

part“ derk' such report is nled, unless the court shall otherwise direct.
m- “mm RULE 20. When a defendant has been taken upon a capias ad 9‘8312mg; spondendum, and has given satisfactory appearance bail, the plaintifff

pmm' may proceed to final judgment, which proceeding shall not release the

Digitized by 600816  i. " 

h. - - - _ n . . .. . n -_ -.=-‘.--- —.I-n— —-':_a:’1‘.-.ii—1:-a.—L.h..— .

hm} 
    
   
   
 

LAW RULES. 5

appearance bail. Until the. defendant has appeared and perfected
special bail he is not entitled to a 00py of the declaration, nor can he
_ plead thereto, nor take any default against the plaintifff ; and where
the defendant in any original writ accepts service, his. appearance may
be entered, and he will be considered in court. ‘ . e s y i i 
RULE 21. If either party shall make default in iilingand serving mil...
any pleading or notice within the time limited by rule, the opposite
party may have the default entered in the common rule book. r  ’

=RULE22. The defendant’s default being duly entered, the plaintifff shines his

shall not be bound afterwards to accept a plea, unless the defendant, 2:“: d1: 0?.

as soon as he shall know that the default has been entered, shall serve w an

an affidavit of merits, plead issuably, and pay or tender the costs of
the default. ‘ ‘ A ‘ i ‘

RULE 23. The party in whose favor default may have been entered mm 1.

in term or in vacation, may at any time, after four days in term shall $332.

. . , , , made absohave intervened, or if entered in term time, then at any time after lute after-c:tion of

the expiration of four days thereafter, or in such other time as may $3316!!!

be ordered by the court, have a rule entered in the common rule book, Judgment.
to, make such default absolute, and for such judgment as the party is

«entitled to by reason of the default. If . such default be taken by 3.1m... '

plaintifff for want of plea, he shall, by said rule, in cases where it is mg“

competent, make reference to the clerk to assess the damages; and in mm of“
other cases said rule shall direct that the assessment be made by the aim...”
court, orbyra jury. . . .  Q, i

i RULE 24. Pleas in abatement, or to the jurisdiction, and all other Aum

dilatory pleas, shall be filed without any rule for a special or a gene- 

ral special hparlance, within ten days after filing and service of de- 3123?“ h
claration. i i i . s
RULE 25. The court will not entertain a motion to set aside the “know,

proceedings in a cause, on the ground of misnomer of the party ar- $9.1m
rested, but will leave him to his remedy by a plea in abatement.

i. RULE 26. The plaintifff may at any time, upon notice to the de- Discontinue
fendant or his attorney, and on the payment of all the costs taxed in £132:
the cause, discontinue his suit in the common rule book.

RULE. 27. All motions to set aside a default shall be made within mad?

the first four days of term next after the default shall have been cm 3:2. m

“M . Pa when
RULE 28. In all cases of special motions, except a motion for - a 3d “1.3:,

continuance, the ailidayits and other papers on which the same may be :3, m

Digitized by 600816

5 I LAW RULES.

founded, shall be filed at the time of entering the motion, and copies
thereof shall be served on the attorney of the opposite party on or
before the day of making such motion.

3330233.- RULE 29. The clerk of every Circuit Court shall provide a book
to be denominated, “the special motion book,” in which all special
motions shall be entered, except motions for continuance. 'In enterscrim-'10:“ ing a special motion, all the grounds upon which the same is founded,
shall be briefly but distinctly set out; and in all cases, the motion
shall be entitled, dated and signed by the attorney or counsel of the
party in whose behalf the same is entered. Such motions shall be

HOW heard" heard in the order in which they are entered, unless otherwise ordered.

$30116 RULE 30. No motion which is resisted shall be argued on the day
it is entered, without the consent of parties, unless the court, on good
cause being shown, otherwise direct.

'ggcgipriizlfor RULE 31. Motions for new trial, with the reasons on which they

when made. are founded, shall be made within two days after the rendition of the
verdict, in the case of a trial by jury; and where the cause has been
tried by the court, two days in term after the decision of the court.

Ergzggngtin RULE 32. Motions in arrest of judgment shall be made within the
aggfmé. same time as motions for new trial, except when a motion for a new
' trial has been interposed and overruled, and then within two days
after the motion is overruled.
Motions“, RULE 33. All motions shall be in writing, and shall have endorsed
3.363331%? thereon the names of the parties and their resPective attorneys.
119mm, to RULE 34. When either party shall demur to any pleading or notice
be apecial' of special matter, he shall briefly but plainly specify the objections,
in matters of substance, as well as those of form, upon which he intends to rely on the argument; and if the pleading or notice shall

be adjudged bad for any cause not so specified, the party pleading,
when allowed to amend on terms, will be permitted to do so without

C

costs.
Amendment, RULE 35. The plaintiii' may, at any time before the default for not
$1123“:nger replying shall be entered to any plea or notice, or within ten days
made. after service of a copy of the plea, if it shall be the general issue,
When either amend his declaration. After plea, either party may, before default
mam” for not answering shall be entered, amend the pleading or notice to
be answered; and where there shall be a demurrer to a declaration or

other pleading or notice, such pleading or notice may be amended at
any time before the default for not joining in demurrer shall be en;

 

Digitized by 600816 .. 1,"

LAW RULES. ‘ 7

taxed. The respective parties may amend under this rule, of course, m,“ In,”
and'without costs, but shall not be entitled so to amend more than “t °°'“'

once. Under this rule new counts, pleas or notices may be added.

RULE 36. N 0 rule to amend shall be required, but a copy of the Amend
loadings to

amended pleading or notice, endorsed, “amended narr,” “plea” “ no- ago 23;!
I8" W ‘

tice,” &c., (as the case may be,) shall be filed and served, with a no- notice.

ties that the same is a copy.of the pleading or notice as amended.

. And the time to plead or answer, if notice thereof has been given, Tim to
pl to

shall be from the day of service of such copy of the amended plead- amendments

ing or notice. ‘

RULE 37. In cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand ammo: pm.
ticulars,

bill of particulars, the plaintifff shall furnish such bill on being served when to be
With a notice requiring the same by the defendant or his attorney“; “mm
and if such bill be demanded before the expiration of the time for

filing plea, the defendant shall have like time to plead after receiving

the bill of particulars, to which he was entitled at the time of serving

such notice.
RULE 38. If the plaintifff shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a mu of W.

bill cf particulars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be inani- Rigid;
edconrt may

cient, the court may in its discretion non-suit the plaintifff, allow npnsqit
p sin n‘ or

further time to furnish it, or require a more particular bill to be de- sive time.
livered
RULE 39. In cases where it is competent for the plaintifff to call upon Bill of p“

the defendant for a bill of the particulars of his set off, the defendant 23313???

shall furnish such bill on the written request of the plaintid’ or his at- human
torney; and in case it be not furnished within thirty days after such goodbgfezgiubill of . particulars is demanded and furnished in cases where a replica- 53???
tion notice is necessary, the plaintifff shall have the same time to re- “nice of
bill of parRULE 40. Application may be made by petition to any Circuit Books and
papers, dis~
production and discovery of books, papers and documents, relating to how mg.
the merits of any suit pending in such court, or of any defense to
1. By the plaintiE, to compel the discovery of papers or documents 1.. .1.“ 0..
see by plainnecessary to enable the plaintifff to declare or answer to any pleading
of the defendant:

Testimony

request, the court may exclude all testimony touching it. Where the fumi'hedfiled after
ply that was uneXpired of the rule at the time of demanding such bill. ticnlm.
Court,  term time, or to the judge thereof, in vacation, to compel the covcry or.
such suit, in the following cases:
in the possessibn or under the control of the defendant, which may be an.
7

Digitized by 600816

8 LAW RULES.
In “M w 2. The plaintifff may be compelled to make the discovery of papers

‘ may “I” or documents, where the same shall be necessary to enable the defendant to answer any pleading of the plaintifff:

. mums af- 3. The plaintiii‘ may be compelled, after declaring, and the defendluring . .
£913“ ant, after pleading, to produce and discover all papers or documents on

after pleading, my be which the action or defense is founded:
compelled to

giggeac. 4. After issue joinedin any action, either party may be compelled

Either pm, to produce and discover all such books, papers and documents, as may
to prepare '

for trial. be necessary to enable the party applying for such discovery to pre
pare for the trial of the cause.

Petition for RULE 41. The petition for such discovery shall state the facts and
discovery,

an? to stgtg circumstances on which the same is claimed, and shall be verified by
0 veri 8

aiiidavit, stating that the books, papers and documents, whereof discovery is sought, are not in the possession or under the control of the
party applying therefore, and that the party making such aiiidavit is
advised by his counsel, and verily believes, that the discovery of the
books, papers or documents mentioned in such petition, is necessary
to enable him to declare, or answer, or to prepare for trial, as the
case may be. . A

Discovery, RULE 42. The rule granting the discovery shall specify the modein

"rule for,what

to specify. which the same is to be made, which may be either by requiring the
party to deliver sworn c0pies of matters to be discovered, or by requiring him to produce and deposit the same with the clerk of the
Rule rorto court in which the trial is to be had. The order shall also specify

1 t' . . . . . .
33951103311133] 6 the time wrthm whlch the discovery 1s to be made; and when the paaw.
pers are required to be deposited, the order shall specify the time for
which the deposit shall continue;

Com 0,. RULE 43. The court or presiding judge thereof, in granting such

2:353:32; order, shall be governed by the principles and practice of the court

$351; of of chancery in compelling discoveries, except that the costs of such

Oghbgrfydtc proceedings shall always be awarded in the discretion of the court.

ngcmtmry, RULE 44. Every such order may be vacated by the court, or the
0 er or 0

when vaca- Judge granting the same:

ted. 1. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been
granted: 7 ‘ . ‘ A
2. Upon the discovery sought being obtained:
3. Upon the party required to make the discovery denying on oath,

the possession or control of the books, papers or documents ordered
0 to be produced. '

Digitized by 600816

LAW RULES. 9
RULE 45. The order directing the discovery of books, papers or Discovery:

order for to

documents shall operate as a stay of; all other proceedings in the cause, opaeratfe on.
. . . s y 0 prountrl such order shall have been complied With, or vacated; and the medinss.

party obtaining such order, after the same shall have been complied
with or vacated, shall have the like time to declare, plead, or answer,
to which he was entitled at the time of the making the order.

RULE 46. In case of the party refusing or neglecting to obey such Discovery of

' . . . . 7 order for
order for a discovery, wrthm such tune as the court shall deem rea- piartytzefu. I o  com‘
sonable, the court may/nonsmt him, or may strike out any plea or ply (3th proceo gs on.

notice he may have given, or may debar him from any particular defense in relationto which such discovery was sought; and the power
of the court to cempel such discovery shall be confined to the reme-i
dies herein provided, and shall not extend to authorize any other proceedings against the person or property of the party so refusing or
neglecting, ‘

RULE 47. The books, papers and documents, or sworn copies Books pa7 M . pets, @thereof, produced under any order made m pursuance of the prece- prrgducefd on
0 or o ,

ding rules, shall have the same effect, when used by the party requir- effect of.

ing them, as if produced upon notice, according to the practice of the
court

RULE 48. Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney Genuine... of

at any time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and re- iambimzs‘if’it.

quest an admission in writing, of its genuineness. If the adverse 32$“ do.
party or his attorney fail to give the admission within four days after
the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be afterward put to
expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be hnally
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense to be ascertained at the
trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission: unless it shall

appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons
for the refusal. '

RULE 49. Depositions of any witnesses taken within this State, Deposition.
shall be received, opened, endorsed and filed by the clerk, in the same 1:333“.

manner as depositions taken under a commission.

RULE 50. The party taking any deposition shall upon the same graze:
being received and med by the clerk, give notice thereof to the oppo- cubic”.
site party. All objections of form to any such deposition shall be Form“ a,
deemed to be waived unless the same shall be med in writing, and mt” "hm

waived.
served on the opposite party, within two days after such notice.

Digitized by 600816

10 LAW RULES.

mm RULE 51. When a deposition has been taken by either party, it my
my?“ at any time be read by the other party on the trial.
3% 3; ' RULE 52. Before the argument of a demurrer, the party demurring
gmf shall furnish the Court with a copy of the causes of demurrer, and
also of the whole or so much as may be necessary of the pleading demarred to; and in default thereof the demurrer shall be overruled
gmgtgd RULE 53. Any party who shall have noticed a cause for trial, may
33,13“ “ b“ be compelled to proceed to the trial thereof at the term for which the
‘ same was noticed, unless the same is continued on cause shown, and a
compliance with such terms as the Court may impose. '

Motion for RULE 54. N o motion for the continuance of a cause shall be heard

- continuance

:1; :3. 12:3; after thefirst day in term, unless a suilicient excuse is shown for the,
of “m- delay. And on a second application by a party for the continuance
3,333.3; of a civil cause, and in every application by a respondent for the conbe proved. tinuance of a criminal cause, the party so applying shall state, in addition to the usual requisites, the facts which he expects to prove by
the absent witness, and the diligence he has used to procure his attendance. In case the facts expected to be proved by the absent witness
in a civil cause are admitted by the opposite party, the motion for acontinuance shall be denied, unless the Court, for the furtherance

of justice, shall deem a continuance necessary.
Costs, on RULE 55. When a rule, order or continuance is granted upon pay§£im§§2 ment of costs, such costs, on being taxed, shall be paid on demahd of
0W an
whento be the party, his agent or attorney, and if not so paid, on affidavit of
paid. . .
that fact, such rule, order ’ or continuance may be vacated, or the
Court may grant an attachment therefore, with the accruing costs.

Continuance RUL’E 56. If the party receiving notice of trial shall serve a nomotion for

me:i tice on the Opposite party that he will move for a continuance of the

mesa cause at the term for which it is noticed, together with a copy of the
aiiidavits upon which he intends to found the motion, he shall not be
liable to such party for any costs of preparing to try the cause, accruing after the service of such notice and affidavits, in case a continuance is granted on the papers so served, excepting such as may be
unavoidable.

0.1mm RULE 57. Previous to each terni the clerk shall prepare two calenho' mm “P dars of causes for said term—one for the Court and the other for the
bar. All causes in which issues of fact have been joined and notes of
issue filed, shall be separately arranged under the head of “Issues of

fact,” in the order of the dates of issue. Cases for assessment shall

Digitized by 600816

 

LAW RULES. [‘1

be arranged separately under the head of “ Imparlancea” Causes in
which issues of law have been joined, under the head of “Issues of
law.” All criminal causes in which indictments are pending, under
the head of “ Criminal causes.” Appeal cases shall be entered among
the issues of fact in the order of filing the appeal, in each case.

RULE 58. ‘Whenever it shall be necessary in any aiiidavit to swear fang”?! of
A V 00

to the advice of counsel, the party shall, in addition to what has usu- magmas

ally been inserted, swear that he has fully and fairly stated his case to
his counsel, and shall give the, name of such counsel. .
RULE 59. The Prosecuting Attorney shall, at least four days before Notice of

criminal cathe first day of term, deliver to the Clerk 9. list of all such criminal 2333,31

causes as he intends to bring on to trial, or in which any action of the cl“Court may be required.
' Runs 60. A party desirous of a trial by jury, shall make his de- Int-yahoo

and h d
mand for a jury in writing, and me such demand with the Clerk on or "M3 ’
before the first day of the term for which the cause is noticed for
trial, and at or before the first call of the calendar; otherwise he shall

be deemed to have waived his right to a jury.

RULE 61. On the trial of the cause it shall be the duty of the plain- I’m-tieth

tiii’s counsel, before offering evidence to support the issue on hispart,’mgebiali3i:

to make a full and fair statement of his case, and of ' the facts which  "i.
he expects to prove. After the evidence is closed on the part of the

plaintifff, and before any evidence is oEered on the part of the defense,

a like statement shall be made by the counsel for the defendant.

RULE 62. The plaintiE shall, in all cases except. when otherwise Order of pro.
ordered by the Court, commence the evidence. On the trial of issues W, ‘ °n
of fact, one counsel only on each side shall examine and cross-examine
witnesses. No more than two hours shall be allowed to either side
for the summing up of a cause, unless the Court shall otherwise order.

RULE 63. Not more than one counsel on each side shall be heard on

Motions. not

the argument of any motion; the mover being entitled to Open the ar- $333391

gument and to reply to the argument of the opposite attorney. Only 30".“ 11°“
one counsel can be heard on any reply.
RULE 64. It shall not be necessary to call the plaintifff when the Nonsult, not

jury return into court to deliver their verdict; and the plaintifff shall 3:2? ed

have no right to submit to a non-suit after the jury have retired to simma'
consider their verdict, or the cause has been submitted to the Court.
RULE 65. When the defendant, in any action founded on contract,

shall plead in abatement the non-joinder of any other person as deDigitized by 600816

 

12 LAW RULES:
'rnmaamy fendant, the Court in term time, or the Judge in vacation, may,'at

amend b

33%;? any time before issue joined on such plea, allow the plaintifff, on such,

'h°n- terms as the Court or Judge shall prescribe, to amend his declaration S
by inserting therein the name of any other person as defendant, and
declaring against him jointly with the original defendant.

30' WV de— Bunn 66. The plaintifff may thereupon take out a writ, in such

fondant .
“will” in- form'asi the Court or Judge shall prescribe, which shall be in the nature of a summons, and shall require the new defendant to appear and
answer as defendant in the original action; and such writ shall be ‘

served as in other cases.

New defend- RULE 67. Upon the return of such writ, every person named thereants to plead in as defegdant, 311311 be bound to appear and ansWer with the other

defendants,  the same manner as if they had all been originally
made parties.  , '.

Judgment RULE 68. If a legal service cannot be made an :ainysuch new demay be realdered asai’st fondant, by reason of his absence from the State or other suilicient

parties . o. '
“ma: cause, the action may nevertheless proceed agamst.all the defendants

who are duly served, in like manner as provided by law, when one of
several defendants is not duly served with process.

Judgmnt, RULE 69. Judgment shall be rendered and execution shall issue in

 to m i C O O O .
entered. every. such case, for either party, 1n the same manner as if the suit.

had been originally commenced against all the defendants.
Plaintiff!!!” RULE 70. When an action founded on contract, is brought against"

discontinue
against any several persons, the-plaintifff may at any time before the final submisdefendm’ sion of the cause, he allowed to discontinue as against any of the defendants, upon the payment of costs to them as in case of non-suit;
and on such other terms as the court shall direct; and the plaintiii'.
may thereupon amend his declaration and proceed against the other
defendants in like‘manner as if the action had been originally brought
against them alone. A '

Time, Court RULE 71. The time limited for moving to set aside defaults, or for
ma extend

on efault. making defaults absolute, or for 61ing motions and reasons for new trial,

motions, ar1:23? gadg- or in arrest of judgement, may be shortened or extended by the circuit

courts respectively, in their discretion.

New trial on RULE 72. On the argument of motions for new trial, or in arrest of
meat

:53," party to judgment, the party making such motion shall furnish the court with
dehver court \ . . .
copy of rea- a c0py of the reasons on which such motion is founded, and also 9.

sons, brief
RULE 73. Whenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in order

Digitized by 600816

LAW RULES. 18

to make a special motion, the presiding judge may grant an order for m or prothat purpose; and service of such order, with copies of the aEdavitson mafia.
which it is grounded, and the notice of the.motion, shall operate as a
stay of proceedings until the order of o the court is had in the premises,
unless the judge should in the. mean time supersede or set aside such
order. But the proceedings shall not be stayed for a longer time than
to enable the party to make his motion according to the practice of
the court, and if made, until the decision of the court thereon.
RULE 74. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day On which Papers, clerk

to endorse

the same is filed. And the clerk shall not suifer or permit any writ, are of filing pleading, affidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, on file in his hm m,
We, to be taken therefrom without the order of the court, or a judge $03359
thereof; but parties interested in any such, may inspect the same in gay“ °"
this oEce, and take copies thereof.

Run: 75. All cases not disposed of at any term shall stand con- We. not

tinned to the next term, and shall be considered as continued from St’mlrz‘

term to term, until finally disposed of, without any special entry of a my *~
continuance. ' ‘

RULE 76. Any party desiring a review by the Supreme Court, up- mm, of
on the evidence appearing upon the trial, either of the questions of $3323.,”
fact, or of law, when an issue of fact shall be tried by the court with- h°w “ma
out a jury, may make a bill of exceptions in the same manner and
with the same effect as upon a trial by jury, or a case containing so
much of the evidence as may be material to the question to be raised.

RULE 77. The party desiring such review, upon a case to be made £2333“
under the preceding rule, or under section eleven of “ An‘act to define
the limits, jurisdiction and powers of the Circuit Courts," approved
April 8th, A. D. 1851, shall, unless the same shall be previously
agreed upon by the parties, prepare the case and serve a copy thereof
--on the opposite party within ton days after notice of the judgment;
who may within ten days thereafter prepare amendments thereto,
‘and serve a copy on the party who prepared the case, who shall
then, within four days thereafter, serve the opposite party with a notice to appear within a time specified, (which shall not be less than
six nor more than twenty days after the service of such notice,) before the Judge who tried the cause, to have the case and amendments
settled. The Judge shall thereupon settle the case as he shall deem
consistent with the truth of the facts. The folios of the case shall be

so-numbered that each cepy shall correspond.

Digitized by 600816

’14 LAW. RULES. ‘

mandm RULE 78. If the party omits to make the case within the time above
limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto; and
where a case is made, and the parties shall omit within the several
times above limited, the one party to prepare amendments and the
other to notify an appearance before the Judge, they shall be respectively deemed, the former to have agreed to the case as proposed, and
the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed.

augmgen RULE 79. When a party makes a case, he shall procure the same
' to he filed within ten days after it shall be settled, or it shall be

deemed abandoned

gamut; ' RULE 80. Cases made or agreed upon for the purpose of review by
0' '

33:33:10 the Supreme Court, under the provisions of the preceding rules, may
be removed to that Caurt in the same manner as is provided for the
removal of cases made after judgment, by section 11 of “ An act to
define the limits, jurisdiction and powers of the Circuit Courts,” approved April 8th 1851. (S. L. 1851, p. 246, § 11.) ‘

Ezepntiggs, RULE 81. Whenever exceptions are taken on the trial of a cause

end nettled- to any decision or ruling of the Court, the ’party taking such exceptions shall prepare a brief statement of so many of the facts as may
be necessary to show the grounds of such exceptions, and to enable
the Court above rightly to understand the same, and shall give no- '
tiee to the opposite party, when and where such exceptions will be
ecttled by the Circuit Judge, which notice shall be for some day during the term at which the trial was had, unless the Court or Circuit
Judge shall otherwise order. '

30 b: mega RULE 82. At or before the time speciiied for settling such bill of
en ays tiegattle- exceptions, the party alledging such exceptions shall serve a copy
thereof upon the opposite party, who may propose amendments thereto
in writing, and the same shall thereupon, or at such other time as he
shall appoint, be settled by the judge according to the facts, and signed
by him, and delivered to the party alledging such exceptions, who
shall file the same with the clerk of the Circuit Court within ten days
thereafter, or in default thereof, shall be deemed to have waived such
exceptions.

 RULE 83. Costs in addition to the fees of oilicers and witnesses,
shall be allowed to the prevailing parties in suits at law in the Circuit Court, as follows:

1. In all actions of ejectment, or other actions involving the question of title to real estate, and in all actions for libel, slander, maliDigitized by 600816

LAW RULES. l5

cious prosecution, or criminal conversation, in which an issue of {fact
is joined, and where the cause is tried by a jury, the sum of twenty
dollars; and where tried by the Court without a jury, fifteen dollars.
2. In every other kind of civil action at law, in which an issue of .
fact is joined, and the cause tried by jury, the sum of fifteen dollars;
and when tried by the Court without a jury, the sum of ten dollars.

3. In all actions of tort, where a judgment for damages is taken

by default, the sum of ten dollars; and when taken for costs merely,
the sum'of eight dollars.

4. In all actions arising upon contract express or implied, where a

judgment for debt or damages is taken by default, the sum of ten dollars; and when taken for costs merely, the sum of five dollars.

5. In all cases of certiomri, demurrer or special motions, such sum

shall be awarded to the prevailing party, as the Court shall, in view
of the circumstances, deem just. '

RULE 84. All rules not herein contained, are hereby rescinded and Rome, “,1...
repealed.
repealed.

RULE 85. These rules shall be in force from and after the first day
of April. 1853.

Digitized by 600816

f,

Digitized by  I,

f

INDEX TO LAW RULES.

Abatement, pleas in, when filed,
pleas in, necessary for misndmer,
pleas in, amendment after,

Acceptance of service to constitute appearance,

Admission of attorneys regulated,
of genuineness of documents, when to be made,

Advice of counsel, how set out in aiiidavit,

AEdavit of merits necessary after default,
for second continuance, what to state,

Agents, how appointed,
list to be kept,
every attorney to have,
who may be,

' when service to be on,

Agreements to be in writing,

Amendments, when made, and on what terms, and how,
allowed to discontinue against any defendant,
after plea in abatement,
when allowed to add defendants,

Appearance, when and how deemed entered,
in suits commenced by writ, when to be entered,

- when service accepted,

Argument of demurrer, papers to be served on,
of motion to be by one counsel on each side,
of motion, papers to be served on,

Arrest of judgment, motions for, when made,
papers to be served on argument of motion for,

Assessment of damages by clerk when excepted to,

Attorneys, examination of,
requisites and petition for admission,
to be sworn and sign the role,
fee of admission,
to have agents,

Bail, when given for appearance, plaintifff may proceed,

when special, not given, papers need not be served,

Rule 24

1,2,3

'5‘
to " t—KIODKICDU!
ogpwwwwowwwww

Bill of particulars, practice regulating demand and service, 37, 38, 39

Digitized by 600816

.. J

18 ‘ INDEX.

Books, discovery may be ordered of, a Rule 40
when produced under order to have same effect as on notice, 47'
Calendar, how and when made up, 57
Capias, bail on, necessary to entitle defendant to service, 20
Cases to be continued unless disposed of, 75
made, how reviewed, , 76, 77, 80
made, how prepared and settled, - 77
if not made in time when waived, 78
to be filed in ten days, 79
how removed to Supreme Court, ‘ 80
Chancery, principles of, to govern in discovery, 43
Clerk to give certificate of admission to the bar, , 3
to keep list of agents, 4
assessment by, when excepted to, 19
to file and endorse papers, 74
to keep them in his custody, ' 74
Common rules, what, and how entered, 13
rule book, ‘ 13
Computation of time, how made, 14
Consent rules to be in writing, 11
Contempt, personal service required to bring party into, 6
Continuance, motion for, when made, and requisites to obtain, 54
motion for, after notice of trial to st0p costs, 56
of cases undisposed of, 75
Costs of preparing for trial not allowed after motion for continuance, 56
what to be allowed in various cases, ' 83
Counsel, advice of, how set forth, 58
only one may examine witnesses, 62
only one may argue motions, ’ 63
Criminal cases to be noticed by Prosecuting Attorney, ‘ 59
Damages assessed on default, r 23.
Declaration, when filed in suits commenced by writ, 15
amendment of, 35
amendment of, to add defendants, 65
Default, entry of, 21
plea not to be accepted after, 21

made absolute, ‘ 23 '
damages assessed on, ‘ 23
when motion made to set aside, '27
' Defendant, when entitled to service of papers, 8
. when deemed to have appeared, , 10
to furnish particulars of set off, 39
new, when and how brought in, 65, 66, 67, 68
new, judgmentin case of, how rendered, v ‘69
any may be discontinued against, A 70
_ Demurrer to notice Of special matter, 16
form of, . 17
\ to specify grounds, 34
papers furnished on argument of, . 52
Depositions to be filed and opened, 49
notice to be given of tiling, 50.
formal objections to, must be med in two days, 50

Digitized by 600816

INDEX.

Deposition of one party to be read by the other,
Dilatory pleas when filed,
Discontinuance, entry of,
allowed as to any defendants, ‘
Discovery when and how compelled,
what to be specified in petition for,
what to be specified in rule for,
to be governed by principles of chancery,
costs on,
when orders for, to be vacated, .
neglect to obey order for, how punished,
effect of papers 650., produced on,

Documents, eli‘ect of, when produced under order for discovery, 47'

genuineness of, to be admitted when,
English forms of declaration may be used,
Examination of attorneys,
Exceptions to assessment of damages by clerk,

to case made,

practice on making and settling,
Executions when returnable,
Form of demurrer and joinder,

of general issue,

of declaration, what may be used,
Formal objections to depositions must be filed and. served,

' Former rules repealed,

General issue, how made, ‘ ‘

Genuineness of papers &c., to be admitted,

Instanter, act to be performed in 24 hours,

Issue general, form of,

J cinder in demurrer, form of,

Judgment, motion in arrest of, when made,
papers furnished on hearing of,

Jury, how and when demanded,

Mail, when service to be by,
service by, on party not an attorney,
service by, how made, and time on,

Misnomer must he pleaded in abateement,

Motions to set aside default when made,

‘ not allowed to set aside proceedings for misnomer,

papers to be filed and served on special,

19

Rule 51. 2426

4 70
4o, 41
41

42

43

43

44

46

47

48

18

1, 2

19

i 76

81, 82
12

17

17

18.,

5o
84
17
48
14
1.7.
17
32
72
60
5
8
9
25

27 «
25
28

special to be entered and reasonssigned in motion book, 29

how heard,

when argued,

for new trial, when made,

in arrest of judgment when made,

to be in writing,

for continuance, when made, and requisites,
costs on,

29
30..
31
i 32
331
54
55, 83

for continuance after notice of trial, to step costs when, 56

one counsel to argue on each side,
time for, may be changed,
papers furnished on hearing,

63
71
72

Digitized by 600816

20 ' INDEX.

New trial, motions for, when made, Rule 31
papers furnished on hearing of motion for, 72
N onjoinder on plea of, plaintiii' may amend, 65
N onsuit not allowed after case submitted, 64
N oticcs must be in writing, 6
. on whom served, 6
how served, . 7
of retainer to be an appearance, 10
of special matter, when given and what to contain, 16
of special matter, may be demurrcd to, 16
to be given of filing depositions, 50
of trial, to compel party giving them to trial, 53
of trial; eii'ect of motion for continuance after, 56
of settling &c. exceptions, 81, 82
Objections to form of depositions, must be made when and how, 50
Orders, time on how computed 14
for discovery, what to specify, , 42
for discovery, when vacated, 44
for discovery, to operate as stay of proceedings, 45
for discovery, eil'ect of neglect to obey, 46
for discovery, effect of books &c. produced under, 47
costs on, 55, 83
. Original writ, proceedings in suits commenced by, 15
Papers, how served, ‘ 7
genuineness to be admitted on demand, 48
to be furnished on argument of demurrer, 52
to be furnished on argument of motion, 72
to be endorsed and filed and kept in Clerk’s oiIice, 74
Particulars, bill of when to be served, 37 1
time to plead &c. after service of, . . r 37
if not served plaintifff to be non-salted, 37
of set oii‘, when permitted, 39
of set off, if not served, testimony excluded, 39
of set oii‘, time to reply after service of, 39
Party who is attorney, how served, 6
, not an attorney, how served, 8
not appearing, when entitled to service, 8
Personal service, when required, ‘ 6
Petition for discovery, to whom and when presented, 40
statements of and how verilied, 41
Plaintiif cannot submit to non-suit after case submitted, 64
not to be called to hear verdict, 64
Pieadings, when to be filed, &c., 15
- ‘ amendments of, 35
Pleas in abatement, when filed, 24
Postage to be pre-paid on service by mail, 9
Proceedings, order for discovery to stay, 45
stay of, how granted, 1 73
Prosecuting Attorne to notice criminal cases, 59 .
Repeal of former r es, ' 84
Replication of special matters to be by notice, 16
Retainer, notice of to be deemed an appearance, 10

N

Digitized by 600816 .

 

INDEX. 21

Review of case made, Rule 76
Rules, by consent to be entered, 11
common and special, What and how entered, 13
book of common, 13
time on, how computed, 14
for discovery, What to specify, 42 ‘
former repealed, 84
Service, when on agent, - 56
when by mail, 56
when personal, 6
how made, ' 7
on sheriff or jailor for defendant, ' 8
on party not an attorney, 8
by mail, how made and time on, ' 9
computation of time on, 14
of papers to be made on special motions, 28
Set 011', particulars of may be demanded, 39
if not served evidence excluded, 39
Special rules, What and how entered, ' 13
matter, notice to be given of in all cases, 16
matter, notice to be annexed to pleas and replications, 16
motions, papers to be filed and served on, 28
motion book to be kept, 29
motions to be entered with reasons and signed, 29
Statement of case to be made on, 61
Stay of proceedings, order for discovery to be, 45
how granted, 73
Stipulation to be in writing, . 11
Time, how computed on orders, &c., 14
for motions, orders, &c., may be extended or changed, 71
Trial, party noticing may be force to proceed, 54
motion for continuance after notice of, how to affect costs, 56
by jury, how obtained, 60
parties to state case on, 61
order of evidence on, - 62
only one counsel to examine Witness, ‘ 62
time of summing up, 62
Verdict, plaintiii' not to be called to hear, 64
Writs, when issued, 12
when returnable, l2
pleadings in suits commenced by, 15
Wiritiiig, agreement-s 85c. to be in, 11
motions to be in, 33

Digitized by 600816

6.1
J

4-.—

Digitized by  .

.. i, i b; 3‘.
b i " ‘7 " Ekdn‘linim: IMCAL
‘ ' warpm 2,44.
i " ii“: 9 a i- ; 3n 1‘ cg,-m:.u

SUPREkE COURT RULES.

RULE 1. Every attorney shall haVe an agent in each place where Mman
there is a Supreme Court held in this state, except in the city or town hm “3””
where such attorney keeps his oilice. N o_ person shall be an agent
unless he be an attorney of the Court, clerk of the Court, or deputy
clerk. The appointment of agents shall be made in writing, signed
by the attorney, and filed in the clerk’s oilice; and the clerk shall keep
a catalogue of the appointments filed in the oihce, with the attorneys’

' names, alphabetically arranged.
RULE 2. Where the attorney for the adverse party resides more Some, of

than two miles from the place of holding court, service of papers con- 3133331

templated by these rules may be made on an agent; but if he has no how me.
such agent, such service may be made by putting the notice or papers

in the post chice, directed to the attorney at his place of residence, to

be ascertained according to the best information and belief of the

person making such service.

RULE 3. All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the Noticed”,
attorney in the cause, or his agent; and where a party who is also an 12:13:"
attorney of this court, shall prosecute in person, or, if a defendant, 'emd'
shall give notice that he is an attorney, and will defend in person, all
notices and other papers shall be served on him in like manner; and

where the object is to bring the party into contempt for disobeying Service to be

any rule or order of the court, the service shall be on such party per- £2:§“;lf&
. . ' into consonally, unless othermse specially ordered by the court. tempt»

RULE 4. Notices and papers may be served on an attorney, or his pm“, 456..
agent, by leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in how med'
his oiiice, or with a person having charge thereof; or when no person

' is to be found in the office, by leaving the same, between the hours of
9

Digitized by 600816

2 SUPREME COURT RULES.

six in the morning and nine in the evening, in some suitable and conSpicuous place in such oiiice; or if the ’office be not open so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving the same at the Attorney’s
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

Servicewhen RULE 5. Where a party, other than an Attorney of this Court,

party 851* . . .
pears m per- prosecutes or defends in person, the service of papers maybe on such

80!].
party personally, or by putting the same in“ the post office, directed
No service to him at his place of residence. And no service of papers in the

n ecessar

211,153 gaging ordinary proceedings in a cause shall be necessary to be made on a
appear- defendant who has not appeared therein, and given notice to the plaintifff’s attorney of his intention to defend the suit.

agrobgegep'trg. RULE 6. N 0 private agreement or consent between the parties or

tins. their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be binding unless the same shall have been reduced to the form of a rule by
consent, and entered accordingly in the book of special rules, or
unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party or
his attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.

Time, how RULE 7. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, noa . .
3333;: tice, pleadmg or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation

as’ omm’ of the timc for complying with the exigency of such rule, order or notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a compliance therewith
is required shall be included, except where it shall fall on a Sunday,
in which case the party shall have the next day to comply therewith.
When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed
instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours.

Clerkto en- RULE 8. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which

dorse date of

23:1: pitpers. the same is filed. Parties must take notice of the filing of papers at
o eep ‘

g; in his their peril; and the clerk shall not suffer or permit any writ, pleading,
affidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, on file in his oiiice, to
be taken therefrom without the order of the Court, or one of the
Judges thereof, or by consent in writing of the Attorneys of the parties; but parties interested in any such may inspect the same in his
office, and take copies thereof.

ggfigiorpoéo RULE 9. Each of the clerks of the Supreme Court shall have a

be kept- book to be denominated the special motion book, in which the Attorneys shall enter all special motions and rules.

ggicjplhzn‘p- RULE 10. In all cases of special motions, the aiiidavits and other

giant: .papers on which the same may be founded, shall be med at the time
g of making the motion, and copies thereof shall be served on the opDigitized by 600816

SUPREME COURT RULES- ‘ 3

posite party or his Attorney, on or before the day of making such
motion; and no motion which is resisted shall be argued on the day
it is made without the consent of parties, unless the court, on good
cause being shown, otherwise direct.

RULE 11. In all cases of writs of error or certiorari, it shall be the Sizzsgiegt,
duty of the plaintifff in error to cause a transcript of the record or
proceedings in the court below to be filed in the oiiice of the clerk of
the Supreme Court within forty days after such writ of error or certiorari shall be issued, if so many days intervene before the first
day of the succeeding term of such court, but if not, then such transcript to be filed on or before the first day of such term. .

RULE 12. It shall be the duty of the plaintifff in error, in all cases Errors to be
of writs of error and certiorari, to file a special assignment of error imaged,
within ten days after the expiration of said forty days after the filing

of any further return which either party may procure in the cause, if
so many days intervene before the first day of the succeeding term of
the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the first day of said term,
and serve a copy thereof on the defendant or defendants in error, or
his or their attorney in the court below, unless, previously, notice of
retainer shall have been received from some other Attorney. And no
judgment or proceeding shall be reversed or annulled for any other
defect or error than such as may be thus specially assigned.

RULE 13. The defendant in error shall plead to such assignment Pleading t:
o o . 8.88] nmen
of errors Within ten days after servlce of a copy thereof, when the of eitrors.

same shall be served in vacation, if so many days intervene before
term; and if not, or if served in term time, within two days from

such service, and serve a copy of such pleading on the plaintifff in
error.

RULE 14. If the plaintifff in error shall fail to file such transcript, Practice on

c o c o o o .   88or to asmgn errors as herein prowded, w1th1n the time therefore 11m- sign or to

. . . . 1 ad t
ited, the defendant 1n error, at 1118 Option, may have the cause docket- gignmegt-w

ed and dismissed with costs, or may himself file the transcript and
have such judgment duly aii’irmed. And if the defendant in error
fail to plead to said assignment within the time therefore limited, the
plaintifff in error shall be entitled to proceed ex parte therein.

RULE 15. If either party in cases of writs of error or certiorari Furtherm, , , turn to writ
shall consrder the record or transcript filed imperfect, when the same ofetxiror or
081' orari

is filed in vacation, he or they may, within ten days thereafter, if so' may be had.
many days intervene before the first day of the succeeding term of

1.

Digitized by 600816

4 SUPREME COURT RULES.

the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the first day of such term, enter a rule in the special motion book, requiring the court or officer
before or by whom the proceedings below were conducted, to make
further return according to the requirements of such rule, within ten
days after service of a copy thereof, on such court or officer, and which
service shall be made within three days after the entry of such rule.
my $31:- RULE 16. The part.)r serving a copy of such rule shall annex thereto
how enforced a notice requiring the court or oHicer on whom the same is served, in
case such rule is not duly complied with, to appear before the Supreme Court on the first day of the next term thereof, to show cause
why an attachment shall not issue against him. And on proof of
the service of such notice and a copy of such rule, if no suliicient
cause be shown to the contrary, an attachment shall issue accordingly.

Transcript RULE 17. In all cases of appeals from Chancery, the appellant

ral . . o
ifognp’chun. shall cause the transcrlpt of the record or proceedings m the court

$1333 When below to be filed with the clerk-of the Supreme Court on or before
the first day of the term of such court succeeding the filing of the ap—
peal bond in such cause, and in default of so doing, the appellee may
at his option have the cause docketed and dismissed with costs, or
proceed ex parte therein.

Appealmhen RULE 18. In order to entitle an appellee to have an appeal dockdismissed’ eted and dismissed under these rules, it will be necessary for him to
produce to the court, a certificate from the Register, stating and certifying the time when the decree complained of had been made, and
the appeal taken and allowed, and whether an appeal bond had been
duly filed, and when approved of.

printed cm RULE 19. The party removing a cause into the Supreme Court, by

iisgégid writ of error, appeal, certiorari, case made, or otherwise, and in cases

reserved, the plaintiE below, shall prepare a case for the use of the
court and counsel, which shall contain the whole, or, if the case be
voluminous, an abstract of the record, case, or proceedings upon
which the case is to be heard. All cases and points furnished to the
court on the argument of causes, shall be printed on white writing
paper, with a margin at the outer edge of the leaf not less than one
and a half. inches wide; the printed page, exclusive of any marginal
note .or reference, shall be seven inches long, and three and a half
inches wide. The folio, numbering from the commencement to the
'end of the case, shall be printed on the outer margin of the page.
RULE 20. At the commencement of the argument, the party reDigitized by 600816

SUPREME COURT RULES. . 5

quired to prepare the case by the preceding rule, shall furnish a Gaming be

printed copy thereof to each of the Judges, to the reporter, and to amished

Court, Re~

the opposite party. Each party shall at the same time, furnish to Porter and

adverse
each of the Judges, and to his adversary, and to the reporter, a printed “Wm

copy of the points on which he intends to rely, with a reference to
the authorities which he intends to cite.

RULE 21. The necessary expenses of printing the case and points Expense of

printing
required by the preceding rules, may be taxed as disbursements in :g‘imfrg
favor of the party prevailing in the cause. mm"

RULE 22. In the argument of causes, the opening shall be confined :no’
to one counsel, who shall be restricted in time to two hours. The an- cause!swer to be confined to two counsel, and the whole time occupied in
such answer shall not exceed four hours. The reply to be confined to
one counsel, who shall be restricted in time to two hours; and in no
case shall any more counsel be heard, or time occupied in the argument of causes, unless by permission of the court on application and
cause shown before the argument of . the cause is commenced.

RULE 23. In cases where a Writ of error shall be brought by one  art
or more of several parties, it shall not be necessary to sue out a sum- :1? go 2213
mons with a view to ascertain whether the other parties will join or gfgggdbym°
sever in the proceedings in error ; but at the time of taking out the writ
of error, the party by whom it is sued out shall enter a rule in the
common rule book, to be kept by the clerk of this court, requiring the
other parties to join in said writ of error within thirty days from the
time of the service of a copy of said writ of error, and a notice of such £21212:
rule, and to file with the clerk of this court a written statement that
they assent to such writ of error, and that they join in the same
within said thirty days, or in default thereof that they shall be deemed
to have severed and declined to join in said writ.

RULE 24. Such copy of writ and notice of rule may be served by gag;qu to
delivering the same to the parties to be aifected thereby, personally,
or by leaving the same at their respective residences with some member of their families; or, in case of their residence in another State,
by serving on their attorney in the original suit; or, if ‘ they have no
attorney, by sending the.same to them through the post oiiice.

RULE 25. The party suing out the writ of error shall have sixty Time within

. . . . . which serdays from the time of its issue, and no longer, 1n which to make serv— vice to be

. , . . made and
ice of the copies thereof and notice of such rule as aforesaid; and at severance

completed.
or before the expiration of said sixty days, it shall be the duty of

Digitized by 600816

6 SUPREME COURT RULES.

such party to enter in said common rule book, a rule specifying the
service of such writ and notice, and the name of the party on whose
behalf the writ of error is to be further prosecuted, and that such

party have leave to prosecute it severally.

gigfedtlmd RULE 26. After the entry of such rule, the plaintifff in error shall

gfgggdm“: have the same time to file the transcript in error and the} assignnient

5‘33"” of errors, as is now provided in the rules for such filing and assignment in ordinary cases, where all parties join originally in suing out
such writ.

33:03:: RULE 27. If the party suing out such writ of error shall neglect

33833.“ a" to enter such rule, or to make such service as is above required, the
writ of error shall be deemed to be discontinued, and the opposite
party shall be entitled to have the same docketed and dismissed, unless the court, for cause shown, shall otherwise direct.

Defenhnt RULE 28. If ' the defendant in error, with a view to expedite the

may procure . , .
assent of par proceedings, shall procure the written statement required by the

gag-Jam twenty-third rule, and serve the same on the party suing out the writ
of error, it shall be the duty of the plaintifff in error, within eight days
thereafter, to enter the rule or order in the common rule book, under
the twenty-fifth rule.

RULE 29. The said rules, from the twenty-third to the twentyeighth inclusive, shall apply to writs of certiorari as well as to writs
of error. - ‘

Process in RULE 30. Upon the filing of an information in the nature of a qua

3:0 wmm. warranto, a writ of summons shall issue under the seal of the Court,

directed to the Sheriff of any county in the State, where the person
or corporation to be summoned may be found, which shall be served
and returned in like manner as in personal actions.
When me. RULE 31. In case there are several persons against whom said infor{3.2” t° mation is filed residing in different counties, several writs may be issued, and made returnable. at the same time.
A ra‘nce, RULE 32. Upon the return of such summons duly served on any
at? $1 defendant, he shall cause his appearance to be entered with the proper.
clerk, by a. rule in the common rule book, within twenty days after
the return day of said summons, and notice thereof served on the Attorney General, or judgment by default may be entered.
RULE 33. If the defendant shall cause his appearance to be entered,
Pleadings within the time limited by the foregoing rule, and notice thereof to

X123? to be be served on the Attorney General, a. copy of said information shall

Digitized by 600816

SUPREME COURT RULES. 7

be served upon him or his attorneys within ten days thereafter; and

the said defendant shall plead to said information within twenty days

after the service of such copy. All subsequent pleadings shall respectively be filed within iifteen days each after the other until issues

of fact or law be joined.

. RULE 34. In cases not already provided for, the practice of the Practice on.
court upon appeals from Chancery shall be conformable to that of the WW“ '

House of Lords, in England, when sitting as a court of appeals.

RULE 35. All rules of the Supreme Court, not herein contained,
are repealed

RULE 36. These rules shall take ell'ect and be in force from and
after the first day of April, 1853.

Digitized by 600816


