^»^>

RULES AND ORDERS
COURT OF CHANCERY.

RULE 1.
The first Tuesday of every month, during the vacations, is assigned Motion days
....
.
i
• •
i »
i
i
ii
i n- ofchancellor.
for the hearing ot motions and petitions before the chancellor at the City
Hall in the city of Detroit. And if there is not sufficient time to finish
the business noticed for any regular motion day, it may be continued
from day to day until it is completed ; or it may be adjourned to some
subsequent day.
RULE 2.

When regular notice of an application has been given for any motion In case ol ab
sence, mo
day, if the chancellor is unable to attend on the day appointed, the case tions to stand
over.
shall stand over of course, until the next regular motion day, when it
may be brought on without further notice. But if a stated or special
term of the court intervenes, the case shall be considered as standing
over until the first day of term. And no motion or petition, except Ex parte ap
plications to
applications for injunctions, shall be heard except on a regular motion be made only
on motion
day, or at the term unless in case of emergency and by special permission. days.
RULE 3.
Motions and petitions shall have a preference over calendar causes "°{J°m „„y"
on the first and second days of the term, and on Monday of every week ^"^weet
thereafter during the term, but on no other day, without special order.
And in all cases the motion shall be made, or the petition
be presented,
Motions
to be
r
■
made on the
on the day for which it is noticed, if the party has an opportunity to be day f?'h
heard on that day, unless the court shall otherwise direct.
are noticed.
RULE 4.
The registers shall keep in their respective offices such registers and keep'aii'ne?
nooks as may be necessary to enter the titles of causes, with memoran- tooksT

.4

CHANCERY RULES.
'
'" •
^ «.
,>
dums of the j>roceediqgs in such causes ; to enter the minutes of the
court, docket decrws, erlter eonjmou orders, special orders and decrees
the appointments, periodical reports and inventories' of guardians; com
mittees and receivers, and the receipt, investment, payment and expen
diture of monies paid into court ; all of which- books and registers shall
be well bound and appropriately lettered and marked to designate the
uses for which they are intended. •

RULE 5.
The masters It shall be the duty of each master in chanccrvto procure and keep
to keep regis- ...
.
.
tera.
in his office a folio register, well bound and lettered, which shall be deliv
ered over by him, or his legal representatives, to his successor in office.
He shall enter in such register the title of all causes and matters referred
to him, and a brief memorandum of the proceedings before him on
such references.
RULE 6.
Address of
bills and peti
tions.
Caption of
orders.

All bills and petitions shall be addressed "To. the Chancellor of the
State of Michigan," without the addition of his name, or any other title
or designation. And the caption of orders and decrees shall be in the
following form, as near as may be: "State of Michigan,.
.—
circuit : At a court of Chancery, for the State of Michigan holdcn at
the
of
on the
day of
, one thousand eight
hundred
Present : Elon Farnsworth, Chancellor.
RULE 7.

No person
to practice
without Ji

No person shall be permitted to practice as a solicitor or counsellor
in chancery, without a regular admission and license by the chancellor.
And to obtain such admission and license, the person applying must be
examined before the chancellor, or before such other officer ofthe court
as the chancellor may direct, on a special order for such examination
previously obtained. Provided it shall not be necessary for any solicitor
heretofore admitted to practice in this court, to be again examined, but
they shall be deemed solicitors of this court upon entering their names
with one of the registers of the court; and it shall be the duty of the
registers to transmit tb each other a certified list of all persons admitted
to practice in said court at the close of each term.
RULE 8.

To entitle the applicant to an order for examination as solicitor and
Must be atcoiinseHor 0<- counsellor, he must be an attorney and counsellor of the supreme court
s. court
of this state.

STATE OF MICHIGAN.
RULE 9.
Every
in each city
Eveiysoiieitv J solicitor shall have an agent
°
J or town where there ortohaveais a register's office, except in the city or town where such solicitor keeps as™ts.
his office. The register, assistant register and practising solicitors, or
any other persons specially authorized by t'.c chancellor, may be such
agents ; but the agent must have an office, or a regular and known place
of business, 'within two miles of the register's ol'icc in the city or town
for which he is appointed agent. The appointment of an agent shall ^f™'.^w
be in writing, signed by lhe solicitor, and specifying his place of resi
dence. It shall be filed witli the register at the place for which the
appointment is made; who shall keep in his office a list of such agents,
with the names and residence of the solicitors appointing them.
'

rule 10.

When the solicitors for ai'vc: o parties do not reside in the same When s(,rvice may be

county, service of papers may be made on an. ; rent.

If the solicitor 0".tht: ase"tdoes not reside at the place wheie the court is 1. olden, in the circuit in
which the cause is pending, and has no agent there, service of a notice
If no agent,
or other paper may be made by putting it into the post office at that notices may
11

'

...

'

.

be *eut by

place, directed to such solicitor at his place of residence, to he ascer- mailtained according to the best information and belief of the person making
the affidavit of service. Notice cf the filing of all pleadings shall be
given to the adverse party, except when otherwise provided by these
rules, within the time limited for filing the same. But no service of Motion nfm*

iug pleadings.

notice in the ordinary proceedings in a cause, shall be necessary to be
made on a defendant who has not appeared therein.
•
RULE 11.
When the service is on an agent, or by putting in the post office for Double time
wli('rc scrwant of an agent, it must be double the time of service which would viceison
.
. .
.~ ,
.
,
v .
agent.
be requisite it the service was on the solicitor in person. And if the
solicitor resides more than one hundred miles from the agent or office
where the service is made, the time of such service shall in no case be
less than fifteen days. Notices and other papers may, in the absence
of a solicitor or agent from his office, be .served by leaving the same
with his clerk or law partner in such office, or with a person bavin" No-ices and
,
.,
„
, -n
. c
, .
,
r.
,
,
& paper.:, How
charge thereof ; and it no person is lound id t.ie ohice, by leaving the*''v(:::i
same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine*i the evening, seiice.' .
in a suitable and conspicuous place in such office ; or it the office be
not open so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving the same at
the residence "of* the solicitor or agent, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.

6

CHANCERY RULES.
KULE 12.

com 'tt'to"
^n a'^ case3 when the complainant or complainants are not residents
for6 Sa™rity of tnis state before process shall issue, a bond in the penal sum of one
hundred dollars shall be filed with the register, to be approved of by
him, conditioned to pay all such costs as shall be decreed against the
complainant in such cause.
RULE 13.
Bills to be

Bills in which the answer of the several defendants on oath is not

sworn to by

complainant, waived, shall be verified by the oath of the complainant, or in case of
his absence from the state, or other sufficient cause shown, by the oath
of his agent, attorney or solicitor.
RULE 14.
Mannerof
bills, anIn bills, answers and petitions, which are to be verified by the oath
of the party, the several matters stated, charged, averred, admitted, or
denied, shall be stated positively, or upon information or belief only,
according to the fact. The oath administered to the party shall be, in
substance, that he has read the bill, answer, or petition, or has heard it
read, and knows the contents thereof, and that the same is true of his
Substance ofown knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated to be
stated in ju- on his information or belief, and as to those matters, he believes it to be
true ; and the substance of the oath shall be stated in the jurat.
RULE 15.
Process.

All process, unless otherwise directed, shall be made returnable on a
day certain (except Sunday) either in vacation or in term, not less than
ten days from the issuing thereof, and if process is not executed before
the return day, new process may be taken out, of course, as often as
maybe necessary, or an alias, or pluries may be issued.
RULE 16.

Bubprena,

-p^ namcs of all the defendants in a cause shall be inserted in the

how served.

subpoena. It may be served by delivering a copy of the writ, subscribed
by the Complainant, his solicitor, or the officer or person serving the
same, and inscribed " copy," and showing the original, under the seal
of the court, at the time of such delivery, to the defendant, or in case
of his absence, to his wife, or servant, or some member of his family,
at his dwelling-house or place of abode. The service may be on or
before the returli day mentioned in the subpoena.
RULE 17.
Upon the return of the subpoena served, as directed in the preceding
Subprena
ceedings!'10^ rule, the defendant shall cause his appearance to be entered in twenty

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

7

days from the return day of said writ, and if he does not require a copy
of the bill, as hereafter provided, he shall answer in forty days after the
return day of the subpoena, or in default thereof, his appearance may
be entered by the register, and the bill of complaint taken as confessed.
If a copy of the bill is required, he shall answer in forty days from
the service of such copy, or the bill may be taken as confessed.
RULE 18.
When the subpasna has been personally served, and the defendant Motion 'for
shall fail to appear and answer within the time limited for the same, the attac ent
complainant may, upon filing an affidavit that a discovery as to the
matters charged in the bill is necessary, move the court for an attach,
ment against such defendant or defendants, without further notice.
RULE 19.
If the defendant appears personally, or is brought into court by the * defendant
sheriff,' on the return of an attachment for not appearing
or not answer- attachment
x r
&
to enter his
ing, he shall enter his appearance. or put in his answer, and pay the appearance,
costs incurred by his contempt, instanter, or within such time as the costscourt shall appoint, or be committed until he complies. Or the com
plainant may have an order that the bill be taken as confessed, and that
the defendant be committed unfit the costs are paid.
RULE 20.
When the defendant has appeared, he may have an order of course, 0rdcr ,h,lt
that the complainant
deliver a copy
of the bill to the defendant or his piainam
der
iJ
hver a copy
solicitor in fifteen days, and if such copy is not delivered within fifteen of the bilL
days after the service of notice of such order, or within such further
time as may be allowed for that purpose, the defendant, on filing an
affidavit of the service of such notice, and that no copy of the bill has
been served, may have a decree dismissing the suit, with costs, for want
of prosecution.
RULE 21.
If the complainant requires a copy of the defendant's answer, he copy of ani
p
i
i
swer to be
may have an order, of course, that ho put m Ins answer, and serve a served.
;opy thereof in forty days after notice of the order, and if the defendint does not file his answer and serve a copy thereof within the time
described in such order, or such further time as may be allowed him
ar that purpose, the complainant, on filing an affidavit showing the
efault, may have an order to take the bill as confessed, or may move
»r an attachment against him without further notice.

8

CHANCERY RULES.
RULE 22.

a'Sfi'i'iT
^he 01^er t0 take tne bi" as confessed against an absent or concealed
ani^1"1""1" defendant, and for a reference under the provisions of the third part of
the first t't'o of the se.-"::d chapter of the revised statutes, may be
enieicd of e->ur.;.\ j.i .:!iiy; ti:e proof of publication or notice, and an
alii lavlt !'.:;.'. i'.iC <-'...:;. n';.nt has not appeared. But the order requiring
the deli'ij.hu'i to ;;;>•>.., and designating the paper in which it shall
be publish: v', or a direction lo the master to receive the testimony of
the complainant as evidence on the reference, can only be obtained by
a special application to the court.
RULE 23.
Exceptions to an answer shall not prevent the dissolution of an inThceici>ptions must be

1

*

filed witran iunct:on, or the discharge of a ne exeat, unless they are filed and
'
Prpv?ma!)i3- served within tea days after notice to the complainant or his solicitor
injunction. ^nat t|10 answer is put in. ]f exceptions are taken, the defendant may
ten days, to J

give a written consent that they be forthwith referred ; and unless the
Master's re- complainant proc ires the master's report in favor of the exceptions
port to bo
. , .
,
„
. .
.
.
.
. n
procured
witiiin ten. uays aitor receiving sucn consent, the exceptions shall not
days.
prevent tiic dissolution of the injunction, or the discharge of the ne
exeat.
RULE 24.
Motion not to
be marie till

trieexwpIf exceptions are filed within the time prescribed by the last rule, it
'

.

....

tinns an: disposed of.

....

shall not be in order to move for a dissolution of the injunction or ne
.

.

exeat, on bill and answer, until the time for procuring the masters
report has expired, unless a report against the validity of the exceptions
is sooner obtained.
RULE 25.

ifthennIf the complainant waives the necessity of the answer being made
swer unon
.
t
_
.
oaih is'waiv- on tiic oath of the defendant, it must be distinctly stated in the bill.
cd, compiain...
am not mex- When the answer is put in without oath, it may he excepted to for
cept for

'

,

'

insufficiency, scandal or impertinence ; but the complainant shall not be at liberty to
except thereto for insufficiency ; but all material allegations in the bill,
which are i:ot answered and admitted, may be proved by him in thoj
same manner as if they were distinctly put in issue by the answer ; arid)
if no replication is filed, the matters of defense set up in the defend- 1
Answer to be
.
.
replied to. ant's answer, will, on the hearing, be considered as admitted by the
complainant, although the answer is not on oath.
RULE 20.
Answers out
of state, li'iw

The answer of the defendant may be sworn to before any master ii
.

. .

.

to be verified, chancery, or other officei' authorized to administer oaths and take i

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

»

davits. If the defendant resides out of the state, the answers may be
3Worn to before any judge of a court of record, in the state where
the answer is taken, and shall be certified to have been sworn and sub
scribed before liim, specifying the time and place where taken. The
genuineness of the signature of such judge, the existence of the court,
and the fact that such judge is a member thereof, must be certified by
the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof.
RULE £7.
When a cross bill is filed, the complainants therein, who are defend- The defend
ants in the original, bill, shall put in and perfect their answer to the answer the
original bill before they shall be entitled to an order to compel an answer before he is
to the cross bill, unless the court shall otherwise specially direct.
order to
answer the
cross bill.

RULE 28.
If the bill has not been sworn to, the complainant may amend it, at Amendments
any time before the plea, answer, or demurrer put in, of course, and „ mm, when
without costs. He may also amend, of course, after answer, at any
time before he replies thereto, until the time for replying expires, and
without costs, if a new or further answer is not t! ereby rendered
necessary; but if such amendment requires a new or a further answer,
then it shall be on payment of costs to be taxed. He may also amend
sworn bills, except injunction bills, in the same manner, if the amend,
ments are merely in addition to and not inconsistent with what is contained in the original bill ; such amendmenls being verified by oath, as
the bill is required to be verified. But no amendment of an injunction Amendments
bill shall be allowed without a special order of the court, and upon due in injunction
notice to the adverse party, if he has appeared in the suit. Amend(.
ii-i
ii Amendments
ments ot course, may be made without entering any rule or order nf course to
_
.
iiin'
ne uiade
for that purpose; but the registers shall not permit any amend- without enments to be made, unless the same appear to be duly authorized. And order.
in every case of an amendment of course, the complainant's solicitor
shall either file a new engrossment of the bill with the register in which
where the original bill is filed, or furnish him with an engrossed copy am to be
of the amendments, containing the proper references to the folios and
lines, in the original bill on file, where such amendments are to be insert.
ed or made. But no amendment shall be considered as made, until service of
the same is served upon the adverse party, if he has appeared in the when neces
sary.
cause.
RULE 29.
If the defendant demurs to the bill for want of parties, or for anv A,men<lmei"«
r
•'Of course afother defect which does not go to the equity of the whole bill, the com- wr demurrer.
2

r

'(

10

CHANCERY RULES.
plainant may amend of course, on payment of costs, at any time before
the demurrer is noticed for argument, or within ten days after the re
ceiving a copy of the demurrer ; and in all cases of demurrer for
causes not within the former part of this rule, the complainant's right
to amend, and the terms on which amendments may be permitted, shall
be in the discretion of the court.
RULE 30.

Amendments Where the answer is excepted to as insufficient, and the defendant
insufficient submits to answer further, or the answer, on reference, is found insufficient, the complainant may amend the bill of course, and without
costs, at any time within ten days after the defendant submits to answer
any of the exceptions, or after confirmation of the master's report, if
the defendant does not submit to answer any of the exceptions ; and
the defendant shall answer the amendments and exceptions together.
Complainant If a plea or demurrer to the bill be overruled, the complainant may
ten^ayanfter within ten days thereafter amend his bill of course, and without costs ;
liwrerover- and in all cases where the complainant is permitted to amend his bill, if
the answer has not been put in, or a further answer is necessary, the
defendant shall have the same time to answer, after such amendment,
as he originally had. But no amendments of course of injunction
bills, are to be allowed under this or the preceding rule, nor any amend
ments which are inconsistent with the original sworn bill.
RULE 31.
Common or- Orders to which a party, by the rules and practice of the court, is
obtained! entitled of course without showing special cause, shall be denominated
common orders ; and orders made on special application to the court,
shall be denominated special orders. All common orders, and orders
by consent of the parties, such consent being in writing and signed by
such parties or their solicitors or counsel and filed, may be entered with
the register, or assistant register, in the common rule book kept in his
office, at the instance of the part}r or his solicitor, at the peril of the
party taking such order ; and the day on which the order is made shall
be noted in the entry thereof. All orders made by the special direcder"nowr" tions of the court, shall be entered in the record of the minutes of the
entered.

court, as heretofore has been usual.
RULE 32.
Each party
When the defendant pleads or demurs to a bill, the complainant shall
plea or de- have twenty days to file a replication to his plea, or amend his bill ;
argument, and if he does not take issue on the plea, or amend his bill within that

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

11

time, either party may notice the plea or demurrer for argument, at the
next or subsequent term. If the plea is allowed, the complainant may
within ten days after notice of such allowance, take issue on the plea,
upon payment of the costs of the hearing thereon.
RULE 33.
If a plea or demurrer is overruled as frivolous, or a plea upon issue if a defendthereon is found to be untrue, the complainant may have an order to raise or frfvtake the bill as confessed, or he may compel the defendant to answer Selmmer* °*
the bill, at his election. In all other cases, if the plea or demurrer be he\akenIasy
overruled, neither a further pica or demurrer shall be received ; and
the defendant shall answer the bill and pay the costs of the hearing, After a plea
within twenty days after notice of the order overruling the plea or de- is overruled,
murrer, or such other time as may be prescribed by the court in such answer wiihorder. If he fails to put in his answer and pay the costs within the day*81"7
time prescribed, the bill may be taken as confessed, and the matter
thereof decreed accordingly ; or the complainant may have an attach,
ment to compel an answer.
RULE 34.
When the answer is to the whole bill, the complainant shall have Exceptions
,
«
.
,
..
.
.
. to be filed in
twenty days, after notice that such answer is put in, to except to the so days,
same, or if the answer is to part of the bill only, he shall have twenty
days after the plea or demurrer to the residue of the bill has been allowed, or overruled, to except to such answer ; at the expiration of which
time, if no exceptions are taken, and no order for further time has been
granted, the answer shall be deemed sufficient. If the complainant am may subexcepts to the answer for insufficiency, the defendant may within eight SWer any of
days after service of a copy of the exceptions, give a written notice of uons.
his submission to answer any or all of such exceptions ; and he shall
be liable for the costs of the exceptions which he submits to answer.
RULE 35.
Where exceptions to an answer for insufficiency are not submitted complainant
to within the time prescribed by the preceding rule, the complainant, at excqinouUn
any time within ten days thereafter, may have an order of course to l<!" day"'
refer the exceptions, not submitted to by the defendant, to a master. If
the exceptions not submitted to are not referred within the time speci
fied, they shall be considered as abandoned, and the answer as to such
exceptions shall be deemed sufficient.
RULE 36.
If a complainant refers a second or third answer for insufficiency on ^"^"J™
the old exceptions, the particular exceptions to which he requires a fur- answeri °M
jther answer shall be stated on the order of reference. And if he does be stated13

CHANCERY RULES.
not refer such second or third answer for insufficiency within ten days
after the same is put in, such answer shall be deemed sufficient.

RULE 37.
Exceptions
Exceptions to any pleading, or other matter pending before the court
orimpiMti- for scandal or impertinence, shall be taken in the same manner as exnence, how
l
to be taken, ceptions to an answer for insufficiency; and may be submitted to
in like manner, and within the same time. If they are not submitted
to, the party excepting shall refer them in the same manner, or they
shall be considered as abandoned ; and if such exceptions are to an answer, the answer thenceforth shall be deemed sufficient.
RULE 33.
reporTones- Whenever an answer or other pleading or proceeding is referred for
D«Pob™ned insufficiency, scandal, or impertinence, the exceptions shall be considdali!" 15

/

ered as abandoned, if the party obtaining the reference shall not procure
and file the master's report within fifteen days from the date of the or
der of reference ; unless the master shall, within that time, certify that
the party obtaining such reference has not been guilty of an unreasonable delay, and that further time, to be specified in the certificate, is
necessary to enable the master to make a satisfactory report ; in which
case the exceptions shall be considered as abandoned, if the report be
not obtained within the further time so stated. And if the exceptions
were to an answer, it shall thenceforth be deemed sufficient.
RULE 39.

The master
If on a reference of exceptions to an answer, or the reference of a
for putting in second answer on the old exceptions, the master 3hall find the answer
•wer.
"*. insufficient, he shall fix a time for putting in a further answer, and specify
the oi me in his report.
RULE 40.
Report to be- The master's report
on exceptions,
shall be delivered .to the
party
r
' ,..,.,
,
lute in eight obtaining the reference, who shall forthwith file the same in the proper
office ; and if he does not except to the report within eight days there
after, it shall become absolute as against him. "But the adverse party
shall have eight days after service of notice of filing the report to except
to the same ; and if he does not except within that time, it shall become
absolute as against him, without any order for that purpose. If none
of the exceptions to an answer are submitted to by the defendant, or
allowed by the master, the answer shall be deemed sufficient from the
time such report becomes absolute as against the complainant.
come absoSTATE OF MICHIGAN.

13

RULE 41.
If the master reports
that any* thins;
contained in any . pleading orM«,f«r
°
punge imperproceeding is scandalous or impertinent, the party excepting, on filing tinentmatter.
proof that the report has become absolute against the adverse party,
may have an order of course, that the master making the report,
expunge the scandalous or impertinent matter ; and that the adverse par
ty pay the costs of tiie exceptions and the proceedings thereon, within
twenty days after the service of a copy of such order and of the taxed
bill on him or his solicitor. When the adverse party submits to the
exceptions, the same order miy be obtained 0:1 filing the notice of submission. If the master disallows an exception for scandal or imperti
Master's renence, his report shall be final, and no exceptions to the report in that p»" d'sailowinf.' exrespect
shall be allowed ; but it shall not preclude
the party upon
'the scandal
cepiimis or(or
' .
r
.
hearing of the cause, or upon the taxation of the general costs in the boimftiuMi
...
....
'o be final.
suit, from insisting that the matter excepted to was in fact impertinent.
RULE 42.
On exceptions to answer for insufficiency, if all the exceptions are Order for a
further an
submitted to by the defendant, or a part are submitted to, and the rest swer.
abandoned, or are disallowed on reference, the complainant may have
an order, of course, that the defendant put in a further answer and
serve a copy thereof within twenty days after notice of the order, and
pay the costs of the exceptions.
RULE 43.
If, on a reference of exceptions, or the reference of a second answer Order for
further an
upon the old exceptions, the answer is found insufficient, and the mas swer after
reference.
ter's report has become absolute against the defendant, the complainant
may have a similar order of course, to put in a further answer, and pay
the costs, within the time specified in the master's report.
RULE 44.
In the cases specified in the two preceding rules, the defendant shall be Costs to be
served ten
entitled to a copy of the taxed bill of costs at least ten days before the time days before
explraiion of
for putting in the further answer expires, or he may put in such answer timi' to an
swer.
without paying the costs. But the complainant may afterwards proceed
by execution orattac'iment to compel payment thereof, if they aye not
paid within twe.ity days after seivice of a copy of the taxeJ bill on the
defendant or his solicitor. And if the complainant has amended his After amend
defend
bill, so as to require an answer to the amendments as well as the excep ment
ant to Iinve
same time to
tions, the defendant shall have the same time to answer the amendments answer.

r

14

CHANCERY RULES.
and exceptions together, as he originally had to answer the bill ; and
the order to answer shall be varied accordingly.
RULE 45.

Order to take If the defendant does not put in a further answer and pay the costs
fessed for" within the time prescribed, or within such further time as may be
bwm further. allowed by the court for that purpose, the complainant, on filing an
affidavit showing such default, may have an order of course, to take
the bill as confessed, or may move for an attachment against the defend
ant, without further notice.
RULE 46.
Exceptions
The argument of exceptions to a master's report on exceptions,
on creep- shall be heard as a special motion. Either party may notice the same
heard as spe for hearing, and the party excepting to the report shall furnish the neces.
cial motion.
„
.
..
sary papers tor the court ; and if he neglect to do so, the report may
be confirmed. But if both parties have excepted to the report, each
shall furnish copies of his own exceptions, and the party obtaining the
reference shall furnish such other papers as may be necessary. The
costs of the hearing on exceptions to a report upon exceptions shall be
Costa of the in the discretion of the court ; but neither party shall be entitled to
eicepi ions to costs as against the other, unless he succeeds as to the major part of the
repor ' exceptions to the report, And where the party succeeding as to the
major part does not succeed as to all the exceptions to the report, his
costs of the hearing, to be allowed against the adverse party, shall not
be taxed at a sum exceeding ten dollars.
RULE 47.
Costs of reWhen exceptions are taken to an answer for insufficiency, or to any
ferencenot
...
....
to be allow- pleading or proceeding for scandal or impertinence, the party excepting
of thee»wp- shall be entitled to the costs of the exceptions which are submitted to,
tions are sus
tained,
and those which are finally allowed after reference to a master ; but
neither party shall be entitled to costs upon the reference of exceptions
unless he finally succeeds as to all the exceptions which are referred.
Costs inciu- The costs on exceptions shall not be taxed until all exceptions are subbuijottset. mitted to, abandoned, allowed, or finally disposed of; and then the
whole costs to which the exceptant is entitled shall be included in one
bill, and the adverse party may offset any costs to which he is entitled.
RULE 48.
cause at is- Every cause shall be deemed at issue on filing a general replication
replication. 8 to the answer ; and no special replication shall be filed but by leave

t\ N

mm*

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

15

of the court, on cause shown. If the complainant does not reply to
the defendant's answer within twenty days after it is deemed to be suf
ficient, he shall be precluded from replying, and the cause shall stand
for hearing on bill and answer ; and either party may notice it for
hearing as soon as it is in readiness for hearing against the other de
fendants, if any there are.
RULE 49.
Where the cause stands for hearing on bill and answer against part if compiain.
. ant does not
of the defendants, if the complainant does not use due diligence in use due dili
gence, bill
proceeding against the other defendants, any of those who have per- mny be a»missed
fected their answer may apply to dismiss the bill for want of prosecu
tion ; and on such application, further time shall not be allowed to the
complainant of course, without any excuse shown for the delay.

y/aJ+S " LE 50.
When a causey's at issue by replication to a plea or to the defendant s R^ner* an.. .
r
.
....
tlmrizedto
answer, if either party desires an examination of witnesses, he may at enter an or. , . , .
,
i- .
..• i
. •
der for ihe
any time witnin thirty days after issue is joined, upon petition to the examination
register, have an order of reference to such master as ma ybe neces
sary, to take such testimony, by giving eight days' notice to the adverse
party. And if such adverse party shall desire to join in the application,
he shall give notice of the same to the register, and the order shall be
for the examination of witnesses on the part of the complainant and
defendant. Either party may proceed to take the testimony of their
witnesses under such order, upon giving ten days' notice to the other, of
the names and places of abode of the witnesses to be examined and the
time and place of such examination.
RULE 51.
If a party wishes to examine witnesses residing out of the state, or May appoint
commissionmore than thirty miles from the residence of a master, or when all the era.
masters are interested, living within that distance, as counsel or other
wise, either party may, at any time within thirty days after issue is
joined as prescribed in the preceding rule, present a petition to the regis.
ter of the circuit where the suit is pending, stating the names and resi
dences of the witnesses and of the person or persons proposed as
commissioners, and praying that a commission may be issued to take
the examination of such witnesses; and ten days' notice of the applica
tion shall be given to the adverse party. If the adverse party does
not appear and join in the commission, or object to the persons named
as commissioners, a commission shall be issued agreeably to the prayer
of the petition.

Ifl

CHANCERY RULES.

RULE 52.
Adverse par- If the adverse party wishes to join in the commission, he must, at
ty may Join
r
j
...
in the eiim- the time of presenting; the petition, furnish the names and residence of
mission, and
r
o
i
h«w.
tiie witnesses on his part, and they shall be inserted in the commission.
If he is not satisfied with the commissioners named in the petition, he
may name commissioners on his part ; and the register lo whom the
petition is presented, after hearing the allegations of the parties, shall
designate a suitable person, or persons, to execute the commission, and
issue the same accordingly ; but any of the commissioners named in
the commission may execute the same, in case the others neglect or
refuse to join in the execution thereof, or they are, from any cause,
prevented.
RULE 53,
wjtn?s8™
Witnesses examined out of the state, shall be examined<^<m:.\mtteyi*»
""amine? on direct an(^ cross interrogatories, to be allowkUi^TRr^^j^r^^nn'exed -.
written Inter- to the commission.
\
*
logatortes.

^

RULE 54.
A plications jf it shall be necessary to have a commission to take the examination
for cotnmia...
•ions in »pe- 0f witnesses in any case not provided for in the iirecedina rules, or
cial cases.
,
.
...
.
after the expiration of the time therein limited for making an application
to the register, the party may present a petition to the chancellor for
that purpose, setting out the facts which entitle him to a special commission ; and the usual notice of the application shall be given to the
adverse party.
RULE 55.
0rfminanline When a party wishes to examine a defendant as a witness against a
of a party as co-defendant, or against the complainant, he may, at any time within
twenty days after he has received or served a notice of the rule to pro
duce witnesses, on filing an affidavit that such defendant is a material
witness, and is not interested in a matter to which he is to be examined,
have an order of course, for the examination of such defendant as a
Evidence witness, as to any matter in which he is not interested, subject to all
may lie ob•>
jreiai to at just exceptions. And such defendant shall thereupon be examined to
such matters, in the same manner as other witnesses ; but the adverse
party, at the hearing, may object to the competency of his testimony.
RULE 56.
Document*Documentary evidence, which is neither made an exhibit before the
when used!' commissioner, or set out, or distinctly referred to in the pleadings, shall
not be read on the hearing, unless notice of the intention to use it at
the hearing is given to the adverse party, at least ten days before the

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

17

expiration of the time allowed to produce proofs, and no deed or other ^P™tfsthe
writing shall be proved at the hearing, except on an order previously **J1j11^ih"
obtained, after due notice to the adverse party.
orderRULE 57.
Process of subposna to compel the attendance of witnesses before a Subpoenas to
1
l
compel atmaster or commissioner shall issue of course, and the time and rplace witnesses.
tendance of
of attendance shall be specified in the writ ; and such witnesses may be
punished for contempt if they fail to attend and submit to an examina
tion. But no witness shall be compelled to appear before the master
or commissioner more than forty miles from his place of residence,
unless by special order of the court.
RULE 58.
At the end of sixty days from the service of, or receipt of notice, of°rderto f
examination of witnesses, upon filing an affidavit of the facts, an order
may be entered of course, that the proofs be closed.
RULE 59.
Within ten days after notice of the order to close the proofs, the Examiners
master or commissioner, on being applied to for that purpose by either tions within '
party, shall cause the depositions and exhibits, taken or produced before theteatimony
him, to be returned and filed with the register. And he shall not be ls c
entitled to receive pay for taking any depositions, or making any exhibits,
which are not returned and filed with the proper officer, within ten days
after service of a notice of such order. Neither shall a copy of any
deposition or exhibit be read on the hearing, unless the original has
been returned and filed in the proper office.
RULE 60.
An order to enlarge the time for the examination of witnesses may orders to en.
be granted, on sufficient cause shown, without notice to the adverse time" ^proparty ; but an ex parte order shall not be granted after the time for the d,J.ce mtnesa~
examination of witnesses has actually expired, nor shall a second order
be granted to the same party, except on the usual notice of the applica
tion to the adverse party, and upon such terms as the court may pre
scribe.
RULE 61.
After the proofs are closed, either party may notice the cause for Either party
hearing at the next or some subsequent term. It shall not be necessary Sesame for
in any case to obtain an order to set a cause down for hearing ; but
when a cause is in readiness for hearing, on plea, or demurrer, bill
and answer, pleading and proofs, exceptions to a master's report, or on

18

CHANCERY RULES.
the equity reserved, either party may notice the same for hearing and
have the cause entered on the calendar of causes for the term.

RULE 62.
Notices of
. All notices of hearing, or of special motions, or of the presenting of
of motions, petitions, when required, shall be notices of at least eight days, if the
solicitor of the adverse party resides over one hundred miles from the
place where the court is to be held ; if over fifty, and not exceeding
one hundred, six days' notice shall be given ; and in all other cases, at
least four days. And a copy of the petition, affidavit, or certificate,
on which any special application is founded, shall be served on the
adverse party the same length of time previous to making the applica
tion to the court.
RULE 63.
Case and ab- When a cause is submitted or heard, on bill'answer and replication,
breviation of
pleadings, or on the pleadings and proofs, if the parties do not agree upon a case,
to be signed by them, containing, with all requisite brevity, a statement
of the pleadings and proofs, the complainant shall furnish the, court
with a case, stating the time of filing the bill, and of the answers and
other pleadings respectively, the names of the original parties in full,
the change of parties, if any has taken place pending the suit, and a
very brief history of the proceedings in the cause ; and containing an
abbreviation of the pleadings, not exceeding one-sixth of the number of
folios contained in the original pleadings respectively.
RULE 64.
Calendar^
In making up the calendar, causes to be heard on bills taken asconwhich can- fessed, shall have a preference, and shall be entered according to prioriheard,
ty, from the date of the order to take the bill as confessed. Pleas and
demurrers shall constitute the second class of causes, and have priority
Causes on from the time when the plea or demurrer was filed. Causes to be heard
swer to con- on bill and answer, shall occupy the third place on the calendar, and
third class, have priority from the time when the answer was put in. Those which
are to be heard on the pleadings, or on pleadings and proofs, shall form
the fourth class, and have priority from the time when the replication
was filed. Causes to be heard on exceptions, or upon the equity reserv
ed in a decretal order, shall be placed in the class to which they belonged
before the decretal order or reference, and according to their priority
as it then existed ; and causes for rehearing shall be arranged in the
same manner. But the court, in the hearing of calendar causes, may,
in its discretion, give a preference to any particular cause, or descrip
tion of causes, over others on the calendar. And mortgage causes of

'.,j«fl

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

19

the fourth class shall be entitled to a preference over any other causes
of the same class ; unless the defendant, before the cause is heard, shall
file with the register, or assistant register, at the place where the court
is held, an affidavit that he has a good and meritorious defense, and
that his answer was not put in for the purpose of delay ; the filing
of which affidavit he shall have rioted on the calendar.
RULE 65.
Causes shall be noticed for hearingD for the first day
of term,
or for Causes
shall
J
.
be noticed for
as early a day in term as practicable. The notice to the register spe- °f flrst day
cifying the class to which the cause belongs, and the time from which
it is entitled to priority, shall be delivered to the register, who is to make
the calendar four days previous to the commencement of the term.
But if the cause is not in readiness for hearing in time to notice it for
the first day in term, it may be placed at the foot of the calendar ; and
if the bill has been taken as confessed, may be heard out of its regular
order.
RULE 66.
When a cause is heard or submitted on plea or demurrer, or on bill f,f£5iedupand answer, except in mortgage or petition causes, where the complain- °"„th0 hear
ant's rights are not contested, the court shall be furnished with copies
of the pleadings, and an abbreviation thereof not exceeding one-sixth of
the number of folios, contained in the originals. If it is heard on bill,
answer and replication, or on pleadings and proofs in addition to the
case required by the sixty-fourth rule, the court shall be furnished with
copies of the pleadings and of the depositions, if any, and with short ab
stracts of the exhibits. On a rehearing, a copy of the decree or order re- on a rehearheard, shall be furnished, and copies of the pleadings, abstracts, case, lng'
depositions, &c, on which the same was founded. Upon exceptions to a
master's report, copies of the order of reference, report and exceptions,
and of such part of the evidence before the master, and of the pleadings,
as are material for the decision of the exceptions, shall be furnished.
And in all cases the necessary papers shall be delivered to the court,
when the hearing of the cause shall commence.
RULE 67.

If the cause is heard or submitted on plea or demurrer, or onexcep- By whom
tion to a master's report, or on a rehearing, the necessary papers shall H ^mMied?
be furnished by the party pleading, demurring, or excepting, or who
obtained the rehearing. In all other cases the papers shall be furnish,
ed by the complainant ; except that on an original hearing upon plead
ings and proofs, each party shall furnish copies of the testimony and

'

20

CHANCERY RULES.
abstracts of the exhibits on his part only. And each party shall deliv
er to the court and to the adverse party, a copy of the points on which,
he relies ; and may also deliver to the court and to the adverse party,
a draft of the minutes of the decree to which he conceives himself enti
tled.
RULE 68.

pieadings'&c The solicitor or other officer of the court, who draws any pleading,
writfenegand deposition or report, or enters any decree, shall distinctly number and
bered and™ mark each folio in the margin thereof; and all copies, either for the
!hefoito.by parties or for the court, shall be numbered or marked in the margin,
so as to conform to the original draft or entry, and to each other; and
-no allowance shall be made on the taxation of costs for copies not num
bered and marked according to this rule. And all bills, answers and
other proceedings, and copies thereof, shall be fairly andj legibly written,
and if not so written, the * register or assistant register shall not file
such as may be offered to them for that purpose ; and in the entitling
and endorsement of papers by either party, the complainant's name
shall be placed first.
RULE 69.
ttotearing.

W tne cause m noticed for hearing on the part of the defendant, and
the complainant does not appear to agree on his part, or does not fur
nish the necessary papers, agreeably to the preceding rule*, the bill
may be dismissed, with costs. If noticed on the part of the complain
ant, and the defendant does not appear at the hearing, and furnish the
necessary papers on his part, the complainant may have such decree
as he is entitled to by the defendant's default, according to the usual
course and practice of the court.

RULE 70.
The manner All submissions shall be in writing, signed by the necessary parties
cLesblnlUlng or their solicitors or counsel, and shall be delivered to the register, or
assistant register where the court is held, with the necessary copies and
papers. On special motions and petitions, as well as in calendar cau
ses, he shall mark the papers and note them in his minutes, as on a
hearing ; and he shall not enter the submission until all the necessary
copies and papers are furnished, as required by the rules of the court.
RULE 71.
All orders and decrees made by the chancellor on the days for hearentered with ing special motions and petitions, established in rule first, unless other""'
wise specially directed, may be entered with the register of the proper
circuit ; but the caption of orders and decrees shall always state truly
the place where the court was held when the same were made.

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

21

RULE 72.
When a matter is referred to a master, to examine and report there- Regulations
*
_
of the proceeon, on bringing the decree or order into his office, he shall assign a dings in the
& 6
.
... master's ofday and place for hearing the parties, and give to the party bringing in flee,
such decree or order, a summons for the adverse party to attend at the
day and place so appointed. The summons shall be served on the ad- Time ofper
verse party or his solicitor, such time, previous to the day appointed for ■ummonf.
hearing, as the master may deem reasonable and direct, taking into
consideration the nature of the matter to be examined, and the residence
of the parties. But the time of service, unless otherwise ordered by
the court, shall not be less than two days, when the solicitor of the ad
verse party resides in the city or town where the hearing is to take
place; and not less than four days, when he resides elsewhere not ex
ceeding fifty miles from the place of hearing ; not less than six days, if
over fifty and not exceeding one hundred miles ; and not less than eight
days, when he resides more than one hundred miles from the place of
hearing.
RULE 73.
If the party who is entitled to prosecute such decree, or order of re- S"jtt>0enr,i"
ference, does not procure and serve such summons within thirty days ci!tc ?n orde*
1
J
J of reference
after the decree or order is entered, any other party or person interest- Jh,ptro^eed in
ed in the matter of reference shall be at liberty to apply to the court,
by motion or petition, to expedite the prosecution of the decree or or
der ; and after the proceedings have been commenced, by the service
of a summons to attend before the master, if the party entitled to
prosecute such decree or order does not proceed with due diligence,
the master shall be at liberty, upon the application of any other person
interested, either as a party to the suit, or as coming in to prove his
debt, or establish a claim under the decree or order, to commit to him
the prosecution of the reference.
RULE 74.
At the time and place appointed in the summons for the hearing of Master to
regulate prothe parties, the master shall proceed to regulate, as far as mav be, the ceedings and
.
fix the time
manner of its execution ; as, for example, to state what parties are en- for the seve1*1
.
, Tal proceedtitled to attend iuture proceedings, to direct the necessary notices, and ings.
to point out which of the several proceedings may properly be going
on pari passu ; and as to what particular matters interrogatories for
the examination of the parties appear to be necessary ; and whether
the matters requiring evidence shall be proved by affidavit or by exam
ination of witnesses ; and if the master shall think it expedient so lo
do, he may then, or upon any subsequent attendance, and from time to

22

CHANCERY RULES.

Masters
may t;me as circumstances may
require, fix the time within or at which any
proceed de
J • *
*
die in diem, proceedings before him shall be had; and he may proceed de die in
diem, or by adjournment from time to time, as he may think proper.

direct as to-ay

RULE 75.
Where, by any decree or order of the court, books, papers or wriand papere to ^m&s' are directed to be produced before the master for the purposes of
be produced. sucn decree or order, it shall be in the discretion of the master to deter
mine what books, papers, or writings, are to be produced, and when and
for how long they are to be left in his office ; or, in case he should not
deem it necessary that they should be left or deposited in his office, then
he may give directions for the inspection thereof by the parties requir
ing the same, at such time and in such manner as he shall deem expe
dient.
RULE 76.
'henparties

Where some, or one, but not all, of the parties do attend the master

"emlThe'mas- at tne time and place appointed, the master shall be at liberty to proceed
proceed™xy ex Parte> ^ 'le thinks it expedient so to do, considering the nature of
V"1^
the case ; and if he has proceeded ex parte, such proceeding shall not
in any manner be reviewed by him, unless, upon special application to
him for that purpose, by the party who was absent, the master shall be
satisfied such party was not guilty of willful delay or negligence, and
then only upon payment of all costs occasioned by his non-attendance ;
and such costs to be certified by the master at the time and paid by the
party or his solicitor, before he shall be permitted to proceed on the
warrant to review ; and every summons to attend before a master shall
be considered peremptory.
RULE 77.
may take tes- The master shall be at liberty to examine any witness or party, or
wTtneises up- any creditor or other person coming in to claim before him, either upon
toriesorortU- written interrogatories or viva voce, or in both modes, as the nature of
cretton.18 *" the case may appear to him to require ; the examination or evidence
being taken down at the time by the master, or by his clerk in his pre
sence, and preserved, in order that the same may be used by the court
if necessary.
RULE 78.
a master
If a party wishes to complain of any matter introduced into any
mattersTi-118 state of facts, affidavit, or other proceeding before the master, on the
cepted to.
grounfj that it is scandalous or impertinent, or that any examination of

X

M

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

23

a party before him is insufficient, such party shall be at liberty to file
exceptions thereto with the master ; and the master shall have authority
to expunge any such matter which he shall find to be scandalous or
impertinent. And where the matter is excepted to as scandalous or"a,Plaster
r

*

disallows eximpertinent, if the master disallows the exceptions, his decision thereon «p«?"s, his
shall be final as to the exceptions which are disallowed ; but this shall be final as to
r
'
the excepnot preclude the party from insisting upon the impertinence at thetionBhearing of the cause, or upon any subsequent proceeding founded on
the master's report upon the reference, or upon the taxation of the ge
neral costs of the cause, or of the reference. And in deciding on the „
°
Materiality
sufficiency or insufficiency of the examination of a party, or of an of 'he matter
answer to a bill, the master shall always take into consideration the into considJ

eration.

relevancy or materiality of the statement or question referred to in the
exception. On exceptions to the master's report, or to his certificate Parties to be
r
L
'
confined to
of the sufficiency or insufficiency of an examination, the parties shall objections tabe confined to the objections taken before the master.

the master.

RULE 79.
All parties accounting before a master, shall bring in their accounts Accounts bein the form of debtor and creditor ; and any of the other parties who ter to be in
shall not be satisfied with the accounts so brought in, shall be at liberty debtor and
.
.
.
creditor.
to examine the accounting party upon interrogatories, as the master may
direct. On any reference to take or state an account, the master shall
be at liberty to allow-interest as shall be just and equitable, without any
special directions for that purpose, unless a contrary direction is contained in the order of reference. And every charge, discharge, or state
of facts, brought in before a master, shall be verified, by oath, as true,
either positively, or upon information and belief.

Master may
without any
uons.
charS'&c*
{," 0atvhe"fied

RULE 80.
In all matters referred to a master, he shall be at liberty, upon the a master
application of any party interested, to make a separate report or reports, ™pa ™tekrefrom time to time, as he shall deem expedient ; the costs of such se- port"
parate reports to be in the discretion of the court. And where the master
shall make a separate report of debts or legacies, he shall be at liberty
to make such certificate as he thinks fit, with respect to the state of
assets ; and any person interested shall thereupon be at liberty to apply
to the court as he shall be advised.

RULE 81.
When the master has prepared the draft of his report, he shall de- Manner of
liver copies thereof to such of the parties as apply for the same, and |Jort™g re~

24

CHANCERY RULES.

shall assign a time and place for the parties to bring in objections, and
for settling the draft of the report, and no summons to see the draft of
the report, and take copies thereof, shall be necessary. On the day
assigned, or on such other day as may there be assigned by the mas
ter for that purpose, if objections are filed by either party, he may pro
ceed to hear the parties on such objections ; and the master shall settle
and sign his report, and cause it to be filed in the proper office, within
Master's re- twenty days after the argument on such objections is closed. If no
tied and filed objections are made to the draft, the master shall sign his report and file
it in the proper office within ten days after the time assigned for bring
ing in objections.
j^
RULE 82.
ordertoconfirm report.

After the report is filed, either paity may have an order of course
to confirm the same, unless cause to the contrary thereof be shown in
eight days ; and if no exceptions are filed and served within that time,
the order shall become absolute of course, without notice or further
order ; or either party may file exceptions, and have an order of course,
to confirm the report, so far as the same is not excepted to, and with
the like effect.
RULE 83.

No process
No process shall be issued, or other proceeding had, on any final
on decree before enrol- decree, until the same is duly enrolled. And such process, unless oth
erwise specially directed by the court, shall be sealed and issued by the
Process to be
issued from register, or assistant register, who shall not suffer any process to pass
the office
.
111
where the de- his seal, if it does not appear to be duly warranted. If a master is
led.
directed to sell real estate under such decree, he may give the requisite
notice of sale previous to enrolment ; but to protect the title of the
purchaser, the party for whose benefit the sale is made shall cause the
decree to be enrolled, and produce a certificate thereof, before any con
veyance shall be executed by the master. And where any previous
enrolled be- decree or decretal order disposes of any part of the merits of the
eution of
cause, or is necessary to explain the final decree, it shall either be reci
ted therein, or enrolled therewith, as a part of the final decree in the
cause.
RULE 84.
Manner of
A. petition for a rehearing shall state the special matter, or cause, on
Prehearing, which such rehearing is applied for, and the particular points in which
the decree or order is alleged to be erroneous ; and the facts, if they
do not appear from the records of the court, shall be verified by affidacertificate of vit of the party, or of some other person. It shall also be accompalequSreSu*1 nied by the certificate of two counsel, that they have examined the case,

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

25

and that in their opinion the decree or order is erroneous in the parti
culars mentioned in the petition. And a copy of the petition, with the
usual notice of presenting the same, shall be served on the adverse
party, but the rehearing shall not be considered as a matter of course
in any case. And if a rehearing is not applied for within thirty days Sj^S^ff
after the decree or order complained of, is entered, the court may ™t[o adverse
require payment of the costs incurred by the adverse party, by any pro
ceedings under the decree or order, as a condition of granting the
rehearing.
RULE 85.

Where a party is entitled to an order to stay proceedings, or for tem Orders to
stay proceed
porary relief until he has time to give regular notice of a motion, or ings, how ob
tained.
of presenting a petition for a rehearing, or for any other purpose, he
may make an ex parte application to the court, for an order that the
adverse party show cause why the motion, or the prayer of the petition,
should not be granted, and to stay proceedings, or for other tem
porary relief in the mean time. And the adverse party shall be served Papers to be
served on ad
with a copy of the order, and of the petition, affidavit, or certificate verse party.
on which it is founded, the same length of time, before the day for
showing cause, as is required in the ordinary case of special motions,
unless the court shall specially direct a shorter notice to be given.
RULE 86.
reIf a rehearing is granted, the petitioner shall lose the benefit thereof, f^K"^
ona
rehearing.
unless he shall, within ten days thereafter, deposite with the register fifty
dollars, to answer the costs and damages of the adverse party, if the
decree or order shall not be materially varied. If the cause is reheard,
the party obtaining the rehearing shall have the right to open and close
the argumept.
RULE 87.

No private agreement or consent between the parties, in respect to Agreements
the proceedings in a cause, shall be alleged or suggested by either ofceedings In'a
them against the other, unless the same shall have been reduced to the writing"
form of an order, by consent, and entered in the book, of common
orders ; or, unless the evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed
by the party against whom it is alleged or suggested, or by his solicitor
or counsel.
RULE 88.

All rules to take effect nisi, &c, unless otherwise specially directed, Time on
shall be rules of eight days ; and the time on all rules, orders, notices ordere""1
4

26

CHANCERY RULES.
and proceedings, where a time is given or stated, shall, unless other
wise expressly provided, be deemed and taken to be, one day inclusive
and one day exclusive ; but if the time expires on Sunday, the whole
of the succeeding day shall be included.

RULE 89.
Time
may be The court, upon
special
cause shown, .mav extend the time for putextended, and
r
'
default may ting in or serving any pleading, or exceptions, or for any other proceedon terms.
ing which is required by the rules of the court, to be done within a
limited time ; and may set aside any order, or decree, obtained by de
fault or otherwise, upon such terms as may be deemed just and proper.
RULE 90.
Manner in
which ac

The accounts of the register with the banks in which the monies are
neys'paid'in- directed to be deposited, shall be kept in such a manner, that in the
to bekept™ cas^ books of tne banks, and in the bank books of the register, it shall
appear in what particular suit, or on what account, the several items
of money, credited or charged, were deposited or paid out.

de™forfmoRULE 91.
Orders upon the banks for the payment of monies out of court, shall

"aid out of ^e made payable to the order of the person entitled thereto, or of his
c*urtsolicitor, or his attorney, duly authorized, and shall specify in what
particular suit, or on what account, the money is to be paid out, and
the time when the decree or order authorizing such payment, was made.
R U L E 92.
Taxing mas- The registers of each circuit shall have power to tax costs, and one
ter, andtaxa.
.
.
.
tion of costs, or more masters residing in each circuit, shall be designated and ap
pointed by the chancellor as the taxing masters of such circuit, who
shall be authorized to tax costs ; and where costs have been taxed by
a register or master, upon hearing of the parties an application for a
a retaxation, may be made directly to the chancellor.
RULE 93.
Bill of costs If a bill of costs offered for taxation, by or on behalf of any solicitor,
items.
or of any party who prosecutes and defends by a solicitor, or by or on
behalf of any officer of this court, who prosecutes and defends in per
son, the several items of disbursements, and of the fees of officers of the
court, shall be particularly specified therein, and not charged in gross,
or they shall be disallowed on taxation ; and when witnesses' fees are
charged, the names of the witnesses shall be specified, and the number

>

I

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

.

27

of days' travel and attendance of each. No allowance shall be made,
either as between party and party, or as between solicitor and client,
for the draft or copies of any repetition of the statements of the bill
in the charging part thereof, or in the interrogatories, or for any other
unnecessary or improper matter inserted in any pleading, report, or
other proceeding in a cause. And where the same solicitor appears No a,l"w"
for two or more defendants, or different solicitors, who are partners, ''°n to
7
r
defendants
appear for several defendants, and separate answers are put in, or other wh0 u"neproceedings had by or for the defendants separately, the taxing officer, *?"e ,n tneir
in the taxation of costs, either as between party and party, or between
solicitor and client, shall consider whether such separate answers, or
other separate proceedings, were necessary and proper ; and if, in his
opinion, any pan of the costs occasioned thereby was unnecessarily or
improperly incurred, the same shall be disallowed. The affidavit of Affidavit of
. .
,
solicitor to be
the solicitor, or the officer who 'prosecutes or defends in person,
shall bill
annexed
to
l
of costs
also be annexed to the bill before it is taxed, stating,
according
to
the
previous
to
0
D
. taxation, vebest of his knowledge and belief, that the several disbursements charged rifying the
0
_
°
correctness
in the bill have been actually and necessarily incurred, or paid ; that the of the charcopies of exemplification of documents charged therein, were actually
and necessarily used, or obtained for use ; that such bill of cost con• tains no charge for any draft, engrossment, or copy of any pleading,
or other proceeding, which has not been made, or for any other service
which has not been performed, except such prospective services as are
allowed by law, or the practice of the court, to be taxed ; and that the
number of folios contained in the draft, or in the copies of any plead,
ing or proceeding are not overcharged in such bill. But the taxing Affidavit of
officer, in lieu of the affidavit of the solicitor, or officer who prose- partner to be
cutes or defends in person, may receive the affidavit of his clerk, or certain casus,
law partner, annexed to, and verifying the correctness of such bill of
costs ; provided a sufficient excuse is stated in such affidavit for not
producing the personal affidavit of such solicitor, or officer, by reason
of sickness, death, or necessary absence.
RULE 94.
The taxed bill of costs, with the original affidavit annexed, shall be Taxed bill of
filed with the register within twenty days after the taxation ; and before affidavits
the solicitor, or the officer who prosecutes or defends in person, shall to twenty"11'
be entitled to payment, or to issue an execution, or other process, for day8'
the collection of the costs thus taxed. But if payment of the costs
is voluntarily made within twenty days, the solicitor, or officer, instead
of filing the taxed bill and affidavit, (except where the bill of costs is
by law required to be annexed to a decree upon enrolment, may deliver

28

,

,

CHANCERY RULES.

such bill and affidavit to the party or person from whom he receives
such payment, endorsing a receipt for the amount received upon the
taxed bill. And no register or master, who is ordered to pay costs
out of money in his hands, shall pay the same until the taxed bill and
affidavit are duly filed, as required by this rule.
R U L E 95.
Bills to fore- Jn a \,[]\ for foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, it shall not be
close mortga° ° '
ges ,iot to set necessary or allowable to set out at length the rights and interests of
out the rights
J
&
in
of defendants the several defendants who are purchasers of, or who have liens on, the
unnecessan•yl

equity of redemption in the mortgaged premises, subsequent to the re
gistry or recording of the complainant's mortgage, and who claim no
right in opposition thereto ; but it shall be sufficient for the complain
ant, after setting out his own right and interest in the premises, to state
generally, that such defendants have, or claim, some interest in the
premises, as subsequent purchasers, or encumbrancers, or otherwise ;
and if any such defendants are, by the misstatements of the complain
ant in his bill, or otherwise, unnecessarily compelled to put in an an
swer to protect their rights, the costs occasioned thereby may, in the
discretion of the court, be charged on the complainant personally ; and
if such defendants unnecessarily put in an answer to such bill, the extra
costs occasioned by such answer, may be charged on the defendants
personally, in the discretion of the court.
RULE 96.

A reference

if a bill to foreclose a mortgage is taken as confessed, or the right

of course to
....
.
compute
of the complainant, as stated in his bill, is admitted by the answer, he
amount due
r
...

on the mort- mav
have an order of course,
referring it to a master to compute
the
J
,
l

gage,

And take
proof of the
facts and
circumstancesstatedin
the bill.

amount due to the complainant and to such of the defendants as are
prior encumbrancers of the mortgaged premises ; and if the defendant
"
.
Js an infant, and has put in a general answer by his guardian, or anv
"
of the defendants are absentees, the complainant may have a similar
.

.

,

order of course, referring it to a master to take proof of the facts and
circumstances stated in the complainant's bill, and to compute the
amount due on the mortgage, preparatory to the hearing of the cause.
But every such cause shall be regularly brought to hearing at term,
after the coming in of the master's report, before a final decree is en
tered therein ; and if the bill has been taken as confessed, the com
plainant shall show to the court, at the hearing, by affidavit or otherwise,
that the proceedings to take the bill as confessed have been regular,
according to the rules and practice of the court. He shall also show
whether the bill has been taken as confessed against all of the defendSTATE OF MICHIGAN. *^^^*^ ^ 4%

29

ants, upon service of subpoena, or after an appearance, or whether
some of them have been proceeded against as absentees.
RULE 97.
On the coming° in and confirmation of the master's report
of the sale if
there is a
l
surplus raisof mortgaged premises, if it shall appear there is any surplus monies «i on the sale
remaining in court, after satisfying the amount due the complainant, premises, the
, °
.
subsequent
any defendant, upon filing an affidavit that such surplus has been incumbran.*
.
cers may
paid
into court, and that he is entitledt to the same, or some part thereof,
have
referr
_
ence to ascermay have an order of course, referring it to a master to ascertain and tain their
3
°
rights.
report the amount due to such defendants, or to any other person, and
which is a lien upon such surplus monies, and to ascertain the priorities
of the several liens thereon ; to the end, that on coming in and confir
mation of the report, such further order and decree may be made for
the distribution of surplus monies, as may be just ; and every defend
ant who. has appeared in the cause, and every person who has left a
written notice of his claim to such surplus monies with the register, or
assistant register, where the same are deposited, shall be entitled to
notice to attend the master on such reference. And any person making Persons maa claim to such surplus monies, and who shall fail to establish his ded claims to
claim, on the hearing before the master, may be charged with such neys, liable
costs as the other parties have been subjected to, by reason of such
claim ; and the parties succeeding on such reference may be allowed
such costs as the court may deem reasonable ; but no costs unneces
sarily incurred on such reference, or previous thereto, by any of the
parties, shall be allowed on taxation, or paid out of such surplus.
RULE 98.
The petition for the appointment of a guardian ad litem shall be by Guardians ad
the infant in person, if he is of the age of fourteen years and upwards ; appointed.
but if he is under fourteen, it shall be presented by his next kin, or
some other friend of the infant, who has no interest in the suit, adverse
to that of the infant. But if an infant defendant, or some disinterest- When ap.iip •
i - i • i i i /» i
•
r. pointed on
ed relative or mend, in his behalf, does not procure the appointment of application
.....
....
, . - „
of complaina guardian ad litem, withm the usual time lor appearance, as prescribed ant.
by the rules of this court, the adverse party may apply to the court to
appoint a suitable person as the guardian for such infant ; and such
party in his petition, shall briefly state the age and residence of such
infant, the general object of the suit or proceeding, and the nature of
the infant's interest therein.
RULE 99.
No guardian ad litem, for an infant defendant, or next friend of an security by
infant complainant, unless he has given security to the infant according

'

V

30

&jr/Mf+^

J»/J^/7JIA»^^CHANCERY RULES.
to law, shall, as such guardian, receive any money or property belong,
ing to such infant, or which may be awarded to him in the suit, except
such costs and expenses as may be allowed by the court to the guar
dian, out ofthe fund, or recovered by the infant in the suit. Neither shall
the general guardian of an infant receive any part of the proceeds of
the sale of real property belonging to such infant, sold under a decree
or order of the court, until the guardian has given such further security
for the faithful discharge of his trust, as the court may direct.

RULE 100.
Bills
tor
diAll
bills
for
the
purpose
of
obtaining~ divorce, whether the husband
vorce to be
J
*
filed on oath. or wife is complainant, shall be duly verified by oath, in the usual man
ner of verifying bills, where by the course and practice of the court an
Averments 0ath is required. In a bill for a divorce on the ground of adultery,
matters to be the complainant must also positively aver, that the adultery charged in
whs for di- the bill, was committed without his consent, connivance, privity, or
vorce.
,
.
procurement ; and that he has not voluntarily cohabited with the de
fendant since the discovery of such adultery.
RULE 101.
takeproof of ^ any sucn D*N is taken as confessed, or the facts charged therein
facts char- are adnjitted by the answer, the complainant may apply to the court,
on any regular motion day, or in term, upon due proof of the regu
larity of the proceedings to take the bill as confessed, or upon the
bill and answer, for a reference to a master to take proof of all the
material facts charged in the bill, and to report such proof to the court,
with his opinion thereon.
RULE 103.
Adultery of
The defendant in the answer may
set upr the adultery
of the com'
'
piainant,
&c.
plainant,
or
any
other
matter
which
would
be
a
bar
to
a
divorce,
sepamay beset r
J
'
r
up
in
the
anration,
or
the
annulling
of
a
marriage
contract
:
and
if
an
issue
is
taken
swer.
■*
°
thereon, it shall be tried at the same time and in the same manner as
other issues of fact in the cause.
the comRULE 103.
ofnnffltyor
No sentence or decree of nullity, declaring void a marriage contract,
voreeeor°adi or decree for a divorce, or for a separation or limited divorce, shall be
consent o" by macle °f course> by tne default of the defendant ; or in consequence of
default.
any negiect to appear at the hearing of the cause or by consent. And
every such cause shall be heard after the trial of the feigned issue, or
upon the coming in of the master's report, at a stated term of the court ;

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

31

but when no person appears on the part of the defendant, the details of
the evidence in adultery causes shall not be read in public, but shall be
submitted to the chancellor in open court.
RULE 104.
When a party
is ordered to pay
the costs of any
interlocutory
pro- interlocutory
Payment of
r
*
r '
J
J r
ceedings, and no time of payment is specified in the order, he shall pay costs, how
them within twenty days after the filing of the taxed bill, and affidavit
and service of a copy of the order of such taxed bill ; or if a gross
sum is specified in the order, within twenty days of service of a certi
fied copy of the order. And if he neglects or refuses to pay such costs
within the time prescribed as aforesaid, or specified in the order, the
adverse party, on an affidavit of the personal service of such copies,
and a demand of payment, and that such costs have not been paid, may
have an execution therefore, or move for an attachment against the de
linquent.
RULE 105.
On filing a bill of review, or other bill in the nature of a bill of re- Bin of re
view, the complainant shall make the like deposite or give security to be filed withthe adverse party in the same amount which is or would be required on and a deposan appeal from an order or decree complained of; and no such bill made,
shall be filed, either upon the discovery of new matters, or otherwise,
without special leave of the court first obtained, nor unless the same is
brought within the time allowed for bringing an appeal.
RUI>E 106.
When the final decree awards costs to any or all of the rparties, to be to
Proceedings
compel
paid out of the proceeds of a sale, or otherwise, any party who wants parties to
an enrolment, may give notice to any other party entitled to costs under bills of M8tthe decree, to file a taxed bill of such costs with the register with whom
such decree is entered, within fifteen days, or that the decree will be
enrolled without such taxation.
RULE 107.
If a party, on whom such notice is served, neglects to file his taxed if the party
bill of costs within the time prescribed, the party giving such notice, on fiiastawS
filing an affidavit of the due service thereof, may have the decree en- dee may "be
rolled without annexing thereto the taxed bill of the party who has neg- wiSout it.
lected to file the same.

32

CHANCERY RULES.
RULE 108.

neglecting to When such taxed bill is received at any time before the actual enrol
ed bin of his merit of the decree, it shall be considered as in time, and shall be annexed
the same.
to the enrolment, as required bylaw. But if any party neglects to
file his taxed bill of costs in the office where the final decree is entered,
until after such decree has been regularly enrolled, he shall forfeit his
right to costs under the decree.
RULE 109.
Creditor's
Where a creditor, by judgment or decree, files a bill in this court
equitable in- against his debtor, to obtain satisfaction out of the equitable interests,
state the a- things in action, or other property of the latter, after the return of an
execution unsatisfied, he shall state in such bill, either positively, or
according to his belief, the true sum actually and equitably due on such
judgment or decree, over and above all just claims of the defendant, by
way of offset, or otherwise. He shall also state that he knows, or has
ue of the de- reason to believe, the defendant has equitable interests, things in action,
property or or other property, of the value of one hundred dollars or more, exclu
sive of all prior claims thereon, which the complainant has been unable
to discover and reach by execution on such judgment or decree. The
bill shall likewise contain an allegation that the same is not exhibited
by collusion with the defendant, or for the purpose of protecting the
property or effects of the debtor against the claims of other creditors ;
but for the sole purpose of compelling payment and satisfaction of the
complainant's own debt.
RULE 110.
Such bills
Every such creditor's bill shall be verified by the oath of the comifled by oath, plainant, or in case of his absence from the state, or other sufficient
amended of cause shown, by the oath of his agent or attorney. Such bills may be
amended of course, in the same manner as bills not sworn to, if the
amendments are merely in addition to, and not inconsistent with what
is contained in the original bill. But all such amendments shall be
verified by oath in the same manner as the bill is required to be verified.
RULE 111.
Debtor need
The debtor against whom a creditor's bill is filed, shall not be subnot answer
.
p
.
.
.
.
thebin.but jected to the expense ot putting in an answer thereto in the usual manmay consent
. .
,
....
.
that it be ta- ner, if he shall cause his appearance to be entered within twenty days
fesse'd, and after the return day of the subpoena, and shall, within the time allowed
erbeappoint- for an answer, deliver to the complainant, or his solicitor, a written
consent that an order may be entered taking the bill as confessed ; and

^
STATE OF MICHIGAN.
• .. .,),.

for the appointment of a receiver, and for a reference to take the exam:,., .
( ination of the defendant, in conformity to this rule. Upon presenting
... .:. , _,, such written consent to the court, the complainant may have a special
order, founded thereon, directing the bill to be taken as confessed against
the debtor, and referring it to such master as the court may designate
".;, ..,
, in such order, to appoint a receiver, with the usual powers, and to
take from him the requisite security. The order shall also direct the JJJjSJ,
:/ ' ,, ..i .- defendant to assign, transfer and deliver over to the receiver on oath, SSjSf
,.; ;,i„ .
. under the direction of the master, all his property, equitable interests,
.'(,-.j
.,, .things in action, and effects ; and that he appear before the master, from
• i. j(i ..j 'time to time, and produce such books and papers and submit to such
: .l.. . ,.• examination as the master shall direct, in relation to any matter which
ft' tn ; .! . • . , he might have been legally required to disclose, if he had answered the '
..-.; i], ,. •
bill in the usual manner. The expense of taking down such examina. ".. v ,(i - tion by the master, shall bepaid by the complainant, in the first instance,
. . >. .. ,1 ;,„ ;and may be taxed and allowed to the latter as a part of his necessary
:n .-.:' : h (| /costs in the ?uit. The complainant shall also be at liberty to examine
v t.(. .j (_, ".witnesses before the master, as to the property of the defendant, or as
'!...„ to any other matter charged in the bill and not admitted by the defend
ant on such examination. And the complainant shall cause a written ffir«|
or printed copy of this rule to be served on the defendant at the time of {£,™™J
the service of the subpoena, with a notice to the defendant that an en- J^*5
'town .-. to i. itry of his, appearance and an answer on oath is required ; or such i"1^'. ' > .'n;*;!.! defendant shall not be answerable to the complainant for the costs of
. the proceedings to compel an appearance and answer.
; .
:- . ... ...

a

,

RULE 112.

Every receiver of the property and effects of the debtor, appointed J?"^
in a suit upon a creditor's bill, shall, unless restricted by the special »"« *"**
order of the court, have general power and authority to sue for and
.collect all the debts, demands and rents belonging to such debtor, and
' • ' '
"
tooompromise and settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful charac.
'•
ter. He may also sue in the name of the debtor, where it is necessary
'"•••
or proper for him to do so, and he may apply for and obtain an order of
1 '- '"j " course, that the tenants of any real estate belonging to the debtor, or of
v
which he is entitled to the rents and profits, attorn to such receiver and
pay their rents to him. He shall also be permitted to make leases, from
." ' !,i time to time, as may be necessary, for terms not exceeding one yea r.
• ' ;'
And it shall be his duty, without any unreasonable delay, to convert, all
the personal estate and effects into mbney ; but he shall hot sell any
real estate of the debtor, without the special order 6f the court. He is 5™Co.°*
not to be allowed for the costs of any suit brought by him against an »■ certain «5

1

^
84

CHANCERY RULES.

insolvent from whom he is unable to collect his costs, unless such suit
is brought by order of the court, or by the consent of all persons intermaywu bad esle(* m ^e funds in his hands. But he may sell such desperate debts,
Hon"" ,uc_and all other doubtful claims to personal property, at public auction,
- giving at least ten days' notice of the time and place of such sale.
RULE H3.
ortTdiittaT"
Where several bills are filed by different creditors against the same
Shimis'areCr debtor, n0 more than one receiver of his property and effects shall be
flledappointed, unless the first appointment has been obtained by fraud or
collusion, or unless the receiver is an improper person to execute the
trust. The receiver shall give security sufficient to cover the whole
property and effects of the debtor which may come 5ti his hands by vir
tue of his office ; and he shall hold such property and effects for the
benefit of all creditors who have commenced, or shall commence similar suits during the continuance of his trust, to be disposed of accord.
feceiVove"°t mS t0 tneir leSal or equitable priorities. He shall not pay over the funds
bcdiwhuied 'n nis hant"s to tl10 parties, or to any other person, without being spe"'''order'1"* cially authorized to do so by an order or decree of the court ; -nor shall
he be discharged from his trust without a special order, to be obtained
upon a written consent of all the parties interested in the property in •
his hands, or upon due notice of the application. • "
'' '

'.

• t

.,

RULE 114.

..... y. ...

The receiver When another suit is commenced after the appointment of a receiver,to keep sep.
.
erate actne sarae person may be appointed receiver of such subsequent suit, /
and shall give such further security asthe court "shall direct. He shall
keep a separate account of any property or effects of the-debtor which may have been acquired since the commencement of the first suit, or ,
which may be assigned to such receiver under the appointment in the,
last cause.
. ;.. • ,. .i
RULE 115.
Effect of the No iniunction
issued upon any
such creditor's
bill,i shall be construed
J
. .
j
a •
j
e i .
upon credit- to prevent the debtor from receiving and applying the proceeds of his
. subsequent earnings to the support of himself or of his family, or to defray the expenses of the suit, or to prevent him from complying with
any order of this court, made in any other cause, to assign and deliver'
his property and effects to a received ; or to restrain him from making
the necessary assignment to obtain his discharge under the insolvent
laws, unless an express provision to that effect is contained in the injunc. •.
Aion,
, .
injunction

1

STATE OP MICH1
RULE 116.

When two or more special motions, or a^u^ncations, m the s;
are decided at the same time, or on the samfc day, or several directions '
are given by the court in relation to the s$t, the whole, shall be entered *
together as one order, unless the court shall otherwise direct. And t
when a party is entitlqdjto enje^ <*»q c *, mpre orders of course, in a i101*
suit at -the samtS^ime, or* bn &e same dm, tljey^haU be enjered together ?|^w
as one order ; and he shall only be allowed, upon the taxation of cofets, bjjf8*
for the expense of entering one order.
RULE 117.

*

In cases where no provision is made by statute, or by these rules^Slrf
the proceedings of this court shall be according to the customary praf*>°v™*?n**
lice, as it has heretofore existed in cases not provided forty statute/ ■J^^T
the written rules of the court. These rules shall commenuj and/k<r **i foreffect on the first day of January, A. D„ 1839 ; from and after vhich .
time, all former rules and orders of this court, regulating the practice
thereof, a&e abolished.

X

CIRCUIT COURT RUL
RULE 1.
Every attorney shall have an agent in each place where there is a Attorneys to
circuit court held in this state, except in the city or town where such ave agentsattorney keeps his office. No person shall be an agent unless he be who may be
an attorney of the court, clerk of the court, or deputy clerk. The 8UC '
appointment of agents shall be made in writing, signed by the attorney, f™ appoin"
and filed in the clerk's office ; and the clerk shall keep a catalogue of
the appointments filed in the office, with the attorneys' names alpha
betically arranged.
RULE 2.
Where the attorney for the adverse party resides more than two service of
miles from the place of holding court, service of papers contemplated wbommada.
by these rules maybe made on an agent; but if he has no such agent,
such service may be made by putting the notice or papers in the post
office, directed to, the attorney at his place of residence, to be ascertain
ed according to the best information and belief of the person making
such service.
RULE 3.
All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the attorney Notices to be
in the cause, or his agent ; and where a party who is also an attorney
of this court, shall prosecute in person, or, if a defendant, shall give
notice that he is an attorney and will defend in person, all notices and
other papers shall be served on him in like manner ; and where the
object is to bring the party into contempt for disobeying any rule or
order of the court, the service shall be on such party personally, unless
otherwise specially ordered by the court.
RULE 4.
Notices and papers may be served on an attorney or his agent, by How to be
leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in his office,
or with a person having charge thereof; or when no person is to be
found in the office, by leaving the same, between the hours of six in the

i.

iirfe;in*the eveni'ng, in some suitable and conspicuous
jffiee ;*ttrrfvthe offic9>ie not opeivso as toadmit.of ser
ving the samejtfthe attornej^'s>8^dence, with
age Jtad^iscretiqp
R^E 5.
When an at- Where lfc,party, other than an attorney of this court, prosecutes or
party.
defends in person, the service of papers may be on such party personally,
or by putting the same into the post office, directed to him at his place of
When ser- residence. And no service of notice or papers
in the ordinary
proceedvice not ne- #
r r
J r
cessary.
ings in a cause shall be necessary to be made on a defendant who has
not appeared therein and given notice to the plaintifff's attorney of his
intention to defend the suit, except where the defendant is returned
imprisoned for want of bail, in which case a copy of the declaration
shall be delivered to him, or to the sheriff or jailer in whose custody he
shall be ; and when an exception is entered to bail, and no notice of
retainer of an attorney to defend is given, notice of such exception shall
be delivered to the sheriff or one of his deputies.
RULE 6.
No private agreement or consent between the parties or their attor.
ments to be neys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be binding unless
in writing.
the same shall have been reduced to the form of a rule by consent, and
entered accordingly in the book of common rules ; or unless evidence
thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party, or his attorney,
against whom the same shall be alleged.
RULE 7.
Original
Original writs may be issued in vacation, or in term time, and made
returnable611 returnable in any day in term.
RULE 8.
Every rule to which a party would, according to the practice of the
court, be entitled of course, without showing special cause, shall be deCommonmie nominated a common rule ; and every other rule shall be denominated
Special rule, a special rule. All common rules, and all rules by consent of parties,
to0bTe°nterUed sllau De entered with the clerk at his office, in a book to' be provided
KiufKTi by him for that purpose, to be called the." Common Rule BoQk," and
in term or may be entered at any time, as well in vacation as during term ; and
vacation.
,
the day when the rule shall be entered shall be noted therein, and the
party may enter such rule as he may conceive himself entitled to, of
course, but at his peril.

i

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
RULE 9.
The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, notice, plead- Jj'°j|jjj"tat,on
ing or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation of the time
for complying with the exigency of such rule, order or notice, pleading
*
or paper, and the day on which a compliance therewith is required,
shall be included, except where it shall fall on a Sunday, in which case
the party shall have the next day to comply therewith. When by the
Instanter.
terms of any order an act is directed to be performed iristanter, it shall
be done in twenty-four hours.
iRULE 10.
In all suits originally commenced in the circuit court, declarations Time formshall be filed with the clerk of the court within sixty days from the first Declaration
day of the term to which the writ is made returnable, and the defendant ln sixty Aay"'
shall plead thereto within thirty days from the expiration of the time to [j^** ln thlr'
declare; and all subsequent pleadings shall respectively> be filed within Subsequent
. .
.
pleadings in
ten days each after the other, until issue of fact or law be joined.
ten days each
/
RULE 11.
IN—In suits commenced byJ the service of declaration, the defendant shall ?"";
hy declaration.
be entitled to the same time to plead subsequent to the next succeeding
term after the service of declaration, as is ptovided by the preceding rule Dlea t°in cases commenced by original writs, and »11 subsequent pleadings shall
be in accordance with said rulej and in casei against a number of defend- .„
-— -'
°
When all the
ants, where process
shall not have been sefved on all of them, declara- served
<Memi'mwith
not
i
tion may be filed against all the defendants, and a copy thereof served on process.
the defendant or defendants not servH with process, and such defendant
or defendants shall rplead thereto in thirty
days after notice of the filing How lo pro.
thereof and service of such copy, and in case such defendant or defend. «*<• against.
ants shall not plead thereto in such time, the plaintifff, on affidavit filed
of such service, may enter the appearance and default of such defendant
or defendants ; subsequent pleadings to be filed in ten days each con
secutively, as under the preceding rules.
RULE 12.
When an attorney is retained to defend a cause, notice of retainer Notice of reshall be served on the plaintifff's attorney within fifty days from the
first day of the term to which the writ is made returnable ; (and in cases
commenced by declaration, within fifty days from the first day of the
next succeeding after service thereof.
\
.—<•
i
RULE 13.
When the plaintifff's attorney receives notice of retainer, as is provided Want's6 at
in the preceding rule, he shall, at or before the time limited for filing «r¥^ taJ&

o

\

STATE OF MICHIGAN

uStion.dCC declaration, serve a copy thereof on the defendant's attorney ; and if
such notice of retainer be not received until after the time above stated,
then a copy of such declaration shall be served within ten days after
receiving such notice.
RULE 14.
When copies After trie service of a copy of such declaration, the party filing any
bePserved.g ° pleading, whether plaintifff or defendant, shall, on or before the day
limited for filing any such, serve a copy of such pleading on the attor
ney of the opposite party.
RULE 15.
When a defendant has been taken upon a capias ad respondendum,
and has given satisfactory appearance bail, the plaintifff may proceed to
Defendants ^nal judgment, which proceeding shall not release the appearance bail.
or"ntakePld£ Until the defendant has appeared and perfected special bail, he is not
fault.
entitled to a copy of the declaration, nor can he plead thereto, nor take

When no
special bail

Defend't - any default against the plaintifff; and where the defendant in any origicepting scr- nal writ accepts service, his appearance may be entered and he will be
considered in court.
RULE 16.
pieadinV"
^ tne plaintifff shall make default in declaring, then the defendant, or
if either party shall make default in answering, then the opposite party,
To be enter- may nave t[le fjefauit entered in the common rule book : but it shall not
ed in comJ
'
mon rule
De competent to enter such default unless on receiving notice of retainer
as aforesaid, copies of the pleadn%s in the cause have been served, as
provided by these rules.
RULE 17.
afterward^l* The defendant's default being duly entered, the plaintifff shall not be
KxceptCo'n bound afterwards to accept a plea, unless the defendant, as soon as he
fldavffon *t sna" know that the default has been entered, shall serve an affidavit of
din atauabia merits> plead issuably and pay or tender the costs of the default.
RULE 18.
When
deThe
party
in
whose
favor
judgment
have
may at
fault to be
'
J
,
J b
„shall
,
. been entered,
j.i
made abso- any time after four days in term shall have intervened, have a rule
entered in the common rule book to make such default absolute, and
for such judgment as the party is entitled to by reason of the default.
If such default be taken by plaintifff for want of plea, he shall, by said
Plaintiff to
,
.
,
. .
,
e
lL
, , .
obtain assess- rule, in cases where it is competent, make reference to the clerk to asages by ciurk sess the damages ; and in cases where they must be assessed by a jury,
said rule shall direct that such jury be called to make the assessment.

l

i

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
RULE 19.

The assessment being made as provided by the preceding rule, the jJU^""!^ to
court shall enter final judgment thereon.
assessment.
RULE 20.
Pleas in abatement, or to the jurisdiction, and all other dilatory pleas, batemeHtmay be filed without any rule for a special, or a general special, impar- filed." *° be
lance within the time limited by the tenth rule.
RULE 21.

The court will not entertain a motion to set aside the proceedings in SSdepro? "'
a cause, on the ground of misnomer of the party arrested, but will leave nboomer.**
him to his remedy by a plea in abatement.
RULE 22.
The plaintifff may at any time, upon notice to the defendant or his Vftm piainattorney, and on the payment of all the costs taxed in the cause, discon- <xiviinue nia
tinue his suit in the common rule book.
.

RULE 23.

Every attorney filing any pleading in a cause, shall endorse thereon Attorney to
the costs allowed him by law therefore, and the number of folios in the pTel^rngs'iiis
draft and copies thereof.
ETUSS
of folios.

RULE 24.

All motions to set aside a default shall be made and filed within the Moti™ '0 set.
_
_
„
aside default
four first days of the term next after the default shall have been entered • —wh«ito be
....
.
. .
' made.
and in all cases of special motions (except a motion for a continuance 1 In cases of
mj
i• I
special mo
file affidavits and other papers on which the same may be founded shall tlon' afflda, ... ,
,
.
,
, .
,
.
vits and pabe hied
at the time ol making
the motion,
and copies
thereof shall be perst°
beffl,
fi
.
r
edwhen
served on the attorney of the opposite party on or before the dav of made' and to
...
«
be served on
making SUCtl motion.
opposite at
torney.
RULE 25.
All motions shall be in writing, shall have endorsed thereon the fn^wruVngnames of the parties and their respective attorneys ; and no motion ed.be endors"
which is resisted shall be argued on the day it is made, without the con- Whcn resiM....
ed to lay over
sent ot parties, unless the court, on good cause being shown, otherwise ?Tne day.,
uingss ior
diro^k
cause.
^^
RULE 26.
When either partj»shall demur to^any pleading, he shall briefly but Demurrers to
plainly specify the objections, in matters of substance, as well as those ** BpwM'
form, upon which he intends to rely on the argument ; and if the

8

v

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

if not party pleading shall be adjudged bad for any cause not so specified, the party
wfiLratcosu pleading, when allowed to amend on terms, will be permitted to do so
without costs.
RULE 27.
The plaintifff may at any time before the default for not replying shall
be entered, if the plea shall be a special plea, or a plea in abatement, or
within ten days after service of a copy of the plea, if it shall be the
party may. general issue, amend his declaration. After plea, either party may, be
fore default for not answering shall be entered, amend the pleading to be
answered ; and where there shall be a demurrer to a declaration or
other pleading, such pleading may be amended at any time before the
ofcouSe!" ' default for not joining in demurrer shall be entered. The respective
b Tee
parties may amend under this rule, of course, and without costs, but
May add shall not be entitled so to amend more than once. Under this rule
counts or
pleas.
new counts or pleas may be added.
tiff ma/ aRULE 28.
Copy
of
aNo
rule
to
amend
shall
be
required,
but a copy
of the amended pleadmended plea*
rJ
l
ding to be ing, endorsed "amended narr.," "plea," &c, (as the case may be) '
shall be filed and served, with a notice that the same is a copy of the
Time to
pleading° as amended. And the time to plead,
or answer, if notice
plead in such r
l
cases.
thereof has been given, shall be from the day of service of such copy
of the amended pleading.
RULE 29.

Bin of parti- [a cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand a bill of parculars to be
*
furnished by ticulars, the plaintifff shall furnish such on being served with a notice
plaintifff.
r
...
requiting the same by the defendant or his attorney, and if such bill be
demanded before the expiration of the time for filing plea, the defendant
shall have like time to plead after receiving the bill of particulars to
which he was entitled at the time of serving such notice.
RULE 30.
When not
If the plaintifff shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a bill of particnUmejOTwhen" lars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be insufficient, the court may
insufficient.
in its discretion nonsuit the plaintifff, allow further time to furnish it, or
require a more particular bill to be delivered.
RULE 31.

Bin of parti- Tn cases where it is competent for the plaintifff to call upon the deculars to be
a
.
,
, tl
delivered by fendant for a bill of the particulars of his setoff, the defendant shall
defendant if
set off.
furnish such on the written request of the plaintifff or his attorney ; and.*
in case it be not furnished within thirty days after such request, tjjP '

I

CIRCUIT COURT RULES,
plaintifff may, by rule entered in the common rule book, order the plea When ■«*under which a setoff is claimed, if it requires a replication, to be struck furnished.
out ; and if it be tlu general issue, with a notice of setoff, the court
may exclude all testimony touching it from going to the jury. Where
the bill of particulars is demanded and furnished in cases where a repli- r'<m» for
.
.
plending in
cation is necessary, the plaintifff shall have the same time to reply that Bucu <=a»e«was unexpired of the rule at the time of demanding such bill.
RULE 32.
Application may be made by petition to any circuit court, in term Modo of cotime, or to the presiding judge thereof, in vacation, to compel the pro- production
•
i
L
i
j j
i •
and dUcoveduction and discovery of books, papers, and documents relating to the ry of i.uoks,
...
ducuminis,
merits of any suit pending in such court, or of any defense to such suit, &c , reiuting
. ii
•
toumiit.
in the following cases :
First. By the plaintifff, to compel the discovery of papers or docu- to enable
ments in the possession or under the control of the defendant, which declared '°
may be necessary to enable the plaintifff to declare or to answer any
pleading of the defendant.
Second. The plaintifff may be compelled to make the discovery of Or defendant
papers or documents, where the same shall be necessary to enable the
defendant to answer any pleading of the petitioner.
Third. The plaintifff may be compelled, afler declaring, and the The plaintifff
...
,
, ,.
„
"ft" dec'ardefendant after
and
or docu- femlani
i"i-'. andafler
de, . , pleading,
,
? to produce
, ,
. ,.discover
. . all 'papers
r
merits on which the action, or de!ence, is tounded.
pleading.
Fourth. After issue joined in any action, either party may be com- After issue
pelled to produce and discover all such books, papers, and documents
as may be necessary to enable the party applying for such discovery to
prepare for the trial of the cause.
RULE 33.
r
The petition for such discovery shall state the facts and circumstan- What Die pai
"
tltlon must
ces on which the same is claimed, and shall be verified by affidavit, 8iatestating that the books, papers, and documents whereof discovery is
sought, are not in the possession nor under the control of the party
applying therefore, and that the party making such affidavit is advised by
his counsel, and verily believes, that the discovery of the books, papers,
or documents mentioned in such petition is necessary to enable him to
declare, or answer, or to prepare for trial, as the case may be.
RULE 34.
The rule granting the discovery shall specify the mode in which the Ruiegrnming
.
.
'
the discovery
same is to be made, which may be either by requiring the party to to sP«ify the

^j*^\\V^>
10

S;.

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

made" *" ** deliver SWOTn copies of matters to be discovered, or by requiring him
to produce and deposite the same with the clerk of the court in which
t^hinwhat the trial is to be had. The order shall also specify the time within
which the discovery is to be made ; and when the papers are required
to be deposited, the order shall specify the time for which the deposite
shall continue.
RULE 35.
governed by ^e court> or presiding judge thereof, in granting such order, shall
tndPri"ncf!ce ^ Soverned uy the principles and practice of the court of chancery in
chanceri1 "„ compelling discoveries, except that the costs of such proceedings shall
such cases, always be awarded in the discretion of the court.
RULE 36.
maybe vaca- Every such order may be vacated by the court, or the judge granting
ted>
the same,
First. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been
granted.
Second. Upon the discovery sought being obtained.
Third. Upon the party required to make the discovery denying, on
oath, the possession or control of the books, papers, or documents
ordered so to be produced.

Order to opeRULE 37.
The order directing the discovery of books, papers, or documents

°! iTm' slla" °Perate as a stav °f a" other proceedings in the cause, until such
c""H,lil!d order shall have been complied with, or vacated ; and the party obtaining
\

such order, after the same shall have been complied with, or vacated,
shall have the like time to declare, plead, or answer, to which he was
entitled at the time of the making the order.
~! '• S,

'• duobeved'

RULE 38.

^n case °f tne Party refusing or neglecting to obey such order for a
discovery within such time as the court shall deem reasonable, the
court may nonsuit him, or may strike out any plea or notice he may
have given, or may debar him from any particular defense in relation
to which such discovery was sought ; and the power of the court to
compel such discovery shall be confined to the remedies herein pro
vided, and shall not extend to authorize any other proceedings against
the person or property of the party so refusing or neglecting.
RULE 39.

When
complied with.

The books,'ii
papers, and documents, or sworn copies thereof, produi
ced under any order made in pursuance of the preceding rules, shall

^3^^>
CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

/

11

have the same effect, when used by the party requiring them, as if 't» effect.
produced upon notice, according to the practice of the court.
RULE 40.
In actions of debt, or covenant, on any sealed instrument, a plea of non In nctinn of
'
'
*
' *
covenant moest factum shall be so far deemed a general issue as to entitle the de- ti°" of.. 5*"
&
cial matter
fendant to accompany the same with a notice of special matter intended m*v be &r~
be given in evidence, as a defense to the action, provided if specially
pleaded it would be a bar to such action.
RULE 41.
The party filing a demurrer to a part of any pleading, shall, before ^"^f"™^
proceeding to the argument, furnish the court with a copy of the part Joined **
demurred to, and also of the special causes of demurrer, if any, filed ; "f'gl,*illf'py
and if it be a general demurrer, a copy of the whole pleading demurred ™""esr°l" 'Jjj
to shall be furnished, in default of which the demurrer shall be overruled, i'l™";* de"
7

murred to.

RULE 42.
Application for a commission to take the deposition of any witness ^y'^JJ!},.
without this state, may be made to any circuit court, or to a judge there- t^lli'made.1™
of in vacation, in all cases provided for in the revised statutes.
RULE 43.
Such application must be founded on an affidavit, stating that the what to
cause is at issue, the names of the witnesses and their residence, and
that they are without this state ; and also that their testimony is mate
rial, without which the party cannot safely proceed to the trial of the
cause, as he is advised by counsel and verily believes.
RULE 44.
Notice of such application shall be served on the adverse party, at Notice of.
least flight idays before the time of making such application, if made to
a judge in vacation.
RULE 45.
When an order for granting a commission shall be made by a judge Order to be
in vacation, such order shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the
court in which the cause is pending before issuing such commission,
and shall be granted only in the like cases and upon the same terms
that the court would award such commission, and shall be subject to
the control of the court in all respects.
RULE 46.
The commissioners named by the party applying for a commission flebecoinuiiiif
will, of course, be appointed, unless the opposite party object to any "°"£™0,,.le«,-.

13

STATE OF MICHIGAN.
commissioner, and show sufficient cause, by affidavit, when a substitu
tion will be made.
RULE 47.
•
Tne interrogatories shall be settled by a judge of the circuit court,

intem-gat ions to be

^

J

J

o

*

seitiM by a \n vacation, and a copy thereof, and a notice of the time and place of
On notice to settling the same, shall be served on the adverse party at least four
opposite par- ,,»,.,.
,.,
ty.
days betore the time designated in the notice.
RULE 48.
S&T'naw'to
'^lle JudSe may m n's discretion direct the commission, interrogato
rs returned. rjes, ancl depositions to be returned by an agent, or private person, or
by mail, directed to the clerk of the court out of which the commission
issued.
RULE 49.
i

executing°'
The persons to whom such commission shall be directed, or any one
commission. 0f them, unless otherwise expressly directed therein, shall execute the
same as follows :
First. They, or any of them, shall publicly administer an oath to
-the witnesses named in the commission, that the answers given by such
witnesses to the interrogatories proposed to them shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
Examination
Second. They shall cause the examination of each witness to be
to be in wri.*
ting iind sign- reduced to writing, and to be subscribed by him and certified by such

w?tnesse£

ed and cornfledif exhibits

°7

j

j

of the commissioners as are present at the taking of the same.
Third, If any exhibits are produced and proved before them, they
shall be annexed to the depositions to which they relate, and shall, in
like manner, be subscribed by the witness proving the same. (This
section must be understood to refer to such papers as can be produced

upon the examination. If the paper referred to be a record, not subject
ifpaperecan-t0 tne control of the party or the commissioners, it will be sufficient to
not be produ"*•

. .

annex a copy, and the original may be produced on the trial, separate
from the commission.)

DmyofcomFourth. The commissioners, or commissioner, shall subscribe each
missioners. ^eet 0f t|le depositions, shall annex all the depositions and exhibits to
the commission upon which the return shall be endorsed, and shall
To whom de- close them up under their, or his, seals, and shall address the same, when
to be directed! s0 closed, to the clerk of ihe court from which the commission issued,
at his place of residence,
if required to Fifth. If there is a direction on the commission to return the same
ky mail.
by mail, they, or he, shall immediately deposite the packet, so directed,
in the nearest post office.

7/W.
CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
Sixth.

/' 13

If there be a direction on thelcommission to return the same whe.n by ""
"

agent.

by an agent of the party who sued out the same, the packet, so directed,
shall be delivered to such agent.
Seventh. A copy of this rule must be annexed to every commission this rule to be
,
,
.
.
annexed l0
issued under these rules.
an commis
sions.
RULE 50.
The clerk, upon receiving such commission and return, shall open The clerk to
.......
.
open, endorse
the same, and immediately endorse thereon the time and manner of and file the
...
«,
i
• •
,
same.
receiving them, and file such commission and return.
RULE 51.
Depositions of any witness taken within this state, in all cases pro- Depositions
......
laken within
vided for in the revised statutes, shall be received, opened, endorsed, the state,
and filed by the clerk, in the same manner as is provided for in the
preceding rules for taking depositions of witnesses without this state
under a commission.
RULE 52.
All objections of form as to the taking of depositions to be read in Exceptions to
...
.
. depositions to
evidence, shall be filed in writing at least one day before the cause is he filed be,,,„.,
fore trial.
called for trial. .
RULE 53.
When a deposition has been filed, if not read on the trial by the Either party
may use the*
party taking it, it may be used by the other party if he see fit.
deposition, a
RULE 54.
Whenever it shall be necessary in any affidavit to swear to the advice Essentials of
*
.
affidavit staof counsel, the party shall, in addition to what has usually been inserted, tingadviceof
counsel.
swear that he has fully and fairly stated his case to his counsel, and
shall give the name of such counsel.
RULE 55.
When a party applies for the continuance of a cause a second time, second apthe affidavit must state, in addition lo the usual requirements, the facts continuance,1
which the party expects to prove by the absent witness, and the dili- vu'mus?d"
gence he has used to procure his attendance; but it shall be optional state'
with the opposite party to proceed to trial if he admit the facts expected
to be proved.
RULE 56.
Where a rule is granted upon payment of costs, a copy of the rule Where a rule
j
ii'n
,
is granted on
and of the taxed bill of costs must be served upon the opposite party, at payment of
1
•
, -i , ,
1 •
•/. i
n ,
...
costs,howcothe same time exhibiting to him a certified copy of the original rule ; erced.

'S

14

STATE OF MICHIGAN.
and if the costs be not paid on demand, and proof, by affidavit, shall be
made of the personal demand of such sum of money, and of a refusal
to pay it, the court may issue a precept to commit the person so diso
beying to prison, until such sum, and the costs and expenses of the
proceeding, be paid.
RXTLE 57.

Clerks to
dockets.

ft snall be the duty
of the clerk of each of the circuit courts, rprevious
J
t0 each term, to make out a docket of the causes at issue, arranging
them according to the date of their issues, which docket shall be de1, " Issues of
°
fact."
nominated " Issues of Fact ;" also, a separate docket of causes which
may not be at issue, or which may be for assessment of damages, either
by the clerk, court, or jury, arranging them according to the time of
lances."
commencing the suits, which docket shall be denominated " Imparlan
ces ;" also, another docket of all cases in which an issue at law is
joined, arranging them according to the date of such issues, which shall
docket."
be denominated " The Law Docket :" and also, a docket of all original
4, "AppearB
ance dock- appearances to the term.
make out

RULE 58.
cierksto
The clerk of each circuit court shall make two copies of each of said
copies of tne dockets, one for the court and the other for the bar.
dockets.

RULE 59.
'Appeals.

Al%ppeals shall be placed on the docket of issues of fact.
RULE 60.

Order of try- Causes shall be heard according to their standing on the dockets,
log causes. unless otherwise ordered by the court.
RULE 61.
One
counsel
Qn
tbe
trial
of
causes,
one
counsel
on each side only
shall examine or
onlytoexamv
J
inei wimewa cross.examine a witness, and two counsel only on each side shall sum
and only two
J
°" ™ch fi.,le. up the cause to the jury, unless the court shall otherwise order,
ryRULE 62.
Who to com- The party having the affirmative shall commence the evidence, and
e"v'idcncehe counsel may in all cases, previously to the opening of the evidence,
order of ope- make a statement of their case; the defendant making his statement
t"h"g Wy by immediately after the statement of the plaintifff, and before the evidence
ordSKalot. of the plaintifff be given, or after the evidence of the plaintifff shall have
been given and before his own evidence is given, at his election.

CIRCUIT COURT RULES,
RULE 63.
Not more than two connsel on each side shall be heard on the argu- In arP"nenu
1
°
two counsel
ment of any
motion, the mover being° entitled to open
the argument
and heard
°"'y «ion b«
'
f
o
to reply to the argument of the opposite attorney. Only one counsel ™ch side.
can be heard on any reply.
.
guruent.
RULE 64.
The clerk of every circuit court shall provide a book, to be denomi- vt,iie'™"'lp£
nated " The Special Motion Book," in which the attorneys shall, in term Boik,^taion
time, enter all special motions to be made to the court.

sueciai m!itinns to be
entered.

RULE 65.
The motions so made shall be heard by the court according to the which u' be
order in which they stand in the special motion book, unless otherwise lear '
ordered on good cause shown.
RULE 66.
Motions for new trials shall be made and filed, with the reasons and new "trial, ™
grounds on which such motions are made, within two days after the «,!,,, lo rebe
rendition of the verdict.
days.1" tw°
RULE 67.
Motions in arrest of judgment, with the reasons and grounds on Motions tn
which they are founded, shall be made and filed within two days afler judgment,
.,..„,,.
..
with the reathe rendition of the verdict ; or if a motion for a new trial has been sons, when to
be filed.
interposed and overruled, then within two days after the overruling of
such motion.
RULE 63.
in cer
The time limited for moving to set aside defaults, or for making Rules
tain cased
defaults absolute, or for filing motions and reasons for new trial, or in ,'"" d b orh"n"
arrest of judgment, may be shortened or extended by the circuit courts J."^ bythe
respectively in their discretion.
RULE 69.
On the argument of motions for new trial, or in arrest of judgment, °" "snment
°
...
&
of motion for
the party making such motion will furnish the court with a copy of the new«rt»'i
reasons on which such motion is founded, and also, a brief.
furnish the
reasons and
a brief.

RULE 70.
Whenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in order to make Jui^emiy
a special motion, the presiding judge may grant an order for that pur- of^oceed-87
pose ; and service of such order, with copies of the affidavits on which lngsit is grounded, and the notice of the motion, shall operate as a stay of

16 ^•

\
\ x

STATE OF MICHIGAN.

proceedings until the order of the court is had in the premises, unless
the judge should in the mean time supersede or set aside such order.
How
long
to
gut t|le rproceedings
shall not be stayed
for a longer
time than to enable
operate ;.s a
°
J
°
"v.

the party to make his motion, according to the practice of the court,
and if made, until the decision of the court thereon.

RULE 71.
do™ Jlapere The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which the same
Parlies to is filed. Parties must take notice of the filing of papers at their peril ;
fflh^u'Sek and the clerk shall not suffer or permit any writ, pleading, affidavit,
cierk not to deposition, or other paper whatever, on file in his office, to be taken
o'ufnr ni''of- therefrom without the order of the court ; but parties interested in any
ti™ n'iayP?«- such, may inspect the same in his office, and take copies thereof.
spect and co
Vpy them.

RULE 72.

Cases undis- All cases not disposed of at any term shall stand continued to the
stand contin- next te'-m, and shall be. considered as continued from term to term until
ued.
finally disposed of, without any special entry ot a continuance.
RULE 73.
*"** *j££

These rules shall take effect in the county of Wayne on the sixteenth
day of February instant, and in each of the other counties in this slate,
excepting in the counties of Michilimackinac and Chippewa, on the
fifteenth day of March next ; and in the counties of Chippewa and
Michilimackinac on the first day of May next ; and shall govern the
practice in the several circuit courts in this stale until altered by the
Proviso mi- sutireme court, or any two of the justices thereof; provided, however,
thorizins the
I
•i
.
circuit courts tuat anv 0f saj(j cirCuit courts may make such further and additional
to make adJ
i • i
i n
i
,
•
ditionai rules, ruies as mav De deemed necessary, but which shall not be inconsistent,
or to enlarge
J
"
.
,
a rule in any or couflict.with these rules or any of them ; and provided also, that
case on cause
^
,
•town.
either of said courts, or ar.y judge thereof, may, upon good cause
shown by affidavit or otherwise, in any case grant an extension of the
time limited by any of these rules for filing pleadings, or for complying
with the exigency of any rule, order, or notice.
RULE 74.
ah former
All rules and parts of rules made anterior to this day by said circuit
rules repeal- ccmrts, or any or either 0f them, or by any one or more of the judges
of any or either of said courts, and all rules of practice which now
obtain in any of said courts, are hereby rescinded, abolished, and repealed. This rule to take effect in the several counties in this state
at the times respectively provided in the last rule above for the taking
effect of the preceding rules in the counties respectively.

^
W~

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

17

RULE 75.

Clerk of su
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court for the first Jpfi™el™™5{
circuit, forthwith to cause these rules to be printed, and to transmit a |° seiid ?°P"
copy thereof to the clerk of each of the circuit courts in this state ; and ™J™ |J }])j;
it shall also be the duty of every such clerk to copy the said rules in "JJ^i' C°UIJ"
their respective common rule books.
€°^y£^!n
Adopted 16th February, 1639.

f +

%

**,

V
/^;»n.\

,^ak _

^

INDEX
WITH REFERENCE TO THE NUMBER OP THE RULE.

Commission, order granting to be filed,
manner of executing,
Commissioner, duty of,
when objected to,
Contempt tor disobeying rules of court,
how to proceed lor,
Continuance, when twice app'ied for
must make affidavit,
Continued, cases undisposed of to stand,
Costs of respective pleadings to be en
dorsed -thereon,
Counsel, essentials of affidavit when
staling advice of,
one only to examine witness,
two only to be heard on argument,
Covenant, action of,

45
49
46
46

Damages, assessment of, how obtained,
how final judgment entered,
Debt, action of,
notice of special matter may be given,
13
Declaration, when commencement of
suit,
,ffime allowed defendant to plead,
how and when default of defend
ant is entered,
B.
Default of defendant, how and when
Bail, special, when not filed, how to
entered,
1 1—
proeeed,
when to be made absolute,
Bill of particulars to be furnished by
motion to set a<ide,when to be made,
plaintifff,
Defendant's appearance, how and
to be furnished by defendant of set
when entered,
off
attorney of, when served with copy
when neglected to be furnished, how
of declaration,
to proceed,
to furnishliiUof-pjrrrcltlrrts'of SeWrT,
Books, mode of coercing the produc
"ifilpfault af e^faad. Xo plea to
tion of,
be atfcpptOTl^/*'- ~^Ov
itirrerMo be specrSL
C.
^meir on, court Iff be furnished
Causes, ho^trrsdf^,
ithNMpy of special cause,
isitibns, nnder commission, how
.
imditiposelior? to staniI%ontil
lo be.rettmed, i s, \
Clerk to make out dockets,
"^
wr^jn fh be fWrectedV ***
to endorse papers wheri filed,
clerk to operi sarrre,
,.
not to suffer papers out or office,
when taken within stat^
*
Commission to take evidence^kpplicaexceptions to,
tion for, when made,
\^,
either party may use,
what to state,
N^
Discontinuance of suit, when party
notice of application to be given1%
may enter,
adverse party,
44 Discovery, petition for, what to state,

18
19
40
40

Abatement, plea of, when filed,
Action of covenant,
Agents to be appointed by attorneys,
who may be such,
how appointed,
Agreements to be in writing,
when not binding,
Amend declaration, when plaintifff may,
when either party may,
when without costs,
pleading to be served on opposite
parly,
Appearance of defendant, how and
when entered,
Appeals to be placed on docket of is
sues of fact,
Argument, order for,
two counsel only to be heard on,
Assessment of damages, how obtained,
after, how final judgment enteied,
Attorney, when served with declara
tion,
to endorse costs and number of fo
lios on pleadings,
to appoint agmfts when non-residents,

r

20
40
1
1
1
6
6
27
27
27

3
55
72

11
11
11
16
18
24
11
13
31
17
26
41" ',-.
^
50
51
52
53
22
33

'

i

•
*?

*.:

INDEX.

M

r

Discovery, when to be made,
34
,
-O.
order for lo operate as a slay ofpro
larder ]nstanter,^hen fabe performed,
ceedings,
^?
when ordi r complied with,
39
when order lor m ly be vacated,
%J6 rapers, mode of coercingmroductionof,
Dockets, clerkto mahout,
0^k, ^ Pariiculars, bill ot'/plaininr i0 furnisb, 32
29
Low made ^^^ -^
. 5^' defendant to.furnish of se'ioff,
\ 31
Plan:
when
ten lo
loame:
amend declaration, \ 27
Plea o. ballhmeuV v> hen, filed,
20
not to be accepted afier default, ex
Endorsement on pleadings,*
cept on service of affidavit,
Evidence, how commenced
17
Pleadings, parties lo lake notice of fil
commission to take,
ing of at their peril,
71
\
may inspect and copy them in clerk's
office,
71
Final judgment afler assessment, when
when to be filed,
10
entered,
19
copies
of
to
be
served
on
opposite
Folios, number ol to be endorsed on
v.
pari y,
14
pleadings,
23
when amended,
28
I.
number of folios to be endorsed on,
23
Interrogatories, j udge to settle,
47 Production of books and papers, how
coerced,
32
notice to be given opposite party,
47
R.
J.
Retainer, notice of,
12
within what time served,
12
Judge to settle interrogatories under
Rules, whfn party entitled to enter
commission,
47
common,
8
Judgment final after assessment, how
day on which any may be entered,
9
entered,
19
compulation of time for complying
Jury, order of opening case lo,
62
with,
9
when granted on payment of costs,
M,
how coerced,
56
in certain cases to be shortened or
Misnomer, motion to set aside proceed
enlarged by the court,
68
ings for,
of
courl, when lo lake effect,
73
Motions, affidavits, and papers to be
proviso to make additional,
73
filed when made,
all
former
repealed,
74
to be in writing,
75
clerk
of
supreme
court
to
get
printed,
parlies' names to be endorsed on,
to be heard according to their order
S."
on motion book,
Service of papers, on whom made,
2
for new trial, when to be made,
by putting notice or papers in post
in arrest of judgment, within what
office,
2—5
time to be made,
Special motions, affidavits, and papers
Motion book, clerk to provide,
to be filed when m:iiJv_,
24
Special motion book, clerk to provide, 64
-"
N.
Stay of proceedings, presiding judge
Notices to be in writing,
may grant,
"
70
how served if defendant defend in
W.
person,
for contempt of court, how served,
Writing, agreements to be made in,
6
when served on attornpy,
Writs, when may be issued,
7
of retainer,
when returnable,
1

V

^nil^v

m^Bi^^iBBnpi

I.
SUPREME COURT,
i ,

1
CIRCUIT COURTS

t

STATE OF MICHIGAN:

I;
ADOPTED BY THE SUPREME COURT, APRIL, 1843.

'i'nai Bttlc. lor «n'''*n*?f!tf*\

u.N.AstHVime Jusuces.
' ' a
If--- ; I.. cadwWWJrtwVrit of error stall "^f^ V"'i*
,r Loro MMaMfMrlM.* shall m ''^"^S^ Ou^

v

riap nil,'
uui.i. o.ys',£,„. ,-fe o, u., ^SJKlSKJSIutek
error h.,,. .i i.,.u*o,«.*Hfccn rule. u»J ^*'*S;tirf' P
.lelaululrerr.of thai l..ev shall He .lo .,
, »*M» »"!
clnic.l i0 j. mi in said writ 0. I •, •" *
ill
Kui.e-JJ. Stiisii cop, of Writ and notice 0i nil*
:riiv delivering Hie =nmu lo the' parlies lo be Btte'I.
s.,..afly,or hyle«Vil^ini!.saiaeal.«l6.rrespecllvc
,0iu0 Member «if Hltw ftiUahea ; or, iu case'ii m
I SUU ,
inunllwSiule,&ySerfioifonili'
ullwrSlule liv Serving 00 iMeWUUOiMie: " Mu '='"",,
itd.cy navelm iulorney, u,
.«oe lo them iHrou^O.
days no,., Hie lime 0i hs iifttki anil no lonjpSi iu » h'c i TO iw«
«tVe ofaie copies ihereoi lftiu '»«'. "! *t='' f,lle*;,±^JK
and .... or bolbi*ilie' exp.riU.oii of said sixty diij-ji ijWfl he
toy of srtoll oaiiy i0- color inlaid common rule W*; ; <" £
Seifiins Iheservice of such ™i ami nonce, MK** " ^'
Sipurt;un whose behalf I.,.: ,v,lu,l e, r.,r is lo jiulrajs}.-. prose
..,,'l, La ihM Such tarflfuve leAvc '"l" '»*'<«« ""r mil
Knee. 33'. Af.er .l
iry 0i ■ad rale, l.,e ;,l .....l,fl u - no s mJ I
have tue sifne'rline lo aje the lrmfcrcr.pl in ertoj and I i0 assign
meat of errors;'a* is now provided in me i u
"""«'"
Hsmtnuie.il ill ordinary cases where all uulUw Jon, o ig,U>ull> In
',MA( Ihe pari)' suing out such writ of error shull.-ncglecl
(Seiner such rllle, or i.. make shell sen
"il,
iil* toe op
life wiiluf ciror snail be deemed i0 i.e ,...'
Ma
.uiiosiic p.irty shall i.o entitled i0 Have thcS
unless the Com I, for cause show-i
07. Iflhe ilefeialj... .....nor, Willi
,it.
nigs, -hall procure the Wiiuensi;
" J solve th

ilfISl be .!,..
r,
...e;lli'..iW'ol
tlhe -iiih ride.
bi.K-Z.-i. The said rules, from file 2
(apply hi wills of certiorari as «t
,.t i.i, -J iil all i-u-e.- pending iu Ibis Cam. i
•All. a. in li.i-uyiiupbct.linll (or a couiliussioil
oj:iliy w-.tness wulioai Wis Stale, may i.e made a, ,,. . r .F, erne
HBtf, or i0 a Judge tuereof ill 1
,7*Bi.,KaO. r.'.ich app.,pan .nasi lo lou.ldcl o^^^H
fRlii.lj thai ihe cause IS pe.i'.l.ing iu tins ,(Jo«.
ill, ■■--cs ami .heir resole. ice, and lllat tfiej io e IV.
"SVlJa/o .u.u il.eir ti-soiuuny i»malenal, tvUho.u wh.ci. , .
torn 0i *aiely inocee.l i0 Ibe trial ill die. e.iU.-o, us lie ..- a
Counsel and Venly.oeheves.
is-KuoE-il. .\,,.iceofsiichnp]iheai.o.i shall Iv served , n
Vl-I>e ,a iii ai least fun
die nun.1 ot ...ak.n.- •
jbcal;oo. if made i0 u Judge ai clumbers iu vae.ui.0i.
lieitd'' When an order I'' graining a couuinssion shall If
made by a Ju l»e iu vae,,in,u, Micli oide. shall be l.led ... lli.;.,|ll.'e
of the Cle.k of die Com tin ivjindl plw.c.nn-e is penn.nL', i,e.f»«e|lss.lh." sucucononissuai, ulld aha.l he grliined mill ill the l.l
and upon til - s.ui.e terms m.,t die t uun, would itwaid si,
m.ssioii, uild shall bo bu.ijec'l
! "i llmCou«.w#llrespecis.
. ; i/
" die ntir;v n|.plyj»|ifl»K
; 'flu- eoii.n i-sio
uules
',; w dl.oj coursa
., and stiow suti'ute
,,bje,:l lo Uliy COUi,
Hiull \\ ill lu; I4i.i,.i^.
Vll. when
riri^..ii.riM-fli.ill be >cllW\\ i<y » Ju.lye »f.;Uiia
,iti-l vi,wi|i) ii.cru-ifi' i-nii h iinnr'- iiI lift tin ica \Ue suiueslmlj be swrved «in Hie «ii\ cise pai « yief0re me nine UeMKnaifilin Ut« Artie?.

,\iI\

s ;. u; Ulfiutsmi.il.-, lu be reiumed ityuJi ho«'iii «ir
,,v mtiil, dir«-cU'il iu ihe Clerk of tfi'e coun out
in'« I

II^SHin IS:

RULES

,

'1'

I'M I

,8TH.lf

.'l

.#

liu: uer*oua ki Hi«um such uon)<uissioi) shall be At
or any uik- u< Hie,,,, micss oinu^twiftei e*|irC3**ytlimilo«*
mn i'n. -hall execute the s,.in,-n = follow**; n; :mw
/■(«( I ui:1 or iiny of Uicni.-hiill pulMcIv whnitiisdrajHoortb,
!o me willicsstfi named in il„. .......im^.-.n.u. nut the nuswermgiAreMi
li.v^ich wnnessej to th'e iuieinijj.uorios proposal ikeualiiiltU;
•■■Mb Vj,: wh'dc irnfh ;i!i i miming but the irutn.
Acu/ui Tii.-v. sli;, II cause the c.winumli
ulicveh wittasit«tto:u<i
(^■Uttvruiuu.aml.to
^^^ftofrg,^|,nl{to l,c
he Mibsn-iDi d l.y hnn ami certified
by
teil hy
null f>[ the,
coincliuwlpncrs
'^i;coimnisriione
ure present ut;the taking ol' the
uiue.
Thir<i.,l£f;any
any exhibits iare produced and proved before them
Ihey^aAbe
te annexed io the deposit ions to which they relate, ami
shall m hkemanner le subscribed by ihcrwhticsff p/o«ing the
I his .-eeium must he understood ibl-rt'fer t<. such papers
iiSL-l^Jifliiwudueed upon Hie examination. If the paper retorted
e. ord inii subject i0 the cof.iriil of tin: party or the eoininissime'rs, it will he sufficient to annex a eo .y, and the original
may le prodm-ed on the trial separate from the commission:)
F^mik. The commissioners or commissioner snail subscribe
euchallcetyt' the deposiiions, shall annex all the deposition* and
exmUts to ihe min mission, upon whicli the remrn shnll'hc ehdorstti, and shall close them up under their or his seals, olid shall
address the same, when so closed, i0 the Clerk of the Court from
uhirlMhe commission Usued, at Ins place of pen fence.
/.«jti. il there i^ a direction ouftvm coihui,s> on tiv return the
same Ui' mail, they or he shall imnieuialelv deposit lhe packet so
i m lhe nearest IrVwuOffteeul
r£t4h, U there tie a direction on the commission to return the
s:t»Mcil»y no ngctw. of the party who sued out ihesume;tfie packet'
su diiet'ied shiill tie ticJivered tu sue to agent.
>>•««l/i. A copy of this rule must be annexed i0 every cori?i-;
issued under these rules.
lumibft^?. The Clerk,' upon receiving such commission and re>
tl open .Uk name and hhmedia oly endorse tliereon the
time and manner offfBeeiving thenl, and file such roiwni-retnni.
. . i i .
" 'dii-i Til
fUli;uBi3^/1t'.eit1i«ri parly desire to obtain Hip t eslim orator.' ahy. .'siding in iWtsir.tute, he may apply to mi^jfu'rfW'oPVfcw
CotifVor .lustlce of the Pea' e, who shall issue- no! ice' Miff ifie ndvcw ,»trty tmnppBuk. before such Jud^e or Justice fll .JM tjme
and place appointed for Uikiutf'theulepnsi'ion ;hhl intf Vti
tO{tulUi'ies as he limy- think tit \ w sutll noUcr mar -he-yTrrn t«v
such p.iny and served upon such adverse partj wkWiattlMbTeA
URW"«* ;^f >;iid Ju'i'^e. or Justice, 'i'he said .mtk'dinntfrt'-,iciA'H
o«vfhe*fio"t or attorney ot ihe adverse puny; hiiiI ShbH'i'iaVe 'the
same 'rt'xi as if served on the parly lunseli',
; ' Jm-wil'di luu:
;:» lhe nonce shall be served by ilPlivcrfT^'WlMfe^cM'
♦WfVv :|ie-, person i0 he ,nfHihed,.nr by le,.vm« such ^hpjp&VWW
ahyie, allowing hi all. ao;es mil less than tWe*i,yi-T#tlH
ficr such notice, heture the time appointed foT'ttVkW^rtfrI
d*eiMt#\:V*Ai#H and ahsouflawiin^liifiefor hi* ^ftvet io'iiifc-*fef**'f^tjWWrrtuJ'lnr heinL' nonhVd. not lews iblfl at the ra:e hPKAn^mtV|Jl« Sfsl:dt*y "I U»e week exclufled] for every Mrebily iHHestfathi«,
uri-ih^nfliioe rcriuircd by Uiis rule may be served ow fhVViftifriW^i
of tbe puny i0 be u °i i tied.
UK Such witness shall be sworn, his imtimnny f&Htcltf
I^WrtMHft,ln> exuinimnion couducied and Ilia deposition taken,
.'criiiit'itlilt and returned pumiani to ihe provisions ot' sections i8,
Ui.-Ju, 21 land •£,i of chapter ^i. titled, part 3. Keviied & atmes.
Kdi.e II. Such deposiiions shall be received, opened, end4teed
nti.l filed ui the t :ierk in the same manner ne is provided for in lhe
preoUhJigt rules tor luking depositions of witnesses wflhfAif'-ftis
ri.ue umter a i'0i mn isshm.
. M,utc42 Alloujeciions of form as to the inking of dtepoiifirma
to Uflrp*i| in evidence, shall be, filed in wrianeiit least otMj!ft«y|fj
forf the cause, is called for trial. Hut prov^kms of sretion U4.;
chap?, r 1. title 2d, parted of the Revised S unites shall appMMfcrtfll
. mi«ns.
. ,/. nl
Bqiifi i '. When n depositit n has been filid, if not rend nri-ih*the puny tukiugiit, n may be used by the other Trtrtv if h#
infii-wfi
,Hvm U. Testimony may be Uiketi as | rovided for in iIipp^ rwh^
bi ehlici pur«i nl .iipneaka.fnim nny Court of Probate, h* MbnlaV
-cripi otUbetrtuorrfi«ud proceedings in die eottri'hfela'W

*

niw rules shall tnke effect in<!- be in &wctflhj#fanlf
after dieKlst day of March. k-4t.
I nue copy ]
' U.TV.' /
A.|TEN EYCrT, Clerk.

j

7*;
««, / •, •.'! »• 'f•••, -il. . •
,:
, •i ., J«r, -l • • i r•t,., / jt 1 1 .fl
•4 .» ,.,* .• !'.n j . i *l :', '•, ,*••., ,,
"' • ,•-if. ,•
i li" ."••

SUPREME COURT RULES. "- ' "*-'
\\\ ' «•-•!»t .,.,:«'- ' if
•>". : <!.
, • i, , •o .-.,',. !«.»»» »• ~""J
.I _- ,?,,I !', •jp .,
^ ,' , "I- i , .i |. .,-.«^ .it
Rule I. Every Attorney shall have an agent in each place where Jfcere is a Su
preme Court held in this State, except in the city or town where such Attorney
keeps his office. No person shall be an agent unless he be an Attorney of the
court, clerk of the court, or deputy clerk. The appointment of agents shall be
made in writing, signed by the Attorney, and filed in the clerk's office; and the
clerk shall keep a catalogue of the appointments filed in the office, with the Attorneys names, alphabetically arranged.
Rule. 2. Where the Attorney for the adverse party resides more than two miles
from the place ofholding court, service of papers contemplated by these rules may
be made on an agent; but if he has no such agent, such service may be made by
putting the notice or papers in the post office, directed to the Attorney at his place
of residence, to be ascertained according to the best information and belief of the
person making such service.
Rule 3. All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the Attorney in
the cause, or his agent; and where a party, who is also an Attorney of this court,
shall prosecute in person, or, if a defendant, shall give notice that he is an Attor
ney, and will defend in person, all notices and other papers shall be served on him
in like manner; and where the object is to bring the party into contempt for dis
obeying any rule or order of the court, the service shall be on such party personal
ly, unless otherwise specially ordered by the court.
Rule 4. Notices and papers may be served on an Attorney, or his agent, by
leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in his office, or with a
person having charge thereof; or when no person is to be found in the office, by
leaving the same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening,
in some suitable and conspicuous place in such office; or if the office be not open
so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving the same at the Attorney's rei
dence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Rule 5. Where a party, other than an Attorney of this court, prosecutes or de
fends in person, the service of papers may be on such party personally, or by put.. .

S

ling the same into the tjpst office, directed to him at"his place of residence. And
no service of paDers*in\he ordmaryfffrocTfedmgs ra a'eause shall be necessary to be
Sdfe o<yRHenlftnn(j'ho.has not appeared therein, %nd given notice to the plain
tiff' sSittorney of nffl irflentid!h to defend the suit.
-J
Rule 6. No private agreement or consent between the parties or their Attor
neys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be binding unless the same
has been reduced to the form of a rule by consent, and entered accordingly in the
book of special rules, or unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by
the party, or his Attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.
Rule 7. The day on which any rule shall be entered, ororder, notice, pleading
or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation of the time for complying
with the exigency of such rule, order or notice, pleading or paper, and the day
on which a compliance therewith is required shall be included, except where it
shall fall on a Sunday, in which case the party shall have , the next day to comply
therewith. When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours.
Rule 8. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which the same is
filed. Parties must take notice of the filing of papers at their peril; and the clerk
shall not suffer or permit any writ, pleading, affidavit, deposition, or other paper
whatever, on file in his office, to be taken therefrom without the order of the court,
or one ofthe Judges thereof, or by cmsent in writing of the Attorneys of the par
ties; but parties interested in any such may inspect the same in his office, and take
copies thereof.
.

/

i

h . .

,• ... -..,

..

.

...

i

.."

« .

;<

Rule 9. Each of the clerks of tie Supreme Court shall have a book to be de
nominated the special motion book, in which the Attorneys shall enter all special
motions and rule».l}
.".,.,..,••.'.:,f,••.,•
Rule 10, In all cases of special motions, the affidavits and other papers on which
the same may be founded, shall be filed at the time of making the motion, and
copies thereof shall be served on the opposite party or his Attorney, on or before
the day of making-such motion; and no motion which is resisted shall be argued on
the day it is made without the consent of parties, unless the court, on good cause
being shown, otherwise direct.
. -j ..
Rule 11. In all cases of writs of error or certiorari, it shall be the duty of the
plaintifff in error to cause a transcript of the record or proceedings in the court beto be filed in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court within forty days
afler such writ of error or certiorari shall be issued, if so many days intervene before
the first day of the succeeding term of such court, but if not, then such transcript
to be filed on or before the first day of such term.

,£:

,«►,•*

5
Role 12. It Bhall be the duty of the plaintifff in error, in all cases of writs of
error and certiorari, to file a special assignment of error within ten days after tbe
expiration of said forty days after the filing of any further return which either party

'<M
may procure in the cause, if so many days intervene before the first day of the
succeeding term of the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the first day of said
term, and serve a copy thereof on the defendant or defendants in error, or his or
their Attorney in the court below, unless, previously, notice of retainer shall have
been received from some other Attorney.

And no judgment or proceeding shall

be reversed or annulled for any other defect or error than such as may be thus
specially assigned.

*^^' £*2

Rule 13. The defendant in error shall plead to such assignment of errors with
in ten days after service of a copy thereof, when the same shall be served in vaca
tion, if so many days intervene before term; and if not, or if served in term time,
witbjn two days from such service, and serve a copy of such pleading on the plaintifffin error.

.',tii-i • -.•

,

'II,

•
Rule 14. If the plaintifff in error shall fail to file ssch transcript, or to assign
errors as herein provided, within the time therefore limited, the defendant in error,
at his option, may have the cause docketed and dismissed with costs, or may him
self file the transcript and have such judgment duly affirmed.

And if the defen

dant in error fail to plead to said assignment within the time therefore limited, the
plaintifff in error shall be entitled to proceed exparte therein.
Role 15. If either party in cases of writs of error or certiorari Bhall consider the
record or transcript filed imperfect when the same is filed in vacation, he or they
may, within ten days thereafter, if so many days intervene before the first day of
the succeeding term of the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the first day of such
term, enter a rule in the special motion book, requiring t
,or by whom the proceedings below were conducted to

mrt or officer before
turn accord

ing to the requirements of such rule, within ten days after service of a copy thereof,
.on such court or officer, and which service shall be made within thrc Rlays after
the entry of such rule.
Rule 16. The party serving a copy of such rule shall annex thereto a notice
requiring the court or officer on whom the same is served, in case such rule is not
duly complied with, to appear before the Supreme (
next term thereof, to show cause why an attachment
And .on proof of the service of sucli notice and a copy of su
cause be shown to the contrary, an attachment ,hnll is

e first day of the
Bttgainsi him.
role, if no sufficient
c'eordingly.

Rule 17. In all cases of appeals from Chancery:or from the-Judge of Probatey
the appellant shall cause the transcript of the record or proceedings in the court
frefow to be filed with the clerk of the Suprem^i

before the first day of

6
the term of such court succeeding the filing of the appeal bond in such cause, and
in default of so doing, the appellee may at hn option have the cause docketed and
dismissed with costs, or proceed eiparte therein.
Rule 18. In order to entitle an appellee to have an appeal docketed and
dismissed under these rules, it will be necessary tor him to produce to the court,
if the same be an appeal in Chancery, a certificate from the Register, ^>r if an ap
! I

•; v?

peal from the Judge of Probate, then a certificate from such Judgej)stating and
certifying the time when the decree complained of had been made, and tlfc appeal
taken and allowed, and whether an appeal bond had heen duly filed, and when
.

,»-*'^ipprovS(raU

s.

.

•

_

.t

j

-*

•il'Vf • "U ' .• '.,' ,,",''
'•, vrfi f»l.t'»«lifl»!i > •!.' i- £\ «lli'
Rule 19. In cases not already provided for, the practice of the court upon ap
peals from Chancery shall be conformable to that of the House of Lords, in En
gland, when sitting as a court of appeals^
Rule 20. In actions of right, declarations shall be filed with the clerk of the
court, within sixty days from the first day of the term to which the writ is return
able, and the defendant shall plead thereto within forty days from the expiration
of the time to declare, and all subsequent pleadings shall respectively be filed with
in twenty days each after the other, until issue of fact or law be joined, and the
party filing any pleading in any such cause shall at the time of filing the same, or
previously, serve a copy thereof on the opposite party or his Attorney, if notice of

»•

I ]

retainer has been given previous to filing declaration.
Rule 21. These rules shall take effect and be in force from and after the first
day of April, A. D. 1843.

Siiprero Court Rules.
STATGftlr^iii:,!^, t—Tmao c:«cii-.vu aisukiu
xw9iMvf<<*wi .,f«r ilic',l'<'<: »( •>''•-"iifnn. bol<tai ai ili» . .
UAUKln ilm vilJiiijf. ..f tium.uaoo,, on lhe3uuuy ofJuh, in Hi.
t-fiM-WlS, ,|iursu;im i0 i|jnurn"l>V>l.
linn.

( ii,.i,k.s

w .

Whipple,^ ,

. 4

Hox, Arises Fsic»,
'isliera..
Hon. D^iel Goodwin,
J
Mdilional[J!ulel, hegulallngjie Practic*. fa Ciuu cf Qaa"
,,
Warranto.
h unj; 4.1. u,,onilmlit!ni! ofiih Infqrnvtfidiil.fn ibe nature of a
• ifi.-ii!,ar/""1"- a wrhof SninmnlM Miall isshi- umlir tin- seal of
ei.rrrrrt iln, -cio,! In the 8h*ynTnfanv lj
"Mere ihe person or cnrporuiion,io be euiuiu
•o.nrnui.lcai any tlmr am Ins, i|r„, ,
same ehiHm:im(iq»him to summon
Nloraliort, lo appear hi said Court, and io answer file sni.l in

"iyS'Ul&PJFft £k^ ^I'eofively |„j nW within V
cHiA*Mlfe.WrlM-" mull issues of facl or law Is- join/

..«, w .t!,

, '-,•
, ..

,
« .

>r^-—

-—__^^

'.fU* '* *»■

'« '. •,,ii .

.,!,.'.",
v f; , «1 !
«4

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
..I .

,-., .

—

' il '">'

Rule 1. Every Attorney shall have an agent in each place where there ia a
circuit court held in this State, except in the city or town where such Attorney
keeps his office. No person shall be an agent unless he be an Attorney of the
court, clerk of the court, or deputy clerk. The appointment of agents shall be
made in writing, signed by the Attorney, and filed in the clerk's office; and the
clerk shall keep a catalogue of the appointments filed in the office, with the Attor
neys' names, alphabetically arranged.
Rule 2. Where the Attorney for the adverse party resides more than two miles
from the place of holding court, service of papers contemplated by these rules
may be made on an agent; but if he has no such agent, such service may be made
by putting the notice or papers in the post office, directed to the Attorney, at his
place of residence, to be ascertained according to the best information and belief
of the person making such service.

0

«

.Rule 3. All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the Attorney in
the cause, or his agent; and where a party, who is also an Attorney of this court,
shall prosecute in person, or, if a defendant^ shall give notice that he is an Attor
ney, and will defend in person, all notices and other papers shall be served on him
in like manner; and where the object is to bring the party into contempt for dis
obeying any rule or order of the conrt, the service shall be on such party personal
ly, unless otherwise specially ordered by the court.
Role 4. Notices and papers may be served on an Attorney or his agent, by
leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in his office, or with a
person having charge thereof; or when no person is to be found in the office, by
leaving the same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening,
in some suitable and conspicuous place in such office; or if the office be not open
so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving the same at the Attorney's resi
dence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Rule 5. Where a party, other than an Attorney of this court, prosecutes or de

f

8
fends in person, the service of papers may be on such party personally, or by put
ting the same into the post office, directed to him at his place of residence. And
no service of noticeor-papersJn*(jie o<dinary'pwI£eedings m a cause shall be neces«ary to bem^e\n a'-defendaiKwhb^has not^ppearea? therein and given notice to
Inf plaintifff's Attorney of his intention to defend the suit, except where the defen
dant^ returned imprisoned for want of bail, in which case a copy of the declara
tion srrall be delivered to him, or to the sheriff or jailer in whose custody he shall
be; and when an exception is entered to bail, and no notice of retainer of an Attor
ney to defend is given, notice of such exception shall be delivered to the sheriff or
one of his deputies.
Role 6. No private agreement or consent between the parties or their Attor
neys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be binding unless the same
shall have been reduced to the form of a rule by consent, and entered accordingly
in the book of common rules; or unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, sub
scribed by the party or his Attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.
Rule 7. Original writs may be issued in vacation, or in term time, and made
returnable on any day inTerm.

>

.

:» -.: .

Rule 8. Every rule to which a party would, according to the practice of the
court, be entitled of course'', without showing special cause, shall be denominated
a common rule; and every other Bile shall be denominated a special rule. All
common rules, and all rules by consent of parties, shall be entered with the clerk
at his office, in a book to be provided by him for that purpose, to be called the
" Common Rule Book," and maybe entered at any time, as well in vacation as
during term; and the day when the rule shall be entered shall be noted therein, and
the party may enter such rule as he may conceive himself entitled to, of course,
but at his peril.
Rule 9. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, notice, plead
ing or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation of the time for comply
ing with the exigency of such rule, order or notice, pleading or paper, and the day
on which a compliance therewith is required shall be included, except where it
shall fall on a Sunday, in which case the party shall have the next day to comply
therewith. When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours.
Rdle 10. In all suits originally commenced in the circuit court, declaration*
shall be filed with the clerk of the court within sixty days from the first day of the
term to which the writ is made returnable, and the defendant shall plead thereto
within thirty days from the expiration of the time to declare; and all subsequent
pleadings shall respectively be filed within ten days each after the other, until issue
of fact or law be joined.

Rule 11. Any action may be commenced by filing in the office of the clerk of
the court a declaration, and entering a rule in the book of " Common Rules," kept
by such clerk, requiring the defendant to plead to such declaration within thirty
days after service of a copy thereof, with a notice of said rule, on the defendant per
sonally; and on filing an affidavit of the service of such copy and rule, it shall "be ,
competent for the plaintifff, at the expiration of said rule, if the defendant fails to
plead, to enter his default, and proceed to judgment in the cause, as in other cases of
default ; and in cases against a number of defendants, where process shall not
have been served on all of them, declaration may be filed against all the defend
ants, and a copy thereof served on the defendant or defendants not served with pro
cess, and such defendant or defendants shall plead thereto in thirty days after no
tice of the filing thereof, and service of such copy, and in case such defendant or
defendants shall not plead thereto in such time, the plaintifff, on affidavit filed of
such service, may enter the appearance and default of such defendant or defend
ants; subsequent pleadings to be filed in ten days each consecutively, as under the
preceding rules.
J^i^^^p^'Rule 12. When an Attorney is retained to defend a cause, notice of retainer
shall be served on the plaintifff's Attorney within fifty days from the first day of the
term to which the writ is made returnable.
{, ) l I ! / ! / I' -. >
Rule 13. When the plaintifff's Attorney receives notice of retainer, as is pro
vided in the preceding rule, he shall, at or before the time limited for filing decla
ration, serve a copy thereof on the defendant's Attorney; and if such notice of re
tainer be not received until after the time above stated* then a copy of such decla
ration shall be served within ten days after receiving such notice.
Rule 14. Afler the service of a copy of such declaration, the party filing any
pleading, whether plaintifff or defendant, shall, on or before the day limited for filing
any such, serve a copy of such pleading on the Attorney of the opposite party.
Rule 15. When a defendant has been taken upon a capias ad respondendum,
and has given satisfactory appearance bail, the plaintifff may proceed to final judg
ment, which proceeding shall not release the appearance hail. Until the defend
ant has appeared and perfected special bail, he is not entitled to a copy of the de
claration, nor can he plead thereto, nor take any default against the plaintifff; and
where the defendant in any original writ accepts service, his appearance may be
entered, and he will be considered in court.
Rule 16. If the plaintifff shall make default in declaring, then the defendant, or
if either party shall make default in answering, then the opposite party, may have
the default entered in the common rule book; but it shall not be competent to en
ter such default unless, on receiving notice of retainer as aforesaid, copies of the
pleadings in the cause have been served, as provided by these rules.
2

*r10
Rule 17. The defendant's default being duly entered, the plaintifff shall not be
bound aflerwards to accept a plea, unless the defendant, as soon as he shall know
that the default has been entered, shall serve an affidavit of merits, plead issuably,
and pay or tender the costs of the default.
Rule 18. The party in whose favor judgment shall have been entered may, at
any time afler four days in term shall have intervened, have a rule entered in the
common rule book, to make such default absolute, and for such judgment as the
party is entitled to by reason of the default. If such default be taken by plaintifff
for want of plea, he shall, by said rule, in cases where it is competent, make
reference to the clerk to assess the damages; and in cases where they must be as
sessed by a jury, said rule shall direct that such jury be called to make the assess
ment
Rule 19. The assessment being made as provided by the preceding rule, the
court shall enter final judgment thereon.
Rule 20. Pleasin abatement, or to the jurisdiction, and all other dilatory pleas,
may be filed without any rule for a special or a general special imparlance within
the time limited by the tenth rule.
Rule 21. The court will not entertain amotion to set aside the proceedings in
a cause, on the ground of misnomer of the party arrested, but will leave him to
his remedy by a plea in abatement.
Rule 22. The plaintifff may at any time, upon notice to the defendant or his At
torney, and on the payment of all the costs taxed in the cause, discontinue his suit
in the common rule book.
Rule 23. Every Attorney filing any pleading in a cause shall endorse thereon
the costs allowed him by law therefore, and the number of folios in the draught
and copies thereof.
Rule 24. All motions to set aside a default shall be made and filed within the
four first days of the term next after the default shall have been entered; and in
all cases of special motions, except a motion for a continuance, the affidavits and
other papers on which the same may be founded, shall be filed at the time of ma
king the motion, and copies thereof shall be served on the Attorney of the oppo
site party on or before the day of making such motion.
Rule 25. All motions shall be in writing, shall have endorsed thereon the
names of the parties and their respective Attorneys; and no motion which is re
sisted shall be argued on the day it is made, without the consent of parties, unless
the court, on good cause being shown, otherwise direct.
Rule 26. When either party shall demur to any pleading, he shall briefly but

^

tl
plainly specify the objections, in matters of substance, as well as those of form,
upon which he intends to rely on the argument; and if the pleading shall be ad
judged bad for any cause not so specified, the party pleading, when allowed to
amend on terms, will be permitted to do so without costs.
\.
Rule 27. The plaintifff may at any time before the default for not replying BhaH
be entered, if the plea shall be a special plea, or a plea in abatement, or within ten
days after service of a copy of the plea, if it shall be the general issue, amend his
declaration. Afler plea, either party may, before default for not answering shall
be entered, amend the pleading to be answered; and where there shall be a demur
rer to a declaration or other pleading, such pleading may be amended at any time
before the default for not joining in demurrer shall be entered. The respective
parties may amend under this rule, of course, and without costs, but shall not be
ratified so to amend more than once. Under this rule new counts or pleas may be

Role 28. No rule to amend shall be required, but a copy of the amended plead
ing, endorsed, "amended narr.," "plea," &c, (as the case may be,) shall be
filed and served, with a notice that the same is a copy of the pleading as amended.
And the time to plead, or answer, if notice thereof has been given, shall be from
the day of service of such copy of the amended pleading.
Rule 29. In cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand a bill of parti
culars, the plaintifff shall furnish such on being served with a notice requiring the
same by the defendant or his Attorney, and if such bill be demanded before the ex
piration of the time for filing plea, the defendant shall have like time to plead after
receiving the bill of particulars to which he was entitled at the time of serving such
notice.
0
Role 30. If the plaintifff shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a bill of parti
culars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be insufficient, the courfmay in its dis
cretion nonsuit the plaintifff, allow further time to furnish it, or require a more par
ticular bill to be delivered.
Rule 31. In cases where it is competent for the plaintifff to call upon the de
fendant for a bill of the particulars of his setoff, the defendant shall furnish such on
the written request of the plaintifff or his Attorney; and in case it be not furnished
within thirty days after such request, the plaintifff may, by rule entered in the com
mon rule book, order the plea under which a setoff is claimed, if it requires a re
plication, to be struck out; and if it be the general issue, with a notice of setoff,
the court may exclude all testimony touching it from going to the jury. Where
the bill of particulars is demanded and furnished in cases where a replication" is
necessary, the plaintifff shall have the same time to reply that was unexpired of the
rule at the time of demanding such bill.

'

12
Role 32. Application may be made by petition to any circuit court, in term
time, or to the presiding judge thereof, in vacation, to compel the production and
discovery of books, papers and documents, relating to the merits of any suit pend
ing in such court, or of any defense to such suit, in the following cases :
First. By the plaintifff, to compel the discovery of papers or documents in the
possession or under the control of the defendant, which may be necessary to enable
the plaintifff to declare or to answer any pleading of the defendant.
Second. The plaintifff may be compelled to make the discovery of papers or do
cuments, where the same shall be necessary to enable the defendant to answer any
pleading of the petitioner.
V ,, ,* •,'•,
v. .• , •«!
Third. The plaintifff may be compelled, after declaring, and the defendant, after
pleading, to prbduce and discever all papers or documents on which the action or
defense is founded.
i. ,
,i„, . • .
.
Fourth. After issue joined in any action, either party may be compelled to pro
duce and discover>allr sucb»bopks, papers and documents, as may be necessary to
. ywdfl* thJ^Sarty applying for such discovery to prepare for the trial of the cause.
Rule 33. The petition for such discovery shall state the facts and circumstan
ces on which the same is claimed, and shall be verified by affidavit, stating that the
books, papers and documents, whereof discovery is sought, are not in the posses
sion nor under the control of the party applying therefore, and that the party making
such affidavit is advised by his counsel, and verily believes, that the discovery of
the books, papers or documents mentioned in such petition is necessary to enable
him to declare, or answer, or to prepare for trial, as the case may be.
Role 34. The rule granting the discovery shall specify the mode in which the
same is to be made, which may be either by requiring the party to deliver sworn
copies of matters to be discovered, or by requiring him to produce and deposite the
same with the clerk of the court in Which the trial is to be had. the order shall
also specify the time within which the discovery is to be made; and when the pa
pers are required to be deposited, the order shall specify the time for which the de
posite shall continue.
Rule 35. The court, or presiding judge thereof, in granting such order, shall
be governed by the principles and practice of the court of chancery in compelling
discoveries, except that the costs of such proceedings shall always be awarded in
the discretion of the court.
Rule 36. Every such order may be vacated by the court, or the judge granting
the same,
First. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been granted.
Second. Upon the discovery sought being obtained.
Third. Upon the party required to make the discovery denying, on oath, the
possession or control of the books, papers, or documents ordered so to be produced.

48
Rt'iF. 37.. The order directing the discovery of books, papers or documents shall'
operate as a stay of all other proceedings in the cause, until su*h ordter shall have
been complied with, or vacated; and the party obtaining such order, afler the
same shall have been complied with, or vacated, shall have the like time to declare,
plead, or answer, to which he was entitled at the time of the making the order.
Rcle 38. In case of the party refusing or neglecting to obey such order for a
discovery, within such time as the court shall deem reasonable, the court may non
suit him, or may strike out any plea or notice he may have given, or may debar
him from any particular defense in relation to which such discovery was sought;
and the power of the court to compel such discovery shall be confined to the reme
dies herein provided, and shall not extend to authorize any other proceedings
against the person or property of the party so refusing or neglecting.
Rule 39. The books, papers and documents, or sworn copies thereof, produced
under any order made in pursuance ot the preceding rules, shall have the same
effect, when used by the party requiring them, as if produced upon notice, accord
ing to the practice of the court.
^-—~^^^ yt-~~ /"?.* _» ^
Rule 40. In actions of debt, or covenant, on any sealed instrument, a plea of
non estfactum shall be so far deemed a general issue as to entitle the defendant to
accompany the same with a notice of special matter intended to be given in evi
dence, as a defense to the action, provided if specially pleaded it would be a bar
to such action.
Rule 41. The party filing a demurrer to a part of any pleading, shall, before
proceeding to the argument, furnish the court with a copy of the part demurred to,
and also of the special causes of demurrer, if any, filed; and if it be a general demurrer, a copy of the whole pleading demurred to shall be furnished, in default of
which the demurrer shall be overruled.
Rule 42. Application for a commission to take the deposition of any witness
without this State may be made to any circuit court, or to a judge thereof, in vaca
tion, in all cases provided for in the Revised Statutes.
Rule 43. Such application must be founded on an affidavit, stating that the
cause is at issue, the names of the witnesses and their residence, and that they are
without this State; and also that their testimony is material, without which the par
ty cannot safely proceed to the trial of the cause, as he is advised by counsel and
verily believes.
Rule 44. Notice of such application shall be served on the adverse party, at
least four days before the time of making such application, if made to a Judge at
chambers in vacation.

14
Rule 45. When an order for granting a commission shall be made by a judgein vacation, such trder shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court in which
the cause iB pending before issuing such commission, and shall be granted only in
the like cases and upon the same terms that the court would award such commis
sion, and shall be subject to the control of the court in all respects.
Rule 46. The commissioners named by the party applying for a commission
will, of course, be appointed, unless the opposite party object to any commissioner,
and show sufficient cause, by affidavit, when a substitution will be made.
Rule 47. The interrogatories shall be settled by a judge of the circuit court
in vacation, and a copy thereof, and a notice of the time and place of settling the
same, shall be served on the adverse party at least four days before the time desig
nated in the notice.
t
Rule 48. The judge may in his discretion direct the commission, interrogato
ries, and depositions to be returned by an agent, or private person, or by mail, di
rected to the cleijkiof the^oujrt out of which the commission issued.
Rule 49. The persons to whom such commission shall be directed, or any one
of them, unless otherwise expressly directed therein, shall execute the same as fol
lows:
First. They, or any of them, shall publicly administer an oath to the witnesses
named in the commission, that the answers given by such witnesses to the mterrog*
atories proposed to them shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth.
Second. They shall cause the examination of each witness to be reduced to
writing, and to be subscribed by him and certified by such of the commissioners as
are present at the taking of the same.
Third. If any exhibits are produced and proved before them, they shall be an
nexed to the depositions to which they relate, and shall, in like manner, be sub
scribed by the witness proving the same. (This section must be understood to
refer to such papers as can be produced upon the examination. If the paper refer
red to be a record, not subject to the control of the party or the commissioners, it
will be sufficient to annex a copy, and the original may be produced on the trial,
separate from the commission. )
Fourth. The commissioners, or commissioner, shall subscribe each sheet of the
depositions, shall annex all the depositions and exhibits to the commission upon
which the return shall be endorsed, and shall close them up under their or his
seals, and shall address the same, when so closed, to the clerk of the court from
which the commission issued, at his place of residence.
Fiflh. If there is a direction on the commission to return the same by mail,
they or*e shall immediately deposite the packet, so directed, in the nearest post
office.

.'.

^t

t/l^";

^

Sixth. If there be a direction on the commission to return the same by an agent
of the party who sued out the same, the packet, so directed, shall be delivered to
such agent.
Seventh. A copy of this rule must be annexed to every commission issoed un
der these rules.
Rule 50. The clerk, upon receiving such commission and return, shall open
the same, and immediately endorse thereon the time and manner of receiving them,
and file such commission and return.
Rule 51. Depositions of any witness taken within this State, in all cases pro
vided for in the Revised Statutes, shall be received, opened, endorsed, and filed by
the clerk, in the same manner as is provided for in the preceding rules for taking
depositions of witnesses without this State, under a commission.
Rule 52. All objections of form as to the taking of depositions to be read in
evidence, shall be filed in writing at leas|_one_day before the cause is called for

triaL

^ZYpf./Ss+fr

Rule 53. When a deposition has been filed, if not read on the trial by the party
taking it, it may be used by the other party if he see fit.
,
Rule 54. Whenever it shall be necessary in any affidavit to swear to the advice
of counsel, the party shall, in addition to what has usually been inserted, swear
that he has fully and fairly stated his case to his counsel, and shall give the name
of such counsel.
Rule 55. When a party applies for the continuance of a cause a second time,
the affidavit must state, in addition to the usual requirements, the facts which the
party expects to prove by the absent witness, and the diligence he has used to pro
cure his attendance; but it shall be optional with the opposite party to proceed to
trial if he admit the facts expected to be proved.
Rule 56. Where a rule is granted upon payment of costs, a copy of the rule and
of the taxed bill of costs must be served upon the opposite party, at the same time
exhibiting to him a certified copy of the original rule; and if the costs be not paid
on demand, and proof, by affidavit, shall be made of the personal demand ot such
sum of money, and of a refusal to pay it, the court may issue a precept to commit
the person so disobeying to prison, until such sum, and the cOBts and expenses of
the proceeding, be paid.
Rule 57. It shall be the duty of the clerk of each of the circuit courts, previous
to each term, to make out a docket of the causes at issue, arranging them accord
ing to the date of their issues, which docket shall be denominated "Issues of

,r

18
Fact;" also, a separate docket of causes which may not be at issue, or which may
be for assessment of damages, either by the clerk, court or jury, arranging them
according to the time of commencing the suits, which docket shall be denominated
"Imparlances;" also, another docket of all cases in which an issue at law is join- '
ed, arranging them acbording to the date of such issues, which shall be denomina
ted " The Law Docket;" and also, a docket of all original appearances to the term.
Rule 58. Trie clerk of each circuit court shall make two copies of each of said
dockets, one for the court, and the other for the bar.
Rule 59. All appeals shall be placed on the docket of issues of fact.
Rule 60. Causes shall be heard according to their standing on the dockets, un
less otherwise ordered by the court.
Rule 61. On the trial of causes, one counsel on each side only shall examine or
cross-examine a witness, and two counsel only on each side shall sum up the
cause to tfae jury, unless the fcourt shall otherwise order.

•,»*'

*

,

• . . »

N • • ..

Rule 62. The party having the affirmative shall commence the evidence, and
counsel may in all cases, previously to the opening of the evidence, make a state
ment of their case; the defendant making his statement immediately after the
statement of the plaintifff, and before the evidence of the plaintifff be given, or after
the evidence of the plaintifff shall have been given and before his own evidence is
given, at his election.
Role 63. Not more than two counsel on each side shall be heard on the argu
ment of any motion, the mover being entitled to open the argument and to reply to
the argument of the opposite Attorney. Only one counsel can be heard on any
reply. ,
Rule 64. The clerk of every circuit court shall provide a book, to be denomi
nated " The Special Motion Book," in which the Attorneys shall, in term time,
enter all special motions to be made to the court.
Rule 65. The motions so made shall be heard by the court according to the
order in which they stand in the special motion book, unless otherwise ordered on
good cause shown.
Rule 66. Motions for new trials shall be made and filed, with the reasons and
grounds on which such motions are made, within two days afler the rendition ot the
verdict.
.. • •
Rule 67. Motions in arrest of judgment, with the reasons and grounds on

I

TUBST--" .-%&*?&/-&

17
which they are founded, shall be made and filed within two days after the rendi
tion of the verdict; or if a motion for a new trial has been interposed and overruled,
then within two days after the overruling of such motion.
Rule 68. The. time limited for moving to set aside defaults, or for making de
faults absolute, or for riling motions and reasons for new trial, or in arrest of judg
ment, may be shortened or extended by the circuit courts respectively, in their
discretion.
Rule 69. On the argument of motions for new trial, or in arrest of judgment,
the party making such motion will furnish the court with a copy of the reasons on
which such motion is founded, and also a brief.
Rule 70. Whenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in order to make a
special motion, the presiding judge may grant an order for that purpose; and ser
vice of such order, with copies of the affidavits on which it is grounded, and the
notice of the motion, shall operate as a stay of proceedings until the order of the
court is had in the premises, unless the judge should in the mean time supersede
or set aside such order. But the proceedings shall not be stayed for a longer time
than to enable the party to make his motion, according to the practice of the court,
and if made, until the decision of the court thereon.
" Rule 71. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which the same is
filed. Parties must take notice of the filing of papers at their peril; and the clerk
shall not suffer or permit any writ, pleading, affidavit, deposition, or other paper
whatever, on file in his office, to be taken therefrom without the order of the
court; but parties interested in any such, may inspect the same in his office, and
take copies thereof.
Rule 72. All cases not disposed of at any term shall stand continued to the
next term, and shall be considered as continued from term to term, until finally
disposed of, withont any special entry of a continuance.
Rule 73. These rules shall take effect in the county of Wayne on the sixteenth
day of February, instant, and in each of the other counties in this State, excepting
in the counties of Michilimackinac and Chippewa, on the fifteenth day of March
next; and in the counties of Chippewa and Michilimackinac on the first day of
May next; and shall govern the practice in the several circuit courts in this State
until altered by the Supreme court, or any two of the justices thereof ; provided,
however, that any of said circuit courts may make such further and additional rules
as may be deemed necessary, but which shall not be inconsistent or conflict with
these rules, or any of them; and provided also, that either of said courts, or any
judge thereof, may, upon good cause shown by affidavit or otherwise, in any case
3

18

i

grant an extension of the time limited by any of these rules for filing pleadings, or
for complying with the exigency of any rule, order or notice.
RutE 74. All rules and parts of rules made anterior to thft day by said circuit
courts, or any or either of them, or by any one or more of the judges of any or
either of said courts, and all rules of practice which now obtain in any of said
courts, are hereby rescinded, abolished and repealed. This>j|ule to take effect in
the several counties in this State at the times respectively provifted in tlje last rule
above for the taking effect of the preceding rules in the counties respectively.

'

Rule 75. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the Supremejcourt for the first cir
cuit, forthwith, to cause these rules to be printed, and to transmit a copy thereof to
the clerk of each -of the circuit courts in this State; and it ahall also be the duty of
every .such clerk io copy the said rules in their respective common rule books.
Adopted February, 1839.

ADDITIONAL CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
Rule 76. In actions on bonds or for any penal sum for the non-performance of
covenants or agreements in any deed or sealed jnstrument contained, the plain
tiff shall in his declaration assign the specific breaches for which the action is
brought.
Rule 77. No motion for a continuance shall be made after the first day of the
term unless good cause be shown for the delay.
RuLe 78. The practice and rules of this court shall be applicable to and govern
proceedings under the act to provide for the collection of demands against boats
and vessels.
Rule 79. Whenever exceptions are taken on the trial of a cause to any deci
sion of the court, or any question is reserved by the presiding judge thereof for the
opinion of the Supreme Court, or when the decision of any motion for a new trial
is to be reviewed by the Supreme Court, when the sole grounds for such motion
are not contained in affidavits, the party excepting or wishing to review the deci
sion of such motion, or the plaintifff in cases of such reservation, shall prepare a
brief statement of so many of the facts as may be necessary to show the grounds
of such exception or motion or enable the court above rightly to understand the
point so reserved, and shall give the opposite party notice when and where such
statement of facts will be settled and signed, which notice shall be for some day
during the term at which such trial was had.
Rule 80. At the time and place specified, the party giving such notice shall
read and deliver to the opposite party for his inspection such statement or a copy
thereof, who shall be at liberty to prepare amendments thereto, and when the same

10
is settled and signed, it shall be the only evidence of the facts upon which such
exceptions or points reserved shall be argued or such motion for a new trial heard.
Rule 81. The party intending to move for the trial of a cause at any term of a
circuit court, shall serve on the opposite party a notice of trial at least fourteen
days previous to the first day of such term, and unless such notice is given and a
brief note thereof handed to the clerk of such court eight days before the first day
of term, such cause shall not be placed on the docket for trial without the consent
of the opposite party.
Role 82. If the party receiving such notice of trial shall serve a notice on the
opposite party that he will move at such term for a continuance of the cause, to
gether with a copy of the affidavits upon which he intends to found such motion,
he shall not be liable to such party for any costs of preparing to try such cause ac
cruing after the service ot such notice and affidavits in case such continuance is
granted on the papers so served.
'^^h/*^/~//y'?^t -*a «Role 83. A plea in abatementand a plea to the jurisdiction, arfd all other dila
tory pleas, must be verified by affidavit.
Rule 84. The name of a county shall in all cases be stated in the margin of a
declaration, and shall be taken to be the venue intended by the plaintifff; and no
venue need be slated in the body of the declaration^ or in any subsequent pleading;
provided, that in cases where local descriptioa is now required, such local descrip
tion shall be given.
Rule 85. In a plea or subsequent pleading intended to be pleaded in bar of the
whole action generally, it shall not be necessary to use any allegation of actionem,
or to the like effect, or any prayer of judgment. Nor shall it be necessary in any
replication or subsequent pleading intended to be pleaded in maintainance of the
whole action to use any allegation ofprecludi non, or to the like effect, or any
prayer ofjudgment. And all pleas, replications and subsequent pleadings, plead
ed without such formal parts as aforesaid, shall be taken, unless otherwise expres
sed as pleaded, respectively, in bar of the whole action, or in maintainance of the
whole action; provided, that nothing herein contained shall extend to caees where
an estoppel is pleaded.
Rule 86. No formal defense shal be required in a plea, and it may commence as
follows: " The said defendant by his Attorney, (or in person, &c.,) says that,
&.c." It shall not be necessary to state in a second or other plea or avowery, that
it is pleaded by leave, of the court or according to the form of the statute, or to that
effect.
Rule 87. No protestation need hereafter be made in any pleading; but either

party shall be entitled to the same advantage in that or other actions as if a pro
testation had been made.
Rule 88. All special traverses, or traverses with an inducement of affirmative
matter, shall conclude to the country; provided, that this regulation shall not pre
clude the opposite party from pleading over to the indupement when the traverse
is immaterial.
i*
Rule 89. The form of a demurrer may be as follows : " The said defendant
by his Attorney, or in person, &c., or (the plaintifff,) says that the declara
tion (or plea, &c.,) is not sufficient in law." Showing the special causes of de
murrer if any.
Role 90. Any plea concluding to the country shall be deemed to make an issue,
and no similiter shall be necessary.
Rule 91, Declarations, pleas and all other pleadings may be drawn in pursu
ance of the new English rules, and the precedents founded thereon, so far as they
are not inconsistent with either the statutes or the peculiar organization of the
courts of this- State, or they may be drawn according to the forms heretofore in use
in this State.
Rdle 92. These rules shall be.in force in the county of Wayne from and after
their adoption, and in all the other counties from and after the tenth day of May,
1843.
.Adopted Zd April, 1843.


