Section 1. The distinction between actions at law, and suits in equity
and the forms of all such actions and suits, are abolished ; and there shall
be in this state, but one form of action, for the enforcement or protection of
private rights, and the redress of private wrongs ; which shall be called a
civil action.
Sec. 2. The party complaining shall be known as the plaintifff, and
the adverse party as the defendant.
TITLE II.
THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.
Sec. 3. Actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed
jn tliis chapter, after the cause of action accrues, except where in special
cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute.
®EC- ^" ^° act'on f°r tne recovery of real property, or for the recovcry of the possession thereof, shall be maintained unless it appears tbat
rr
the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed
of the premises in question, within twenty years before the commence
ment of the action. The periods prescribed in the preceding section for
the commencement of actions, are as follows •
Sec. 5. Within ten years :
First. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court of the United
States, or of any state or territory of the United States.
Sec. 6. Within six years :
First. An action upon a contract or other obligation, express or implied, excepting those mentioned in the preceding section ;
Second. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than those
upon a penalty or forfeiture ;
Third. An action for trespass upon real property ;
Fourth. An action for taking, detaining, and injuring personal proper
ty, including actions for the specific recovery thereof ;
Fifth. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to
the person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not herein
after enumerated ;
Sixth. An action for relief, on the ground of fraud ; the cause of
action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery
by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud.
Sec. 7. Within three years :
First. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon a liability
by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office,
or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment of money
collected upon an execution ;
Second. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the
action is given to the party aggrieved or to such party and the state of
Minnesota.
Sec. 8. Within two years :
First. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment
;
Second. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the
state.
Sec. 9. In an action brought to .recover a balance due upon a mutu.il,
open, and current account, when there have been reciprocal demands
between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued from
the time of the last item proved in the account on either side.
Sec. 10. Every action upon a statute for a penalty given in whole or
in part, to the person who prosecutes for the same, shall be commenced
by said party within one year after the commission of the offense ; and if
the action is not commenced within one year by a private party, it may be
commenced within two years thereafter on behalf of the state, by the
attorney general, or the county attorney of the county where the offense
was committed.
Sec. 11. Every action to foreclose a mortgage upon real estate, shall
be commenced within twenty years after the cause of action accrues.
Sec. 12. The limitations prescribed in this chapter for the commencement
of actions, shall apply to the same actions when brought in the name
of the state, or in the name of any officer, or otherwise, for the benefit of
the state, in the same manner as to actions brought by citizens.
Seo. 13. An action is commenced as to each defendant, when the
summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant who is a joint contractor,
or otherwise united in interest with him, and is deemed to be pending
from the time of its commencement, until its final determination upon
appeal, or until the time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment has
been satisfied.
Sec. 14. An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to
the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this chapter, when the
summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually served, to
the sheriff or other officer of the county in which the defendants, or one
of them, usually or last resided ; or if a corporation is a defendant, to the
sheriff or other officer of the county in which such corporation was estab
lished by law, or where its general business was transacted, or where it
kept an office for the transaction of business ; but such an attempt shall
be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof,
within sixty days.
Sec. 15. If, when the cause of action accrues against a person, he is
out of the istate, the action may be commenced within the times herein
limited after his return to the state ; and if, after the cause of action
accrues, he departs from and resides out of the state, the time of his
absence is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.
Sec. 16. When a cause of action has arisen in a state or territory
out of this state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action
thereon cannot there be maintained by reason of the lapse of time, an
action thereon cannot be maintained in this state, except in favor of a
citizen thereof, who has had the cause of action from the time it accrued.
Sec. 17. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned in this chapter, except for a penalty, or forfeiture, is, at the time the cause of
action accrued, either
First. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
Second. Insane ; or,
Third. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his natural life ; or,
Fourth. A married woman.
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action, except that the period within which the
action must be brought, cannot be extended more than five years by any
such disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in any case,
longer than one year after the disability ceases.
Sec. 18. If a person entitled to .bring an action, dies before the ex
piration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause
of action survives, an action may be commenced by his personal represen
tatives after the expiration of that time, and within one year from his
death. If a person against whom an action may be brought, dies before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against his repre
sentatives, after the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.
Sec. 19. The time which elapses between the death of a person, and
the granting of letters testamentary, and of administration on his estate,
not exceeding six months, and the period of Bix months after the granting
of such letters, are not to be deemed any part of the time limited for the
commencement of actions by executors or administrators.
Sec. 20. When a person is an alien, subject, or citizen of a country
at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war ia
not a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec. 21. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction,
or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or
prohibition, is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.
Sec. 22. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it existed
at the time his right of action accrued.
Sec. 23. When two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the right
„ . , ., . "
of action accrues, the limitation docs not attach until they are all removed,
Sec. 24. No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evidence of a
new or continuing contract by which to take the case out of the operation
of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing, signed by
the party to be charged thereby ; but this section shall not alter the effect
of any payment of principal or interest.
Sec. 25. If any action is commenced within the time prescribed
therefore, and judgment given therein for the plaintifff, and the same is
arrested or reversed on error or appeal, the plaintifff may commence a new
action within one year after such reversal or arrest.
TITLE III.
THE PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 26. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as hereinafter provided ; but this section does
not authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of contract.
Sec. 27. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee is without prejudice to any set-off, or other defense existing
at the time of, or before notice of the assignment ; but this section
does not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, trans
ferred in good faith and upon good consideration, before due.
Sec. 28. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with
him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with
whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another, is
a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this section.
Sec. 29. When a married woman is a party her husband shall be
joined with her, except that, '
First. When the action concerns her separate property she may sue
alone ;
Second. When the action is between herself and her husband she may
sue or be sued alone ; and in no case need she prosecute or defend by a
guardian or next friend.
Sec. 30. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by his guardian,
who shall be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or
by a judge thereof.
Sec. 31. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :
First. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant,
if he is of the age of fourteen ; or if under that age, upon the application
of a relation or friend of the infant ; if made by a relative or friend of the
infant, notice thereof shall first be given to such guardian, if he has one ;
if he has none, then to the person with whom such infant resides ;
Second. When the infant is defendant, upon an application of the in
fant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies within twenty days
after the service of the summons, if he is under the age of fourteen, or
neglects so to apply, then, upon the application of any other party to the
action, or of a relation or friend of the infant, after notice of such appli
cation being first given to the general or testamentary guardian of such
infant, if he has one within this state ; if he has none then to the infant himself, if over fourteen years of age and within the state, or if under that age
and within the state, to the person with whom such infant resides.
Sec. 32. A father, or in case of his death, or desertion of his family,
the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of the daughter,
and the guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or
ward is not living with, or in the service of the plaintifff at the time of the
seduction, or afterward, and there is no loss of service.
Sec. 33. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury of the child, and the
guardian for the injury of the ward.
Sec. 34. When a husband has deserted his family, the wife may pro
secute or defend, in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted
or defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein as he
might have had.
Sec. 35. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instru
ment, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and
sureties on the same instrument, may all or any of them, be included in
the same action at the option of the plaintifff.
Sec. 36. An action does not abate by the death, marriage, or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest, if the cause of
action survives or continues. In case of the death, marriage, or other
disability of a party, the court on motion at any time within one year
thereafter or afterward on a supplemental complaint, may allow the action
to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest.
In case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in
the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made, to be added or substituted in the action.
Sec. 37. When two or more persons associated in any business,transact
such business under a common name, whether it comprises the
names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by such com
mon name ; the process in such case being served on one or more of the
associates, the judgment in the action shall bind the joint property of all
the associates in the same manner as if all had been named defendants.
TITLE IV.
THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 38. • Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is situated, subject
to the power of the court to change the place of trial as hereinafter
provided :
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest and
for injuries to real property ;
Second. Fos the partition of real property ;
Tliird. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property ;
Fourth. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any
cause.
Sec. **9. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the power of the
court to change the place of trial as provided by law :
First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except that where it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river,
or other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the action may
be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream ;
Second. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to exe
cute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a
person who by his command or in his aid does anything touching the
duties of such officer.
Sec. 40. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county in
which the parties, or one of them, reside at the commencement of the
action, or if none of the parties reside in this state, the same may be tried
in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint, subject
however to the power of the court to change the place of trial as provided
by law.
Sec. 41. If the defendant is a non-resident of this state and the
plaintifff proceeds against him, by attaching his property, such action may
be brought in any county where the defendant has property liable to
attachment.
Sec. 42. If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint
is not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein,
unless the defendant, before the time for answering expires, demands in
writing that the trial be had in the proper county, and the place of trial
is thereupon changed by consent of parties or by order of court as is pro
vided in this section. The court may change the place of trial in the fol
lowing cases :
First. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint
is not the proper county ;
Second. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein ;
Third. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change ;
Fourth. A change of venue may, in all civil cases, be made, upon the
consent in writing of the parties or their attorneys. When the place of
trial is changed, all other proceedings shall be had in the county .to which
the place of trial is changed unless otherwise provided by the consent of
the parties in writing duly filed, or order of the court, and the papers shall
be filed or transferred accordingly.
TITLE V.
8EBVICE OF SUMMONS, PLEADINGS, NOTICES, AND APPEARANCE OP
PARTIES.
Sec. 43. Civil actions in the several district courts of this state shall
be commenced by the service of a summons, as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 44. The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintifff or his
attorney and directed to the defendant, requiring him to answer the comi
« i 1.1 t . «i_ a. t. i ii/./ • 1.,
plaint, and file his answer in the otnce ot the clerk ot the court in which
the action is brought within thirty days after the service of the summons,
exclusive of the day of service, and shall notify the defendant of the filing
of the complaint.
Sec. 45. The summons shall also contain a notice in substance as
follows :—
First. In an action arising on contract for the payment of money only,
that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant
fails to answer the complaint ;
Second. In other actions for the recovery of money only, that he will,
upon such failure, have the amount he is entitled to recover, ascertained
by the court, or under its direction, and take judgment for the amount so
ascertained.
Third. In other actions, that, if the defendant fails to answer the
complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein.
Sec. 46. The complaint shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, prior to the service of the summons
in such action.
Sec. 47. The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by any other person not a party to the
action ; and the service shall be made and the summons returned and filed
in the clerk's office with all reasonable diligence.
Sec. 48. * The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof,
as follows:—
First. If the action is against a corporation, to the president, or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director or manag
ing agent thereof; but such service can be made in respect to a foreign
corporation only when it has property within this state, or the cause of
action arose therein ;
Second. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there is
none within this state, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor, or with whom he resides, or by whom he is employed ;
Third. If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed
for any cause, to such guardian, and to the defendant personally ;
Fourth. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or by leaving a
copy of the summons at the house of his usual abode, with some person
of suitable age and discretion then resident therein.
Sec. 49. When the defendant cannot be found within the state, of
which the return of the sheriff of the county in which the action is
brought, that the defendant cannot be found in the county, is prima facie
evidence, and upon the presentation of an affidavit of the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, to the court or judge stating that he believes that the
defendant is not a resident of the state, and cannot be found therein, if the
complaint in the opinion of the judge states a good cause of action against
the defendant, or shows that he is a proper party to an action relating to
real property in this state, such court, or judge, may grant an order that
the service be made by the publication of a summons in either of the
following cases : —
First. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property
within this state ;
Second. When the defendant being a resident of this Btate has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the
service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with like intent ;
Third. When the defendant is not a resident of the state, but has
property therein, and the action arises on contract, and the court has
jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
Fourth. When the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law ;
Fifth. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in
this state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest actual or con
tingent therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in
excluding the defendant from any interest or lien therein.
Sec. 50. The publication shall be made in a newspaper printed and
published in the county where the action is brought, and if there is no
such newspaper in the county, then in a newspaper printed and published
at the capital of the state, once in each week for six consecutive weeks,
and the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expira
tion of the time prescribed for publication as aforesaid.
Sec. 51. If the summons is not personally served on the defendant,
in the cases provided in the last two sections, he or his representatives, on
application and sufficient cause shown, at any time before judgment, shall
be allowed to defend the action ; and except in an action for divorce, the
defendant or his representatives may in like manner be allowed to defend
after judgment, and within one year after the rendition of such judgment,
on such terms as may be just ; and if the defense is successful, and the
judgment, or any part thereof, has been collected or otherwise enforced,
such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs.
Sec. 52. When the action is against two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the plaintifff may
proceed as follows :
First. If the action is against the defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court
otherwise directs, and if he recovers judgment, it may be entered against
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be
enforced aguinst the joint property of all, and the separate property of the
defendants served ;
Second. If the action is against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were
the only defendants ;
Tliird. Though all the defendants have been served with the sum
mons, judgment may be taken against any of them severally, when the
plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such defendants if the
action had been against them alone.
Sec. 53. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint
or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be as follows >-—
First. If served by the sheriff or other officer, his certificate thereof;
or, if by another person, his affidavit ; or,
Second. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his fore
man, showing the same, and .an affidavit of the deposit of a copy of the
summons in the post-office, if the same has been deposited ; or,
Third The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affi
davit, or admission, shall state the time, place, and manner of service.
Sec. 54. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
action, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control
of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a
defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons upon him.
Sec. 55. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of
this state, unless he appears in the court, or is found within the state, or
is served with process therein, or is a resident thereof, or has property
therein upon which the plaintifff has acquired a lien by attachment or
garnishment, and then only to the extent of such property, except in cases
where it is otherwise expressly provided by statute.
Sec. 56. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of this
state, unless it appears in the court, or has been created by or under the
laws of this state, or lias an agency established therein for the transaction
of some portion of its business, or has property therein upon which the
plaintifff has acquired a lien by attachment or garnishment, and in the last
case, only to the extent of such property at the time the jurisdiction
attached.
Sec. defendant appears in an action when he answers, demurs,
or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance ; after appearance,
a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings ; but when
a defendant has not appeared, service of notices or papers in the ordinary
proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him.
Sec. 58. Notices shall be in writing ; and notices and other papers
may be served on the party or attorney in the manner prescribed in the
next three sections, where not otherwise provided by statute.
Sec. 59. The service may be personal or by delivery to the party or
„ , ., . ' . r . , . J, , J .. 1 -•'
attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows : —
First. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from
his office, by leaving the papers with his clerk therein, or with a person
having charge thereof ; or, when there is no person in the office, by leav
ing it between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening in
a conspicuous place in the office ; or if it is not open so as to admit of
such service, then by leaving it at the attorney's residence with some
person of suitable age and discretion ;
Second. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the papers at his
residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the even
ing, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Sec. 60. Service by mail may be made, when the person making the
service, and the person on whom it is to be made reside in different places
between which there is a regular communication by mail.
Sec. 61. In case of service by mail, the paper shall be deposited in
the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is served at his place
of residence, and the postage paid ; and in such case the time of sen-ice
shall be double that required in case of personal service.
Sec. 62. Where a plaintifff or defendant who has appeared, resides
out of the state, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be
made by mail, if his residence is known ; if not known, on the clerk for
bim< But where a party has an attorney in the action, the service of papers
shall be upon the attorney instead of the party.
Sec. 63. The provisions of the four preceding sections do not apply
*° tne service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a
party into contempt.
Sec. 64. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual, though the title of the action in which it is made is omitted, or it is defective either in
respect to the court or parties, if it intelligently refers to such action or
proceeding ; and in furtherance of justice, upon proper term?, any other
defect or error in any notice or other paper or proceeding, may be amend
ed by the court, and any mischance, omission or defect relieved within one
year thereafter; and the court may enlarge or extend the time for good
cause shown within which by statute any act is to be done, proceeding had
or taken, notice or paper filed or served, or may on such terms as are just,
permit the same to be done or supplied after the time therefore has
expired, except that the time for bringing a writ of error or appeal shall
in no case be enlarged, or a party be permitted to bring such writ of error
or appeal after the time therefore has expired.
Sec. 65. The pleadings and various bonds required to be given by
statute, and the affidavits and other written proceedings in an action, shall
be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk thereof, unless the court ex
pressly provide for a different disposition thereof, except that the bonds
provided for by this chapter, on the claim and delivery of personal prop
erty, shall after the justification of the sureties be delivered by the sheriff
to the parties respectively for whose benefit they are taken.
Sec. 66. No copies of any pleadings need be served on the adverse
party, but the clerk shall furnish the party with copies thereof on application to him and payment of his fees. ■
Sec. 67. A defendant who has appeared, may, without answering, demand in writing an assessment of damages, or of the amount which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover, and thereupon such assessment shall be had,
or any such amount ascertained, in such manner as the court on application
may direct, and judgment entered by the clerk for the amount so
assessed or ascertained.
Sec. 68. The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day is
Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Sec. 69. The publication of legal notices required by law, or by an
order of a judge or court, to be published in a newspaper once in each
week for a specified number of weeks, shall be made on the day of each
week in which such newspaper is published.
TITLE VI.
PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 70. The forms of proceedings in civil actions, and the rules by'P
which the sufficiency of pleadings is to be determined, shall be regulated
by statute.
* Sec. 71. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff are :
First. The complaint;
Second. The demurrer or reply.
And on the part of the defendant :
First. Demurrer ;
Second. The answer.
the complaint.
Sec. 72. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, is the complaint.
Sec. 73. The complaint shall contain :
First. The title of the cause, specifying the court in which the action
is brought, the county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant ;
Second. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition ;
Third. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery of money is demanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated.
THE DEMURRER.
Sec. 74. The defendant may demur to the complaint within thirty
days after notice of the filing thereof, when it appears upon the face thereof,
either: .
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
or the subject of the action ;
Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ;
Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause ;
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant ;
Fifth. That several causes of action are improperly united ;
Sixth That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
Sec. 75. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objec
tion to the complaint ; unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be
taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the causes of action stated
therein.
Sec. 76. If the complaint is amended, it shall be filed in the proper
office and notice thereof served upon the defendant, who shall answer it
within thirty days after service of said notice, or the plaintifff, upon filing
with the clerk proof of the service of said notice, and of the defendant's
omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as in other cases of failure to
answer.
Sec. 77. When any of the matters enumerated in section seventy-four
do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken
by answer.
Sec. 78. If no such objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer,
the defendant is deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the ob
jection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
THE ANSWER.
Sec. 79. The answer of the defendant shall contain :
First. A denial of each allegation of the complaint, controverted by
the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to
form a belief;
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or coun
ter claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.
Third. All equities existing at the time of the commencement of any
action, in favor of a defendant therein, or discovered to exist after such
commencement, or intervening before a final decision in such action. And
if the same are admitted by the plaintifff, or the issue thereon is determined
in favor of the defendant, he shall be entitled to such relief, equitable or
otherwise, as the nature of the case demands, by judgment, or otherwise.
Sec. 80. The counterclaim, mentioned in the last section, must be an
existing one in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintifff, between whom
a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one of
the following causes of action :
First. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction, set
forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or con
nected with the subject of the action ;
Second. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
Sec. 81. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses
and counterclaims as he has ; they shall each be separately stated, and
refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in such
manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished ; the defendant may also
demur to one or more of several causes of action in the complaint, and
answer the residue.
Sec. 82. Sham and irrelevant answers or defenses and frivolous de
murrers may be stricken out, or judgment rendered notwithstanding the
same, on motion, as for want of an answer.
THE REPLY.
Sec. 83. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter
claim, the plaintifff may, within thirty days, reply to such new matter, denying
each allegation controverted by him or any knowledge or informa
tion thereof sufficient to form a belief, and he may allege in ordinary and
concise language without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with
the complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer ; or
he may demur to an answer containing new matter, when upon its face it
does not constitute a counterclaim or defense ; and the plaintifff may demur
to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims, and reply to the residue
of the counterclaims.
Sec. 84. If the answer contains a statement of new matter constituting a counterclaim, and the plaintifff fails to reply or demur thereto within
the time allowed by law, the defendant may move on notice for such judgment
as he may be entitled to upon such statement, and the court may
thereupon render judgment, order a reference, or assessment of damages
by a jury, as the case may require.
Sec. 83. If a reply to any counterclaim is insufficient, the defendant
may demur thereto, stating the grounds thereof.
GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.
Sec. 86. Every pleading in a court of record sliall be subscribed by
the attorney of the party, and when any pleading in a case is verified, all
subsequent pleadings, except demurrers, shall be verified also.
Sec. 87. The verification shall be to the effect that the same is true
to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters
stated on his information and belief, and as to those matters that he believes
it to be true, and shall be made by the party, or, if there are several par
ties united in interest and pleading together, by one at least of such parties
acquainted with the facts, if such party is within the county where the
attorney resides, and capable of making the affidavit. The verification
may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the party making such
pleading is absent from the county where the attorney resides, or for
some cause is unable to verify it ; and shall be to the effect that the same
is true to the best of his knowledge, information and belief. When a
corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof;
and when the state or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party, the veri
fication may be made by the attorney general. The verification may be
omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegation might subject
the party to prosecution for felony.
Sec. 88. It is mot necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading,
the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the adverse
party, within ten days after a demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the
account verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within
the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The
court, or judge thereof, may order a further or more particular bill.
Sec. 89. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.
Sec. 90. If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a pleading
it may be stricken out on motion, and when a pleading is double, or does
not conform to the statute, or when the allegations of a pleading are so
indefinite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or defense is
not aPParent> tne court may strike it out on motion, or require it to be
amended.
gEC- 9^ In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court,
or officer, of special or general jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
6tate tne ^acta conferrmS jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination
may be stated, to have been duly given or made. If such allegation is
controverted, the party pleading is bound to establish on the trial, the facts
conferring jurisdiction,
Sec. 92. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract> •* shtHl not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance,
but it may be stated, generally, that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his part, and if such allegation is controverted, the party
pleading is bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such per
formance.
Sec. 93. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
jt ;g 8ufficjent to refer to 8UCn 8tatute by its title, and the day of its ap
proval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof,
Sec. 94. In actions by or against corporations, created by or under
tne laws of this state, it is sufficient to refer in the complaint or answer to
the act of incorporation, or the proceedings by which such corporation was
* * * *
created.
Sec. 95. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
8tate m tne complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state generally, that the
same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff ; and if such alle
gation is controverted, the plaintifff is bound to establish on trial, that it
was so published or spoken.
Sec. 96. In the action mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defama
tory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages ;
and whether he proves the justification or not, he may give in evidence
the mitigating' circumstances,
Sec. 97. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained
doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person, by whose command
he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress
was made, and that the property distrained was, at the time, doing
damage thereon, shall be good without setting forth the title to such real
property.
Sec. 98. The plaintifff may ujiite several causes of action in the same
complaint, whether legal or equitable, when they are included in either of
the following classes :
First. The same transaction or transactions connected with the same
subject of action ;
/Second. Contracts express or implied :
Third. Injuries with or without force to person and property, or
either :
Fourth. Injuries to character ; or,
Fifth. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same ; or,
Sixth. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof;' or,
Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by opera
tion of law. But the causes of action so united, shall belong to one only
of these classes, and affect all the parties to the action, a'"1 vwinfm
different places of trial, and shall be separately stated.
Sec. 99. Every material allegation of the complaint not specifically
controverted by the answer as prescribed, and every material allegation
of new matter in the answer constituting a counterclaim not controverted
by the reply as prescribed, shall for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true ; but the allegation of new matter in the answer not relating to a
counterclaim or of new matter in a reply is to be deemed controverted
by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may
require.
MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS, AND AMENDMENTS.
Sec. 100. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof, is material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his
prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved
to the satisfaction of the court, and it shall be shown in what respect he
has been misled ; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended upon such terms as may be just.
Sec. 101. "When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence,
or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.
Sec. 102. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action, or
defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particulars
only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of
variance witliin the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
Sec. 103. Any pleading may be once amended by the party, of course,
without costs', and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any
time before the period for answering it expires ; or if it does not delay the
trial, it may be so amended at any time within thirty days after filing of
the answer, demurrer or reply to such pleading; in such case the amended
pleading shall be filed in the proper office and notice thereof served on the
adverse party, who shall have thirty days to answer the same. After the
decision of the demurrer, the court may, in its discretion, if it appears
that the demurrer was interposed in good faith, allow the party demurring,
to withdraw the same, and plead over, or if the demurrer is sustained,
may allow the pleading demurred to, to be amended, on such terms as
may be just.
Sec. 104. The court may, before or after judgment in furtherance of
justice and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by cor
recting a mistake in the name of a party, a mistake in any other respect,
or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or when the amend
ment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming
the pleading or proceeding to the fact proved.
SkC. 105. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer
or reply to be made or other act to be done after the time limited by this chapter, or by an order enlarge such time; and may also in its discretion,
at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a
judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him, through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and may supply an
omission in any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken by a
party, fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of the statute, the
court may permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto ; but this section does not apply to a final judgment in
an action for a divorce.
Sec. 106. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any process, pleading or proceeding
by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the process, pleading
or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
Sec. 107. The court shall in every stage of an action disregard any
error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment can be reversed
or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Sec. 108. The plaintifff and defendant respectively may be allowed
on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging
facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint, answer or
reply.
TITLE VII.
CONSOLIDATION AND INTERPLEADING.
Sec. 109. Whenever two or more actions are pending at any time
between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of action
which might have joined, the court may order the actions to be consoli
dated.
Sec. 110. An action may be brought against two or more persons,
for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for
which the plaintifff is bound as surety.
Sec. 111. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon con
tract or for money, or specific real or personal property, may; at any time
before answer, upon affidavit that a person, not a party to the action and
without collusion with him, makes a demand against him for the same
money, debt, or property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse
party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his
place, and discharge the defendant from liability to either party, on his
depositing in court the amount of the debt or money, or delivering the
property or its, value, to such person as the court may direct ; and the
court may thereupon make the order, and thereafter the action shall pro
ceed between the plaintifff and person so substituted ; and the court may
compel them to interplead.
TITLE VIII.
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 112. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, in themanner
following :
Sec. 113. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :
First. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof,
by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall
be set forth ;
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant ;
Third. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine
pursuant to a statue, or seized under an execution, or attachment against
the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure ; and
Fourth. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 114. The plaintifff by an indorsement upon the affidavit may require the issuance of a writ, as provided in the next section, and shall
thereupon file the affidavit with the clerk of the court where the action is
brought
Sec. 115. Upon the filing of the affidavit so indorsed, the clerk shall
issue a writ, directed to the sheriff, commanding him to take the property
therein described, and the same safely keep until disposed of according to
law.
Sec. 116. Before such writ is served, a bond shall be executed to the
defendant in an amount double the value of the property, as stated in the
affidavit, conditioned that the action shall be prosecuted with effect for a
return of the property to the defendant, if a return is adjudged, and for
the payment to him of such sum as for any cause may be recovered
against the plaintifff; such bond shall be executed by the plaintifff, or by
some one in his behalf, with two or more sureties to be approved by the
sheriff.
Sec. 117. On receiving the writ and bond, the sheriff shall forthwith
take the property described in the writ, if it is in the possession of
the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody until delivered as
hereinafter provided ; he shall also without delay serve on the defendant
a copy of the writ and bond, by delivering the same to him personally, if
he can be found, or to his agent from whose possession the property is
taken, or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of
abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Sec. 118. The defendant may within three days after the service of
a copy of the writ and bond, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to
the sufficiency of the sureties ; if he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to
have waived all objections to them ; if the defendant excepts to the sure
ties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.
Sec. 119. Within three days after service of the writ and bond as
aforesaid, the defendant may, if he does not except to the sureties of the
plaintifff, require a return of the property, upon executing to the plaintifff
a bond in the same amount as the bond of the plaintifff, conditioned that
the property shall be delivered to the plaintifff, if delivery is adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as for any cause may be recov
ered against the defendant. Such bond shall be executed by the defend
ant or by some one in his behalf, with two or more sufficient sureties. If
a return of the property is not required, or the sureties of the plaintifff ex
cepted to, within three days after the taking and service of the writ and
bond upon the defendant, then the property shall be delivered to the plain
tiff, except as provided in section one hundred and twenty-one.
Sec. 120. Notice shall be given of the justification of sureties of not
less than two nor more than six days, which notice shall be served within
two days after exception taken to the plaintifff's sureties or after the exe
cution of the bond by the defendant, as the case may be. If any surety
fails to justify at the time appointed, another may be offered and substi
tuted within such time, not exceeding three days, as the judge or officer
shall appoint, but there shall be only one adjournment for such purpose,
and in case of substitution a new bond shall be executed by all the par
ties to be bound.
Sec. 121. Upon due justification of the plaintifffs sureties, the sheriff
shall deliver the property to the plaintifff, except as prescribed in section
one hundred and thirty-eight, and upon like justification of the defend
ant's sureties the property shall be delivered to the defendant. When
sureties fail to justify as aforesaid, or when justification is waived as herein provided, the sheriff shall forthwith deliver the property to the party
entitled thereto. The sheriff shall retain the property until the justifica
tion is completed or waived, and he shall be liable for the sufficiency of
the sureties until such justification or waiver is made or there is a failure
to justify. Either party may in writing waive the justification of sureties
as well after as before notice.
Sec. 122. The qualification of sureties is as follows :
First. Each shall be a resident and freeholder of the state
Second. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the bond above
his debts and liabilities and exclusive of his property exempt from execu
tion, but the judge or officer taking the justification may allow more than
the number of sureties required, to justify severally in amounts less than
the penalty of the bond, if the aggregate amount is equivalent thereto.
Sec. 123. For the purpose of justification, each surety shall attend
before a judge, court commissioner, or a justice of the peace, at the time
and place specified, and may be examined on oath, touching his sufficiency
in such manner as the judge or officer may think proper ; the examina
tion shall be reduced to writing, and filed in the cause.
Sec. 124. If the judge or officer deems the sureties sufficient he shall
indorse his approval upon the bond which shall be delivered to the party
entitled thereto, and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from,
liability.
Sec. 125. If the property or any part thereof is concealed in a build
ing orenclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery ; if it is not
delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession, and if necessary he may call to hia
aid the power of his county*
Sec. 126. When the sheriff has taken property, as herein provided,
he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled
thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary ex
penses for keeping the same.
Sec. 127. He shall file the writ with his return thereon, with the
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein.
TITLE IX.
ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 128. In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintifff* at the
t'me °f issuing the summons, or at any time afterward, may have the
property of the defendant attached in the manner hereinafter prescribed,
as security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintifff may
recover.
Sec. 120. A writ of attachment shall be obtained from a judge of the
court in which the action is brought, or a court commissioner of the county.
Sec 130. The writ may be allowed whenever it appears by affidavit
that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount
-- -- - -- - ^ C - - c . - of the claim, and the ground thereof ; and that the defendant is either a
foreign corporation, or not a resident of this state, oi has departed there
from with intent to defraud or delay his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent, or
that he has assigned, secreted, or disposed, or is about to assign, secrete or
dispose of his property with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or
that the plaintifff's debt was fraudulently contracted.
Sec. 131. Before issuing the writ the judge or court commissioner
shall require a bond on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties,
conditioned that if the defendant recovers judgment, the plaintifff will pay
all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which ho
may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the penalty of the
bond, which shall be at least two hundred and fifty dollars.
Sec. 132. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which the property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county, and
not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
satisfy the plaintifff's demand, with costs and expenses, the amount of
which demand shall be stated in conformity with the complaint. Several
writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.
Sec. 133. All goods and chattels, real and personal, all property, real,
personal and mixed, including all rights and shares in the stock of any
corporation, all money, bills, notes, book accounts, debts, credits and all
other evidences of indebtedness belonging to the defendant are subject to
attachment.
Sec. 134. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay as follows :
First. Real estate shall be attached by the officer leaving a certified
copy of the writ, and of his return of such attachment thereon, at the
office of the register of deeds of the county in which such real estate is
situated, or if there is no register of deeds, with the clerk of the district
court of the county, and serving a copy of the same upon the defendant
in the action if he can be found in his county without any other act or
ceremony ;
Second. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the sheriff,
shall be attached by taking it into his custody ;
Third. When an attachment is made of articles of personal estate
which, by reason of their bulk or other cause, cannot be immediately
removed, a certified copy of the writ and of the return of the attachment
may at any time within three days thereafter be deposited in the office of
the town clerk of the town or city in which the attachment is made, and
such attachment shall be as valid and effectual as if the articles had been
retained in the possession and custody of the officer ;
Fourth. The clerk shall receive and file all such copies, noting thereon
the time when received, and keep them safely in his office, and also enter
a note thereof, in the order in which they are received, in books kept for
noting mortgages of personal property; which entry shall contain the
names of the parties to the action, and the date of the entry. The clerk'3
fee for this service shall be twenty-five cents, to be paid by the officer and
included in his charge for the service of the writ ;
Fifth. Other personal property shall be attached by leaving a certified
copy of the writ, and a notice specifying the property attached, with a
person holding the same, or if a debt with the debtor, or if stock or interest
in stock of a corporation, with the president or other head of the same, or
the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof ;
Sixth. The sheriff shall serve a copy of the writ of attachment, and
inventory served by him, upon the defendant, if he can be found within
the county ; and if he is a resident thereof, but cannot be found therein,
the said sheriff shall leave such copy at the last usual place of abode of
the said defendant ;
Seventh. He shall make a full inventory of the property attached and
return the same with the writ of attachment.
Sec. 135. Whenever the sheriff, with a writ of attachment or an
execution against the defendant, applies to any person mentioned in the
fifth subdivision of section one hundred and thirty-four for the purpose of
attaching or levying, upon the property mentioned therein, such person
shall furnish him with a certificate designating the number of rights or
shares of the defendant, in the stock of the corporation, with any dividend
or encumbrance thereon on the amount and description of the property,
held by such corporation or person for the defendant, or the debt owing
to the defendant ; if 6ueh person refuses to do so, he may be required by
the court or judge, to attend before him and be examined on oath concern
ing the same, and disobedience to the order may be punished as a con
tempt.
Sec. 136. If any of the property attached is perishable, the sheriff
Bna^ se^ tue 8ame m tne manner in which property is sold on execution.
He may also take such legal proceedings either in his own name, or in
tne name of the defendant, as are necessary to collect all debts, credits
and effects of said defendant, and discontinue the same at such times, or
on such terms as the court or judge may direct.
Sec. 137. If any property levied upon or taken by a sheriff by virtue
0f a >vrjj 0f executi0n, attachment, or other process, is claimed by any
other person than the defendant or his agent, and such person makes affi
davit of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the
value thereof, and the ground of such title or right, the sheriff may release
such levy or taking, unless the plaintifff on demand, indemnify the sheriff
against such claim, by a bond executed by two sufficient sureties, accom
panied by their affidavits, that they are each worth double the value of the
property as specified in the affidavit of the claimant of such property, and
are freeholders and residents of the CDuhty ; and no claim to such property,
by any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid against
the sheriff unless so made ; and notwithstanding such claim, when so
made, he may retain such property under levy, a reasonable time to de
mand such indemnity.
Sec. 138. If in such case, the person claiming the ownership of such
ProPerty commences an action against the sheriff for the taking thereof,
the obligors in the bond provided for in the preceding section, and the
plaintifff in such execution, attachment or other process, shall, on motion
of such sheriff, be impleaded with him in such action. When in such
case a judgment is rendered against the sheriff and his co-defendants, an
execution shall be immediately issued thereon, and the property of such
co-defendants shall be first exhausted before that of the sheriff is sold to
satisfy such execution,
Sec. 139. If judgment is recovered by the plaintifff in such action,
the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him, if
it is sufficient for that purpose : .
First. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property, sold by him, or of all debts or credits collected by him, or so
much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment ;
Second. If any balance remains due, and an execution has been issued
on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much of the attached
property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remains in his hands ; and in case of the sale of
any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation, the sheriff 6hall execute
to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall there
upon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto, which were had
by the defendant;
Third. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant has
passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without having been sold or con
verted into money, the sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and
for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the
same under the attachment, and any person who shall willfully conceal or
withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages
at the suit of the party injured. D
Sec. 140. The defendant may at any time before the time for ailSWCr- m
ing expires, or at any time thereafter when he has answered and before J
trial, apply to the court on notice to vacate the writ of attachment.
Sec. 141. If the motion is made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits
in addition to those on which the writ of attachment was allowed.
Sec. 1 42. When the writ of attachment is fully executed or discharged,
the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings thereon, to the S
court in which the action was brought.
Sec. 143. Whenever any real estate has been attached by virtue of
any writ of attachment, such real estate may be discharged and released
of record from such attachment in the following manner, to wit : —
First. By filing in the .office of the register of deeds of the county
wherein such real estate is situated, a certified copy of the order dis
charging or vacating said attachment ;
Second. By filing with such register of deeds, satisfaction of judgment
rendered in such action ;
Third. By judgment being rendered in the action in favor of the
defendant against whom the attachment is issued, upon filing in the office
of said register of deeds a transcript of such judgment ;
Fourth. By filing in the office of such register of deeds a satisfaction
and discharge of sueh attachment executed by the plaintifff in said action
in the same manner as is required by law for the execution of convey
ances of real estate.
Sec. 144. The plaintifff in such action may at anytime before the
final discharge of such attachment, release and discharge from such
attachment any part or portion of such real estate incumbered by said
attachment, by executing in the same manner as conveyances of real
estate are required by law to be executed, a release and discharge of such
parts or portions of said real estate so designated to be discharged and
released, and particularly describing the same, and filing such release in
the office of the register of deeds of the county wherein the lands are
situated ; and such release or discharge shall in nowise affect the lien and
encumbrance of said writ of attachment upon the remainder of the real
estate or property covered by said attachment and not included in such
release.
Sec. 145. The register of Iceds shall enter such discharge, release
or satisfaction in the same manner and in the same book provided for the
filing and entry of writs of attachments, except that the names of the
plaintifffs shall be alphabetically arranged in said index, and he shall
receive the same fees as are allowed him for the filing and entry of
attachments in his office.
Sec. 146. Any attachment of personal property, under sub-division
three of section one hundred and thirty-four, rriay be discharged or
released of record by filing in the proper office an order, release, transcript,
or satisfaction piece, as provided in section one hundred and fortythree aforesaid.
GARNISHMENT.
Sec. 147. In any action in a court of record or justice's court, founded
upon contract express or implied, if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, at
the time of filing the complaint, or issuing the summons therein, or at any
time during the pendency of the action, or after judgment therein against
the defendant, makes and files with the clerk of the court, or if the action
is in a justice's court, with the justice, an affidavit stating that he believes
that any person (naming him) has property, money or effects in his hands
or under his control belonging to the defendant in such action, or that
such person is indebted to the defendant, and that the value of such
property or effects or the amount of such money or indebtedness, if the
action is in a district court, exceeds the sum of twenty-five dollars, or if
the action is in a justice's court, ten dollars, a summons may be issued
against such person, as hereinafter provided ; in which summons and all
subsequent proceedings the plaintifff in the action shall be known and des
ignated as plaintifff, the defendant as defendant, and the person against
whom the summons is issued, as garnishee.
Sec. 148. If the action is in a justice's court, the summons shall be
issued by the justice, and shall require the garnishee to appear before him
at a time and place mentioned in such summons, not less than six nor
more than twelve days from the date thereof, and answer under oath such
questions as may be put Uj him touching his indebtedness to the defendant,
and any property, money or effects of the defendant in his possession or
under his control ; which summons shall be served and returned in the
same manner 'as a summons issued against a defendant in other causes in
such court, except that no other than personal service shall be sufficient.
A copy of such summons together with a notice to the defendant stating
the time, place and manner of service upon the garnishee and signed by
the justice of the peace or officer who served the same, and requiring
such defendant to appear and take part in the examination, shall be served
upon the defendant at least three days before the time specified in the
summons for the appearance of the garnishee.
Sec. 149. 'In actions in a district court such summons may be issued
by the plaintifff or his attorney in the action, and shall be served and
returned in the same manner as a summons issued against a defendant in
other cases in said court, except that the service shall in all cases be
personal. It shall require the garnishee to appear before the court in
which the action is pending, or the judge thereof, or the court commis
sioner of the county in which the action is pending, at a time and p'ace
mentioned therein, not less than twenty days from the service thereof,
and answer touching his indebtedness to the defendant, and any property,
money or effects of the defendant in his possession or under his control.
A copy of the summons together with a notice to the defendant stating
the time, place and manner of service thereof upon the garnishee, and
signed by the plaintifff or his attorney, or the person or officer who served
the summons upon the garnishee and requiring such defendant to appear
and take part in the examination, shall be served upon the defendant at
least ten days before the time specified in the same for the appearance of
the garnishee. The garnishee shall be entitled in all cases, whether the
action is in a district court or before a justice of the peace, to the same
fees as if he was subpoenaed as a witness in such action, bnd may be
compelled to testify and disclose respecting any matters contained in the
affidavit in the same manner as if he was a witness duly subpoenaed for
that purpose.
Sec. 150. The service of the summons upon the garnishee shall
attach and bind all the properly, money or effects in his hands, or under
his control belonging to the defendant, and any and all indebtedness owing
by him to the defendant at the date of such service, to respond to final
judgment in the action.
Sec. 151. Any debt or legacy due from an executor or administrator,
and any other property, money or effects in the hands of an executor or
administrator may be attached by this process.
Sec. 152. Corporations may be summoned as garnishees and may
appear by their cashier, treasurer, secretary or such officer as they may
appoint, and the disclosure of such person or officer shall be considered
the disclosure of the corporation : provided, that if it appears to the court
that some other member or officer of the corporation is better acquainted
with the subject matter than the one making disclosure, the court may cite
in such person to make answer in the premises ; and in case such person
neglects or refuses to attend, judgment may be entered as hereinefter
provided upon default ; and service of the summons upon the agent of
any corporation not located in this state, but doing business therein
through such agent, shall be a valid service upon said corporation.
Sec. 153. No person or corporation shall be adjudged a garnishee in
either of the following cases, viz. : — '
First. By reason of any money, or any other thing due to the defend
ant, unless at the time of the service of the summons, the same is due
absolutely and without depending on any contingency ;
Second. By reason of any debt due from said garnishee on a judgment
so long as he is liable to an execution thereon ;
Third. By reason of any liability incurred, as maker or otherwise,
upon any draft, bill of exchange or promissory note. '
Sec. 154. Any money or other tiling due or belonging to the defendant
may be attached by this process, before it has become payable, provided
. . , ' . v i • l j j j- •
it is due or owing absolutely and without depending on any contingency
as aforesaid ; but the garnishee shall not be compelled to pay or deliver
the same before the time appointed therefore by the contract.
Sec. 155. Bills of exchange and promissory notes, whether under or
over due, drafts, bonds, certificates of deposit, bank notes, money, contracts
for the payment of money, and other written evidence of indebtedness, in
the hands of the garnishee at the time of the service of the summons,
shall be deemed " effects " under the provisions of this section.
Sec. 156. After the appearance of the garnishee before the court or
officer named in the summons on the day specified therein, or on the day
to wliich an adjournment may be had, the said garnishee shall be cxaillined on oath, touching the matters alleged in the affidavit, and the examining
officer shall take full minutes of such examination, and file the same
with the other papers in the cause : provided, that unless the defendant in
the action appears at the time and place specified in the summons, for the
appearance of the garnishee, such court or officer shall not proceed to the
examination of such garnishee, or to the taking of any evidence whatever
therein until the plaintifff produces and files an affidavit, or return of. an
officer, showing the service of the summons and notice upon the defendant,
as prescribed in sections one hundred and forty-nine and one hundred
and fifty [one hundred and forty-eight and one hundred and forty-nine]
aforesaid, but in case the plaintifff is unable so to notify such defend
ant, the said court or officer may postpone the examination for such
reasonable time as may be necessary to enable the plaintifff to notify such
defendant, and he then may be notified of the day to which such postpone
ment is had, in the manner provided by law for the service of a summons
in ordinary cases, except that it shall be a notice of ten days in a district
court, and of four days in a justice's court ; and shall be personally served
if the defendant is within the state : provided, that when the defendant
does not appear at the time and place specified in the summons for the
appearance of the garnishee, and the plaintifff or his agent files an affi
davit, stating that the defendant is not a resident of tlus state, and is not
within the same as the affiant verily believes, it shall not be necessary
to serve upon the defendant a copy of 6uch garnishee summons, or any
notice to the defendant in such action in any court ; and the examination
shall proceed in like manner as if the defendant had been duly served
with such copy and notice, or had appeared at the time and place specified
in the summons for the appearance of the garnishee.
Sec. 157. If it appears from the evidence taken or otherwise, that
any person not a party to the action, is interested or claims any inter
est in any of the property or effects in the hands of the garnishee by
virtue of any agreement or matter which existed prior to the service
of the summons, the examining officer, upon application, may permit
such person to appear in the action and maintain his right, and if he
does not voluntarily appear, notice may be given him to appear or be
barred of his claims, which notice may be served as such officer shall
direct. In case such person voluntarily appears, or notice is given as
aforesaid, he shall be joined as a party to the action and judgment therein
shall bind him in the same manner as if he had been an original party.
Sec. 158. If any person has in his possession any property or effects
of the defendant, which he holds by a conveyance or title that is void as
to creditors of said defendant, he may be charged therefore, although the
defendant could not have maintained an action against him for the same ;
but in such cases, and in all cases where the garnishee upon full dis
closure denies any indebtedness to, or the possession or control of any
property, money or effects of the defendant, there shall "be no further pro
ceeding, except in the manner following: if the plaintifff in such case
believes that, such garnishee does not answer truly in response to the
questions put to him upon such examination, or that the conveyance
under which he claims title to property, is void as against the creditors
of the defendant, he may, on notice to such garnishee and to the defend
ant at any time before the garnishee has been discharged by the court or
officer, of not less than six days, apply to the court in which the action is
pending or a judge thereof, for permission to file a supplemental com
plaint in the action making the garnishee a party thereto, and setting
forth the facts upon which he claims to charge such garn^hee, and if prob
able cause is shown by the plaintifff, permission shall be granted, and such
supplemental complaint shall be filed and served upon both the defendant
and garnishee, either or both of whom may answer the same, and the
plaintifff may reply if necessary, and the issues thus made up,, shall then
be brought to trial, and tried in the same manner in all respects as civil
actions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to proceedings in
justices' courts.
Sec. 159. When any person duly summoned as a garnishee neglects
to appear at the time specified in the summons, or within two hours there
after, he shall be defaulted, and judgment shall be rendered against him
for the amount of the damages and costs recovered by the plaintifff in the
action against the defendant, payable in money, and execution may issue
directly against the goods and chattels and estate of said garnishee there
for : provided, the court may upon good cause shown, remove such de
fault and permit the garnishee to appear and answer on such terms as
may be just.
Sec. 160. No judgment shall be rendered against any garnishee
until after judgment is rendered against the defendant; but a garnishee
may be discharged after examination and disclosure, if it appears that he
ought not to be held ; whenever a garnishee is not discharged as aforesaid,
the cause shall be continued to abide the result of the original action.
Sec. 161. No judgment shall be rendered upon the disclosure of a
garnishee except by order of the judge of the court in which the action
is pending, or, in case of his absence or inability to act, by order of a
judge of another district.
Sec. 162. Court commissioners or any referee appointed by the court
for that purpose, are hereby authorized and required to take the disclosure
of any garnishee in writing, together with any other testimony offered
by the parties to the action, and report the same to the court ; all testi
mony offered by the parties to be taken subject to any objection seasonaably
interposed thereto.
Sec. 163. Any court commissioner or referee shall receive from the
plaintifff ten cents per folio for all evidence taken and reduced to writing,
and the fees so paid by the plaintifff may be taxed in the judgment
against the garnishee.
Sec. 164. When any person is charged as garnishee by reason of
any property or effects, other than an indebtedness payable in money,
which he holds, or is bound to deliver to the defendant, such garnishee
shall deliver the same or so much thereof as may be necessary, to the
officer holding the execution, and the said property shall be sold by the
officer and the proceeds accounted for in the same manner as if it had
been taken on execution against the defendant ; provided, the garnishee
shall not be compelled to deliver any specific articles at any other time or
place than as stipulated in the contract between him and the defendant
Sec. 165. Upon application and notice to the parties, the court may
determine the value of any property or effects so in the hands of the
garnishee for delivery, and may make any order relative to the keeping,
delivery and sale of the same, that is necessary to protect the rights of
those interested, and may make any order touching the property attached,
that is necessary for the protection of all parties interested, upon the ap
plication of any party in interest, and may require, at any time after the
service of such garnishee summons, the property, money or effects so
attached to be brought into court, or delivered to a receiver appointed by
the court.
Sec. 166. Whenever it appears that any property or effects in the
hands of the garnishee belonging to the defendant, are properly mortgaged, pledged, or in any way liable for the payment of any debt due to
said garnishee, the plaintifff may be allowed under a special order of court,
to pajr or tender the amount due, and the garnishee shall thereupon de
liver the property or effects, as hereinbefore provided, to the officer hold
ing the execution, who shall sell the same as in other cases, and out of
the proceeds shall repay the plaintifff the amount paid by him to the
garnishee for the redemption of such property or effects with legal inter
est thereon, and apply the balance upon the execution.
Sec. 167. If any garnishee refuses or neglects to deliver any property
or effects as provided in the preceding section, he may be punished
for contempt of court, and shall in addition be liable to the plaintifff for
the value of such property or effects, less the amount of the lien, if any,
to be recovered by action.
Sec. 168. Nothing herein shall prevent the garnishee from selling
Bncn property or effects so in his hands for the payment of the demand
foj which they are mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise liable, at any time
before payment or tender of the amount due to him : provided, such sale
is authorized by the terms of the contract between said garnishee and
the defendant.
Sec. 169. If any such property or effects are destroyed without any
negligence or default of the garnishee after judgment and before demand
by the officer holding the execution, such garnishee shall be discharged
from all liability to the plaintifff, for the non-delivery of such property or
effects.
Sec. 170. Judgment against a garnishee shall be rendered, if at all,
for the amount due the defendant, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy the plaintifff's judgment against said defendant with costs taxed
and allowed in the proceeding against the garnishee.
Sec. 171. Whenever any person is summoned as a garnishee in the
district court, he may at any time before the return day of the summons,
. . . . rf * , '
appear before the officer named therein, or any justice of the peace com
petent to try causes between the parties, and with the consent of the
plaintifff, to be certified by said officer or justice, make his disclosure upon
oath with the like effect as if made on the day named in the summons j
in case such disclosure is taken by a justice, he shall receive the same
fees as are allowed by section one hundred and 'sixty-three aforesaid.
Sec. 172. If the plaintifff will not consent to such examination and
disclosure, the garnishee, in case he is compelled to be absent from the
gQyjjty after the return day of the summons, may make affidavit to
that effect, which with a notice of time, place, and the officer or justice,
he shall serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney, at least twenty-four
hours previous to the time specified in it for the disclosure, and upon due
proof of such service, his disclosure shall be taken as provided in the
preceding section and with like effect. •
Sec. 173. If any person summoned as a garnishee appears and submits himself to an examination upon oath as herein provided, he shall be
allowed his costs for travel and attendance, and in special and extraordi
nary cases, such further sum as the court shall deem reasonable for his
counsel fees and other necessary expenses,
Sec. 174. If any such person is adjudged chargeable as garnishee,
n's 8tu<l C08ts ^ allowance shall be deducted and retained out of the
ProPerty> money or effects in his hands and he shall be accountable only
for the balance to be paid on the execution.
Sec. 175. If such person is charged on account of any specific articles
or Per80,,!U' property, he shall not be obliged to deliver the same to the
officer serving the execution until his costs allowed and taxed are fully
paid or tendered ; and if he is discharged for any cause he shall* recover
judgment against the plaintifff for his costs and have execution therefore.
Sec. 176. The plaintifff under the provisions of this section shall in
nQ casea^ except in cases provided for in section one hundred and fifty -nine
aforesaid, recover a greater sum for costs, including the costs allowed to
the garnishee, than the amount of damages recovered.
Sec. 177. No judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee in a
Just'ce'8 court where the judgment against the defendant is less than ten
dollars exclusive of costs, nor where the indebtedness of the garnishee to
the defendant or the value of the property, money or effects of the de
fendant in the hands or under the control of the garnishee, as proved,
is less than ten dollars. If the action is in a district court no judgment
shall be rendered against the garnishee, where the indebtedness proved
against him, or the value of the money, property or effects of the defend
ant in his hands or under his control shall be less than twenty-five dollars ;
but in all such cases the garnishee shall be discharged and shall recover
his costs and have execution therefore against the plaintifff.
Sec. 178. The judgment against a garnishee shall acquit and (lischarge
him from all claims of all parties to the process, in and to the
property, money or effects paid, delivered or accounted for by such garnishee
by force of such judgment.
Sec. 179. If any person summoned as a garnishee is discharged, the
judgment shall be no bar to an action brought against him by the defendant or other claimants for the same demand.
Sec. 180. Any party to a proceeding under this title deeming himself
aggrieved by any order or final judgment therein, may remove the same
from a justice's court to the district court, or from a district court to the
supreme court, by appeal, in the same cases, in like manner, and with like
effect as in a civil action.
TITLE XI.
INJUNCTIONS.
Sec. 181. Writs of injunction, attested and sealed as other process of
the court, may issue upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof, as
hereinafter provided.
Sec. 182. When it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief or any part thereof consists
in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission
or continuance of which during the litigation, would produce injury to the
plaintifff, or when, during the litigation it appears that the defendant is
about to do or is doing, or threatening, or procuring, or suffering some act
to be done in violation of the plaintifff's rights respecting the subject of
the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunction may be granted to restrain such act. And where, during the
pendency of an action, it appears by affidavit that the defendant threatens,
or is about, to remove or dispose of his property with intent to defraud
his»creilitors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such re
moval or disposition.
Sec. 183. The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing
the action, or at any time afterward before judgment, upon its appearing
satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or of
any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of the
affidavit must be served with the injunction.
Sec. 184. An injunction shall not be allowed after answer unless
upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ; but in such case the defend* . , r., ...... „, ., .
ant may be restrained untd the decision ot the court or judge granting or
refusing the injunction.
Sec. 185. When no special provision is made bylaw as to security
upon injunction, the court or judge allowing the writ, shall require a bond
on behalf of the party applying for such writ, in a sum not less than two
hundred and fifty dollars, executed by him or some person for him, as
principal, together with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by
said court or judge to the effect that the party applying for the writ will
pay the party enjoined or detained such damages as he sustains by reason
of the writ, if the court finally decide that the party was not entitled
thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise as
the court shall direct.
Sec. 186. In cases where a sale of real estate upon execution or
foreciosure \>y advertisement is sought to be enjoined, the application for
811 injunction shall be heard and determined upon notice to the adverse
party, either by motion or order to show cause. The application shall be
made immediately on receiving notice of the publication of the notice of
sale ; and no injunction in such cases shall be allowed ex parte, unless the
rights of the applicant would otherwise be prejudiced, nor unless a satis
factory excuse is furnished, showing why the application was not made in
time to allow the same to be heard and determined, upon notice before the
day of sale. In all other cases, if the court or judge deems it proper
that the defendant or any of several defendants shall be heard before
granting the injunction, an » order may be made, requiring cause to be
shown at a specified time and place why the injunction should not be
granted.
Sec. 187. If the injunction is granted without notice, the defendant
^ time before trial, may apply upon notice, to the judge of the court
in which the action is brought to vacate or modify the same. The appli
cation may be made upon the complaint, and the affidavits on which the
injunction was granted, or upon the answer, or affidavits on the part of
the defendant, with or without the answer.
Sec. 188. If the application is made upon affidavits on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by
affidavits or other evidence in addition to those on which the injunction
was granted.
TITLE XII.
RECEIVERS.
Sec' 189. A receiver may be appointed :
jVwt. Before judgment on the application of either party, when ho
establishes an apparent right to property which is the subject of the ac
tion, and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property
or its rents and profits are in danger of being lost or materially injured
or impaired, except in cases where judgment upon failure to answer may
be had without application to the court ;
Second. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect ;
Third. After judgment to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when
an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor re
fuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment ;
Fourth. In the cases provided by law, when a corporation has boon
dissolved or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has for
feited its corporate rights ; and in like cases, of the property within this
state of foreign corporations ;
Fifth. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may be in
accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided herein.
Sec. 190. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession or under his control any money or other
thing capable of delivery, which being the subject of the litigation is held
by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court or delivered
to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of
the court..
Sec. 191. Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a court orders
the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other property, and the
order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff or other proper officer
to take the money or property and deposit, deliver or convey it in con
formity with the direction of the court.
TITLE XIII.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.
Sec. 192. Judgment may be had if the defendant fails to answer the
i - . c ii
complaint, as follows :
First. When in an action arising on contract for the payment of money
only, the summons has been personally served and duly returned to the
clerk, and no answer has been filed within the time allowed by law, the
clerk upon the application of the plaintifff shall enter judgment for the
amount mentioned in the summons against the defendant, or against one
or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in this chapter.
In other actions for the recovery of money only, on filing the like proof,
the plaintifff may apply to the court for a reference to have his damages
assessed, or the amount he is entitled to recover, ascertained in any other
manner and for judgment ;
Second. In other actions, the plaintifff may upon like service, return,
and default, apply to the court after the expiration of the time for answer
ing, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an ac
count or the proof of any fact is necessary to enable the court to give
judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the
account or hear the proof, or may in its discretion order a reference for
that purpose ;
Third. In actions where the summons is served by publication^ or by
leaving a copy at the house of the usual abode of the defendant, the plain
tiff may upon like return and default, apply for judgment, and the court
shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand set forth in the
complaint, and if the defendant is hot a resident of this state, shall require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments
that have been made to the plaintifff or to any one for his use, on account
of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is
entitled to recover. Before judgment the plaintifff shall file, or cause to
be filed, satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching the
restitution of any property or money collected or received under or by
virtue of the judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall
thereafter apply and be admitted to defend the action and shall succeed
in the defense.
TITLE XIV.
ISSUES.
Sec. 193. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the other ; they
are of two kinds :
First. Of law ; and,
Second. Of fact.
Sec 194. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer or reply.
Sec. 195. An issue of fact arises :
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by
the answer ; or,
Second. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply ;
or,
Third. Upon new matter in the reply, except when an issue of law is
joined thereon ; issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
and distinct parts of the pleadings in the same action.
Sec. 196. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they are issues of law or of fact,
Sec. *^7. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it is
referred as provided by the statute relating to referees,
Sec. -*98. -^J1 '99ue °f in an action for the recovery of money
only, or of specific, real or personal property, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract on the ground of adultery, shall be tried by a juiy,
unless a jury trial is waived, as provided by law, or a reference ordered,
as provided by statute relating to referees,
Sec. 199. Every other issue of fact shall be tried by the court, subiect' nowever> to the right of the parties to consent, or of the court to
order, that the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved there
in, be tried by a jury, or referred.
Sec. 200. At any time after issue, and at least eight days before (he
term, either party may give notice of trial ; the party giving the notice
shall furnish the clerk, at least four days before the term, with a note of
tire issue, containing the title of the actipn, the names of the attorneys,
and the time when the last pleading was served ; and the clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date of the
issue. The cause once placed upon the calendar of a term, if not tried
at the term for which the notice was given, need not be noticed for a sub
sequent term, but shall remain upon the calendar from term to term, until
finally disposed of.
Sec. 201. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following
order, unless for the convenience of parties, or the thVpatch of
business, the court otherwise directs. .
First. Issues of fact, to be tried by a jury ;
Second. Issues of fact, to be tried by the court ;
Third. Issues of law.
Sec. 202. Either party, after the notice of trial, whether given by
himself or by the adverse party, may bring the issue to trial, and in the
absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good cause otherwise
directs, may proceed with his case and take a dismissal of the action, or a
verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.
Sec. 203. A separate trial between the plaintifff and any of several
defendants, may be allowed by the court whenever in its opinion, justice
will be thereby promoted.
Sec. 204. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence of evidence,
CW[1 orjv ^ mVife upon affidavit, stating the evidence expected to be ob
tained, and showing its materiality, and that due diligence has been used
to procure it.
Sec. 205. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk shall
draw from the jury box the ballots containing the names of jurors, until
the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted ; if the ballots become
exhausted before the jury is completed, the sheriff, under the direction of
the court, shall summon from the bystanders or the body of the county,
so many qualified persons as are necessary to complete the jury.
Sec. 206. Before the jury is sworn the plaintifff shall pay to the
c'.erk three dollars as a jury fee, which shall be immediately paid by the
clerk to the treasurer of the county.
Sec. 207. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots contaming the names of the jurors sworn, shall be laid aside till the jury so
sworn is discharged, and then they shall be returned to the box ; and
every ballot drawn, containing the name of a juror not so sworn, shall be
returned to the box, as soon as the jury is completed.
Sec. 208. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can
be made ; the challenges are to the panel .and to individual jurors, as in
criminal actions, except that there can be but two peremptory challenges
on each side.
Sec. 209. When the jury is completed and sworn, the trial shall proceed
in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherwise
directs :
First. The plaintifff, after stating the issue, shall open the case, and
produce the evidence on his part ;
Second. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer his evi
dence in support thereof;
Third. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence
only, unle=s the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit
them to offer evidence upon their original case ;
Fourth. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted
to the jury on either side, or on both sides without argument, the defend
ant shall commence and the plaintifff conclude the argument to the jury.
Fifth. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by dif
ferent counsel, the court shall determine their relative order in the evi
dence and argument ;
Sixth. The court may then charge the jury.
Sec. 210. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper that the
jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of the
litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may
order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of proper offi
cers, to the place, which will be shown to them by the judge, or by a
person appointed by the court for that purpose ; while the jury are thus
absent, no person other than the judge or person so appointed, shall speak
to them on any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 211. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before a verdict,
a juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged ; in that case, a new juror may be sworn
and the trial begin anew, or the juror may be discharged and a new jury
then or afterward impanneled.
Sec. 212." If while the jury are kept together either during the progress
of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court orders
them to be provided with suitable and sufficient food and lodging, they
shall be so provided by the sheriff at the expense of the county.
Sec. 213. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them all papers, (except depositions,) which have been received" as evi
dence in the cause, or copies of such parts of public records or private
documents, given in evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to
be taken from the person having them in possession ; and they may also
take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial,
taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any other person.
Sec. 214. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business ; but it is, nevertheless, to be
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the
jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A final adjourn
ment of the court discharges the jury.
Sec. 215. "When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded, the
jury may be polled on the request of either party, for which purpose each
juror must be asked whether it is his verdict ; if any one answers in the
negative, the jury shall be sent out for further deliberation. If the ver
dict is informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury under the
advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.
Sec. 216. When the verdict is given, and is such as the court may
receive, the clerk shall immediately record it in full in the minutes, and
read it to the jury and inquire of them whether it is their verdict ; if any
juror disagrees, the fact shall be entered in the minutes, and the jury
again sent out ; but if no disagreement is expressed, the verdict is com
plete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.
TITLE XVI.
TIIE VERDICT.
Sec. 217. The verdict of a jury is either general or special A
general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any
of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant, A special
verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment
to the court j it shall present the conclusions of fact, as established by
the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and those conclusions
of fact shall be so presented, as that nothing remains to the court, but to
draw from them conclusions of law.
Sec. 218. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special
verdict ; in all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find a special
verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues, and in all ca«-es may in
struct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular ques
tions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk, anil
entered upon the minutes.
Sec. 219. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court shall give
judgment accordingly.
Sec. 220. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for the
recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintiffl'8
claim as established, the jury shall also assess the amount of the recovery.
Sec. 221. Tn an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
.« . , . ..... . i • .-iv j ii • u i
if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff and the jury nnu
that he is entitled to a recovery thereof, or if the property is not in the
possession of the defendant and by his answer he chums a return thereof
and the verdict is in his favor, the jury shall assess the value of the prop
erty and the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer,
which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the detention or
taking and withholding such property. Whenever the verdict is in favor
of the party having possession of the property the value thereof shall
not be found.
Sec. 222. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be made in the
minutes of the court, specifying the time and place of trial, the names
of the jurors, and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be
rendered thereon, or an order that the case be reserved for argument or
further consideration ; or the judge trying the cause, may in his discre
tion and upon such terms as shall be just, stay the entry of judgment and
further proceedings until the hearing and final decision of a motion for a
new trial, or in arrest of judgment, or for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, or to set aside the verdict, or dismiss the action.
TITLE XVII.
TRIAL BI THE COURT.
Gec. 223. Trial by jury may he waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the mannes following :
First. By failing to appear at the trial ;
Second. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
clerk ;
Third. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 224. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision
shall be given in writing and filed with the clerk within twenty
days after the term at which the trial took place ; in giving the decision,
the facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated ;
judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.
Sec. 225. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the
plaintifff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the statute, upon the
failure of the defendant to answer where the summons was personally
nerved. If judgment is for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the
taking of an account, or the proof of any fact is necessary to enable the
court to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered as by statute
provided.
Sec. 226. In addition to the general terms the district court is always
open for the transaction of all ex parte business, for the entry of jndgments, of orders of course, and all such other orders as have been granted
by the court, and for the hearing, and determination of any matter brought
before the court by an order to show cause. The judges of the several
district courts shall by order appoint such special terms in the counties of
their respective districts as may be necessary for the convenient transac
tion of the law business therein. And the said courts at any such special
term in any county, may try any issue of law and hear and determine any
application, motion, matter and question, except the trial of issues of fact,
which may be pending in such court or arise in any action or proceeding
in any of tlie several counties of the same judicial district in ■which the
countJr ia situated. When any matter is heard by the court, the decision
may be made out of term ; and such decision may be an order or a direc
tion that an order or judgment be -entered ; and upon filing in the office
of the clerk in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, the
decision in writing signed by the judge, an order or judgment as the case
may require, if any, shall be entered by such clerk, in conformity with
such decision.
Sec. 227. In all cases where the rights of parties demand immediate
action, the several district judges, may, by an order to show cause, appoint
a time and place within their respective districts for the hearing of any
matter embraced in the preceding section, and at the time and place ap
pointed may hear the same, and make and file the decision in like manner
as in other cases.
TITLE XVIII.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.
Sec. 228. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action, or a
proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon the min
utes, a reference may be ordered :
First. To try any or all the issues in such action or proceeding,
whether of fact or law, (except an action for divorce,) and to report a
judgment thereon ;
Second. To ascertain and report any fact in such action, or special
proceeding or to take and report the evidence therein.
Sec. 229. When the parties do riot consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the fol
lowing cases :
First. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a
long account on either side, in which case the referee may be directed to
hear, and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein ;
Second. When the taking of an account is necessary for the informa
tion of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order
into effect ;
Third. When a question of fact other than upon the pleadings arises,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action ; or,
Fourth. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a
special proceeding of a civil nature.
Sec. 230. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties, or if the parties do not agree,
the court or judge shall appoint one or more persons, not exceeding three,
residents of any county in this state, and having the qualification of
electors.
Sec. 231. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same man
ner and on similar notice as a trial by the court. They shall have the
same power to grant adjournments and to allow amendments to any plead
ings, as the court upon such trial, upon the same terms and with like
effect. They shall have the same power to administer oaths and enforce
the attendance of witnesses as is possessed by the court. They shall state
the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and their decision
shall be given and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner, but
not otherwise, and they may in like manner settle a case or exceptions.
The report of referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of
the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as
if the action had been tried by the court. When the reference is to re
port the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
Sec. 232. When there are three referees, all shall meet, but two of
them may do any act which might be done by all ; and whenever any authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may be exercised by a
majority upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provided by
statute.
TITLE XIX.
EXCEPTIONS.
Sec. 283. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision
upon a matter of law. The point of the exception shall be particularly
stated, and either delivered in writing to the judge, or entered in his minutea,
and immediately corrected or added to until made conformable to the
truth, or it may afterward be settled in a statement of the case.
Sec. 234. No particular form of exception is required ; the objection
shall be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it,
but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
TITLE XX.
NEW TRIALS.
Sec. 235. A verdict, report or decision may be vacated and a new
trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such party:
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee or
prevailing party, or any order of the court, or referee, or abuse of discretton,
by which the moving party was prevented from having a fair trial ;
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party ;
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against ;
Fourth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice ;
Fifth. That the verdict, report or decision is not justified by the evi
dence, or is contrary to law ;
Sixth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial ;
Seventh. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the
party making the application.
Sec. 236. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
fourth, fifth and seventh sub-divisions of the last section, it is made either
upon a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case prepared as prescribed
in the next section; for any other cause it is made upon affidavit.
Sec. 237. The party preparing a bill of exceptions or case shall,
within five days after the trial, serve it upon the adverse party, who may,
within five days after such service, propose amendments thereto; and
within fifteen days after Bwvice of such bill or case, the same with all
amendments proposed thereto, shall be presented to the judge or referee
who tried the cause, for allowance or settlement and signature, upon a
notice of five days ; if not presented within the time aforesaid, the same
shall be deemed abandoned. The case or bill, being examined and found
conformable to the truth, shall be allowed and signed by the judge or
referee.
TITLE XXI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 238. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim
and recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the
cause of action established.
Sec. 239. Any party may, and if required by the court, shall, when
the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the con
clusions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law
which he desires to be adjudged, or both ; they may be written and hand
ed to the court, or, at the option of the court, oral, and entered in the
judge's minutes ; but in either case they shall be .entered, with any excep
tions that may be taken, if either party requires it.
Sec. 240. The provisions of this chapter respecting trials by jury ap
ply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court or
referees.
Sec. 241. The defendant may at any time before the trial or judg
ment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum or property, to the effect therein specified, with
costs. If the plaintifff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof, within
ten days, he may file the offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance,
and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly ; if the notice
of acceptance is not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and can
not be given in evidence ; and if the plaintifff fails to obtain a more favor
able judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the defend
ant
Sec. 242. The action may be dismissed without a final determination
of its merits, in the following cases :
First. By the plaintifff himself at any time before trial, if a provisional
remedy has not been allowed, or counterclaim made ;
Second. By either party with the written consent of the other ; or by
the court upon the application of either party, after notice to the other, and
sufficient cause shown at any time before the trial ;
Third. By the court, where, upon the trial and before the final submis
sion of the case, the plaintifff abandons it, or fails to substantiate or estab
lish his claim, or cause of action, or right to recover ;
Fourth. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial,
and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal ;
Fifth. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when
there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence. All
other modes of dismissing an action, by nonsuit or otherwise, are abolish
ed. The dismissal mentioned in the first two sub-divisions, is made by an
entry in the clerk's register, and a notice served on the adverse party ;
judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.
Sec. 243. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last sec
tion, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.
Sec. 244. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of sev
eral plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and i
may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.
Sec. 245. In an action against several defendants, the court may, i
its discretion, render judgment against ore or more of them, leaving th
action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment i
proper.
Sec. 246. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there is no answer,
cannot exceed that which he has demanded in his complaint, but in any
other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case
made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.
Sec. 247. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be
entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless the court orders
the case to be reserved for argument, or further consideration, or grants a
- °
stay of proceedings.
Sec. 248. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceeds the
plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess, or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other
affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 249. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment may be rendered for the plaintifff and for the defendant in the
same action, or for either of them. Judgment for either party, if the
property has not been delivered to him and a return is claimed in the complaint
or answer, may be for the possession, or the value thereof in case
possession cannot be obtained, and damages for the detention or taking and
withholding the same. When the prevailing party is in possession of the
property, the value thereof shall not be included in the judgment. If the
property has been delivered to the plaintifff and the action is dismissed
before answer, or if the answer so claims, the defendant shall have judg
ment for a return of the property and damages, if any, for the detention,
or taking and withholding such property, but such judgment shall not be a
bar to another action for the same property or any part thereof.
Sec. 250. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, and
specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.
Sec. 251. If a party dies after verdict or decision upon an issue of
fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment
thereon ; such judgment is not a lien on the real property of the deceased
party, but is payable in the course of administration on his estate.
Sec. 252. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and file the following papers, which constitute the judgment
roll : .
First. In case the complaint is not answered by any defendant, the
summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service and that no
answer has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment ;
Second. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof,
and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict, decision or report, the offer
of the defendant, exceptions, and all orders in any way Involving the
merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. If a statement of the case
is made, the same may be attached to the judgment roll on the request of
either party.
Sec. 253. If an original pleading or paper is lo«t or withheld by any
person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.
Sec. 254. On filing a judgment roll, upon a judgment requiring the
payment of money, the judgment shall be docketed by the clerk of the
court, in which it was rendered, and in any other county upon filing in the
office of the clerk of the district court of such county a transcript of the
original docket ; and thereupon the judgment from the time of docketing
the same becomes a lien on all the real property of the debtor in the
county owned by him at the time of the docketing of the judgment or
afterward acquired said judgment shall survive and the lien thereof
continue for the period of ten years, and no longer : provided, that in any
action upon such judgment the judgment therein shall not be a lien upon
the real property of the original judgment debtor.
Sec. 255. Satisfaction of a judgment shall be entered in the judg
ment book and noted upon the docket, upon an execution returned satis
fied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made
in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property,
by the judgment creditor, or within two years after the judgment, by the
attorney, unless a revocation of his authority is previously entered upon
the register. And whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, as to any one
of several defendants, an entry to that effect may be made in the judg
ment book and docket. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, other
wise than upon an execution, it is the duty of the party or attorney t»
give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or
may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it Satisfaction
of a judgment docketed upon transcript shall be noted on such docket,
upon filing in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county
where such transcript is filed, a certified copy of the instrument of satis
faction on file in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county
where the judgment was recovered. Whenever a judgment is satisfied,
it is the duty of the clerk of the district court to give certified copies of
instruments of satisfaction.
TITLE XXII.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE JUDGMENT.
Sec. 256. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of seven^
persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as prcvided
by statute, those who were not originally summoned to answer
^e cornp]ain^ may ^ summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been origi
nally summoned.
Sec. 257. In case of the death of a judgment debtor, after judgment,
the heirs, devisees, legatees, or personal representatives of the judgment
debtor, or the tenants of real property owned by him, and affected by the
judgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should
not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor, in their hands
respectively. The proceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of
the chapter upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees,
heirs and •devisees.
Sec. 258. Said summons shall be subscribed by the attorney of the
judgment creditor, describe the judgment, and require the person sum
moned, to show cause within thirty days after service of the summons, and
shall be served in the same manner as an ordinary summons.
Sec. 259. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
judgment creditor or his attorney, that the judgment has not been satis
fied, to his knowledge or information and belief, and shall specify the
amount due thereon.
Sec. 260. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer,
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any
defense which has arisen subsequent to the rendition thereof ; if he is pro
ceeded against according to section two hundred and fifty-six, he may
make the same defense which might have been made originally to the
action, except the statute of limitations ; if he is proceeded against accord
ing to section two hundred and fifty-seven he may make the same defense
which he might have made to an action upon the judgment.
Sec. 261. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to the
answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply, and the issue
may be tried and judgment and costs may be given, in the same manner
as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the application of property
charged with the payment of the judgment, may, if necessary, be com
pelled by attachment.
TITLE XXIII.
THE EXECUTION.
Sec. 262. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within ten years after the entry thereof, proceed to enforce the same,
as prescribed by statute.
Sec. 263. There are two kinds of writs of execution; one against
the property of the judgment debtor, and the other for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
the detention or taking and withholding the same.
Sec. 264. The writ of execution shall be under the seal of the court,
subscribed by the clerk, tested in the name of the district judge, indorsed
by the attorney of the party applying therefore, and directed to the sheriff,
or coroner when the sheriff is a party or interested ; it shall intelligibly
refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where the judgment
roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it is for money, the amount actually due thereon, and the
time of docketing in the county to which the execution is issued, and shall
require the officer substantially as follows :
First. If it is against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall re
quire the officer to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal
property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, out of the real property belonging to him on the day when the
judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter not ex
ceeding ten years ;
Second. If it is against real or personal property in the hands of per
sonal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or
trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
out of such property ;
Third. If it is against defendants jointly indebted upon a contract, a
part of whom only have been summoned in the action, it shall issue in
form against all the defendants, but the attorney of the party causing it to
be issued shall indorse thereon the names of those defendants who were
not summoned, and such execution shall not be levied upon the sole pro
perty of any such defendant, but it may be collected out of the personal
property of any such defendant owned by him as a partner with the other
defendants summoned, or any of them ;
Fourth. If it is for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same,
particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the
same time require the officer to satisfy any costs, charges, damages, rents,
or profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property
of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property
for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a deliv
ery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of the real property, as provided in the first subdivision
of this section, and in that respect it shall be deemed an execution against
property.
Sec. 265. The execution shaU be made returnable within sixty days
after its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom the judgment roll
is filed.
Sec. 266. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same is enforced in these re
spects, by execution, as provided in the last three sections. Where it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judg
ment may be served upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the
person or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and
his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuses he may be punished by the
court as for contempt.
Sec. 267. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment, execut;on
thereon against his property may be issued and executed in the
same manner and with the same effect as if he was still living ; except
that such execution cannot be issued within a year after his death.
Sec. 268. When the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where the
judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery of real or personal
property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property
or some part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties.
Sec. 269. All goods, chattels real or personal, and all property, real,
personal or mixed, including all rights and shares in the stock of any cor
poration, all money, bills, notes, book accounts, debts, credits and other
evidences of indebtedness belonging to the defendant, may be levied upon
and sold on execution. Until a levy, property, not subject to the lien of
the judgment, is not affected by the execution.
Sec. 270. Upon property subject to the lien of the judgment, a
minute °y tne officer on the execution of the time when said execution
was delivered to him, stating that at such time he levied upon such pro
perty (describing it) shall be deemed a sufficient levy.
Sec- 27L Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be
levied upon by the officer taking it into his custody.
Sec. 272. When an execution is levied upon articles of personal es,
. , , i , f .. ,
tate, which by reason ot their bulk or other cause cannot be immediately
removed, a certified copy of the execution and return may within three
days thereafter be deposited in the office of the clerk of the city or town
in which said articles are, and such levy shall be as valid and effectual as
if the articles had been retained in the possession and custody of the
officer. »
^EC" '^ne c^er'c shall receive and file all such copies, noting thereon
the time when received, and keep them safely in his office, and also
enter a note thereof in the order in which they are received in the books
kept for making entries of mortgages of personal property ; which entry
shall contain the names of parties to the suit and the date of the entry.
The clerks fee for this service shall be twenty-five cents to be paid by the
officer and included in his charge for the service of the execution.
Sec. 274. Other personal property shall be levied on by leaving a
certified copy of the execution and a notice specifying the property levied
on, with a person holding the same, or if a debt, with the debtor, or if
stock or interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or other head
of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.
Sec. 275. The officer shall serve a copy of the execution and inventory
certified by him upon the defendant, if he can be found within the
* „.r , i/i ii_ > , -t
county ; if he is a resident thereof, but cannot be found therein, the said
officer shall leave such copy at the usual place of abode of the said de
fendant.
Sue. 276. The officer shall make a full inventory of the property
levied on, and return the same with the execution.
Sec. 277. Whenever any gold, silver or copper coin, or any bills or
other evidence of debt issued by any moneyed corporation or by the government of the United States and circulated as money is seized upon exe
cution, the officer shall pay and return the same as so much money col
lected ; but if the same does not, at the time and place of such seizure
circulate at par, the officer shall make sale thereof as in other cases.
Sec. 278. When goods or chattels are pledged for the payment of
_c ° r i a it. ■ l ! i
money or the performance of any contract or agreement, the right and
interest in such goods of the person making such pledge may be sold on
execution against him, and the purchaser shall acquire all the right and
interest of the defendant, and be entitled to the possession of such goods
and chattels, on complying with the terms and conditions of the pledge.
Sec. 279. No property hereinafter mentioned or represented shall be
liable to attachment or sale on any final process issued from any court in
this State.
First. The family bible ;
Second. Family pictures, school books or library, and musical instru
ments for use of family ;
Third. A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship ;
Fourth. A lot in any burial ground ;
Fifth. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family, all beds, bed
steads and bedding, kept and used by the debtor and his family ; all stoves
and appendages put up or kept for the use of the debtor and his family ;
all cooking utensils, and all other household furniture not herein enumer
ated, not exceeding five hundred dollars in value ;
Sixth. Three cows, ten swine, one yoke of oxen and a horse, or in
lieu of one yoke of oxen and a horse, a span of horses or mules, twenty
sheep, and the wool from the same, either in the raw material or manu
factured into yarn or cloth ; the necessary food for all the stock mentioned
in this section for one year's support, either provided or growing, or both,
as the debtor may choose ; also, one wagon, cart or dray, one sleigh, two
plows, one drag, and other farming utensils, including tackle for teams,
not exceeding three hundred dollars in value ;
Seventh. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for
one year's support, either provided, or growing, or both, and fuel necessary
for one year ;
Eighth. The tools and instruments of any mechanic, miner .or other
person, used and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade, and in ad
dition thereto, stock in trade not exceeding four hundred dollars in value ;
the library and implements of any professional man ; all of which articles
hereinbefore intended to be exempt, shall be chosen by the debtor, bis
agent, clerk or legal representative, as the case may be.
^Ec* ^ne property hereinbefore mentioned is not exempt from
any attachment issued in an action for the purchase money of the same
property, op from an execution issued upon any judgment rendered
therein.
Sec. 281. "Whenever any personal property exempt as aforesaid, is
levied upon, seized or sold by virtue of any execution, the damages sustained by the owner thereof by reason of such levy, seizure or sale, and
any judgment recovered therefore shall be exempt from attachment, exe
cution or other proceeding whereby any creditor of said owner seeks to
apply the same to the payment of his debt.
^EC' ^^en tne °fficer holding an execution against any person,
is of the opinion that 6uch person has more property of the classes speci
fied in section two hundred and seventy-nine than is by law exempt, he
may levy on the whole of any one class, and forthwith make an inventory
thereof, and cause the same to be appraised at its cash value by two dis
interested freeholders of the precinct where such property may be, on
oath to be administered by him to such appraisers. If such appraisal ex
ceeds the amount by law exempt of that class, the debtor may thereupon
forthwith select of such property an amount not exceeding in value, as so
appraised, the amount exempt, and the balance shall be held and applied
by said officer as in other cases. If neither the debtor nor his agent
appears and makes such selection, the officer shall make the same. If one
or more indivisible articles of any such class is of greater value than the
whole amount exempt of that class, the officer shall sell the same, and
after paying to the debtor the amount exempt of that class, shall apply
the residue in discharge of his said process.
Sec. 283. A levy may be made upon grain or grass while growing,
uPon any other unharvested crops ; but no sale thereof Bhall be made
under such levy, until the same is ripe or fit to be harvested ; and any
levy thereon by virtue of an execution, issued by a justice of the peace,
Bhall be continued beyond the return day thereof, if necessary, and remain
in life, and the execution thereof may be completed at any time within
thirty days after such grain, grass, or other unharvested crop is ripe, or fit
to be harvested.
Sec. 284 The sheriff shall exeoute the writ against the property of
tne judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting the things in
action, or selling the same, if the court so orders, selling the other pro
perty, and paying to the plaintifff the proceeds, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the execution.
Sec. 285. Before the sale of personal property on execution, notice
thereof shall be given as follows :
— ° . . , , . ., » ,. , , f
irst. By posting written or printed notice of the tune and place of
sale, in three public places of the county where the sale is to take place,
ten days successively.
Second. When real property is sold upon judgment, decree or execu
tion, a similar notice, describing the property with sufficient certainty to
enable a person of common understanding to identify it, shall be posted
for six weeks successively, in three public places of the county where the
property or some part thereof is situated, and a copy thereof shall bo pubr
lished once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if
there is one, or if there is none,- then in a paper at the capital of the
state.
Sec. 286. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, 6hall forfeit one hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition
to his actual damages ; and a person taking down or defacing the notice
posted, if done before the sale, or the satisfaction of the execution, and
without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars ; but the valid
ity of the sale is not affected by either act, either as to third persons, or
parties to the action.
Sac. 287. A sale shall be made by auction between nine o'clock in
the morning and sunset, in the county where the premises or some part
thereof is situate ; after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the
execution, no more shall be sold ; neither the officer holding the execution
nor his deputy can purchase ; when the sale is of personal property capa
ble of annual delivery, it shall be within view of those who attend the
sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price
and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several known
tracts or parcels, they shall be sold separately, or when a portion of such
real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold
separately, such portion shall be thus sold.
S >:c. 288. Upon the sale of real property where the estate sold is less
than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale is absolute ; in all
other cases the property sold is subject to redemption as provided by
law.
Sec. 289. Whenever any sale of real property is made upon any execution,
or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of a court, (except
where otherwise specified in such judgment, decree or order,) the officer
shall make and deliver to the purchaser a certificate under his hand and
seal containing—
First. A description of the execution, judgment, decree, or order,
uader which such sale is made ;
Second. A description of the real property sold;
Third. The price paid for each parcel sold separately;
Fourth. The date of the sale and name of the purchaser;
Fifth. When subject to redemption it shall be so stated.
Said certificate shall be executed, proved or acknowledged, and recorded
as required by law for the conveyance of real estate, within twenty days
after such sale.
Sec. 290. Such certificate, so proved or acknowledged and recorded,
shall, upon the expiration of the time for redemption, operate as a conveyance to the purchaser or his assigns, of all the right, title and interest
of the person whose property is sold, in and to the same, at the date of
the lien upon which the same was sold, without any other conveyance
whatever.
Sec. 291. Real estate sold upon execution, judgment or decree, may
be redeemed—•
First. By the judgment debtor, his heirs or assigns ;
Second. By a creditor having a lien, legal or equitable, on the real
estate or so;ne part thereof, subsequent to that on which the same was
sold. Creditors shall redeem in the order of their respective liens.
Sec. 292. The judgment debtor, his heirs and assigns, may redeem
within one year after the day of sale, by paying to the purchaser the
amount of his bid with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent,
par an vim, aud if the purchaser is a creditor having a prior lien, the
amount thereof with interest. If no such redemption is made, the senior
creditor may redeem within five days after the expiration of said year,
and each subsequent creditor within five days after the time allowed all
prior lien holders as aforesaid, by paying the amount aforesaid and all
liens prior to his own held by the party from whom such redemption is
made : provided, that no creditor can redeem unless within the year afore
said he files notice of his intention to redeem in the office of the clerk of
the court where the judgment is entered.
Sec. 293. The person desiring to redeem shall pay to the person
holding the right acquired under such sale, or for him to the sheriff, or
clerk of the district court of the county in which such real property is
situated, the amount required by law for such redemption, and shall pro
duce to such person or officer :
First. A certified copy of the docket of the judgment or deed of con
veyance or mortgage, or of the record or files evidencing any other lien
under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the officer in
whose custody such docket, record, file or files shall be ;
Second. Any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto, or of some
person acquainted with the signature of the assignor ;
Third. An affidavit of himself or his agent, showing the amount then
actually due on his lien.
Sec. 294. The person or officer from whom such redemption is made,
gnan make and deliver to the person redeeming a certificate under his
hand and seal, containing :
First. The name of the person redeeming, and the amount paid by
him on such redemption ;
Second. A description of the sale from which such redemption is made,
and of the property redeemed ;
Third. Stating upon what claim such redemption is made, and if
upon a lien, the amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of redemp
tion.
Such certificate shall be executed and proved or acknowledged and
recorded, as provided by law for conveyance of real estate, and if not so
recorded within ten days after such redemption, such redemption and cer
tificate is void, as against any person in good faith making redemption
from the same person or lien. If such redemption is made by the owner
of the property sold, or his heirs or assigns, such redemption annuls such
Bale ; if by a creditor holding a lien on the property, or some part thereof,
said certificate, so executed and proved or acknowledged and recorded,
operates as an assignment to him of the right acquired under such sale,
subject to such right of any other person to redeem, as is, or may be pro
vided by law.
Sec. 295. The interest acquired upon any sale is subject to the lien
°^ attachment or judgment duly made or docketed against the person
holding the same, as in case of real property ; and may be attached or
sold upon execution, in the same manner.
Sec. 296. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,
the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order
granted with or without notice, on application of the purchaser or judg
ment creditor ; but it is not waste for the person in possession of the
property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterward, during
the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same man
ner in which it was previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of
husbandry, or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to
use wood or timber on the property therefore, or for the repairs of fences,
or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the property.
Sec. 297. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, is evicted therefrom, in consequence of irregularity
in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of
the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the judg
ment creditor ; such judgment creditor, if the recovery was in conse
quence of the irregularity, shall thereupon be entitled to a new execution
on the judgment, for the price paid on the sale, with interest ; and for
that purpose the judgment shall he deemed valid against the judgment
debtor, his personal representatives, heirs or 'devisees ; but not against a
purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer, whose title or encumbrance
has accrued before a levy on such new execution.
Sec. 298. When property, liable to an execution against several persons,
is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the j udgment i
levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays without a
sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from the
others ; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obliga
tion of one of them, as security for another, and the surety pays the
amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property, or before sale,
he may compel repayment from the principal. In such cases, the person
so paying or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce
contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his payment he
files with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, notice
of his payment, and claim to contribution or repayment ; upon filing such
notice, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.
TITLE XXIV.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.
Sec 299. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to
the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he does not reside in this
state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll, or a transcript
of a justice's judgment is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in
part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order from a judge of the
district court from which the execution was issued, requiring such judg
ment debtor, or if a corporation, any officer thereof, to appear and answer
concerning his or its property, before such judge, or a referee appointed
by him at a time and place specified in the order.
Sec. 300. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, as provided in the last section, the judge may upon proof,
by affidavit that there is danger that the debtor will leave the state, or
conceal himself, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where
such debtor is, to arrest him and bring him before such judge ; upon
being brought before the judge he may be examined on oath, and ordered
to give bond with sureties, that he will attend from time to time, before
the judge or referee, as he shall direct, during the pendency of the pro
ceeding, and until the final determination thereof, and will not in the mean
time dispose of any portion of his property, not exempt from execution ;
in default of giving such bond he may be committed to jail by warrant
of the judge, as for a contempt.
Sec 301. After the issuing of execution against property, any person
indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his
debts, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution,
and the sheriff's receipt is a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
Sec. 302. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify upon any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of
an issue.
Sec. 303. If the examination is before a referee the testimony and
proceedings shall be certified by him to the judge ; all examinations and
answers before a judge or referee under this chapter, shall be on oath,
except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath
of an officer thereof.
Sec. 304. The judge may order any property of the judgment debt
or, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any
other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward the sat
isfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor for his
personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding the order,
can not be so applied, when it appears by the debtor's affidavit, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly
by his labor.
Sec. 305. The judge may also by order appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, or forbid a
transfer or other disposition thereof, or any interference therewith.
Sec. 306. If it appears that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted to him, claims an in
terest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or
debt is recoverable only in an action against such person or corporation,
by the receiver ; but the judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other
disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity is
given to the receiver to commence the action, and prosecute the same to
judgment and execution ; such order may be modified or vacated by the
judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may direct.
Sec. 307. If any person, party or witness disobeys an order of the
judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness may be pun
ished by the judge, as for a contempt ; the proceedings therefore are pre
scribed in chapter eighty-seven of these statutes, respecting the punishment
of contempt.
Sec. 308. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter,
be excused from answering any question on the ground that his examina
tion will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud ; but his answer
shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or
prosecution.
A Bill for an act to provide for the service of mesne process upon foreign
corporations.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Minnesota:
Section 1. That the summons in any civil action or proceeding
wherein a foreign corporation is defendant, may be served by delivering a
copy thereof to the president, secretary, or any managing or general agent
of said foreign corporation, and such service shall be of the same force,
effect and validity as like service upon domestic corporations.
Sec. 2. This act shall have full force and effect notwithstanding any
provisions of the general statutes, or other law of the state inconsistent
herewith, and shall be published with and as a part of the general statutes.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.
Approved February 28, 1866.
Section 1. The right of a party to agree with an attorney or counsel
for his compensation, is unrestricted, and the measure and mode of such
compensation is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties ;
but there may be allowed to the prevailing party, certain sums by way of
indemnity, for his expenses in the action, which allowances are termed
COStS.
Sec. 2. Costs are allowed to the prevailing party in actions.commenced
in the district court as follows :
First. To the plaintifff upon a judgment in his favor of one hundred
dollars or more in an action for the recovery of money only, when no issue
of fact or law is joined, five dollars. When an issue is joined, ten dol
lars ;
Second. In all other actions except as hereinafter otherwise provided,
ten dollars ;
Third. To the defendant upon discontinuance or dismissal, five dol
lars;
Fourth. "When judgment is rendered in his favor on the merits, ten
dollars.
Sec. 3. In every action commenced in the district court, the prevailing
party shall be allowed his disbursements necessarily paid or incurred.
Sec. 4. When several actions are brought on any instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause of action against several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
can be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions
were at the commencement of the previous action openly within this state;
but the disbursements of the plaintifff may be allowed to him as provided
in the preceding section.
Sec. 5. In equitable actions, costs may be allowed, or not; and if
allowed, may be apportioned between the parties on the same or adverse
sides, in the discretion of the court. When there are several defendants
not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award
costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their r'ai or. or any of
them.
Sec. 6. Costs cannot be allowed to the plaintifff in an action upon a
judgment of a court of this state, between the same parties, unless such
action was brought with previous leave of the court, for cause shown ; but
this prohibition does not apply to an action upon the judgment of a justice
brought in another county, or brought in the same county, in case of the
summons not having been served on all the defendants, or the death of a
party, or the death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the
county of the justice, or the loss of his docket,
Sec. 7. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest
from tjle t;me Df tjie ver(jict or report, until the judgment is finally en
tered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added thereto.
Sec. 8. Costs and disbursements shall be taxed and allowed, in the
first instance, by the clerk, upon two days' notice by either party, and inserted
in the entry of judgment ; the disbursements shall be stated in
detail and verified by affidavit which shall be filed ; the party objecting to
any item shall specify in writing the grounds of objection, and the same,
'n case °f appeal, shall be certified to the court by the clerk, and the ap
peal shall be heard and determined upon the objections so certified, and
r r *
none other.
Sec. 9. The court may impose terms, not exceeding ten dollars at
anv one time, as a condition to opening defaults, granting continuances,
amendments, leave to answer or demur, and other applications of a dis
cretionary nature whenever justice requires it.
Sec. 10. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the
guar(lian by whom he appears in the action is responsible for them, and
judgment therefore may be entered against both the guardian and the
infant.
Sec. 11. When in an action on contract express or implied, the de^en^ani alleges in his answer, that before the commencement of the action,
he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, and
thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff the amount so tendered, and
the allegation is found true, the defendant is entitled to costs and disburse
ments.
Sec. 12. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator,
trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs and disbursements, may be recovered, as in an action by and
against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right, but the same
shall by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or
party represented, unless the court directs the same to be paid by the
plaintifff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the
action ; but no costs or disbursements are recoverable in such action,
unless it appears that the demand was first presented to the executor or
administrator, verified by oath, and payment demanded.
Sec. 13. When an action or proceeding is instituted in the name of
tne gtatej on tjje relation Gf any citizen, such relator is entitled to and
liable for costs and disbursement?, in the same cases and to the same ex
tent as if such action or proceeding had been instituted in his own name,
Sec. 1 4. In civil actions tried before a justice of the peace, if the
plaintifff appeals from a judgment in his favor, and does not recover in
the district court, a greater sum as damages than he recovered by the first
judgment, the defendant is entitled to costs and disbursements ; if the
defendant appeals and the amount of the plaintifff's recovery before the
justice is reduced one-half or more in the district court, the defendant is
entitled to costs and disbursements ; in all other cases of appeal from the
judgment of a justice of the peace in such actions, the successful party is
entitled to costs and disbursements.
Sec. 15. In comparing the sums recovered by the two judgments, for
the purposes specified in the preceding section, the interest accrued on the
plaintifff's demand, after the first judgment, shall not be considered.
COSTS IN THE SUPREME COURT.
Sec. 16. Costs in the supreme court may be allowed in the discretion
of said court, as follows :
First. To the prevailing party upon a judgment in his favor on the
merits, not exceeding twenty-five dollars ;
Second. Upon dismissal, not exceeding ten dollars.
Sec. 17. In all cases the prevailing party shall be allowed his disbursements necessarily paid or incurred.
Sec. 18. In an action for the recovery of money only, said court may,
if of opinion that the appeal was taken for delay, merely, allow the
plaintifff, in addition to costs and disbursements, a sum not exceeding three
per cent, on the amount of the judgment recovered in the district court.
security fob costs.
Sec. 19. "When an action is commenced in the district court in the
name of any plaintifff who is committed and in execution for a crime, or
wherein the plaintifff is a non-resident of this state, or wherein all of sev
eral plaintifffs are non-residents of this state, or in the name and behalf of
any foreign corporation, such plaintifff shall file with the clerk of the court
wherein such action is brought, before the service of the summons therein,
a boud in the penal sum of seventy-five dollars, executed by one or more
sureties, payable to the clerk of such court, for the benefit of parties who
may become entitled to disbursements or costs in such action, and condi
tioned for the payment of all disbursements and costs that may be
adjudged against the plaintifff in the action. If, after the commencement
of the action, all the parties plaintifff therein, become non-residents of this
state, or the sureties in the bond above provided for remove from this state
or become insolvent, the defendant may on motion by order of the court,
require an additional bond to be filed, payable and conditioned as herein
provided.
Sec. 20. If any party commences an action without filing a bond, or
fails to provide an additional one, as above required, the court, on motion
of the defendant, may order a stay of all proceeding in such action, or a
dismissal of such action at the cost of the attorney commencing the same.
Sec. 21. When judgment is entered against any party who has given
security as above provided, and the disbursements and costs so adjudged
against such party remain in whole or in part unpaid for ten days after
the entry of judgment, such bond may be put in suit and prosecuted to
final judgment and execution.
Section 1. That a homestead consisting of any quantity of land not
exceeding eighty acres, and the dwelling house thereon, and its appnrtenances, to be selected by the owner thereof, and not included in any
incorporated town, city or village, or instead thereof, at the option of the
owner, a quantity of land not exceeding in amount one lot, being within
ail incorporated town, city or village, and the dwelling house thereon and
its appurtenances, owned and occupied by any resident of this state, shall
not be subject to attachment, levy or sale upon execution or any other
process, issuing out of any court within this state. This section shall be
deemed and construed to exempt such homestead in the manner aforesaid,
^urmg tne ** sna^ 06 occupied by the widow or minor child or chil
dren of any deceased person who was, when living, entitled to the benefits
of this act.
Sec. ^' Such exemption shall not extend to any mortgage thereon
lawfully obtained, but such mortgage or other alienation of such land by
the owner thereof, if a married man, shall not be valid without the signa
ture of the wife to the same, unless such mortgage shall be given to secure
the payment of the purchase money, or some portion thereof.
Sec. 3. Whenever a levy shall be made upon the lands or tenements
0f a householder, whose homestead has not been selected and set apart by
metes and bounds, such householder may notify the officer at the time of
making such levy of what he regards as his homestead, with a description
thereof, within the limits above prescribed ; and the remainder alone shall
be subject to sale under such levy,
Sec. ^ tne pkintiff in execution shall be dissatisfied with the
quantity of land selected and set apart as aforesaid, the officer making the
jfevy gnajj cause the same to be surveyed, beginning at a point to be desig
nated by the owner, and set off in a compact form, including the dwelling
house and its appurtenances, the amount specified in the first section of
this act, and the expense of such survey shall he chargeable on the execu
tion and collected thereupon.
Sec. 5. After the survey shall have been made the officer making the
]evy may sell the property levied upon, and not included in the set-off, in
the same manner as provided in other cases for the sale of real estate on
execution, and in giving a deed of the same, he may describe it according
to his original levy, excepting therefrom by metes and hounds according
to the certificate of the survey, the quantity set off as aforesaid.
Sec. 6. Any person owning and occupying any house on land not his
own, and claiming said house as a homestead shall be entitled to the ex
emption aforesaid.
Sec. 7. Nothing in this act shall be considered as exempting any real
estate from taxation or sale for taxes.
An Act to amend an act entitled, "An Act for a Homettead Exemption"
passed August twelfth, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight.*
Section 1. The owner of a homestead under the laws of this
state, may remove therefrom, or sell and convey the same, and such
removal or sale and conveyance shall not render such homestead liable or
subject to forced sale on execution or other process hereafter issued on any K
judgment or decree of any court of this state, or of the district court of
the United States for the state of Minnesota against such owner ; nor
shall any judgment or decree of any such court be a lien on such home
stead for any purpose whatever : provided, that this act shall not be so
construed as in any manner to relate to judgments or decrees rendered on
the foreclosure of mortgages either equitable or legal.
Sec. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.
Approved March 10, 1860.
CHAPTEE LXIX.
; MARRIED WOMEN.
Skcttow Sectiow
1. Married women may oold property, when and 6- Married woman may transact business In her
how—right of tlispo.-u.il —schedule to be re- own name, when—shall first obtain license
corded. from judge of probate—contracts made by
2. Conveyances to married women, how made— married woman valid—husband not liable
void, as against creditors of husband, unless for default or tort of wife,
recorded. 6. Married woman entitled to her wages, when—
3. Married woman entitled to rents and profits of payment to her, valid.
separate estate—may convey her estate, 7. Property now held by married women not afhow.
fected by this chapter.
4. Rights of husband in personal estate of de- 8. Married women entitled to use of capital now
ceased wife—rights in her real estate as ten* Invested in business—such capital not liable
ant by the- curtesy. for husband's debts.
9. Schedule to be recorded In separate book.
Section 1. All property owned by any woman at the time of her
marriage, and all property which comes to her by descent after marriage,
and the rents, profits and increase thereof, shall be held by her free from
the debts of her husband, to her sole and separate use, the same as though
she were feme sole, but shall not be disposed of by her without the consent
of her husband unless the right to do so is reserved to her, in and by
a contract between herself and husband, executed prior to the marriage.
A schedule of the property owned by a married woman at the time of
her marriage, shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the
county where she resides within six months after said marriage, and shall
constitute notice of such separate property to the creditors of the hus
band ; such record shall be necessary in order to preserve such separate
rights of property as against creditors of the husband.
In case of marriages outside of the state and the parties coming into the
8t:lte to reside, a schedule of the property of the wife, shall be filed in the
office of the register of deeds of the county where the parties reside,
within six months after such removal to this state ; and the wife shall hold
said property as provided in this section,
Sec. Any person capable in law of making a deed or will, includ*nE *ne husband, may convey, devise or bequeath to any married woman,
any property or estate to be held by her, without the intervention of a
trustee, to her sole and separate use, free from the control or interference
of her husband, such conveyance containing a power of disposition by deed,
will or otherwise. Every such conveyance shall be void as against the
creditors of the husband unless recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of the county where the husband resides, within twenty days after
the execution and delivery of the same.
Sec. Jt' Whenever any property is secured to the sole and separate
u8e °^ a mar"ea' woman, or conveyed, devised or bequeathed to her, pur
suant to any of the foregoing provisions, she shall, in respect to all such
property and the rents, issues and profits thereof, have the same rights
and powers, and be entitled to the same remedies in her own name, and
be subject to the same obligations as a feme sole ; she may convey or
devise the same, except as provided in section one, without the consent of
her husband, and without joining with him in any deed of conveyance of
such property and may be sued upon any contract by her made, or wrong
by her done, before such marriage with the same effect as if she was un
married.
Sec. 4. If any married woman, holding property to her separate use
^ virtue of this chapter, dies intestate, all her right and interest in any
personal property thus held, shall vest in her husband, unless other prov,'8'on
i3 m»de in relation thereto by the terms of the contracts or conveyances
hereinbefore mentioned, and he shall be entitled to his estate by the
curtesy, in all lands and tenements held by his wife : provided, however,
that in every such case it shall be necessary for the husband to take admin
istration upon the estate of the deceased wife, and he shall hold such per
sonal property and all the interest of his wife in any real estate, saving his
estate by the curtesy, subject to the payment of all debts incurred by her
either before or after marriage.
Sec. 5. When any married man abandons his wife, or neglects to
make adequate provision for her maintenance, or that of his family, his
wife may in her own name and for her sole benefit ar.d that of her family,
engage in and transact any business or trade in her own name, and sue
jje gue(i m the same manner as though she were unmarried, upon
petition on oath to the judge of probate of the county where she resides,
setting forth the fact of such abandonment or neglect, and obtaining a
license from such judge of probate, to engage in said business, which
license shall be granted whenever said judge of probate is satisfied from
an examination on oath of the applicant or other person produced before
him, of such neglect or abandonment ; and all contracts made by her in the
usuai course of such business or trade, shall be as valid and binding on
her as if she were sole, and the stock in trade by her acquired in the
transacting of such business or trade, and issues, profits and proceeds
thereof shall be held by her to her sole and separate use, free from the
control or interference of her husband or his creditors, and may be dis
posed of by her without his consent : provided, that the husband shall not
be liable for any contract, d fault or tort of the wife, made, done or incurred in the course of transacting such business or trade.
Sec. 6. TJie wages of any married woman, earned after or before
marriage by her personal labor performed for any other person than her
husband, shall be paid and held to her sole and separate use, and may be
loaned or depo-ited by her in her own name, and payment to her by the
person for whom such labor was performed, or to or with whom the
amount of such wages was loaned or deported, shall be a valid payment,
and her sole receipt for the same sliall have the same effect as that of her
husband or his legal representatives.
Sec. 7. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to subject the
property now held by any married woman to the debts of her husband ;
but the same shall continue to be held as heretofore, as her sole and separate property, exempt fro:n any liability for the debts of her husband.
Sec. 8. Any married woman now having any money or capital invest. . ,. ; ..... , *>. J / r . ,
ed in any business in this state, may continue to use such money or capital
in such business and may have, use and enjoy the income and profits from
such business, and may re-invest the same in such business at her option ;
and no such mouey or capital or income or profits thereon, shall be liable
for the debts of the husband, but the same shall remain the separate
property of such married woman, the same in all respects as if she were
feme sole.
Sec. 9. The schedule of property hereinbefore referred to shall be
recorded as aforesaid in a separate book to be kept for that purpose.
Section 1. For the services mentioned in this chapter, the fees
hereinafter described are allowed :
FEES OF CLERK8 OF DISTRICT COURTS.
Sec. 2. For issuing and sealing every writ, summons, subpoena or
process, seventy-five cents.
Certified copy of such writ when required, ten cents per folio and
twenty-five cents for certificate.
Entering the return of every writ and filing such writ, fifteen cents
per folio.
Entering an appearance, retraxit, discontinuance, nonsuit or default,
twenty cents.
Entering every rule, order or motion in term, fifteen cents for each
folio.
Certified copies of rules or orders, ten cents for each folio, and twentyfive cents for the certificate.
Every report upon an assessment of damages or other matter referred
to him, seventy-five cents, and fifteen cents per folio for such report when
it exceeds five folios.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
Calling and swearing grand jury, one dollar.
Calling and swearing petit jury in civil causes, seventy-five cents.
Swearing jurors in criminal causes, ten cents for each oath administered.
Swearing triers, ten cents for each oath administered.
Swearing each witness on trial, fifteen cents.
Swearing officer to take charge of jury, twenty cents.
Entering or taking a recognizance, seventy-five cents.
Entering a cause in a calendar for the court and making a copy thereof
for the bar, twenty cents.
Receiving and entering a verdict, thirty cents.
Entering an action without process, sixty-five cents.
Certified copy of the minutes of a trial when required, seventy-five
cents.
Entering a final judgment when the same does not exceed three folios,
fifty cents, and fifteen cents for each additional folio.
Copy of judgment to be attached to judgment roll, fifteen cents for
each folio.
Entering satisfaction of judgment, twenty cents for each judgment
debtor.
Drawing a special jury, seventy-five cents.
Filing every paper, ten cents.
Copies and exemplifications of records, and pleading, fifteen cents for
each folio.
Searching the records or files in his office if a copy is not required,
twenty cents for the records or files of each year.
Administering oaths not otherwise provided for herein, twenty-five
cents.
Recording credentials of ordination of ministers and giving certificate,
one dollar.
Recording certificate of solemnization of marriage, fifty cents.
Filing and docketing transcripts of judgment from another county, or
from justice's court, when but one judgment debtor, thirty cents, and
twenty cents for each additional judgment debtor.
Entering an appeal or transcript from justice's court, sixty-five cents.
Entering a surrender of bail, thirty cents.
Issuing commission to take deposition, one dollar.
Issuing venire facias, one dollar.
Certificate of jurors' and witnesses' attendance at court, fifteen cents.
Entering forfeiture of recognizance, thirty cents.
Entering discharge of bail, thirty cents.
Entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States, fifty
cents.
A certified copy of such declaration under the seal of the court, sev
enty-five cents.
Entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship,
fifty cents.
A certified copy thereof under the seal of the court, seventy-five cents.
Making docket entries of judgments, twenty cents for each judgment
debtor.
Admission of attorneys, two dollars.
Taxing costs, fifty cents.
Certified copy of marriage record, fifty cents.
Certified transcript of docket entry, fifty cents.
Attendance on court for each day of actual session, three dollars.
For all other services required by law to be performed by such clerk
respectively, such fees as compare favorably with the rates herein pre
scribed, and as may be established by general rule or order of the court.
FEES OF THE CLERK OP THE 8DPKEME COURT.
Sec. 3. For drawing a writ oi error, or other process issued under
seal of the court, one dollar.
Affixing the seal to any process of the court, twenty-five cents.
Filing papers, ten cents for each paper.
Reading and filing any petition relating to any proceeding in court, ten
cents.
Entering the appearance or default of appellant, or plaintifff, or of
defendant, or respondent, fifteen cents.
Entering every rule or order, fifteen cents for each folio.
A certified copy of every such rule or order, and of all papers, plead
ings, and proceedings filed with him, ten cents for each folio.
Entering a decree or sentence, ten cents for each folio.
Entering a judgment or order, fifteen cents for every judgment debtor ;
ten cents for each folio more than two.
Engrossing a remittitur to be sent to a district court, ten cents for each
folio.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
Taxing costs, fifty cent?.
Entering satisfaction of record, fifteen cents.
Taking security, fifty cents.
Entering each cause in the calendar and making copy for the bar, ten
cents.
Searching records and files in his office, twenty cents for the records or
files of each year.
For services required by law, or the rules of the court, not herein pro
vided for, such fees as the court direct,
Admission of attorneys, two dollars.
Sec. 4. The person to whom any commission issues to take testimony
in any action, shall receive the same fees as allowed to justices of the
eace tor the same services.
FEES OF JUDGES OF PROBATE.
Sec. For granting letters of administration, when not contested,
three dollars.
When contested, five dollars.
Hearing any complaint, petition, or action, two dollars.
Hearing any application for the appointment of a guardian, two dollars.
Appointing a guardian, one dollar.
And when one guardian is appointed for more than one person at the
same time, fifty cents for each person, after the first, for whom such guard
ian is appointed.
Decree of probate of a will, when not contested, two dollars.
"When contested, five dollars.
Decree for settling an estate, two dollars.
Partition of real estate, two dollars and fifty cents.
Warrant to appraise and divide an estate, one dollar and fifty cents.
Issuing a commission to examine and allow claims against an estate, one
dollar and fifty cents.
Ordering an allowance to widows, or children under seven years of age,
one dollar and fifty cents.
Approving securities of executors or others, one dollar.
Appointment of agent on partition of real estate, one dollar and fifty
cents.
Each order for sale of real estate to pay debts of an estate, two dollars.
Each order for sale of personal estate, one dollar.
Order for publication of any notice, or any ordinary order in proceedings
before him, fifty cents.
Granting reference of accounts of executors or administrators, or allow
ing report thereon, one dollar.
Disallowing application for letters of administration or probate of will,
to be paid by the party applying, two dollars.
For a warrant to set off dower, one dollar.
Order for distribution, one dollar and fifty cents.
Extending time for settling an estate, fifty cents.
Examining and allowing claims against an estate, fifty cents.
Ordering and drawing a quietus, one dollar.
Examining and allowing an inventory, fifteen cents for each folic.
Administering an oath to an executor or other person, and certifying
the same when necessary, fifteen cents.
Examining and allowing accounts of executors, administrators, or other
persons, for the first page, fifteen cents, and for each additional page, five
cents.
Each citation, summons, or other process, twenty-five cents.
Approving and filing a bond given on an appeal, fifty cents.
Each order to divide an estate among heirs, or to set off dower, twentyfive cents.
Entering and filing a caveat, fifteen cents.
Entering the accounts of an executor, administrator, or guardian, fifteen
cents for each folio.
Entering each oath of an executor, or administrator, fifteen cents.
Searching the records or flies in his office, for each year, fifteen cents.
Recording wills and the proof thereof, letters of administration, of
guardianship, and every other matter required to be recorded, for each
folio, fifteen cents ; and where any will or other matter is in any other
than the English language, eighteen cents for each folio.
For a translation of any will from any other than the English language,
twenty-five cents for each folio.
Copies and exemplifications of the probate of a will, or of letters testa
mentary, or of administration, or of any other proceeding or order had or
made before him, or of any other papers filed or recorded in his office,
transmitted on appeal, or furnished on request to any person, fifteen cents
for each folio.
The amount of fees taxed by judge of probate, in his own behalf in
any case not contested, shall in no case exceed twenty-five dollars ; unless
the same is audited and certified to be just by the judge of the district
court of the county.
FEES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Sec. 6. For actual services, and in lieu of all other fees,, one dollar
per day, and their actual and necessary disbursements for the benefit of
the same ; but the probate court may allow executors and administrators,
in cases of unusual difficulty or responsibility, such further sum as the
judge deems reasonable.
FEES OF 'WITNESSES.
Sec. 7. For attending in any action or proceeding pending in a court
of record, one dollar for each day.
For attending in any justice's court, or before any officer, person, or
board authorized to take the examination of witnesses, one dollar for each
day.
For traveling, at the rate of six cents per mile, in going to and return
ing from the place of attendance, to be estimated from the residence of
such witness, if within this state, or from the boundary line »f this
state, which such witness passed in coming, if his residence is out of the
state.
Sec. 8. No person is obliged to attend as a witness unless the fees
are paid or tendered to him which are allowed by law for one day's
attendance as a witness, and for traveling to and returning from the
place where he is required to attend.
Sec. 9. "Witnesses for the state in criminal cases before any court of
record shall receive for such attendance one dollar for each day, and the
judges of the district court may in their discretion allow fees to witnesses
attending in criminal proceedings on behalf of the defendant, which shall
not exceed the fees allowed by law in civil actions. Such allowances shall
be certified by the clerk of the court and paid in the same manner that
jurors aro paid.
SHERIFFS.
Sec. 10. For serving a summons or any process issued by a court of
law, one dollar for each defendant served.
Traveling in making any service upon any writ or summons, ten cents
per mile for going and returning, to be computed from the place where the
court is usually held.
Taking and approving a bond, fifty cents.
A certified copy of such bond when requested, ten cents per folio.
Copy of every summons or other paper served by the sheriff, when such
copy is made by him, ten cents per folio.
Collections on executions when the same is collected or settled after
levy, at the rate of four per centum upon the first two hundred and fifty
dollars, and two per centum upon the excess of said sum.
The fees herein allowed for the service of an execution and for adver
tising thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution, in the same
manner, as the sum therein directed to be levied ; but when there are
several executions against the defendant at the time of advertising his
property, in the hands of the same sheriff, there shall be but one advertis
ing fee charged on the whole, and the sheriff shall elect on which execution
he will receive the same.
Advertising sale, one dollar, and the reasonable fees paid to any printer
by such sheriff for publishing an advertisement of sale.
Posting three notices of such sale, one dollar and fifty cents.
Every certificate on the sale of real estate, two dollars, and one dollar
for each copy, which, together with the register's fees for filing the same
shall be collected as other fees on execution, but no sheriff shall charge for
more than one certificate issued upon the same sale to the same purchaser,
unless he requires it, in which case he shall pay to said sheriff one dollar
for each additional certificate.
Serving a writ of restitution or possession and putting any person
entitled into the possession of premises and removing the occupants, three
dollars.
Summoning a jury upon a writ of inquiry, attending such jury, and
making and returning the inquisition, one dollar and fifty-cents.
Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an order of the court,
and returning the panel, fifty cents for each juror and mileage.
Summoning a jury pursuant to any precept or summons of any officer
in special proceedings, two dollars, and attending such jury when required,
one dollar.
Bringing up a person on a habeas corpus to testify or answer in any
court, or with the cause of his arrest and detention, or for the purpose of
having him surrendered in exoneration of his bail, or attempting to re.
ceive a prisoner so surrendered who was not committed at the time and
receiving such prisoner into his custody, or for committing a prisoner to
jail, or for bringing any prisoner before any court for examination, in
either case, one dollar ; and for traveling, the same mileage as upon ser
vice of writs and for attending before any officer or court in any such
case, two dollars per day.
Attending court, three dollars per day.
Boarding prisoners, four dollars per week.
Serving attachment upon any ship, boat or vessel, in proceedings to en
force any lien thereon created by law, three dollars, and such additional
compensation for his trouble and expense in taking possession of and pre
serving the same as the officer issuing the warrant shall certify to be
reasonable.
Selling any ship, boat, vessel, or the tackle, apparel and furniture
thereof so attached, and for advertising the same, the same fees as are
allowed on executions.
Making and returning an inventory and an appraisal of property at
tached in any case, two dollars per day to each appraiser for each day
actually employed, and one dollar for each half day.
Summoning grand or petit jurors, fifty cents for each juror summoned,
and mileage at fifteen cents per mile for the number of miles necessarily
traveled in summoning the panel.
Serving subpoena, fifty cents for each witness summoned and mileage
as in service of a summons, but wben two or more witnesses live in the
same direction, mileage shall be charged only for the furthest.
Selling lands on foreclosure of mortgage by advertisement and execut
ing certificate and deed to purchaser, and for all services required on such
sale, three dollars.
Selling lands on decree by foreclosure and executing a deed, and for all
services required in making such sale, when the amount for which the
property sold is one thousand dollars or less, the sum of ten dollars ; and
when the amouut exceeds one thousand dollars, the sum of fifteen dollars.
Postponing a sale, one dollar, to be paid by the party requesting the
same.
Making and drafting an inventory of property levied upon, replevied
or attached, twenty-five cents for each folio, and for each copy of such
inventory, ten cents per folio.
For diligent search and inquiry and returning summons when parties
can not be found, one dollar, and returning execution when no property
found, one dollar.
Receiving and paying over the money paid on redemption of property,
and executing certificate therefore, one per cent, on the amount so received
and paid, to be collected from the person redeeming such property.
For the necessary expenses which may be incurred to secure and safely
keep all property taken by the sheriff by virtue of a warrant of attach
ment, execution or writ of replevin, such sum as may be allowed by the
court. i
For all United States revenue stamps now or hereafter required by
law, to be used upon any certificate, deed, or other instrument, the cost
of such stamps so used, and also such sum as may be required to be paid
to the United States government as a tax on any sale made by him. ... ^
For any services not herein enumerated, which a sheriff may be re
quired to perform, he shall receive the fees herein allowed for similar
services.
FEES OF CORONERS.
Sec. 11. For all services rendered by them, the same fees as are
herein allowed for similar services.
fees of constables.
Sec. 12. Constables shall receive the following fees :
For serving a warrant or other writ, not herein provided for, on each
person named therein, twenty-five cents.
For a copy of every summons delivered on request, or left at the place
of residence of defendant, fifteen cents.
Serving a subpoena or summons, on each party or name therein, fifteen
cents.
Serving an attachment, fifty cents.
Each copy of an attachment, fifteen cents.
Each copy of inventory of property seized on attachment, fifteen cents.
Serving summons on garnishee, fifty cents.
Copy of any affidavit or other paper not otherwise enumerated, per
folio, ten cents.
Posting each notice, fifteen cents.
Attending on justice's court when required by the justice, one dollar per
day.
Serving any process or paper authorized to be served by them, for
travel, ten cents per mile, both going to and returning from the place of
service.
Committing to prison, fifty cents.
Summoning a jury, one dollar.
Writing a list of jurors, fifteen cents.
Attending on a jury, fifty cents.
On all sums made on execution and paid over, charged upon the de
fendant, five per cent.
Serving every writ of replevin, fifty cents.
Summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking appraisement, fifty
cents.
Taking and approving security in any case, tweniy-five cents.
Sec. 13. When the services mentioned in the last section are per
formed by the sheriff or any other person, the same fees shall be allowed
that constables are entitled to receive.
FEES OF NOTARIES PUBLIC.
Sec. 14 For drawing and copy of protest of the non-payment of a
promissory note, or bill of exchange, or of the non-acceptance of such
bill, one dollar, in the cases where by law, such protest is necessary.
For drawing, and a copy of every other protest, fifty cents.
For drawing, copy, and serving every notice of non-payment of note or
non-acceptance of a bill, fifty cents.
Drawing any affidavit or other paper or proceeding, for which provi
sion is not herein made, twenty cents for each folio, and copying the same,
six cents for each folio.
For each oath, administered, twenty-five cents.
Taking the acknowledgment of deeds, and for other services authorized
by law, the same fees as are allowed to other officers for similar services.
Recording each instrument required by law to be recorded by him, ten
cents per folio.
FEES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
Sec. 15. Justices of the peace shall receive the following fees, and may
tax the same in all cases where applicable :
For a summons, warrant, or subpoena, twenty-five cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.
Taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.
Administering an oath, fifteen cents.
Certifying the same when administered out of court, fifteen cents.
For a writ of attachment, twenty-five cents.
Entering a judgment, twenty-five cents.
Every adjournment, fifteen cents.
Every bond, recognizance, or security directed by law to be taken and
approved by the justice, twenty-five cents.
Swearing a jury, twenty-five cents.
Taking an examination, deposition, or confession, per folio, fifteen cents.
For copy of proceedings, or of any paper or examination, in any case
when demanded, per folio, fifteen cents.
Entering a satisfaction of judgment, twenty-five cents.
Issuing commission to take testimony, fifty cents.
Entering any order or exceptions thereto, fifty cents.
Entering amicable suit without process, twenty-five cents.
For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.
Opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.
Filing every paper required to be filed, five cents.
Issuing notice to take deposition, twenty-five cents.
Taking recognizance, certifying oath, or affidavit, and making return to
an appeal, including travel, two dollars.
For a search warrant, twenty-five cents.
For every affidavit, or other paper drawn by the justice, for which no
other allowance is made by law, per folio, fifteen cents.
For a commitment to jail, twenty-five cents.
For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents.
For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailor, twenty-five cents.
Discharging a prisoner after a hearing, on motion to discharge, fifteen
cents.
For an execution, twenty-five cents.
For every other writ not herein enumerated, twenty-five cents.
Taxing costs, fifteen cents.
For marrying and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty cents, and
such other sum as may be allowed by the party making the application.
Holding an inquisition, in cases of forcible entry and detainer, in addi
tion to other fees, one dollar.
Taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for each grantor
named therein, twenty-five cents.
For traveling to perform any duty, when not otherwise provided for,
and such travel is necessary, going and returning, per mile, ten cents.
PROVISIONS IN RELATION TO FEES IN JUSTICES* COURTS.
, Sec. 16. In all civil actions, unless otherwise provided, the party in
who^e favor judgment is given, shall recover coats.
Sec. 17. At the time of entering a judgment for costs, in any case,
the justice may proceed to tax the costs, and no notice of such taxing
need be given to the party against whom judgment is rendered.
Sec. 18. The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of witnesses
unless the same is proved by the oath of some person qualified to testify
in the action.
Sec. 19. No fees shall be allowed for travel in serving a subpoena,
unless the same is charged by a constable or sheriff, or is proved by the
oath of the person who served the same.
Sec. 20. The attendance of only two witnesses to each particular fact
before a justice of the peace, shall be taxed in the bill of cost,
Sec. 21. Nor fees for copies, or exemplifications of documents or
papers, or for depositions, shall be allowed, unless such copies of depositions
were used upon the trial.
Sec. 22. No allowance for disbursements, except to officers, shall be
allowed, unless the items are particularly specified, and proved to the justice, and the same were, in the opinion of the justice, necessary and rea
sonable in amount.
Sec. 23. The justice shall hear any evidence which may be offered
to him, to prove that any charge is unreasonable, or that the service has
not been rendered.
FEES OF REGISTERS OF DEEDS.
Sec. 24. For entering or recording any deed, or other instrument,
twelve and a half cents for each folio, to be paid when the same is left for
record.
For every certificate, twenty-five cents.
For copies of any records or papers, when required, ten cents for each
folio.
For recording any deed or other paper, in any other than the English
language, twenty cents for each folio.
Every entry of a discharge of mortgage, in the margin of the record,
ten cents.
Filing every other paper, and making an entry thereof, when necessary,
ten cents.
Searching for every such paper, on request, five cents for every paper
examined.
Searching the record, ten cents.
For an abstract of title, twenty-five cents for every transfer, and fifty
cents for his certificate.
FEES OF REFEREES.
Sec. 25. The fees of referees are five dollars to each, for every day
spent in the business of the reference, but the parties may agree, in writ
ing, upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate shall
be allowed.
fees of appraisers, commissioners, and others.
Sec. 26. All appraisers of estates of deceased persons, appraisers of
Pr0Perty taken on writ of attachment, or replevin, persons appointed un
der a legal process, or order for assigning dower, or making a partition of
real estate, sheriff's aids in criminal cases, and all other private persons
performing any other like service required by law, or in the execution of
legal process, where no express provision is made for compensation there
for, shall be entitled to one dollar for each day, for their services, and five
cents a mile for travel in going and returning.
fees of jurors.
Sec. 27. Each grand and petit juror, shall be entitled to two dollars
for each day's attendance upon any district court, and ten cents for each
mile traveled in going and returning by the most usual route, to be paid
out of the treasury of the county, by the treasurer thereof, on the certifi
cate of the clerk of the court.
Each juror sworn in any action in a justice's court, or before any sher
iff, on any writ of inquiry, is entitled to fifty cents, to be paid in the first
instance by the party requiring such jury.
Each juror sworn before any coroner, on any inquest taken by him, is
entitled to one dollar for each day's attendance on such inquest : provided
however, that all certificates issued by the clerk of the district court, for
the services of jurors, shall, before being paid by the treasurer of the
county, be presented to the board of county commissioners of the county,
and audited by them, and countersigned by the chairman of said board,
and it is hereby made the duty of the several county auditors to keep a
record of all certificates presented, which record shall show the time of
such presentation, the name of the party presenting the same, and the
amount thereof.
FEES OF PRINTER.
Sec. 28. For publishing any notice, or any order, citation, summons,
or any other proceeding or advertisement, required by law to be published
in any newspaper, not more than seventy-five cents per folio for the first
insertion, and thirty-five cents per folio for each insertion after the first.
Sec. 29. Every officer whose fees are herein fixed, shall publish and
set up in his office, fair tables of his fees, according to this chapter, in
some conspicuous place, for the inspection of all persons who have business
in such office, upon pain of forfeiting for each day the same shall not
be put up through such officer's neglect, a sum not exceeding two dollars,
which may be recovered by a civil action, in the name of any person,
before any justice of the peace of the same county.
Sec. 30. No judge, justice, sheriff, or other officer whatever, or other
person to whom any fees or compensation is allowed by law for any service, shall take or receive any other greater fee or reward for such service
than is allowed by the laws of this state.
Sec. 31. No fee or compensation allowed by law shall be demanded
or received by any officer or person, for any service, unless such service
was actually rendered by him, except in the case of prospective costs
hereinafter specified.
Sec. 32. A violation of either of the last two sections is a misdemeanor
; and the person guilty thereof shall be liable to the party aggrieved for treble the damages sustained by him.
Sec. 33. No fees shall be taxed for services as having been rendered
by any clerk, sheriff, or other officer in the progress of a cause, unless
such service was actually rendered, except when otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 34. Prospective costs may be charged and taxed for filing Orders, docketing judgment, and for one execution.
Sec. 35. The legal fees paid for certified copies of the depositions of
witnesses, filed in any clerk's office, and of any documents or papers recorded
or filed in any public office, necessarily used on the trial of a
cause, or on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in the taxation
of costs.
Sec. 36. No attorney, or counsel, in any cause, shall be allowed any
fee for attending as a witness in such cause.
Sec. 37. Every officer, upon receiving any fees for any official duty
or service, shall, if required by the person paying the same, make out in
writing and deliver to such person, a particular account of such fees,
specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt the same ;
and if he refuses or neglects to do so, he shall be liable to the party pay
ing the same for three times the amount so paid.
Sec. 38. When a fee is allowed to one officer, the same fees shall be
allowed to other officers for the performance of the same services, when
such officers are by law authorized to perform such services.
Sec. 39. When any person shall attend a court of record as a witness
in behalf of the state of Minnesota, upon request of the public prosecutor,
or upon a subpoena, or by virtue of a recognizance for that purpose,
and it appears that such person has come from any other state or territory
of the United States, or from any foreign country, or that such person is
poor, the court may, by order on its minutes, direct the county treasurer
of the county in which the court shall be sitting, to pay to such witness
such sum of money as shall seem reasonable for expenses.
Sec. 40. When any prosecution, instituted in the name of this state,
for breaking any law thereof, fails, or when the defendant proves insolvent
or escapes, or is unable to pay the fees when convicted, the fees shall be
paid out of the county treasury, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 41. The attorney general, or county attorney in each county, is
authorized to issue subpoenas, and compel the attendance of witnesses, on
^)e'la^ °f tne state or county, without paying or tendering fees in advance ;
and in criminal cases the witnesses for the defendant shall also be compolled to attend without payment or tender of fees in advance, and any
witness failing or neglecting to attend, after being served with a subpoena,
may be proceeded against, and shall be liable in the same manner as pro
vided by law in other cases where fees have been paid or tendered.
Sec. 42. The clerk of any court, at which any witness has attended
on behalf of the state, in a civil action, shall give to such witness a certi
ficate of travel and attendance, which shall entitle him to receive the
amount from the treasurer of the county where the action arises.
CHAPTER LXXI.
PETIT JURIES.
Section
10.
11.
Petit jury denned.
Name* of juror* to be drawn for each term.
Qualification and disabilities of jurors.
How drawn and summoned.
Judge may order larger number drawn—when.
Ballots, how prepared and deposited.
Proceedings on trial of '
Ballots, how drawn.
Ballots, how kept.
Ballots returned t(
Ballot of jurors
of.
to box—when.
SlCTtOK
12. Court may cause talesmen to be I
when.
18. Talesmen, how returned.
14. Qualification of t
STKUCI JURIES.
15. Struck jury, how obtained.
16. When sheriff is interested, court mi
who shall perform set-rices.
17. Party asking for struck jury to pay fei
18. Struck jury may be continued.
IB. Limitation of provisions of this title.
Section 1. A petit jury is a body of twelve men impanneled and
sworn, in a district court, to try and determine, by a true and unanimous
verdict, any question or issue of fact, in any civil or criminal action or
proceeding according to law and the evidence as given them in court.
Sec. 2. A number of petit jurors not less than twenty-four, shall be
drawn for each general term of the district court, and no greater number
shall be drawn unless the court otherwise orders, but in no case shall more
than thirty-six petit jurors be drawn.
Sec. 3. The qualifications and disabilities of petit jurors shall be the
same as those prescribed by law for grand jurors.
Sec. 4. The petit jurors shall be drawn and summoned at the same
tjme an(j jn ^ ggj^ manner as is by law prescribed for the drawing and
summoning of grand jurors,
Sec. 5. The judge of the district court may, at least thirty days before
the time for holding a general term of said court, order a number of petit
jurors greater than twenty-four and not exceeding thirty-six, to be drawn
and summoned for such term, and upon such order being made and entered
upon record in the office of the clerk of the court in the county where
such term is to be held, such clerk shall draw and issue a venire for the
number of jurors mentioned in such order.
Sec. 6. At the opening of the court the clerk shall prepare separate
ballots containing the names of the persons summoned as petit jurors,
which shall be folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the name
cannot be seen, and be deposited in a sufficient box.
Sec. 7. When an indictment is called for trial, and before drawing
the jury, either party may require the names of all the jurors in the
panel to be called, and that an attachment issue against those who are
absent ; but the court may, in its discretion, wait or not, for the return of
the attachment.
Sec. 8. Before the name of any juror is drawn, the box shall be
closed, and shaken so as to intermingle the ballots therein ; the clerk shall
then, without looking at the ballots, draw them from the box through a
hole in the lid, so large only as conveniently to admit the hand.
Sec. 9. When the jury are completed, the ballots containing the names
of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside, and kept apart from the ballots
containing the names of the other jurors, until the jury so sworn are dis
charged.
Sec. 10. After the jury are so discharged, the ballots containing their
names shall be again folded and returned to the box ; and so on, as often
as a trial is had.
Sec. 11. If a juror is absent when his name is arawn, or is set aside,
or excused from serving on the trial, the ballot containing his name shall
be folded and returned to the box as soon as the jury is sworn.
Sec. 12. When, by reason of challenge or .otherwise, a sufficient
number of jurors duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained for the
trial of any cause, the court shall cause jurors to be returned from the
by-standers, or from the county at large, to complete the panel.
Sec. 13. The jurors so returned from the by-standers, shall be returned by the sheriff or his deputy, or by a coroner, or by any disinterested
person appointed therefore by the court
Sec. 14. The persons so returned shall be such as are qualified and
liable to be drawn .as jurors, according to the provisions of law.
STRUCK JURIES.
Sec. 15. Whenever a struck jury is deemed necessary, by either
party, for the trial of the issue in any action or proceeding in the district
court, or brought there by appeal or otherwise, such party may file with
the clerk of the court, a demand in writing for such jury, whereupon such
clerk shall forthwith deliver a certified copy of such demand to the sheriff
of the county, who shall give to both parties, four days' notice of the time of
striking the same. At the time designated, said sheriff shall attend at his
office, and in the presence of the parties, or their attorneys, or such of
them as attend for that purpose, shall select from the number of persons
qualified to serve as jurors within the county, forty such persons as he shall
think most indifferent between the parties, and best qualified to try such
issue ; and then the party requiring such jury, his agent or attorney, shall
first strike off one of the names, and the oppositejparty, his agent or
nttorney, another, and so on alternately, until each have struck out twelve.
If either party shall not attend in person, or by attorney, the sheriff shall
strike for the party not attending. When each party has stricken out
twelve names, as aforesaid, the sheriff shall make a fair copy of the names
of the remaining sixteen persons, and certify the same under his hand to
be the list of jurors struck for the trial of such cause or proceeding, and
shall deliver the same to the clerk, who shall thereupon issue and deliver
to the sheriff or other officer, a venire facias, with the names in said list
contained, annexed thereto ; and such sheriff or other officer, shall summon
the persons named, according to the command of such writ ; and upon the
trial of the cause, the jury so struck shall be called as they stand upon
the panel, and the first twelve of them who shall appear, and are not
challenged for cause, or set aside by the court, shall be the jury, and
shall be sworn to try the issue joined in said cause or proceeding : pro
vided, that if a sufficient number does not appear for the trial of said
cause, the court shall cause talesmen to be called as in other cases.
Sue. 16. If the said sheriff is interested in the cause or proceeding,
or related to either of the parties, or does not stand indifferent between
them, the judge of the said court may name some judicious and disinter
ested person to strike the jury, and to do and perform all things required
to be done by such sheriff, relating to the striking of the same ; but in no
case shall it be necessary to strike such jury more than six days previous
to the term of the court at which the action or proceeding is to be tried,
and three days' service of the venire shall be held sufficient.
Sec. 17. The party requiring such struck jury, shall pay the fees for
diking the same, and the legal fees for mileage and attendance, for each
juror so attending, and shall not have any allowance therefore in the taxa
tion of costs.
Sec. 18. A jury struck for a trial of any issue at a particular term
of the court, may be continued with the continuance of the cause, and
summoned as jurors at a subsequent term, provided both parties consent
thereto, but not otherwise,
Sec. 19. The provisions of this title shall not extend to the trial of
aUy indictment for any offense where the party indicted is entitled to
challenge peremptorily, or without cause shown, more than two jurors.
CHAP TEE LXXII.
OATHS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
Section
1. Officers required to bo sworn.
2- Who may administer oath
8. Judges, clerk*, et als., maj
4- Oath, how administered.
6- Forms of oaths.
6. Certain words substituted h) oath, when
7. Form of oath for ' '
8. Who i
r take acknowledgments.
Section
0 Depositions, who may take and certify.
10. Commissioners, appointed In other states, may
take acknowlcdgmen ts .
11. Effect of such acknowledgment, when certified.
12. Such commissioners inay administer oaths and
certify depositions.
13- Each commissioner to take oath and file it,
with Impression of seal, In office of secretary
of state.
TITLE I.
OF PEB30NS REQ HIKED TO TAKE OATHS, WHO MAT ADMINISTER THE
SAME, AND THE FORMS THEREOF.
Section 1. Every person elected or appointed to any public office,
whether executive, legislative or judicial, all county and local officers, their
deputies, clerks and assistants, clerks of court, referees, commissioners, ar
bitrators and assessors shall, before entering on the discharge of their
official duties, take and subscribe an oath as hereinafter prescribed.
Sec. 2. When no other provision is made by law, oaths of office may
be administered by any judge or justice of the peace, or the presiding
officer, secretary or clerk of either house of the legislature.
Sec. 3. Judges of the supreme and district courts, and courts of probate, the clerks of said courts, all committees of the legislature or either
branch thereof, all commissioners, referees and committees, or persons ap
pointed by any of said courts, are authorized to administer any oath
necessary to be taken for the establishment of truth or the furtherance of
justice in any matter coming before such court, board, commission or per
son, for investigation.
Sec. 4. The usual mode of administering oaths now practiced in this
state, with the ceremony of holding up the hand, shall be observed in all
cases in which an oath may be administered by law, except as hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 5. The following are the forms of oaths to be administered to officers and persons as hereinafter provided :
OATH OF MEMBERS AND OFFICERS OF THB LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE DEPART
MENTS, AND ALL OTHERS OCCCPYINO AN OFFICE NOT JUDICIAL IN ITS CHAR
ACTER.
You do solemnly swear that you will support the constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state of Minnesota, and faithfully
discharge the duties of your office to the best of your judgment and ability.
So help you God.
OATH OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.
You do solemnly swear that you will support the constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state of Minnesota, and discharge
the duties of your office faithfully and impartially, according to your best
leaniing, judgment and discretion. So help you God.
OATH OF REFEREES, COMMISSIONERS AND OTHERS APPOINTED TO EXAMINE, nEAR
AND DETERMINE UPON ANY MATTER, AND MAKE REPORT THEREOF TO ANY COURT
OR OTHER TRIBUNAL.
You do solemnly swear that you will faithfully and fairly hear and ex
amine this action, wherein is plaintifff, and , defendant,
and make a just and true report thereon, according to the best of your
understanding and ability. So help you God.
OATH TO BE ADMINISTERED TO THE GRAND JURY.
You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will diligently inquire,
and true presentment make of all public offenses committed or triable
within this county, of which you have legal evidence according to your
charge ; the counsel of the state, your own counsel and that of your fel
lows you shall keep secret ; you will present no person through malice
hatred or ill will, nor leave any person unpresented through fear, favor or
affection, or reward, or the promise or hope thereof, but you will present
things truly as they corae to your knowledge, to the best of your under
standing, according to the laws of this state. So help you God.
OATH OF OFFICER ATTENDING THE GRAND JURY.
You solemnly swear that as officer of the grand jury you will keep their
counsel and that of the state, and not disclose anything relative to their
proceedings. So help you God.
OATH TO BE ADMINISTERED TO PETIT JCRORS IMPANNELBD FOR THE TRIAL OF
ANT CIVIL ACTION OR PROCEEDING.
Tou and each of you do solemnly swear that you will well and truly try
the matters in issue in this action (or proceeding) according to the evidence
given you in court, and the laws of this state, and a true verdict give ;
your own counsel and that of your fellows you will duly observe and keep;
you will say nothing to any person concerning this action, nor suffer any
one to speak to you about the same but in court, and when you have
agreed on a verdict you will keep it secret until you deliver it in court.
So help you God.
OATH OF PETIT JURORS IN CRIMINAL CASES.
You do solemnly swear that without respect of persons or favor of any
man, you will well and truly try and true deliverance make between the
atate of Minnesota and the defendant, according to the evidence given you
in court and the laws of this state. So help you God.
OATH OF JURORS IN A JUSTICE'S COURT IN CIVIL CAUSES.
You do solemnly swear that you will well and truly try the matters in
difference between the parties in this cause, and a true verdict give accord
ing to the evidence given you in court, and the laws of this state. So
help you God.
OATH OF JURORS IN A JUSTICE'S COURT IN CRIMINAL CASES.
You do solemnly swear that you will well and truly try this cause, be
tween the state of Minnesota, (county or city of,) and the accused, and a
true verdict give according to the evidence given you in court, and the
laws of this state. So help you God.
OATn OF OFFICER TAKING CHARGE OF A PETIT JURY IN TOE DISTRICT COURT, OR
A justice's COURT.
You do solemnly swear that you will keep this jury together in some
suitable place, without food or drink, unless ordered by the court ; that you
will suffer no person to speak to them upon the matters submitted to their
charge, until they are agreed, nor will you speak to them yourself about
the cause, except to ask them whether they are agreed ; that you will per
mit no person to listen to, or overhear, any conversation or discussion they
may have while deliberating on their verdict ; that you will not disclose
their verdict nor any conversation they may have respecting the cause,
until they have delivered their verdict in court or been discharged by order
of the court. So help you God.
OATH OF OFFICER TAKING CHARGE OF JURY DURING RECESS OF COURT.
You dp solemnly swear that you will keep together the persons compos
ing this jury, until they return into court, and that in the mean time you
will suffer no one to speak to them, or speak to them yourself, concerning
the cause on trial, or any matter thereto relating. So help you God.
OATH OP WITNESSES.
Ton do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give relative to the
cause now under consideration shall be the whole truth and nothing but the
truth. So help you God.
interpreter's oatu.
You do solemnly swear that you will justly, truly and impartially in
terpret to the oath about to be administered to him, and the testi
mony he shall give relative to the cause now under consideration. So help
you God.
OATH OF PERSONS 8IONINQ AFFIDAVITS, VERIFICATIONS AND OTIIER PAPERS.
You do solemnly swear that the contents of this affidavit, (verification
or paper,) by you subscribed, are true, as therein stated. So help you
God.
OATH OF ATTORNEYS.
You do solemnly swear that you will support the constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state of Minnesota, and that you will
conduct yourself as an attorney and counsellor in the courts of this state,
in an upright, courteous and gentlemanly manner, to the best of your learn
ing and ability, with all good fidelity as well to the court as to the client ;
that you will use no falsehood or deceit, nor delay any person's cause for
lucre or malice. So help you God.
Sec. 6. In administering any oath, the word " swear" may be omitted
and the word " affirm" substituted, whenever the person to whom the obligation is to be administered is religiously scrupulous of swearing or taking
an oath in the prescribed form ; and in such case the words " so help you
God " may be omitted and the words " under the pains and penalties of
perjury" substituted, and evisry person so affirming shall be considered for
every legal purpose, privilege, qualification or liability, as having been dufy
sworn.
Sec. 7. Whenever an infidel, or any person not a believer in any religion, is offered as a witness, the following form of oath shall be used:
You do honestly and sincerely promise and declare that the testimony you
shall give relative to the cause now under consideration shall be the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, and this under the pains and penalties of
perjury ; and any person so promising and declaring shall be considered
as having been duly sworn.
TITLE II.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
WHO HAT TAKC.
Sec. 8. Judges of the supreme and district courts and courts of prohate, the clerks of said courts, notaries public, justices of the peace, registers
of deeds, and court commissioners, are authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds and other instruments in writing within their
several and respective jurisdictions : provided, that when any officer
having or using a seal of office takes an acknowledgment, he shall affix
his seal to the instrument so acknowledged.
Sec. 9. Any person qualified to take acknowledgments as aforesaid,
may take and certify depositions to be used in the courts of this state,
except when otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 10. Such commissioners as the governor shall appoint in any of
the United States or territories of the United States, to take the acknowledgment of deeds or other instruments in writing to be used in this slate,
shall hold their office during the pleasure of the governor, ami sliall have
power to take the acknowledgment and proofs of the execution of any
deed or other conveyance or lease of any lands lying in this state, and of
any contract, letter of attorney, or any other writing under seal, or not,
to be used or recorded in this state.
Sec. 11. Such acknowledgment or proof so taken according to the
^aws tn's statej an<^ certified to by any such commissioner under his
seal of office and annexed to or indorsed on such instrument, shall have
the same power and effect as if the same had been made before any officer
authorized to perform such acts in this state.
Sec. 12. Every commissioner appointed as before mentioned, shall
nave power to administer an oath which may be lawfully required in this
state, to any person willing to take the same, and to take and duly certify
all depositions to be used in any of the courts of this state in conformity
to the laws thereof, either on interrogatories proposed under a commission
from any court of this state, or by consent of parties, or on legal notice
given to the opposite party ; and all such acts shall be as valid as if done
and certified according to law by a proper officer in this state.
Sec. 13. Every such commissioner before performing any duty or exerc's'ng
^7 power by virtue of his appointment, shall take and subscribe
an oath or affirmation before a judge or a clerk of one of the courts of
record of the state in which such commissioner resides, well and faithfully
to execute and perform all the duties of such commissioner, under and by
virtue of the laws of the state of Minnesota, which oath, with a descrip
tion or impression of his seal of office, shall be filed in the office of the
secretary of this state.
Section 1. Every clerk of a court of record, and every justice of
the peace may issue subpoenas for witnesses in all civil cases pending before the court, or before any magistrates, arbitrators, or other persons
authorized to examine witnesses, and in all contests concerning lands be
fore the register and receiver of any land office in this state.
Sec. 2. Such subpoena may be served by any person by exhibiting
and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, or by leav
ing such copy at the place of his abode.
Sec. 3. If any person duly subpoenaed and obliged to attend as a
witness, fails to do so, without any reasonable excuse, he is liable to the
aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, to be recov
ered in a civil action.
Sec. 4. Such failure to attend as a witness, if the subpoena issues out
of any court of record, is a contempt of the court, and may be punished by
fine not exceeding twenty dollars.
Sec. 5. The court in such case may issue an attachment to bring
such witness before it, to answer for the contempt, and also to testify as
a witness in the action or proceeding in which he was subpoenaed.
Sec. 6. A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is re
ceived as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration is made on
oral examination or by deposition or affidavit.
Sec. 7. All persons, except as hereinafter provided, having the power
and faculty to perceive, and make known their perceptions to others, may
be witnesses. Neither parties nor other persons, who have an interest in
the event of an action, are excluded, nor those who have been convicted
of a crime, nor persons on account of their religious opinions or belief ;
although in every case the credibility of the witness may be drawn in
question. But no defendant in a criminal action or proceeding, shall be
a competent witness therein for himself, nor, until acquitted or convicted,
for a co-defendant.
Sec. 8. When one, or in case of a joint, or joint and several contract,
all, of the original parties on the same side to a contract or cause of ac
tion in issue and on trial, are dead, or shown to the court to be insane,
the other party or parties shall not be admitted to testify as to such con
tract in his or their own favor, unless such transaction was had and per
formed, on behalf of the party or parties po deceased or insane, by an
agent who^e testimony is received : provided, that whenever an assignor
of a contract or thing in action, or the payee or indorser of a negotiable
instrument is examined as a witness to matters transpiring prior to the
transfer or assignment of such contract or instrument, on behalf of any
person deriving title through or from him, the adverse party shall be re
ceived as a witness to the same matters in his own behalf.
Sec. 9. The following persons are not competent to testify in any
action or proceeding :
First. Those who are of unsound mind or intoxicated at the time of
their production for examination ;
Second. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of
receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined
or of relating them truly.
Sec. 10. There are particular relations in which it is the policy of
the law to encourage confidence and preserve it inviolate ; thereforee a
person cannot be examined as a witness in the following cases : —
First. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife, without
her consent ; nor a wife for or against her husband without his consent ;
nor can either, during the marriage or afterward, be, without the consent
of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other
during the marriage ; but this exception does not apply to a civil action
or proceeding by one against the other ; nor to a criminal action or pro
ceeding for a crime committed by one against the other ;
Second. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be
examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or his
advice given thereon in the course of professional duty ;
Third. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of the per
son making the confession, be examined as to the confession made to him
in his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he beloDgs ;
Fourth. A regular physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent
of his patient, be examined in a civil action, as to" any information acquired
in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe/
or act for the patient ;
Fifth. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made
to him in official confidence, when the public interest would suffer by the
disclosure.
Sec. 11. Every person who declares that he has conscientious scruples
against taking an oath, or swearing in any form, shall be permitted to make
his solemn declaration or affirmation.
Sec. 12. Whenever the court before which any person is offered as a
witness is satisfied that such person has any peculiar mode of swearing,
which is more solemn and obligatory in the opinion of such person, than
the usual mode, the court may, in its discretion, adopt such mode of
swearing such person.
Sec. 13. Every person believing in any other than the christian
religion, shall be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion,
if there are any such ceremonies.
Sec. 14. The court before whom an infant, or a person apparently of
weak intellect, is produced as a witness, may examine such person to
ascertain his capacity, and whether he understands the nature and obligations
of an oath ; and any court may inquire of any person, what are the
peculiar ceremonies observed by him in swearing, which he deems most
obligatory.
TITLE II.
TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES WITHIN THIS STATE.
Sec. 15. Depositions may be taken in the manner and according to
tb.3 legiliiiions provided in this chapter, to be used before any magistrates
or other persons authorized to examine witnesses in any other than crimi
nal cases.
Sec. 16. When a witness whose testimony is wanted in any civil
cause pending in this state, lives more than thirty miles from the place of
trial, or is about to go out of the state, and not to return in time for trial,
or is so sick, infirm or aged as to make it probable that he will not be able
to attend at the trial, his deposition may be taken in the manner herein
after provided.
Sec. 17. At any time after the cause is commenced by the service
of process or otherwise, or after it is submitted to arbitrators or referees,
either party may apply to any justice of the peace who shall issue a
notice to the adverse party, to appear before the said justice, or any other
justice of the peace, at the time and place appointed for taking the depo
sition, and to put such interrogatories as he may see fit.
Sec. 18. The said notice may be served on the agent or attorney of
the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if served on the party
himself.
Sec. 19. When there are several persons, plaintifffs or defendants, a
notice served on either of them is sufficient.
Skc. 20. The notice shall be served by delivering an attested copy
thereof to the 1 person to be notified, or by leaving such copy at his place
of abode, allowing in all cases not less than twenty-four hours after such
notice before the time appointed for taking the depositions, and also allow
ing time for his travel to the place appointed after being notified, not less
than at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty miles
travel.
Sec. 21. The written notice before prescribed may be wholly omitted,
if the adverse party or his attorney, in writing, waives the right to it.
Sec. 22. The deponent shall be sworn to testify the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause for which the deposition
is taken, and he shall then be examined by the parties if they see fit, or
by the justice, and his testimony shall be taken in writing.
Sec. 23. The party producing the dsponent shall be allowed first to
examine him, either upon verbal or written interrogatories, on all points
which he deems material, and then the adverse party may examine the
deponent in like manner ; after which either party may propose such
further interrogatories as the case requires.
Sec. 24. The deposition shall be written by the justice or by the
deponent, or by some disinterested person, in the presence and under
the direction of the justice, and be carefully read to or by the deponent,
and shall then be subscribed by him.
Sec. 25. The justice shall annex to the deposition a certificate sub
stantially as follows : —
State of Minnesota, )
County of |
I, A. B., justice of the peace in and for said county, do hereby certify
that the above deposition was taken before me, at my office in the
in said county, on the day of , 18 , at o'clock, ;
that it was taken at the request of the plaintifff, (or defendant) upon
verbal (or written) interrogatories ; that it was reduced to writing by
myself (or by deponent, or by , a disinterested person, in my
presence and under my direction,) that it was taken to be used in the suit
of A. B. vs. C. D., now pending in court, and that the
reason for taking it was (here state the true reason,) that
attended at the taking of said disposition, (or that a notice, of which the
annexed is a copy, was served upon him, on the day of
18 ;) that said deponent before examination was sworn to testify the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relative to the said cause, and that
the said deposition was carefully read to (or by) said deponent, and then
subscribed by him.
Dated at the day of one thousand eight
hundred and
A. B., justice of the peace.
Sec. 26. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice to the court
or arbitrators, or referees, before whom the cause is pending, or shall be
inclosed and sealed by him, and directed to them, and shall remain sealed
until opened by said court, or the clerk thereof, or arbitrators, or referees.
Sec. 27. No deposition shall be used it it appears that the reason for
taking it no longer exists : provided, that if the party producing the
deposition in such case shows any sufficient cause then existing for using
such deposition, it may be admitted.
Sec. 28. Every objection to the competency or credibility of the
deponent, and to the propriety of any question put to him, or of any
answer made by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in
the same manner as if the witness was personally examined on the trial :
provided, that all objections to the form of any interrogatory shall be
made before it is answered, and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn, the
objection shall be notod in the deposition, otherwise the objection shall
not be afterward entertained.
Sec. 29. When the plaintifff in any action discontinues it, or it is dismissed
for any cause, and another action is afterward commenced for the
same cause between the same parties, or their respective representatives,
all depositions lawfully taken for the first action may be used in the
second, in the same manner, and subject to the same conditions and
objections as if originally taken for the second action : provided, that the
deposition has been duly filed in the court where the first action was
pending, and remained in the custody of the court, from the termination
of the first action until the commencement of the second.
Sec. 30. When an action is appealed from one court to another, all
depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court below, may be used in
the appellate court in the same manner, and subject to the same excep
tions for informality or irregularity, as were taken to such depositions in
writing in the court below.
Sec. 31. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled to give his
deposition, at any place within twenty miles of his abode, in like manner,
and under the same penalties, a3 he may be subpoenaed and compelled to
attend as a witness in any court.
TITLE III.
TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES OUT OF TIIIS STATE.
Sec. 32. The deposition of any witness without this state may be
taken under a commission issued to any competent person in any state or
•country, by the court in which the cause is pending, or upon a reference
as hereinafter provided; and the deposition may be used in the same
manner and subiect to the same conditions and objections as if it had been
taken in this state.
Sec. 33. No commission shall be issued to take testimony out of this
state, except in the following cases : '
First. When an issue has been joined in an action in a court of record
in this state, and it shall appear on the application of either party that any
witness not residing in this state is material in the prosecution or defense
of such action, and that due notice of such application was served upon
the adver.-e party at least eight days before the application is made ;
Second. When, in an action commenced in a court of record iu this
state, the time of answering the complaint has expired, and the defendant
has not answered or demurred to the said complaint, and it appears upon
the application of the plaintifff that the testimony of any witness not resid
ing in this state is material and necessary to establish the facts stated in
the complaint, and to enable the court to render judgment in such action.
Sec. 34. When the application is made by the plaintifff, and there has
been no appearance for the defendant iu the action, it may be made ex
parte and without notice, and the deposition may be taken upon interrogatories
filed by the plaintifff and annexed to the commission. In all other
cases such depositions shall be taken under a commission, and upon written
interrogatories, to be exhibited to the adverse party or his attorney, and
cross interrogatories to be filed by him, if he sees fit : provided, that the
parties may, by stipulation in writing, agree upon any other mode of
taking depositions, and when taken, pursuant to such stipulations, they may
be used upon the trial with like force and effect in all respects as if
taken upon the commission and written interrogatories as herein provided.
Sec. 85. All oaths or affidavits taken out of the state, before any
officer authorized to administer oaths, and certified by the clerk of a court
of record, may be used and read upon the argument of any motion, to the
same extent, and with like effect, as if taken within this state : provided,
that if such affidavit is taken before a notary public, or commissioner for
this state, no such certificate shall be required.
TITLE IV.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES WITHIN
THIS 8TATE.
Sec. 36. When any person is desirous to perpetuate the testimony of
any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth briefly,
and substantially, his title, claim or interest, in or to the subject concerning
which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the names of all other
persons interested, or supposed to be interested therein, their residences,
if known, and if unknown shall be so stated, and* also the name of the
witness proposed to be examined, and shall deliver the said statement to
the judge of a court of record, requesting him to take the deposition of the
said witness.
Sec. 37. The said judge shall thereupon cause notice to be given of
the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all persons men
tioned in the said statement, as interested in the case, which notice shall
be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chapter, respecting
notice upon taking a deposition in this state, to be used in any cause here
pending : provided, that in all cases where the judge is satisfied that by
reason of the non-residence of any of the persons in this state, or for any*
other cause, it will be impossible to serve the notice as aforesaid, he may
direct notice to be given by publishing the same for three successive weeks
in a newspaper printed and published in the county where the applicant
resides, or if there is none, then in a newspaper printed and published at
the capital of the state.
Sec. 38. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and his deposi*'on 8na^ De written, read, and subscribed in the same manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned, and the judge
shall annex thereto a certificate under his hand, of the time and manner
of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance of the t hing,
and he shall also insert in the certificate, the names of the persons at
whose request it was taken, and of all those who were notified to attend,
and of all those who did attend the taking thereof.
Sec. 39. The deposition with the certificate, and also the written
statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall, within ninety
days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds in the
county where the land lies, if the deposition relates to real estate, other
wise in the county where the party applying for such deposition resides.
Sec. 40. If any action, either at the time of taking such deposition,
or at any time afterward, is pending between the person at whose request
it was taken, and the persons named in the written statement, or any of
them, or any person claiming under either of the said parties respectively,
concerning the title, claim, or interest set forth in the statement, the depo
sition so taken, or a certified copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be
used in such action, in the same n^vnner and subject to the same condi
tions and objections as if it had been originally taken for the said action.
Sec. 41. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled to give hi
deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as before prescribed, i
like manner and under the same penalties as are provided in this chapter
respecting other depositions taken in this state.
TITLE V.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES OUT
OP THIS STATE.
Sec. 42. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses livin
without the state, may be taken in any state, or in any foreign country,
upon a commission to be issued by any court of record in the manner
hereinafter provided.
Sec. 43. The person who proposes to take the deposition, shall apply
to the judge of any such court, and deliver to him a statement like that
before prescribed to be delivered to the judge or justice of the peace upon
taking such a deposition within this state, and if the subject of the pro
posed deposition relates to real estate within this state, the statement shall
be filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof lies ; otherwise
in the county where the applicant resides.
Sec. 44. The court shall order notice of such application, to be served
on all the persons mentioned in such statement, and living within the
State, which notice shall be served fourteen days at least before the time
appointed for hearing the parties : provided, that if any of said parties
reside out of this state or if their residence is unknown to the applicant,
the judge shall order notice to be served on them by publishing the same
for three successive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the
county where the applicant resides, or if there is none, then in a news
paper printed and published at the capital of the state.
Sec. 45. If, upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant
alone, should no adverse party appear, the judge is satisfied that there is
sufficient cause for taking the deposition, he shall issue a commission there
for, in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used in any cause
pending in the same court.
Sec. 46. The deposition shall be taken upon written interrogatories,
filed by the applicant, and cross-interrogatories filed by any party adversely
interested, if he sees fit; and it shall be taken and returned substantially
in the same manner as if taken to be used in, any cause pending in said
court.
Sec. 47. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses
taken at any place without this state, according to the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken within the state, and shall
be filed and recorded within the same time and in the same manner.
TITLE VI.
DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS STATE TO BE USED IN COURTS OP OTHER
STATES AND COUNTRIES.
Sec 48. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled in like manner, and under the same penalties as are prescribed in this chapter, to give
his deposition in any cause pending in a court in any state or government,
which deposition may be taken before any justice of the peace in this
state, or before any commissioners that may be appointed under the
authority of the state or government in which the action is pending ; and
if the deposition is taken before such commissioners, the witness may be
subpoenaed and compelled to appear before them by process from any
justice of the peace in this state.
TITLE VII.
THE PRINTED STATUTES OF THIS STATE, THE RECORDS AND PRO
CEEDINGS OF COURTS, AND THE LAWS OF OTHER STATES, AND OK
FOREIGN LAWS, AS EVIDENCE.
Sec. 49. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of any
state Qr territory) or 0f ,he United States, shall be admissible in evidence,
in all cases in this state, when authenticated by the attestation of the
clerk, prothonotary or other officer having charge of the records of such
court, with the seal of such court annexed.
Sec. 50. The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and resolves of this
state, whether of a public or private nature, which are published under
the authority of the state, are admissible as sufficient evidence thereof in
all courts of law, and on all occasions whatsoever.
Sec. 51. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state or territory
of the United States, if purporting to be published under the authority of
their respective government?, or if commonly admitted and read as evi
dence in their courts, are admissible in all courts of law and on all other
occasions in this state as prima facie evidence of such laws.
Sec. 52. The unwritten or common law of any state or territory of
the United States, may be proved as facts by parol evidence, and the
books of reports of cases, adjudged in their courts, may also be admitted
as evidence of such law.
Sec. 53. The existence and the tenor, or effect of all foreign laws,
mav 06 Prove<l M facts, by parol evidence, but if it appears that the law
in question is contained in a written statute «or code, the court may, in
its discretion, reject any evidence of such law, that is not accompanied by
a copy thereof.
TITLE VIII.
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE AND THE PRESERVATION THEREOF.
Sec. 54. When notice of any application to any court, or judicial offiCer
for anv proceeding authorized by law, is required to be published in
' r a- , e .i ■ . e , r
one or more newspapers, an affidavit ot the printer or such newspaper, or
0f jjjg foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice,
taken from the paper in which it was published, and specifying the time
when and the paper in which such notice was published, may be filed with
the proper officer of the court, or with the judicial officer before whom
such proceeding is pending, at any time within six months after the last
day of the publication of such notice, unless sooner specially required.
Sec. 55. When any notice of a sale of real property is required by
laW) to be published in any newspaper, an affidavit of the printer of such
newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy
0f gucn m^j^ taken from the paper in which it was published, and sped
fying the times when, and the paper in which such notice was published,
may be filed at any time within six months after the last day of such pub
lication with the register of deeds in the county in which the premises
sold are situated.
Sec. 56. The original affidavit so filed pursuant to the two preceding sections and copies thereof, duly certified by the officer in whose custody
the same may be, is evidence in all cases, and in every court or judicial
proceeding, of the facts contained in such affidavit.
Sec. 57. The affidavit of the printer, or foreman of such printer, of
any newspaper published in this state of the publication of any notice or
advertisement which by any law of this state is required to be published
in such newspaper, is prima facie evidence of such publication, and of the
facts stated therein.
Sec. 58. Whenever a certified copy of an affidavit, record, document,
or other paper, is allowed by law to be evidence, such copy shall be certified by the officer, in whose custody the same is required by law to be, to
have been compared by him with the original and to be a correct transcript
therefrom ; and if such officer have any official seal by law, such certifi
cate shall be authenticated by such seal.
Sec. 59. But the preceding section shall not be construed to require
the affixing of the seal of the court to any certified copy of a rule or order
made by such court, or of any paper filed therein, when such copy is used
in the same court or before any officer thereof.
Sec 60. Every written instrument except promissory notes, and bills
of exchange, and except the last wills of deceased persons, may be proved
or acknowledged in the manner now provided by law for taking the proof
or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate, and the certificate
of the proper officer indorsed thereon, shall entitle such instrument to be
read in evidence in all courts of justice, and all proceedings before any
officer, body or board, with the same effect, and in the same manner as if
such instrument was a conveyance of real estate.
Sec. 61. The register of deeds and the clerk of any court of record
in every county of this state upon being paid the fees allowed therefore by
law, shall receive and deposit in their offices respectively, any instruments
or papers which any person shall offer them for that purpose, and if
required shall give such person a written receipt therefore.
Sec. 62. Such instruments or papers, shall be properly indorsed so as
to indicate their general nature and the names of the parties thereto, shall
be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating the time when received,
and shall be deposited and kept by him and his successors in office in the
same manner as his official papers, in some place separate and distinct
from such papers.
Sec. 63. The instruments and papers so received and deposited, shall
not be withdrawn from such office, except on the order of some court for
the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and then to be
returned to such office ; nor shall they be delivered without such order, to
any person unless upon the written order of the person^who deposited the
same, or his executors or administrators.
Sec. 64. Such instruments or papers so deposited, shall be open to
the examination of any person desiring the same, upon the payment of
the fees allowed by law.
Sec. 65. "When any officer to whom the legal custody of any documents, instrument or paper belongs, shall certify under his official seal,
that he has made diligent examination in his office for such paper, instru
ment, or document, and that it can not be found, such certificate is pre
sumptive evidence of the facta so certified in all causes, matters and pro
ceedings, in the same manner and with the like effect as if such officer had
personally testified to the same in the court, or before the officer before
whom such cause, matter or proceeding may be pending.
Sec. 66. Copies of all papers, documents or writings required by law
to 08 or •n fny public office in this state, and transcripts of any
public records kept therein, certified by the officer having custody of the
game, under his official seal, if he has one, are admissible in evidence
with the like effect and to the same extent as the originals.
TITLE IX.
THE LOSS OF INSTRUMENTS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.
Sec. 67. Whenever a party to an action is permitted to prove by his
own oath the loss of any instrument, in order to admit other proof of" the
contents thereof, the adverse party may also be examined by the court,
on oath, to disprove such loss and to account for such instrument.
Sec. 68. In any action founded on any negotiable promissory note or
bill of exchange, or in which such note, if produced, might be allowed
as a set-off in the defense of any action, if it appears on the trial that such
note or bill was lo3t while it belonged to the party claiming the amount
due thereupon, parol or other evidence of the contents thereof may be
given on such trial, and, notwithstanding such note or bill was negotiable,
such party shall be entitled to receive the amount due thereon, as if such
note or bill had been produced.
Sec. 69. But to entitle a party to a recovery on a negotiable promis
sory note or bill of exchange which ha3 been lost, he shall execute a bond
to the adverse party in a penalty at least double the amount of such note
or bill, with two sureties, to be approved by the court in which the recov
ery is had, or the clerk thereof, in case no trial has been had, conditioned
to indemnify the adverse party, his heirs, and personal representatives,
against all claims by any other persons on account of such note or bill,
and against all costs and expenses by reason of such claim.
TITLE X.
account books, records, instruments and justices' dockets
as evidence.
Sec. 70. Whenever a party in any cause or proceeding produces at
the trial his account books, and sw ears that the same are his account books
kept for that purpose, that they contain the original entries of charges for
goods, or other articles delivered or work and labor or other services per
formed, or materials found, and that such entries are just to the best of
his knowledge and belief, that said entries are in his own hand writing,
and that they were made at or about the time said goods or other articles
were delivered, said work and labor or other services were performed, or
said materials were found, the party offering such books as evidence, being
subject to all the rules of cross-examination by the adverse party that
would be applicable by such rules to any other witness giving testimony
relating to said books, if it appears upon the examination of said party
that all of the interrogatories in this section contained, are satisfactorily
established in the affirmative, then the said books shall be received as
prima facie evidence of the charges therein contained.
8kO. 71. "Whenever the original entries mentioned in the preceding section are in the hand writing of an agent, servant or clerk of the party,
the oath of such agent, servant or clerk, may in like manner be admitted
to verify the same, and said books are testimony in the same manner as
the books mentioned in the preceding section : provided, that such books
mentioned in this and the preceding section are not admissible as testi
mony of any item of money, delivered at one time, exceeding five dollars,
or of money paid to third persons, or of charges for rent.
Sec. 72. "Where a book has marks which show that the items have
been transferred to a ledger, the book shall not be testimony unless the
ledger is produced.
Sec. 73. Any entries made in a book by a peivon authorized to make
the same, he being dead, may be received as evidence in a case proper
for the admission of such book as evidence, on proof that the same are in
his hand writing, and in a book kept for such entries, without further
verification.
Sec. 74. A copy of the minutes of any conviction and judgment, duly
certified by the clerk in whose custody such minutes are, under his official
seal, together with a copy of the indictment on which the conviction was
had, certified in the same manner, shall be evidence, in all courts and
places, of such conviction and judgment, without the production of the
judgment roll.
Sec. 75. Whenever it becomes necessary in an action before a justice
of the peace to give evidence of a judgment, or other proceedings had
before him, the docket of such judgment, or other proceeding, or a transcript
thereof certified by him, shall be good evidence thereof before such
justice.
Sec. 76. A transcript from the docket of any justice of the peace of
any judgment had before him, of the proceedings in the case previous to
such judgment, of the execution issued thereon, if any, and of the return
to such execution, if any, when certified by such justice, is evidence to
prove the facts contained in such transcript in any court in the county
where such judgment was rendered.
Sec. 77. To entitle such transcript to be read in evidence in a different
county than that in which the judgment was rendered, or the proceedings originated, there shall be attached thereto or indorsed thereon a
certificate of the clerk of the district court of the county in which such
justice resides, under the seal of said court, specifying that the person
subscribing such transcript was at the date of the judgment therein men
tioned, a justice of the peace of such county.
Sec. 78. The proceedings in any cause had before a justice, not rcduced
to writing by said justice, nor being the contents of any paper or
document produced before said justice, unless such paper or document is
lost or destroyed, may be proved by the oath of the justice. In case of
his death or absence they may be proved by producing the original min
utes of such proceeding entered in a book kept by such justice, accom
panied by proof of his hand writing ; or they may be proved by producing
copies of such minutes sworn to by a competent witness, as having been
compared by him with the original entries, with proof that such entries
were in the hand writing of the justice.
Sec. 79. Every certificate of conviction made and filed by a justice
under the provisions of law or a duly certified copy thereof, is evidence in
all courts and places, of the facts therein contained.
Sec. 80. An exemplification of a judgment rendered by any justice
of the peace, in any state or territory of the United States, officially certified by such justice as a full and correct copy of all the proceedings in
"
that case from his docket, with a certificate of magistracy thereon, signed
and authenticated by a clerk of a court of record in the county, where
such judgment was rendered, with the seal thereof attached, is evidence
in any court in this state to prove the facts contained in such exemplifica
tion.
Sec. 81. The court before which an action is pending, or a judge
thereof, may order either party to give to the other, within a specified
time, an inspection and copy, or pcrmisMon to take a copy of any book,
document or paper in his possession or under his control, containing evi
dence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein ; if com
pliance with the order is refused, the court may exclude the book,
document or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence
by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
alleges it to be ; and the court may al?o punish the party refusing. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another
to produce books, papers or documents, when he is examined as a witness.
S'.:c. 82. In actions brought on promissory notes or bills of exchange
^y ,ne indorsee, the possession of the note is prima facie evidence that
the same was indorsed by the persons by whom it purports to be indorsed.
Sec. 83. An indorsement of money received, on any promissory note,
which appears to have been made when it was against the interest of the
holder to make it, is prima facia evidence of the facts therein contained.
Sec. 84. The receipt or certificate signed by the register or receiver
°^ Rnv United States land office, of the entry or purchase of any tract of
land, or of the location of any tract by a military land warrant, is prima
facie evidence in the courts of this state, that the title of the lands men
tioned or described in said receipt or certificate is in the person named
therein, his heirs or assigns.
Sec. 85. Patents issued by the United States of land in the state, or
duplicates thereof, from the records in the general land office of the United
States, certified by the commissioner of such land office, may be recorded
in the registry of deeds of the county in which the land described in the
patent is situated, and the record of such patents or duplicates or copies
of such records certified by the register of deeds, are evidence in like
manner and to the same extent as the records, or transcripts thereof, of
other conveyances of real estate.
Sec. 86. All plats of surveys of public lands certified by the register
°^ tne 'anc* °^lce °? tne district m which such land is situated, to be a true
copy of the certified copy on file in his office of the original plat thereof,
and all certificates by the register of such land office, of the surveys or
entry and location of, or other facts in relation to such lands, taken from
the books of such land office, or from the certificate indorsed on the copy
of the original plat on file therein, are prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated. The certificate of the county surveyor or any of his depu
ties, shall be admitted as legal evidence, but the same may be explained
or rebutted by other evidence.
SEc. 87. All conveyances of real estate and other instruments au•
i , , . ^ , , .... i ,ij j
thonzed by law to be recorded, and which are acknowledged or proved
118 provided by law, and, if the same have been recorded, the record or a
transcript thereof, certified by the register is whose office the same is recorded, may be read in evidence without further proof, but the effect of
, ' . , » , , , , , . * , f.
such evidence may be rebutted by other competent testimony.
Sec. 88. The original certificates and records of marriage, made by
tne judge, justice or minister, as prescribed by law, and the record there
of by the clerk of the district court, or a copy of such record duly certi
fied by such clerk, shall be received in all courts and places as presumptive
evidence of the fact of such marriage.
Sec. 89. When the fact of marriage is required or offered to be
proved before any court, evidence of the admission of such fact by the
party against whom the proceeding is instituted, or of general repute, or
of cohabitation as married persons, or any other circumstantial or pre
sumptive evidence from which the fact may be inferred, shall be competent.
Sue. 90. In all prosecutions for forging or counterfeiting any notes or
bills of any. banking company or corporation, or for uttering, publishing,
or tendering in payment as true, any forged or counterfeit bank bills or
notes, or for being possessed thereof with the intent to utter and pass
them as true, the testimony of the president and cashier of such banks
may be dispensed with, if their place of residence is without this state, or
more than forty miles from the place of trial ; and the testimony of any
person acquainted with the signature of the president or cashier of such
banks, or who has knowledge of the difference in the appearance of tho
true and counterfeit bills or notes thereof, may be admitted to prove that
any such bills or notes are counterfeit.
Sec. 91. In all prosecutions for forging or counterfeiting any note,
certiticate, bill of credit, or security issued on behalf of the United States,
or on behalf of any state or territory, or for uttering, publishing, or tendering
in payment as true, any such forged or counterfeit note, certificate,
bill of credit, or security, or for being possessed thereof with intent to
utter and pass the same as true, the certificate under oath of the secretary
of the treasury, or of the treasurer of the United Slates, or of the secre
tary or treasurer of any state or territory on whose behalf such note,
certificate, bill of credit, or security purports to have been issued, shall be
admitted as evidence for the purpose of proving the same to be forged or
counterfeit.
Sec. 92. Proof of actual penetration into the body is sufficient to bustain
an indictment for rape, or for the crime against nature.
Sec. 93. A confession of a defendant, whether made in the course of
judicial proceeding*, or to a private person, can not be given in evidence
against him, when made under the influence of fear produced by threats,
nor is it sufficient to warrant his conviction, without evidence that the
offense charged has been committed.
Sec. 94. A conviction can not be had upon the testimony of an accomplice
unless he is corroborated by such other evidence as tends to convict the defendant of the commission of the offense, or the circumstances
'
thereo .
Skc. 95. In all crinrnal prosecutions or indictments for libel, the truth
may be given in evidence ; and if it appears to the jury that the matter
charged a* libelous is true, and was published with good motives and iusti_ . , , ■Hi , i • L ii l ■ ■ i
nable ends, the party shall be acquitted ; and the jury shall nave the right
to determine the law and the fact
Sec. 96. Divorces shall not be granted on the sole confession.;, admissions, or testimony of the parties, either in or out of court.
Section 1. When two or more persons are interested in real propert^
^ jQmt tenant3, or m tenants in common, in which one or more of them
have an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may be brought
by one or more of such persons against the others, in the district court of
the proper county, for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights
and interests of the persons interested therein, or a sale of such property,
or a part of it, if it appears that a partition cannot be had without great
prejudice to the owner*
Sec. 2. The summons shall be addressed by name to all the owners
an(j |jeQ noi^ers wno are known, and generally to all persons unknown,
having or claiming an interest in the property.
Sec. 3. The interest of all persons in the property, whether by way
Gf owner8hip or lien, and whether such persons are known or unknown,
shall be set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as
known to the plaintifff, and if any one or more of the parties or the share
or quantity of interest of any of the parties is unknown to the plaintifff or
uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depends upon
executory devise, or the remainder is a contingent remainder so that such
parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.
The complaint shall also contain an allegation of the cash value of the
property, and shall be verified.
Sec. 4. Such action shall be governed by the rules and provisions applicable
to civil actions, including the right of appeal, except that, when
service of the summons is made by publication, it shall be accompanied by
a brief description of the property sought to be divided, and except as
herein otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 5. Judgment of partition shall not be rendered in any case until
the title to the property and the rights of the parties are established
by evidence, unless upon written stipulation of the parties to be affected
thereby.
Sec. 6. The title and rights of the parties, respectively, being duly
proved or admitted, the court shall render judgment that partition be made
accordingly, and appoint three disinterested and judicious citizens of the
county, referees, to make partition of the estate, and set off each share of
the several persons interested, according to their respective rights as de
termined in the action.
Sec. 7. When partition is made, the referees shall divide the property,
and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality
and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective rights of the
parties, as determined by the court, designating the several portions by
proper land marks, and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assist
ants, to aid them therein. They shall make report of their proceedings,
specifying the manner of executing their trust, describing the property
divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular description
of each share.
Sec. 8. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if neeessary,
appoint new referees; upon the report being confirmed, judgment
shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judgment
is binding and conclusive :
First. On all the parties named therein and their legal representatives
who have at the time any interest in the property divided, as owners in
fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder or
inheritance of such property, after the determination of a particular estate
therein, or who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest
in the property, or who have an interest in an individual share thereof, as
tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower ;
Second. On all persons interested in the property who may be known,
to whom notice has been given of the application for partition, by publica
tion ; and,
Third. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons or
either of them.
Sec. 9. But such judgment and partition cannot affect tenants or persons
having claims as tenants in dower, by the curtesy, or for life, to the
whole of the property which is the subject of the partition ; nor can such
judgment and partition preclude any person except such as are specified
in the last section, from claiming title to the property in question, or from
controverting the title of the parties between whom the partition is made.
Sec. 10. When there is a lien on an undivided interest or estate of
any of the parties, such lien, if partition is made, is thenceforth a charge
only on the share assigned to such party, but such share shall be first
charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition in preference
to such lien.
Sec. 11. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the
court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by law to the
referees, shall be paid by the plaintifff, and may be allowed as part of the
charges.
Sec. 12. If it is alleged in the complaint, and established by evidence,
that the property or any part of it is so situated that partition cannot be
made without great prejudice to the owners, the court, except as provided
in the next section, may order a sale thereof, and for that purpose may ap
point one or more referees ; or when, without such allegation and proof,
referees are appointed to make partition, who report that the property, or
any distinct portion thereof, is so situated that a partition thereon cannot
be made without great prejudice to the owners, and the court is satisfied
that such report is correct, it may thereupon by an order direct the referees
to sell the property or portions so situated.
Sec. 13. When there are liens on the property amounting to more
than the value thereof as stated in the complaint, or when, after due ex
amination, it appears probable that, the property will not sell for a sum in
cash equal to the amount of the liens thereon existing, with costs and ex
penses of sale, no sale shall be made.
Sec. 14. When the premises consist of a mill or other tenement
wn'ca cannot be divided without damage to the owners, or when any speo
ified part of the estate is of greater value than either party's share and can
not be divided without damage to the owners, the whole estate, or the part
thereof so incapable of division, may be set off to any one of the parties
who will accept it, he paying to any one or more of the others such sums
of money as the referees award to make the partition just and equal, or
the referees may assign the exclusive occupancy and enjoyment of the
whole, or the part, to each of the parties alternately for certain specified
times, in proportion to their respective interests.
Sec. 15. When the whole or any specific part of the premises is thus
assigned, the person entitled for the time being to the exclusive occupancy,
shall be liable to his co-tenants for any injury to the premises, occasioned
by his misconduct, as a tenant for years under a common lease without ex
press covenants would be liable to his landlord ; and the other tenants in
common may have their remedy therefore against him by action, jointly or
severally at their election.
Sec. 16. While an estate is in the exclusive occupancy of a co-tenant
under such an assignment, he shall be entitled to the same remedy against
whoever trespasses upon or otherwise injures the premises as if he held the
same under a lease for the term for which they were so assigned to him ;
and he and all the other tenants in common shall be entitled to recover
such other and furlher damages as they have sustained by the same tres
pass or injury, in like manner as if the premises had been leased by them.
Joint damages recovered by such tenants in common by force of this or
the preceding section, shall be apportioned and divided among them accord
ing to their respective rights, by the court in which the judgment is
recovered.
Sec. 17. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there is an estate by the curtesy, in dower or for life, or years, in an undi
vided share of the property, the whole of such estate may be set off in any
part of the property not ordered to be sold.
Sec. 18. In every case proof shall be made of the existence, priority
and amount of any liens on the property of which partition is sought, in
such manner and upon such notice to those interested as the court shall
direct, and if said liens do not amount to the value of the premises as ad
mitted or proved, a sale may be ordered by referees under the direction of
the court.
Sec. 19. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property shall
De applied, under the direction of the court, as follows :
First. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action ;
Second. To pay the costs of the reference ;
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens, in their order
of priority, by payment of the sums due, and to become due, the amount
remaining due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment ;
Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according
to their respective shares.
Sec. 20. The proceedings, to ascertain the amount of encumbrances,
and to determine their priority, as above provided, or those herein authorized to determine the rights of parties to funds paid into court, shall not
delay the sale nor affect any other party whose rights are not involved in
such proceedings.
Sec. 21. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels, belonging to persons who have become parties to the action, and who are known,
are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such parties,
for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be
ascertained and adjudged by the court ; further testimony may be taken
in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may,
if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in contro
versy, by pleadings, as in an original action.
Sec. 22. All sales of real property made by referees under this chapter,
shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder for cash, upon
notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property on
execution ; the notice shall state the terms cf the sale, and if the property,
or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or specific
lien, that shall be stated in the notice.
Sec. 23. "When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, or
for life, or years, in the whole or any part of the property in question, has
been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at
the time of the order for sale, and the person entitled to such estate has
been made a party to the action, such estate may be first set off out of any
part of the property, and a sale made of such parcel, subjoct to the prior
unsold estate of such tenant therein ; but if in the judgment of the court,
a due regard to the interest of all the parties requires that such estate be
also sold, the sale may be so ordered.
Sec. 24. If a sale of the property, including such estate, is ordered,
the estate and interest of every such tenant or person passes thereby ; and
the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property, discharged
from all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest, whether the same
relate to the individual share of a joint tenant, or tenant in common, or to
the whole, or any part of the property sold.
Sec. 25. The persons entitled to such estate, in dower, tenancy by
curtesy, or tenancy for life, or years, whose estate has been sold, are entitied to receive such sums in gross as may be deemed, upon principles of
law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and
which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an
instrument under seal duly acknowledged or proved, in the same manner
as deeds for the purpose of record.
Sec. 26. If such consent is not given at or before the report of sale,
the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds
o" the sale, deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be
invested for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate in dower, by
the curtesy, or for life, and order the same to be deposited in court for that
purpose.
Sec. 27. The proportions of the proceeds of the sale to be invested,
shall be ascertained and determined in the several cases, as follows :
First. If an estate in dower is included in the order of sale, its proportion
shall be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or
of the sale of the individual share in such property, upon which the claim
of dower existed ; i
Second. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life, or years,
is included in the order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole proceeds
of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual share thereof
in which such estate may be. And in all cases the proportion of the ex
penses of proceedings shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 28. If the persons entitled to such estate in dower, by the curor
ror or years, are unknown, the court shall provide for the
protection of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if
they were known and had appeared.
Sec. 29. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears that a marr'ed
woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the property, divided
or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future right or estate
therein, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such
inchoate, contingent or vested right or estate, according to the principles
of law applicable to annuities and survivorships, and direct such propor
tion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in such
manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.
Sec. 30. A married woman may release such right, interest, or estate
^0 ner husband, and acknowledge the same in the manner required by law,
in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by married women, before any
officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds, or if executed out
of this state, before any officer residing in the state, territory, district or
county, where the acknowledgment is made, who is authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state. Upon the release,
the share of the proceeds of the side arii-ing from her contingent interest,
sua^ ue P*^ t0 her husband, and the release, or the payment, investment,
or otherwise securing of a share of the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar
against such right, estate or claim.
Sec. 31. The terms of the sale shall be made known at the time ; and
^ 'he premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separ
ately.
Sec. 32. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, can be interested in the purchase, nor can a guardian of
.„ ',. , • , f « i b . ■
an infant party be interested in the purchase ot any real property, being
the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of this section are void.
Sec. 33. After completing the sale, the referees shall report the same
*° t'ie cour^' w'ln a description of the different parcels of land sold to each
purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the terms
and conditions of the sale ; the report shall be filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court of the county where the property is situated.
Sec. 34. If the sale is confirmed by the court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances, which they are authorized
to do ; such order may also give directions to them respecting the
disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 35. When a party, entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds
of the sale as belongs to him, and shall also pay over to the plaintifff or
his attorney, and take his receipt for, the costs and charges of the action.
Sec. 36. The conveyance shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in
^ pr0perty jn any way, who have been named as parties in the action,
and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons
has been properly served, and against all persons claiming from them or
cither of them.
Sec. 37. The conveyances shall also be a bar against all persons having
specific or general liens or encumbrances, by judgment, on any undivided share or interest in the premises sold, or who have been served wiih
notice, as prescribed by section eighteen, and also against all persons having specific liens of any undivided share or interest therein, who have
been made parties to the action ; but no creditor having such specific lien
can be affected by the sale or conveyance, unless he has been made a
party. ,
Sec. 38. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the state, who has no legal representative
within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate
subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, or tenant for life, or years, which are paid into court or deposited with an officer,
by order of the court, the same shall be invested in securities on interest,
for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
Sec. 39. When an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall
be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of
the district court of the county where the papers are filed, and his suc
cessors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 40. The clerk by whom an investment is made, and his suecessors
in office, shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due.
and apply and invest the same as the court may direct ; and shall file in
his office, all securities taken, and keep an account book, provided and
kept for that purpose, in the clerk's office, free for inspection by all per
sons, of investments and monies received by him thereon, and the dispo
sition thereof.
Sec. 41. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between
the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice
to the rights and interest of some of them, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party to another for equality of partition ;
but such compensation cannot be required to be made to others by owners
unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it appears that he has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be
promoted thereby.
Sec. 42. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general guardian, or
to the special guardian appointed for him in the action, if such general or
special guardian, before the payment of such share into court, has given
the security required by statute.
Sec. 43. The guardian who is entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person, adjudged incapable
of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property has been
sold, may receive in behalf of such person his share in the proceeds of
such real property from the referees, if the guardian, before the money is
paid into court, has executed with sufficient sureties, an undertaking ap
proved by the judge of the district court, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the
person entitled or to his legal representative.
Sec. 44. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is entitled
to real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other man
ner, to authorize his being made party to an action for the partition thereof,
may consent to a partition without action, and agree upon the share to be
eet off <(to such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a release
in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts to which they may
be respectively entitled, upon an order from the court
Sec. 45. The state may be made a party to an action for the sale or
partition of real property, in which case the summons and complaint shall
be served upon the attorney general, who shall appear on behalf of the
state.
Sec. 46. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the> parties respectively entitled to share
in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included and specified in the judgment ; in that case they are
a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by exe
cution against the parties separately. Where, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the expense of
such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.
CHAPTEE LXXY.
ACTIONS CONCERNING, AND RIGHTS IN REAL
PROPERTY.
Section
1. Action to determine adverse claim to real
property, allowed, when.
2. Effect of disclaimer or default in such action
8. Plaintiff must show denial of his right, when
4. Effect of termination of right during pendency
of action.
6. Who may have new trial in action to recover
real property.
6. Judgment, how entered under last section.
7. Rule of damages—improvements allowed as
set-off, when
8. Buildings or fences erected In good faith, re
movable, when.
9. Court may grant order for survey of property.
10. Order shall contain, what.
11. Mortgagee not entitled to possession of proper
ty mortgaged, without foreclosure.
12. Purchaser of land sold on execution may re
cover for injury thereto, after sale.
13. Action not prejudiced by sale of land while
proceedings are pending.
14. District court may pass title to land by judg
ment—effect of judgment when recorded,
lfi. Action by landlord against tenant, equivalent
to demand and re-entry—tenant, how re
stored to possession.
Section
16. Filing notice of li$ pendens, effect of.
17 Plaintiff muy serve written notice on what de
fendants—effect of such notice
18 Person In possession of land, how liable for
rent.
19 Such rent recoverable In civil (
in such case.
20 Limitation of two preceding Factions
21- Estates at will, how determined—Ic
to quit.
22 Rights of aliens as to real estate.
28. Reversioner may sue for injury to inheritance
24 Oue joint tenant may maintain action against
co-tenant, when.
25- Nuisance defined—action to abate or enjoin
nuisance.
26 Action for waste— rule of damages.
27 Judgment in such case.
28 Rule of damages in actions for willfully cutting
trees, fcc.
29. When damnges may be mitigated.
30 Cutting timber on highway.
31. Damages in case of forcible eviction.
32 Rule of damages in case of forcible entry cr
detention.
Section 1. An action may be brought by any person in possession,
by himself, or his tenant of real property, against any person who claims
an estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of determin
ing such adverse claim, estate or interest.
Sec. 2. If the defendant in such action, disclaims in his answer, any
interest or estate in the property, or suffers judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff cannot recover costs.
Sec. 3. In an action for the recovery of dower, before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real property, against
a co-tenant, the plaintifff shall show, in addition to the evidence of his
right, that the defendant either denied the plaintifff's right, or did some
act amounting to such denial.
Sec. 4. In an action for the recovery of real property, when the plaintifff
shows a right to recover, at the time the action was commenced, but
it appears that such right has terminated during the pendency of the action,
the verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact, and the
plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the property.
Sec. 5. Any person against whom a judgment for the recovery of
real property is rendered, may within six months after written notice of
the judgment, upon the payment of all costs and damages recovered
thereby, demand another trial, by notice in writing to the adverse party,
or to his attorney in the action, and thereupon the action may be brought
to trial by either party.
Sec. 6. The judgment given on a trial to be had under the last section, shall be annexed to the judgment roll of the former trial, and the
judgment last given shall be the final determination of the rights of the
parties. If a prior judgment has been executed, restitution shall be ordered
as the last judgment may determine the rights of the parties, and
the same may be enforced by execution.
Sec. 7. Damages for withholding the property recovered, shall not
exceed the fair value of the property, exclusive of the use of improvements, made by the defendant for a period not exceeding six years ; and
when permanent improvements have been made by a defendant or those
under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims
of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value thereof shall be allowed as a set
off against the damages of the plaintifff for the use of the property.
Sec. 8. Any person who erects any building, tenement or fences upon
land, in good faith, and having color of title, and good reason to believe
that the legal title to such lands ia or was vested in him, when, in fact,
such title was or is not in him, and he has no legal or equitable rights
whereby he can enforce a conveyance to him of such title, such person
shall be eutitled to and may remove such buildings, tenements or fences,
from said land, doing no unnecessary damage to the land, and in so doing
shall only be liable for the actual damage done the land : provided, that
no person shall remove a building or fence under the provisions of this section, unless he removes the same within sixty days after the determin
ation of the action or proceeding, respecting the title to the premises on
which such building or fence is erected, as contemplated herein, or within
sixty days after notice to remove the same, given by the holder of thelegal title, unless within said sixty days an action is commenced and pros
ecuted to try such question of title.
Sec. 9. The court in which an action is pending for the recovery of
real property, may on motion, upon notice by either party, and for cause
shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon the
property and make survey and measurement thereof for the purpose of
the action.
Sec. 10. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon such party may
enter upon the property with necessary surveyors and assistants, and
make such survey and measurement, but if any unnecessary injury is
done to the property, he is liable therefore.
Sec. 11. A mortage of real property is not to be deemed a convey
ance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of
the real property without a foreclosure.
Sec. 12. When real property is sold on execution, the purchaser
thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest, may, after
his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the property
by the tenant in possession, after the sale, and before possession is deliv
ered under the conveyance.
Sec. 13. An action for the recovery of real property, against a per
son in possession or in receipt of the rents and profits thereof, cannot be
prejudiced by an alienation made by such person, either before or after
the commencement of the action, but in such case if the defendant has no
property sufficient to satisfy the damages recovered for the withholding of
possession, such damages may be collected by action against the purchaser.
Sec. 14. The district court has power to pass the title to real estate
by a judgment, without any other act to be done on the part of the defend
ant, when such appears to be the proper mode to carry its judgments into
effect ; and such judgment being recorded in the registry of deeds of the
county where such real estate is situated, shall, while in force, be as effect
ual to transfer the same, as the deed of the defendant.
Sec. 15. When in case of a lease of real property, and the failure of
the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to re-enter for
such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the property,
and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a re-entry upon
the property ; but if at any time before the expiration of six months after
possession obtained by the plaintifff on recovery in the action, the lessee or
his successor in interest, as to the whole or part of the property, pays to
the plaintifff, or brings into court the amount of rent then in arrear, with
interest and the costs of the action, and performs the other covenants on
the part of the lessee, he may be restored to the possession, and hold the
property according to the terms of the original lease.
Sec. 16. In actions affecting the title to, lien upon, or interest in real
property, the plaintifff, at the time of the commencement of the action, or
at any time afterward, may file for record in the office of the register of
deeds of each county, in which the real property so affected, or some part
thereof is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the
real property in the county affected thereby ; and when the plaintifff
amends his complaint by altering the description of the premises affected
thereby, or so as to extend his claim against the premises, he 6hall file a
new notice. And the register of deeds shall record all such notices in the
same book and in the same manner as mortgages are recorded. From the
time of filing such notice, and from such time only, the pendency of the
action shall be notice to purchasers or encumbrancers of the rights and
equities of the plaintifff to the real property in said notice described.
Sec. 17. If in any such action there are defendants against whom no
personal claim is made, the plaintifff may serve upon such defendanls at
the time of the service of the summons on them, a written noiice, sub
scribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth the general object of
the action, a description of the property affected by it, and that no personal
claim is made against such defendants. If any such defendant on whom
such notice is so served, unreasonably defends the action, he shall pay full
costs to the plaintifff.
Sec. 18. Every person in possession of land, out of which any rent
is due, whether it was originally demised in fee, or for any other estate of
freehold, or for any term of years, shall be liable for the amount or propor
tion of rent due from the land in his possession, although it is only a part
of what was originally demised.
Sec. 19. Such rent may be recovered in a civil action, and the deed,
demise, or other instrument in writing, if there is any, showing the provisions of the lease, may be used in evidence by either party, to prove the
amount due from the defendant.
Sec. 20. Nothing contained in the two preceding sections shall deprive
landlords of any other legal remedy for the recovery of their rent, whether
secured to them by their lea-es or provided by law.
Sec 21. Estates at will may be determined by either party by three
months' notice in writing for that purpose, given to the other party ; and
when the rent reserved is payable at periods of less than three months,
the time of such notice shall be sufficient if it is equal to the interval be
tween the times of payment ; and in all cases of neglect or refusal to pay
the rent due on a lease at will, fourteen days' notice to quit, given in
writing by the landlord to the tenant, is sufficient to determine the lease.
Sec. 22. Aliens may take, hold, transmit and convey real estate ; and
no title to real estate shall be invalid on account of the alienage of any
former owner.
Sec. 23. A person seized of an estate in remainder or reversion, may
maintain a civil action for any injury done to the inheritance, notwithstanding an intervening estate for life or years.
Sec. 24. One joint tenant or tenant in common, and his executors or
administrators, may maintain an action against his co-tenant, for receiving
inore than his just proportion of the rents or profits of the estate owned
by them as joint tenants or tenants in common.
Sec. 25. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive to the semes, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance,
and the subject of an action ; such action may be brought by any person
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is
lessened by the nuisance, and by the judgment, the nuisance may be en
joined or abated, as well as damages recovered.
Sec. 2(5. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower, for life, or
years, joint tenant, or tenant in common, of real property, commits waste
thereon, any person injured by the waste may bring an action against him
therefore, iu which action there may be judgment for treble damages, for
feiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the property.
Sec. 27. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction can only be given in
favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the action
to be equal to the value of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or to
have been done in malice.
Sec. 28. Whoever cuts down or carries off any wood or underwood,
tree or timber, or girdles, or otherwise injures any tree, timber, or shrub,
on the land of another person, or in the street or highway in front of any
person's house, village or- city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the com
mons, or public grounds of any city or town, or on the street or highway
in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such
land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of damages which may
be assessed therefore, in a civil action in any court having jurisdiction,
except as provided in the next section.
Sec. 29. If upon trial of such action it appears that the trespass was
casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause to believe
that the land on which the trespass was committed was his own, or that
of the person in whose service, or by whose direction the act was done,
judgment shall be given for only the single damages assessed in the
action.
Sec. 30. Nothing in the last two sections authorizes the recovery of
more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood land
for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.
Sec. 31. If a person put out of real property in a forcible manner
without lawful authority, or being so put out, is afterward kept out by
force, recovers damages therefore, judgment may be entered for three times
the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.
Sec. 82. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if a person,
claiming in good faith under color of title to be rightfully in possession, so
j, QJ. fept out) recovers damages therefore, judgment may be entered
in his favor for three times the amount at which the actual damages are
assessed.
OHAPTEE LXXYI.
ACTIONS RESPECTING CORPORATIONS.
SlCTIOIC
1. Chapter embraces all corporations and associ- 13. Injunction, how Issued.
ations. 14. lleeelver mar be appointed.
2. Foreign corporations may prosecute, how. 16. Who may be made parties.
8. Limitation on actions by foreign corporations. 16. Creditor may file supplemental complaint,
4. Actions against corporations, how commenced. when.
6. Corporations may be restrained by injunction. 17. Action by creditor, when brought.
6. Injunction may issue, when. 18. Proceedings in snch action.
7. Power of district court oyer officers of corpora- 19. In case of insolvency, court may pn
uwur w ui.-Li i. l wuii wTa wuiviua in wi^.*- 19. In case of insolvency, court may proceed, how.
tlons. 20. Proceedings on final judgment.
8. Preceding section, how construed. 21. Stockholders liable, when.
9. Stock, &c., of corporation, sequestered, when. 22. Court to dctermlue liabilities of officers and
10. Property, how distributed on final judgment. stockholders.
11. When corporations may be adjudged dissolved. 23. Court may order publication of notice to cred12. Banking corporations, enjoined, wheu. itors, when.
Section 1. This chapter embraces all corporations, including in such
designation, all associations having any corporate rights, whether created
, . , 11
by special acts or under general laws.
Sec. 2. A foreign corporation may prosecute in the courts of this
state, in the same manner as corporations created under the laws thereof.
Sec. 3. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action in this state
upon an obligation or liability arising out of, or in consideration of an act
-which is contrary to the law or policy of the state, or which is thereby
forbidden in respect to corporations or associations therein, whose general
business is similar to that of such foreign corporation.
Sec. 4. Actions may be commenced against corporations whether
created under the laws of this state or any other state or country, except
as otherwise expressly provided, in the same manner as other civil actions,
and where service of summons is made according to the statute, the
plaintifff* may proceed thereupon in the same manner as in civil actions
against natural persons.
Sec. 5. Upon a complaint filed under the direction of the attorney
general in any district court, such court has power to restrain by injunction, any corporation from assuming or exercising any franchise, liberty,
or privilege, or transacting any business not authorized by the act by or
under which such corporation was created, and to restrain any individuals
from exercising any corporate rights, privileges, or franchises not granted
to them by law.
Sec. 6. Such injunction maybe issued before the coming in of the
answer, upon satisfactory proof that the defendant complained of, has
usurped, exercised, or claimed any franchise, privilege, liberty, or corporate
right not granted to it.
Sec. 7. The district court may compel the officers of any corporation,
First. To account for their official conduct in the management and
disposition of the funds and property committed to their charge ;
Second. May decree and compel payment by them, to the corporation
which they represent, and to its creditors of all sums of money, and of
the value of all property which they have acquired to themselves, or
transferred to others, or have lost or wasted by any violation of their
duties as such officers ;
Third, May suspend any such trustee, or other officer from exercising
his office whenever it appears that he has abused his trust ;
Fourth. May remove any trustee, or officer from his office, upon proof
or conviction of gross misconduct ;
Fifth. May direct, if necessary, a new election to be held, by the body
or board duly authorized for that purpose, to supply any vacancy created
by such removal ;
Sixth. May set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees,
or other officers of any corporation, contrary to the provisions of law, or
for purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects of such corpora
tion, in cases where the person receiving such alienation knew the purpose
for which the same was made ; and
Seventh. May restrain and prevent any such alienation in cases where
it is threatened, or there is good reason to apprehend that it is intended.
Sec. 8. Whenever any visitorial powers over any corporation are
vested by statute in any corporate body or public officer, the provisions
of the preceding section shall not be construed to impair the powers so
vested.
Sec. 9. Whenever a judgment is obtained against any corporation
incorporated under the laws of this state, and an execution issued thereon
is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, upon the complaint of the
person obtaining such judgment or his representatives, the district court
within the proper county, may sequestrate the stock, property, things in
action, and effects of such corporation, and appoint a receiver of the same.
Sec. 10. Upon a final judgment on any such complaint, the court
shall cause a just and fair distribution of the property of such corporation,
and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among the fair and honest
creditors of such corporation, in proportion to their debts respectively.
Sec. 11. Whenever any incorporated company remains insolvent for
one year, or for one year neglects or refuses to pay and discharge its
notes, or other evidences of debt, or for one year suspends the ordinary
and lawful business of such corporation, it shall be deemed to have sur
rendered the rights, privileges, and franchises, granted by any act of
incorporation, or acquired under the laws of this state, and shall be
adjudged to be dissolved.
Sec. 12. Whenever any corporation having banking powers, or the
power to make loans on pledges or deposits, or authorized by law to
make insurances, becomes insolvent, or unable to pay its debts, or neglects
or refuses to pay its notes or evidences of debt on demand, or violates any
of the provisions of its act or acts of incorporation, or of any other law,
binding on such corporation, the district court may, by injunction, restra'n
such corporation and its officers, from exercising any of its corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, and from collecting or receiving ar.y
debts or demands, and from paying out, or in any way transferring cr
delivering to any person, any of the monies, property, or effects of such
corporation, until such court shall otherwise order,
Sec. Such injunction may be issued on the complaint of the
attorney general, in behalf of the state, or on the complaint of any cred
itor or stockholder of such corporation. Whenever such injunction issues
against any bank for any violation of its charter, on the complaint of any
creditor, the court shall proceed to final judgment in such case, and adjudge
a forfeiture, if the proof is sufficient, notwithstanding such creditor may
settle with such corporation, and relinquish his claim against said corpora
tion, and in all such cases, the attorney general, or any creditor, shall have
the right to appear and prosecute Buch action ; and such acticn sliall not
be discontinued, if either of them so appear and prosecute the same.
Sec. 14. The court in any stage of the proceedings, may appoint one
or more receivers to take charge of the property and effects of such
corporation, and to collect, sue for, and recover the debts and demands
that are due, and the property that belongs to such corporation, who shall
in all respects be subject to the control of the court.
Sec. 15. If such application is made by a creditor of any corporation,
whose directors or stockholders are made liable bylaw lor the payment
of such debts, in any event or contingency, such debtors or stockholdeis,
or any of them, may be made parties to the action, either at the time of
filing the complaint or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, when
ever it becomes necessary to enforce such liability.
Sec. 16 If any creditor of a corporation desires to make srch dirertors
or stockholders parties to the action, after a judgment therein against
, , r . 1 i i i • c •
the corporation, he may do so on tiling a supplemental loniplaint against
them, founded upon such judgment ; and if such decree was rendered in
a proceeding instituted by the attorney general, such creditor may, on his
application, be made complainant therein, and may in like manner make
the directors and stockholders, sought to be charged, defendants in such
action.
Sec. 17. Whenever any creditor of a corporation seeks to charge the
directors, trustee? or other superintending officers of such corporation, or
the stockholders thereof, on account of any liability created by law, 1 e
may file his complaint for that purpose, in any district court which pos
sesses jurisdiction to enforce such liability.
Bto. 18. The court shall proceed thereon as in other cases, and when
necessary, shall cause an account to be taken of the property and debts
due to and from such corporation, and shall appoint one or more receivers,
Sec. 19. If on the coming in of the answer, or upon the taking of
any 9Ucn account, it appears that such corporation is insolvent, and that it
has no property or effects to satisfy such creditors, the court may proceed,
without appointing any receiver, to ascertain the respective liabilities of
such directors and stockholders, and enforce the same by its judgment as
in other cases.
Sf.c. 20. Upon a final judgment in any such action, to restrain a corpQratJon^ or against directors or stockholders, the court shall cause a just
and fair distribution of the property of such corporation, and of the pro
ceeds thereof to be made among its creditors.
Sec. 21. In all cases in which the directors or other officers of a corporation,
or the stockholders thereof, are made parties to an action in
which a judgment is rendered, if the property of such corporation is
insufficient to discharge its debts, the court shall proceed to compel each
stockholder to pay in the amount due and remaining unpaid on the shares
of stock held by him, or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the
debts of the company.
Sec. 22. If the debts of the company remain unsatisfied, the court
shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the directors or other
officers, and of the stockholders, and to adjudge the amount payable by
each, and enforce the judgment as in other cases.
Sec. 23. Whenever any action is brought against any corporation, its
directors or other superintending officers or stockholders, according to the
provisions of this chapter, the court, whenever it appears necessary or
proper, may order notice to be published, in such manner as it shall direct,
requiring all the creditors of such corporation to exhibit their claims and
become parties to the action within a reasonable time, not less than six
months from the first publication of such order, and in default thereof to
be precluded from all benefit of the judgment which shall be rendered in
such action, and from any distribution which shall be made under such
judgment.
CHAPTER LXXYII.
ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADMINIS
TRATORS, AND HEIRS.
Section *
1. What muses of Action BiirviT*.
2. Action, in case of death of party Injured,
maintainable, when and by whom—rule of
damages in ouch cnw.
3- Judgment against administrator, evidence of
assets, when.
4 Real estate of deceased not bound by Judgment
against executor, et als.
6- Executor, de son tort, how liable.
6. Foreign executor may bring action In this state,
how.
7- Next of kin liable for debts, when.
8- Liable In what amount.
9. May compel contribution.
10. Legatees liable for debts, when.
11. Costs, how apportioned.
12. Judgment, bow discharged.
13- Heirs and devisees, to what extent liable for
debts.
14. Heirs not liable, when.
15- Limitation of last section.
16. Heirs liable for debts. In what proportionaction must be brought within one year.
Section
IT. Devisees and legatees, how liable to contribute.
18. New parties may be Joined In action, when.
19. Issue in action, how formed and determined.
20. Estate of deceased heir liable, when.
21. Contribution.
22. Parties liable, shall pay debts In what order.
23. No preference between debts of same class.
24. Defences by next of kin, et als.
25. J udgment in what amount rendered, In certain
cases.
26. Payment of debt of prior class may be proved.
27. Real property descended, liable, when—judg
ment is prior Hen on such property.
2fl. Heir personally liable, when.
29 Contribution among heirs and devisees.
30. Devisees personally liable, when. *
31. Liable for deficiency.
32. Limitation of last two sections. ' '
33. Devisees liable to action same ss heirs.
34. Child born after making of will, how provided
for.
36- Provisions of last two, spcttrms apply to «vsry
witness to a will who Ib also devisee.
Section 1. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person,
dies with the person of either party, except as provided in the next se<?tion. All other causes of action, by one against another, whether arising
on contract or not, survive to the personal representatives of the former,
and against the personal representatives of the latter.
Skc. 2. When death is caused by the wrongful act or omission of any
party, the personal representatives of the deceased may maintain an
action, if he might have maintained an action, had he lived, for an injury
caused by the same act or omission ; but the action shall be commenced
within two years after the act or omission, by which the death was caused ;
^ne (jamageg thereon can not exceed five thousand dollars, and the amount
recovered, is to be for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin,
to be distributed to them in the same proportions, as the personal prop
erty of the deceased person,
Sec. 3. When a judgment is taken against an administrator or executor Up0n failure to answer, it is not to be deemed evidence of assets in
. . . r . . . , _. „ -, i
his hands, unless it appears that the complaint alleged assets, and was
personally served on him.
Sec. 4. The real property which belonged to a deceased person, is
not DOun<^ or m my way affected by a judgment against his executors or
administrators, nor liable to be sold, by virtue of an execution issued upon
such judgment.
Sec. 5. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own wrong,
for navmg taken, received, or interfered with the property of a deceased
person ; but is responsible to the executor, as general or special adminis
trator of such deceased person, for the value of all property so taken or
received, and for all damages caused by his acts, to the estate of the
deceased.
Sec. 6. Any administrator or executor duly appointed in any other
8tate or country, may commence and prosecute any action in any court of
this state, in his capacity of executor or administrator, in like manner and
under like restrictions as a resident may do ; provided, that before com
mencing any action, an authenticated copy of his appointment as such
executor or administrator is filed in the probate court of the county in
•which such action is to be commenced.
Sec. 7. The next of kin of a deceased person, are liable to an action
ov fl crC(]itor of the estate, to recover the distributive shares received out
of" such estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy his debt ;
file action may be against all the next of kin jointly, or against any one
or more of them.
Skc. 8. In such action, the plaintifff may recover the value of all the
assets received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary to satisfy
his demand ; and the amount of the recovery shall be apportioned among
the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets received by each ;
and no allowance or deduction can be made from such amount, on account
of there beinjr other relatives to whom assets have also been delivered.
Sec. 9. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery is had
pursuant to the last section, may maintain an action against all the other
relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets have been paid jointly,
or any one or more of them, for a just and equal contribution, and may
recover of each defendant such amount as bears the same proportion to
the whole sum collected of the plaintifff, as the value of the assets deliv
ered to such defendant bears to the value of all the assets delivered to all
the relations of the deceased.
Sec. 10. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the testator,
t0 recover the value of a legacy received by them. The action may be
brought against all, or any one or more of the legatees. In such action,
the plaintifff cannot recover unless he shows :
First. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator
of the deceased, to his heirs or next of kin ; or,
Second. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some
other creditor ; or,
Third. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demands of the
plaintifff ; and in the last case he can recover only the deficiency.
The whole amount which the plaintifff can recover, shall be apportioned
among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the amount of their
legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of each
legatee.
Sec. 11. If an action is brought against several next of kin jointly,
or against several legatees jointly, for assets delivered to them, and a recovery
had against them, the costs of such action shall be apportioned
among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of the damages
recovered against each of them.
Sec. 12. In case of a judgment against several next of kin of a testator,
or against several legatees, the payment on satisfaction of the amount recovered against any one of the defendants, discharges such defendant, and
exonerates him and his property from the judgment.
Sec. 13. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by a creditor of a
deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent of the value of any real
property inherited by, or devised to them; if such action is against the
heirs, all the heirs who are liable shall be made parties to the action.
Sec. 14. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it appears
that the personal assets of the deceased were not sufficient to discharge it,
or that after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor is un
able to collect the debt, from the personal representatives of the deceased,
or from his next of kin, or legatee ; if the personal assets were sufficient
to pay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof has been collected, as
mentioned in the last section, the heirs of such deceased person are liable
for the residue.
Sec. 15. But the last section does not affect the liability of heirs for a
debt, of their ancestors, where such debt was by his will expressly charged
exclusively on the real property descended to such heirs, or where such
debt is by the will expressly directed to be paid out of the real property
descended before resorting to the personal property.
Sec. 1 6. When the heirs, devisees or legatees have received real or
personal estate, and are liable for any debts under the provisions of law,
they shall be liable in proportion to the estate they may have respectively
received ; and a creditor shall have a right to recover his claim against a
part or all of such heirs, devisees or legatees, to the amount of the estate
they have respectively received r but no action shall be maintained un
less commenced within one year from the time the claim is allowed or
established.
Sec. 17. If by the will of the deceased any part of his estate, or any
devisees or legatees shall be made exclusively liable for the debt, the devisees
or legatees shall be liable to contribute among themselves [only]
according to the will.
Sec. 18. If all the persons liable for the payment of any such debt,
shall not be included in the action as defendants, the action shall not thereby
be in any way dismissed or barred, but the court before which it is
pending may order any other parties brought in, by any proper process,
and may allow such amendments as may be necessary to make them de
fendants, on such terms as the court shall prescribe.
Sec. 19. If more than one person is liable as aforesaid, and the creditor
brings an action against all or a part of the persons so liable, and the
persons liable dispute the debt or the amount claimed, the district court
may order an issue to be formed, and direct that the amount may be ascer
tained by a jury, and said court shall ascertain and determine how much
each is liable to pay, and may award execution therefore.
Sec. 20. If any of the heirs, devisees or legatees, dies without having
big juaj 8Uare of the debts, his estate shall be liable therefore, as for
his own debt, to the extent to which he would have been liable, if liv
ing.
Sec. 21. When any of the heirs, devisees or legatees, pays more than
his share of such debt, the other persons liable shall be holden and com
pelled to contribute their just proportion of the same.
Sec. 22. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees
016 liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they shall
give preference in the payment of the same, and are liable therefore, in the
following order :
First. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United
States;
Second. Judgments against the ancestor or testator, according to the
priority thereof, respectively ;
Third. Debts due to other creditors.
Sec. 23. No preference can be given by any next of kin, legatee, heir,
or devisee, to one debt over another of the same class, except one specified
in the second sub-division of the last section ; nor is a debt, due and pay
able, entitled to a preference over a debt not due ; nor does the commence
ment of an action against any next of kin, legatee, heir, or devisee, for
the recovery of a debt, entitle it to preference over others of the same
class.
Sec. 24. The next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees may show that
there are debts of a prior class, unsatisfied; or that there are unpaid debts
of the same class with that on which the action is brought ; and if it ap
pears that the value of the personal property delivered to them, or of the
real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the debts of a
prior class, judgment shall be rendered in their favor,
Sec. 25. If the personal property delivered to such next of kin or legatee, or if the real estate, descended or devised to such heir, and devisee,
exceeds the amount of debts which are entitled to a preference over the
debt for which the action is brought, judgment shall be rendered against
them only for suth a sum as bears a just proportion to the other debts of
the same class with that on which the action is brought.
Sec. 26. If debt of a class prior to that on which the action is brought,
or of the same class, is paid by any next of kin, legatees, heirs, or devi
sees, they may prove such payment, and the amount of the debt so paid
shall be estimated in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, in the same
manner as if such debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the
last two sections.
Sec. 27. If it appears that the real property so descended was not
a];enate(j Dy the heir at the time of the commencement of the action, or if
the heir confesses the claims and shows what real property has descended
to him, the court shall order that the debt of the plaintifff, or the propor
tion thereof which he is entitled to recover, be levied of the real property
80 descended, and not otherwise ; and every judgment rendered in such
action has preference as a lien on the real property so descended, to any
judgment obtained against such heir personally for a debt on demand in
his own right.
Sec. 28. When it appears in the action, that before the commencement
thereof, the heir has aliened the real property descended to him, or
any part thereof, he shall be personally liable for the value of the property
so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefore, and execution award
ed, as in actions for his own debts. But no real property, aliened in good
faith by an heir, before action commenced against him, is liable to execu
tion, or in any manner affected by a judgment against him.
Sec. 29. In actions brought against several heirs jointly, or several
devisees jointly, the amount, which the plaintifff recovers, shall be apportioned among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the devisees of
the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property descended or
devised, and such proportion only can be recovered of each heir or leg
atee.
Sec. 30. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing provisions of this chapter, to the creditor of their testator, are not so liable, unless it appears
that his personal assets, and the real property of the testator descended to
his heirs, were insufficient to discharge the debt ; or unless it appears that
after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor has been un
able to recover the debt, or any part thereof, from the personal represent
atives of the testator, or from his next of kin, or legatees, or from his
heirs.
Sect. 31. In either of the cases specified in the last section, the
amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real property
descended to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff, and the amount which such
plaintifff may have failed to recover from the personal representatives of
the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be recovered of
the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the real property devised
to them respectively.
Sec. 32. But the last two sections do not affect the liability of dcvisees, for a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by his will, expressly
charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or by the
terms of the will made payable exclusively by such devisee, or made
payable out of the real property devised, before resorting to the personal
property, or to any other real property descended or devised.
Sec. 33. The provisions of this chapter, with regard to heirs, and to
proceedings by and against them, and to judgments and executions against
them, are applicable to actions and proceedings against devisees, and
they must in like manner be jointly sued.
Sec. 34. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute, a child, born
after the making of a will, is entitled to succeed to a portion of the testator's real and personal property, such child shall have the same rights and
remedies to compel a distribution of the personal property, and a partition
of the real property, as are provided for next of kin, and for heirs, and
shall in all respects be liable in the same manner, and to the same extent,
to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the personal property deliv
ered to him, and the real property descended to him, as is herein pre
scribed in relation to the next of kin, and heirs, and such child may
recover of the legatees and devisees who may have received or taken any
real or personal property of the testator, the share or portion thereof to
■which he may be entitled.
Sec. 35. The provisions of the last two sections, relative to a child
born after the making of a will, apply equally to every person, who being
a witness to a will, is entitled, by the provisions of any statute, to
recover a portion of the real or personal property of the testator from the
legatees and devisees named in such will.
Section 1. The official bond or other security of a public officer to
the state or any municipal body or corporation, whether with or without
sureties, is to be construed as security to all persons severally, for the
official delinquencies against which it is intended to provide, as well as
to the state, body or corporation designated therein: provided, that
when no other provision is made by law, it shall run to the state of
Minnesota.
Sec. 2. "When a public officer, by official misconduct or neglect, for
feits his official bond, or renders his sureties liable upon an official security,
any person injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit of the
security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name, against the officer
and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he is entitled by reason
of the delinquency.
Sec. 3. Before an 'action can be brought by a plaintifff", other than
the state or body politic named in the bond, leave shall be obtained of
the district court, or a judge thereof, within the county where the action
is triable, by the production of a copy of the bond, and an affidavit show
ing the delinquency, and if the delinquency is such, that if established on
the trial, it would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave
shall be granted.
Sec. 4. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does
not preclude the same or another party, from an action on the same secu
rity for another delinquency.
Sec. 5. Upon the execution issued on a judgment, recovered upon
the official security of a public officer, against him and a surety, there
shall be indorsed a direction to the officer to whom the execution is de
livered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if suffi
cient can be found, and if not, then to collect it out of the property of
the surety.
Sec. 6. Actions for fines and forfeitures, may be prosecuted by the
officers or persons to whom they are by law given, or who, by special
provisions of law, are authorized to recover them ; and whether prose
cuted by public officers or by private persons, are governed by the same
rules as other civil actions, except as herein otherwise prescribed.
Sec. 7. "When an action is brought for a penalty, which is limited by
law, not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought for that
amount, and upon trial, the amount recovered shall be determined in
proportion to the offense.
Sec. 8. A recovery of a judgment, for a penalty or forfeiture, by
collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defendant from the
consequences contemplated by law, in case where the penalty or forfeiture
is given wholly or partly to the prosecutor, does not prevent the recovery
of the same by another person.
Sec. 9. Fines and forfeitures, . not specially granted or appropriated
by law, shall be paid into the treasury of the state ; and whenever any
property, real or personal, is forfeited to the state, or to any officer, for
its use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds
of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer, in the district
court of any county where such property may be.
Sec. 10. All fines and forfeitures imposed as a punishment for any
offense, or for the violation or neglect of any duty imposed by statute,
may be prosecuted for and recovered by indictment in the district court ;
or when the amount or value thereof does not exceed one hundred dollars,
the same may be prosecuted for by complaint before a justice of the
peace, who shall have jurisdiction therefore concurrently with the district
court, and in all cases of the imposition of a fine pursuant to statute, aa
punishment for any offense, the offender may be committed till the same
is paid, or he is otherwise discharged according to law.
CHAPTER LXXIX.
ACTIONS TO VACATE CHARTERS AND LETTERS PAT
ENT, AND TO PREVENT THE USURPATION OF AN OF
FICE OR FRANCHISec.
Section
1. Action against corporation to annul act of In
corporation, brought by attorney general,
when.
2. Actiou to vacate charter, brought, v/hen.
3
Action against party usurping or forfeiting
office, brought, when.
Action to vacate tetters patent, brought, when.
Name of person complaining to be joined as
party with the stnte.
Action for usurping o3L», complaint shall con
tain, what.
SlOTIOV
7- Claimant obtaining judgment, entitled to be
put In possession of office, books, &c.
8. All claimants may be joined in one action.
9. Judgnientin actions under this chapter—court
may impose fine.
10. Corporation adjudged dissolved, when.
11 Costs, how collected.
12. Court may grant injunction and appoint re
ceiver. *
13. Record of judgment roll to be filed with secre
tary of state.
Sectio 1. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the state, whenever the legislature so directs, against a corporatton, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or
an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or
renewal was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion, or concealment
of a material fact by the persons incorporated, or some of them, or with
their knowledge and consent.
Sec. 2. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the state, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling
the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such cor
poration :
First. Offends against any of the provisions of the tfct, or acts, crea
ting, altering, or renewing such corporation ; or,
Second. Violates the provisions of any law, by which such corporation
forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or,
Third. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges, or franchises, by fail
ure to exercise its powers; or,
Fourth. "Whenever it has done, or omitted any act, which amounts to
a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and franchises ; or,
Fifth. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege not conferred
upon it by law.
And the attorney general shall bring the action in every case of public
interest, whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts or omis
sions can be proved ; and also in every other case in which satisfactory
security is given to indemnify the state against the costs and expenses to
be incurred thereby.
Sec. 3. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the state, upon his own information, or upon fhe complaint of a
private party, against the party offending in the following cases :
First. When any person usurps, intrudes into or unlawfully holds or
exercises any public office, or any franchise within this state, or any office
in a corporation created by the authority of this state ; or,
Second. When any public officer has done, or suffered an act, which
by the provisions of law causes a forfeiture of his office ; or,
Third. When any association or number of persons act within this
state as a corporation without being duly incorporated. And the attorney
general shall bring the action whenever he has reason to believe that any
of these acts can be proved.
Sec. 4. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the state for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters patent,
granted by the state in the following cases :
First. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were
obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact, made by the person to whom the same were issued or made
with his consent or knowledge ; or,
Second. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were
issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact ;
Third. When he has reason to believe that the patentee, or those
claiming under him, have done or omitted any act in violation of the terms
and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have by any
other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
Sec. 5. When an action is brought by the attorney general, by virtue
of this chapter, on the complaint or information of any person having an
interest in the question, the name of such person shall be joined with the
state as plaintifff.
Sec. 6. Whenever such action is brought against a person for'usurping an office, the attorney general, in addition to the statement of the
caus* of action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto, and
in every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the right of the de
fendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged to be entitled, or
only upon the right of the defendant, as justice requires.
Sue. 7. If judgment is rendered in favor of the person so alleged to
be entitled, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such official bond as may Le required by law, to take upon himself
the execution of the office, and may be put in possession thereof, and of
the books and papers belonging thereto by order of the court, and any
party refusing to deliver the same when ordered by the court, shall be
punished as for a contempt ; and he may also recover, by action, the dam
ages which he sustains by reason of the usurpation of the office by the
defendant.
Sec. 8. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office
. <• 1 • _ *?_ :_ i__ i i_. : A ..it t
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order
to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.
Sec. 9. When a person or a corporation, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise,
or privilege, judgment shall be rendered, that such person or coq>oration be excluded from the office, franchise, or privilege. The court may
also in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars.
Sec. 10. If it is adjudged that a corporation has by neglect, abuse,
or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, judgment
shall be rendered that the corporation be excluded from such corpo
rate rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation be dis
solved.
Sec. 11. If judgment is rendered in such action, against a corporation,
or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause
the costs therein to be collected by execution against the persons claiming
to be a corporation, or by process against the directors or other officers of
such corporation.
Sec. 12. When such judgment is rendered against a corporation, the
court has power to restrain the corporation, to appoint a receiver of its
property, and take an account and make distribution thereof among its
creditors, and the attorney general, immediately after the rendition of such
judgment shall institute proceedings for that purpose.
Sec. 13. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation,
or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, the attorney general
shall cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the office
of the secretary of state.
Section L The writ of mandamus is regulated as in this chapter prescribed.
Sec. 2. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially
enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station ; but though it
may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or proceed to
the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.
Sec. 3. The writ shall not issue in any case where there is a plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of law. It shall
issue on the information of the party beneficially interested,
Sec. 4. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The alterna^ve w"t 8na^ state ^n^ely tne facts> showing the obligation of the defendant
to perform the act, and his omission to perform it, and command
him, that immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some other specifie(j
time, he do the act required to be performed, or show cause before
the court out of which the writ issued, at a specified time and place, why
ne na8 UOt d0De 80 ' and that De tlien 8nd t*Mire return tlie writ> witn h»3
certificate of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ
shall be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant
to show cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be omitted.
Sec. 5. When the right to require the performance of the act is clear,
and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for not performing it,
a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first instance ; in all other
cases the alternative writ shall be first issued.
Sec. 6. The court or judge, by an indorsement on the writ, shall
allow the same, designate the return day thereof, and direct the manner
of service.
Sec. 7. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further day
as the court allows, the party on whom the writ is served, may show cause
by answer, made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a
civil action.
Sec. 8. If no answer is made, a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed against the defendant ; if an answer is made containing new matter,
the plaintifff may, on the trial or other proceedings, avail himself of any
valid objection to its sufficiency ; or may countervail it by evidence either
in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.
Sec. 9. 2s o other pleading or written allegation is allowed than the
writ and answer. They shall be construed and amended in the same
manner as pleadings in a civil action, and the issues thereby joined, shall
be tried and further proceedings had, in the same manner as in a civil
action.
Sec. 10. If judgment is given for the plaintifff, he shall recover the
datnages which he has sustained, together with costs and disbursements,
and a peremptory mandamus shall be awarded without delay.
Sec. 11. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to a public
officer, body, or board, commanding the performance of any public duty
specially enjoined by law, if it appears to the court that such officer or
any member of such body or board, without just excuse, refuses or negleels
to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine not ex
ceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, upon every such officer or member
of such body or board ; such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the
state treasury, and the payment of such fine is a bar to an action for any
penalty incurred by such officer, or member of such body or board, by
reason of liis refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
Sec. 12. The district court has exclusive original jurisdiction in all
cases of-mandamus, except where such writ is to be directed to a district
court or a judge thereof in his official capacity, in which case the supreme
court has exclusive original jurisdiction, and in such case the supreme
court or a judge thereof shall first make a rule, returnable in term, that
such district court, or judge thereof, show cause before the court why a
peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue, and upon the return day
of such rule such district court, or judge, may show cause against the rule
by affidavit or record evidence, and upon the hearing thereof the supreme
court shall award a peremptory writ or dismiss the rule. In case of emer
gency a judge of the supreme court at the time of making the rule to
show came, may also appoint a special term of the court for hearing the
motion, and at which the rule shall be made returnable.
Sec. 13. An appeal lies to the supreme court from the district court
in mandamus as in civil actions.
Sec. 14. "Writs of prohibition shall only be issued out of the supreme
court> an<i 8na^ 06 applied for upon affidavit, by motion to the court, or a
judge thereof in vacation, and if the cause shown, appears to the court or
judge to be sufficient, a writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall com
mand the court and party, or officer to whom it is directed, to desist and
refrain from any further proceedings in the action or matter specified there
in, until the next term of said supreme court, or the further order of the
court thereon ; and to show cause at the next term of said court, or some
day to be named in the same term at the option of the . court, if issued in
term time, why they should not be absolutely restrained from any further
proceedings in such action or matter.
Sec. 15. Such writ shall be served upon the court and party or officer
to whom it is directed, in the same manner as a writ of mandamus ; and a
return shall be made thereto by such court or officer, which may be enforced
by attachment.
Sec. 16. If the party to whom such writ is directed, shall, by an
instrument in writing, to be signed by him and annexed to such return,
adopt the same return, and rely upon the matters therein contained, as
sufficient cause why such court should not be restrained, as mentioned in
said writ, such party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such
proceeding, and the person prosecuting such writ may take issue, or demur
to the matters so relied upon by such defendant.
Sec. 17. If the party to whom such writ is directed, shall not adopt
Bucn return> tne Party prosecuting such writ, shall bring on the argument
of such return, as upon a rule to show cause ; and he may, by bis own
affidavit, and other proofs, controvert the matters set forth in such return.
Sec. 18. The courj., after hearing the proofs and allegations of the
parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute, restrain
ing the said court and party, or officer, from proceeding in such action or
matter, do issue, or a writ of consultation authorizing the court and party,
or officer, to proceed in the action or matter in question; and may make
and enforce such order in relation to costs and charges, and the amount
thereof, as may be deemed just.
Sec. 19. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition is directed,
adopts the return of the court thereto, and judgment is rendered for
the party prosecuting such writ, a prohibition absolute shall be issued, but
if judgment is given against such party, a writ of consultation shall be
issued as above provided.
TITLE III.
WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
Sec. 20. Every person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of his liberty,
except in the cases in the following section specified, may prosecute
a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to
obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it proves to be un
lawful.
Sec. 21. The following persons are not entitled to prosecute such
^rit: persons committed or detained by virtue of the final judgment or
decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by
virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or decree ; but no order
of commitment for any alleged contempt, or upon proceedings as for con
tempt, to enforce the rights or remedies of any party, shall be deemed a
judgment or decree within the meaning of this section ; nor shall any
attachment or other process issued upon any such order, be deemed an
execution within the meaning of this section.
Sec. 22. Application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed
and verified either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by
some person in his behalf, as follows: to the supreme or district court, or
to any judge thereof being within the county where the prisoner is detained ; or if there is no such officer within such county, or if he is absent,
or from any cause is incapable of acting, or has refused to grant such
writ, then to some officer having such authority residing in any adjoining
county.
Sec. 23. Whenever application for any such writ is made to any officernot
residing within the county where the prisoner is detained, he shall
require proof by the oath of the party applying, or by other sufficient
evidence, that there is no officer in such county authorized to grant the
writ ; or if there is one, that he is absent, or has refused to grant such
writ ; or for some cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable of acting,
and if such proof is not produced, the application shall be denied.
Sec. 24. The petition shall state in substance :
First. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned
or restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by whom he is
so confined or restrained, and the place where, naming both parties, if
their names are known, or describing them if they are not ;
Second. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of
any process, judgment, decree, or execution, specified in the twenty-first section of this chapter ;
Third. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint, ac
cording to the knowledge or belief of the party verifying the petition ;
Fourth. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant,
order, or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be averred
that by reason of such prisoner being removed or concealed before appli
cation, a demand of such copy could not be made, or that such demand
was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to the officer or person
having such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was refused ;
Fifth. If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the petition shall
state in what the illegality consists.
Sec. 25. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued under the provisions of
this chapter, shall be substantially in the following form :
The State of Minnesota, to the sheriff of, &c, (or to A. B.)
" You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by you im
prisoned and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of
such imprisonment arid detention, by whatsoever name the said C. D. shall
be called or charged, before E. F., judge of the district court, as, &c, (or
immediately after the receipt of this writ,) to do and receive what shall
then and there be considered concerning the said C. D. And have you
then and there this writ.
" Witness, &c."
Sec. 28. Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for any
defect of form. It is sufficient :
First. If the person having the custody of the prisoner, is designated
either by his name of office, if he has any, or by his own name, or if both
such names are unknown, or uncertain, he may be described by an assum
cd appellation, and any one who may lie served with the writ, shall be
deemed to be the person to whom it is directed, although it is directed to
him by a wrong name or description, or to another person ;
Second. If the person who is directed to be produced is designated by
name, or if his name is uncertain or unknown, he may be described in
any other way, so as to designate the person intended.
Sec. 27. If any officer herein authorized to grant writs of habeas
COrpus, willfully refuses to grant such writ when legally applied for, he
shall forfeit for every such offense, to the party aggrieved, one thousand
dollars.
^ec. ^8. The person upon whom any such writ is duly served, shall
state in his return plainly and unequivocally :
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or control
or under his restraint, and if he has not, whether he has had the party in
his custody, or under his control or restraint, at any and what time prior
or subsequent to the date of the writ ;
Second. If he has the party in his custody or control, or under his
restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint,
setting forth the same at large ;
Third. If the party is detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or
other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return,
and the original shall be produced and exhibited on the return of the writ,
to the officer before whom the same is returnable ;
Fourth. If the person upon whom such writ is served, has had the
party in his control or custody, or under his restraint at any time prior or
subsequent to the date of the writ, but has transferred 6uch custody or
restraint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what
time, for what cause, and by what authority such transfer took place.
The return shall be signed by the person making the same, and except
where such person is a sworn public officer, and makes his return in his
official capacity, it shall be verified by oath.
Sec. 29. The person or officer, on whom the writ is served, shall
bring the body of the person in his custody, according to the command of
wrj^ except in the case of the sickness of such person as hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 30. If the person upon whom such writ is duly served, refuses
0r neglects to obey the same, by producing the party named in such writ,
and making a full and explicit return to every such writ, within the time
required by the provisions of this chapter, and no sufficient excuse is
shown for such refusal or neglect, the officer before whom such writ is
returnable, upon due proof of the service thereof, shall forthwith issue an
attachment against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county in
this state, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person, and
to bring him immediately before such officer ; and on such person being so
brought, he shall be committed to close custody in the jail of the county
in which such officer is, until he makes return to such writ, and complies
with any order that may be made by such officer, in relation to the person
for whose relief such writ was issued.
Sec. 31. If a sheriff neglects to return such writ, the attachment
may be directed to any coroner or other person designated therein, who
shall have full power to execute the same, and such sheriff upon being
brought up, may be committed to the jail of any county other than his
own.
Sec. 32. The officer by whom any such attachment is issued, may
also at the same time, or afterward, issue a precept to the sheriff, or other
person to whom such attachment was directed, commanding him to bring
forthwith before such officer, the party for whose benefit such writ was
allowed, who shall thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or
person, until he is discharged, bailed or remanded as such officer directs.
Sec. 33. The officer before whom the party is brought on such writ,
shall immediately after the return thereof, proceed to examine into the
facta contained in such return, and into the cause of the confinement, or
restraint of such party, whether the same was upon commitment, for any
criminal charge or not.
Sec. 34. If no legal cause is shown for such imprisonment or restraint,
or for the continuation thereof, such officer shall discharge such
party from the custody or restraint under which he is held.
Ssc. 35. The officer shall forthwith remand such party, if it appears
that he is detained in custody, either :
First. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the Uni
ted States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdic
tion ; or,
Second. By virtue of the final judgment or decree, of any competent
court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution, issued upon
Buch judgment or decree ; or,
Third. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in the com
mitment, by some court, officer or body, having authority to commit for
the contempt so charged ; and,
Fourth. That the time during which such party may be legally de
tained has not expired.
Sec. 36. If it appears on the return, that the prisoner is in custody
by virtue of civil process of any court legally constituted, or issued by
an officer, in the course of judicial proceedings before him, authorized by
law, such prisoner can only be discharged in one of the following cases :
First. When the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been exceed
ed either as to matter, place, sum, or person ;
Second. Where, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by
some act, omission, or event, which has taken place afterward, the party
is entitled to be discharged ;
Third. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance
required by law, rendering such process void ;
Fourth. Where the process, though in proper form, has been issued in
a case not allowed by law ; «
Fifth. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under
such process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him ; or,
Sixth. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment, order,
or decree of any court, nor by any provision of law.
Sec. 37. But no officer on the return of any habeas corpus, can inquire
in'o the legality or justice of any judgment, decree, or execution,
specified in the preceding twenty-first section.
Sec. 38. If it appears that the party has been legally committed for
any criminal offense, or if he appears, by the testimony offered with the
return, upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an offense, although
the commitment is irregular, the officer before whom such party is brought
shall proceed to let such party to bail, if the case is bailable, and good
bail is offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such party.
Sec. 39. In other cases the party shall be placed in custody of the
person legally entitled thereto, or, if no one is so entitled, he shall be discharged.
SfC. 40. Until judgment is given upon the return, the officer before
whom such party is brought, may either commit such party to the custody
of the sheriff of the county in which such officer is, or place him in such
care, or under such custody, as his age and other circumstances require.
Sec. 41. In criminal cases notice of the time and place, at which the
wri' la made returnable, shall be given to the county attorney, if he is
within the county ; in other cases like notice shall be given to any person
interested in continuing the custody or restraint of the party seeking the
aid of said writ.
Sec. 42. The party brought before any such officer, on the return of
nny wr*' °^ haDeas corpus, may deny any of the material facts set forth
in the return, or allege any fact to show either that his imprisonment or
detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge, which allega
tions or denials shall be on oath ; and thereupon such officer shall proceed
in a summary way, to hear such allegations and proofs as are legally pro
duced in support of such imprisonment 'or detention, or against the same,
and to dispose of such party as justice requires.
Sec. 43. Whenever from the sickness or infirmity of the perron directe<^
to oe produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such person cannot,
without danger, be brought before the officer before whom the writ is
made returnable, the party in whose custody he is, may state the fact in
his return to the writ, verifying the same by his oath ; and if such officer
is satisfied of the truth of such allegation, and the return is otherwise
sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return, and to dispose of
the matter ; and if it appears that the person detained, is illegally impris
oned, confined, or restrained of his liberty, the officer shall order those
having such person in their custody, to discharge him forthwith ; and if it
appears that such person is legally detained, imprisoned, or confined, and
is not entitled to be bailed, such officer shall dismiss the proceedings.
Sec. 44. Obedience to any order for the discharge of any prisoner,
grante(l pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may be enforced by the
officer issuing such writ, or granting such order, by attachment, in the
same manner as herein provided for a neglect to make a return to a writ
of habeas corpus, and the person guilty of such disobedience, shall forfeit
to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars, in addition to any special
damages such party may have sustained.
Sec. 45. No person who has been discharged upon a habeas corpus
snaN De ag*"1 imprisoned or restrained for the same cause, unless indicted
tlierefer, convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail, by some court
of record having jurisdiction of the cause ; or unless after a discharge for
defect of proof, or for some material defect in the commitment in a crimi
nal ease, he is again arrested on sufficient proof and committed by legal
process.
Sec. 46. If any one who has in his custody, or under his control, a
person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether a writ has been issued
r .. , i i ,•
or not, transfers such prisoner to the custody or places lnm under the
power or control of another person, or conceals him, or changes the place
of his confinement with intent to elude the service of such writ, or to
avoid the effect thereof, the person so offending shall forfeit to the party
aggrieved thereby the sum of four hundred dollars, to be recovered in a
civil action.
Sec. 47. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a copy of any
or^er> warrant, process or other authority, by which he detains any person,
to any one who demands such copy and tenders the fees thereof, shall for
feit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.
Sec. 48. Every writ of habeas corpus may be made returnable at a
day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require, and shall be under the
seal of the court.
Sec. 49. It can only be served by an elector of this state, and the
service thereof shall not be deemed complete unless the party serving the
same tenders to the person in whose custody the prisoner is, if such per
son is a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, the fees allowed by law for
bringing up such prisoner. The officer granting the writ may in his dis
cretion require a bond in a penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars,
with sufficient sureties, conditioned that the obligors will pay all costs and
expenses of the proceeding and the reasonable charges of restoring the
prisoner to the person from whose custody he was taken, if he is re
manded. Such bond shall run to the sheriff of the county and be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court from which the writ issues.
Sec. 50. Every writ of habeas corpus issued pursuant to this chapter,
may be served by delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed ;
if he cannot be found it may be served by being left at the jail, or other
place in which the prisoner is confined, with any under officer or other
person of proper age having charge, for the time, of such prisoner.
Sec. 51. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served conceals
himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting to serve the same,
it may be served by affixing the same in some conspicuous place on the
outside, either of his dwelling house or of the place where the party is
confiued.
Sec. 52. If the writ is returnable at a certain day, such return shall
be made, and such prisoner produced at the time and place specified therein ; if it is returnable forthwith, and the place is within twenty miles of
the place of service, such return shall be made, and such prisoner pro
duced within twenty-four hours ; and the like time shall be allowed for
every additional twenty miles.
Sec. 53. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to restrain
the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus, when
necessary to bring before them any prisoner for trial, in any criminal case
lawfully pending in the same court, or to bring any prisoner to be ex
amined as a witness in any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending
in such court, when they think the personal attendance and examination
of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice.
Section 1. Every mortgage of real estate, containing therein a power
of sale, upon default being made in any condition of such mortgage, may
be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases and in the manner hereinafter
specified.
Sec. 2. To entitle any party to give a notice as hereinafter prescribed,
an(l to make such foreclosure, it is requisite:
First. That some default in a condition of such mortgage has occurred
by which the power to sell has become operative ;
Second. That no action or proceeding has been instituted at law, to
recover the debt then remaining secured by such mortgage, or any part
thereof ; or if the action or proceeding has been instituted, that the same
has been discontinued, or that an execution upon the judgment rendered
therein has been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part ; and,
Third. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly
recorded, and if it has been assigned, that all the assignments thereof have
been recorded.
Sec. 3. When a mortgage is given to secure the payment of money
by installments, each of the installments, either of principal or interest,
mentioned in such mortgage, may be taken and deemed to be a separate
independent mortgage ; and such mortgage for each of such install
ments, may be foreclosed in the same manner, and with the like effect, as
if such separate mortgage was given for each of such subsequent install
ments, and a redemption of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the
like effect as if the sale for such installments had been made upon an inde
pendent prior mortgage.
Sec. 4. In such case if the mortgaged premises consist of separate and
distinct farms or tracts, only such tract, or tracts, shall be sold as are suffito
satisfy the installment or installments then due, with interest and
costs of sale, but if said premises do not consist of such separate and dis
tinct farms or tracts, the whole shall be sold, and in either case the pro
ceeds of such sale shall, after satisfying the interest, portion or installment
of the principal due, with interest and costs of sale, be applied toward
the payment of the residue of the sum secured by said mortgage, and not
due and payable at the time of such sale, and, if such residue does not
bear interest, such application shall be made with a rebate of the legal in
terest for the time during which such residue shall not be due and payable,
and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the mortgagor, his legal represent
atives or assigns.
Sec. 5. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by sale of the
mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be given by publishing
the same for six successive weeks, at least once in each week, in a newspaper
printed and published in the county where the premises intended to
be sold, or some part thereof, are situated, if there is one, if not, then in
a newspaper printed and published at the capital of the state. In the lat
ter case, a copy of such notice shall be served, at least four weeks before
the time of such sale, on the person in possession of the mortgaged prem
ises, if the same are occupied, but when they are not occupied, and the
mortgagor, his heirs or personal representatives reside in the county where
such premises lie, then on such mortgagor, his heirs or personal represent
atives, as the case may be ; proof of such service may be made, certified
and recorded, in the same manner and with like effect as proof of the pub
lication of a notice of sale under a mortgage.
Sec. 6. Every notice shall specify :
First. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the
assignee, if any; "
Second. The date of the mortgage, and when recorded ;
Third. The amount claimed to be due thereon, and taxes, if any,
paid by the mortgagee, at the date of the notice ;
• Fourth. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substan
tially to that contained in the mortgage ; and,
Fifth. The time and place of sale.
Sec. 7. The sale shall be at public vendue, between the hours of nine
o'clock in the forenoon, and the setting of the sun, in the county in which
the premises to be sold, or some part thereof, are situated, and shall be
made by the sheriff of the county, or his deputy, to the highest bidder.
Sec. 8. Such sale may be postponed from time to time, by inserting
a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in the newspaper in
'which the original advertisement was published, and continuing such publication until the time to which the sale is postponed, at the expense of the
party requesting such postponement.
Sec. 9. If the mortgaged premises consist of separate and distinct
farms, or tracts, they shall be sold separately, and no more farms or tracts,
shall be sold, than are necessary to satisfy the amount due on such mortgage
at the date of the notice of sale, with interest, taxes paid, and costs
of sale.
Sec. 10. The mortgagee, his assigns, or his, or their legal representatives, may fairly, and in good faith, purchase the premises so advertised,
or any part thereof, at such sale.
Sec. 11. Whenever any sale of real property is made, under a power
of sale contained in any mortgage, the officer shall make and deliver to
the purchaser a certificate under his hand and seal containing :
First. A description of the mortgage under which such sale is made ;
Second. A description of the real property sold ;
Third. The price paid for each parcel sold separately ;
Fourth. The date of the sale and name of the purchaser :
Fifth. The time allowed by law for redemption.
Said certificate shall be executed, proved, or acknowledged, and record
ed as required by law for a conveyance of real estate within twenty days
after such sale.
Sec. 12. Such certificate so proved, acknowledged and recorded shall,
upon the expiration of the time ibr redemption, operate as a conveyance
to the purchaser, or his assigns, of all the right, title and interest of the
mortgagor in and to the premises, named therein, at the date of said mort
gage without any other conveyance whatever.
Sec. 13. The mortgagor, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns,
whose real property is sold in conformity to the provisions of this chapter,
may within twelve months after such sale, redeem such property as hereinafter
provided, by paying the sum of money for which the same was
so](]) together with interest on the same, at the rate of seven per cent, per
annum, from the time of such sale.
Sec. 14. Redemption shall be made as follows : The person desiring
to redeem, shall pay to the person holding the right accquired under such
sale, or for him to the sheriff, who made the sale or his successor in office,
the amount required by law for such redemption, and shall produce to such
person or officer :
First. A certified copy of the docket of the judgment or the deed of
conveyance or mortgage, or of the record or files evidencing any other
lien under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the officer in
whose custody such docket, record, or files shall be ;
Second. Any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto, or of some
person acquainted with the signature of the assignor;
Third. An affidavit of himself or hi9 agent, showing the amount then
actually due on his lien.
Sec. 15. The person or officer from whom such redemption is made,
8naM roake and deliver to the person redeeming a certificate under his
hand and seal, containing :
First. The name of the person redeeming, and the amount paid by
him on such redemption ;
Second. A description of the sale from which such redemption is made,
and of the property redeemed ;
Third. Stating upon what claim such redemption is made, and if upon
a lien, the amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of redemption.
Such certificate shall be executed and proved or acknowledged and
recorded, as provided by law for conveyance of real estate, and if not so
recorded within ten days after such redemption, such redemption and cer
tificate is void, as against any person in good faith making redemption
from the same person or lien. If such redemption is made by the owner
of the property sold, his heirs or assigns, such redemption annuls the sale ;
if by a creditor holding a lien upon the property or some part thereof,
said certificate so executed and proved or acknowledged and recorded,
operates as an assignment to him of the right acquired under such sale}
subject to sucli right of any other person to redeem, as is, or may be pro
vided by law.
Sec. 16. If no such redemption is made, the senior creditor having a
lien, legal or equitable, on the real estate or some part thereof, subsequent
to the mortgage, may redeem within five days after the expiration of said
twelve months ; and each subsequent creditor having such lien, within five
days after the time allowed all prior lien holders, as aforesaid, may redeem
by paying the amount aforesaid and all liens prior to his own held by the
party from whom the redemption is made : provided, that no creditor
shall be entitled to redeem unless, within the year allowed for redemption,
he files notice of his intention to redeem in the registry of deeds where
the mortgage is recorded,
Sec. 17. The interest acquired upon any such sale is subject to the
^en 0I" ^7 attachment or judgment, duly made or docketed, against the
person holding the same, as in case of real property, and may be attached,
or sold on execution, in the same manner,
Sec. 18. If after sale of any real estate, made as herein prescribed,
jjjgpg remains in the hands of the officer making the sale, any surplus
money, after satisfying the mortgage on which such real estate was sold,
and payment of the taxes and costs of sale, the surplus shall be paid over
by such officer, on demand, to the mortgagor, his legal representatives or
assigns.
Sec. 19. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence of any sale
made in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may procure :
First. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of any
notice of postponement, to be made Ly the printer of the newspaper in
which the same was inserted, or by some person in his employ knowing
the facts ; and,
Second. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to
be made by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale, stating the
time and place at which the same took place, the sum bid, and the name
of the purchaser. Which affidavits may be taken and certified by any
officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
Sue. 20. Such affidavits shall be recorded at length by the register of
deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, in a book kept for
the record of mortgages ; and such original affidavits, the record thereof,
and certified copies of such record, shall be presumptive evidence of the
facts therein contained.
Sec. 21. A note, referring to the page and book where the evidence
of any sale having been made under a mortgage is recorded, shall be made
by the register recording such evidence, in the margin of the record of
such mortgage, if such record is in his office.
Sec. 22. A record of the affidavits aforesaid, and of the certificate
executed on the sale of the premises, shall be sufficient to puss the title
thereto ; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar of all claim or
equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representatives, and
of all persons claiming under him or them, by virtue of any title subse
quent to such mortgage.
TITLE II.
FORECLOSURE BY ACTION.
Sec. 23. There shall be but one method of foreclosing mortgages in
court, and in every case the mortgaged premises or some part thereof,
shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder, to satisfy the debt
secured, with costs and disbursements.
Sec. 24. Actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, shall be governed
by the same rules and provisions of statute as civil actions, except as
herein otherwise expressly prescribed.
Sec. 25. Service by publication, as provided in section five of title
one, of this chapter, may be made upon all parties to the action against
whom no personal judgment is sought, and in such case judgment may be
taken without giving security as to these parties, at the expiration of
twenty days after the completion of the period of publication ; but such
parties or any of them shall be permitted to appear and defend, upon good
cause shown, at any time before final decree.
Sec. 26. Judgment shall be entered under the direction of the court,
adjudging the amount due, with costs and disbursements, and the sate of
, ° , . , _ ' , _
the mortgaged premises or some part thereof to satisfy said amount, and
directing the sheriff to proceed and sell the same, according to the pro
visions of law relating to sales of real estate on execution, and make
report to the court.
Sec. 27. A transcript of such judgment shall be made and signed by
tne J^ge, or certified by the clerk, and delivered to the sheriff, and shall
be his authority for making the sale,
Sec. 28. The mortgagee or anyone claiming under him may fairly
an(^ m E00** ^a'tn' ^ tne Prem'ses at sale, and in such case, the
statement of such fact in the report of sale, shall have the same effect as
a rece'P1 f°r money paid upon a sale for cash.
Sec. 29. Upon the coming in of the report of sale, the court shall
grant an order, confirming the same, or if it appears upon due cxamina>~.
.... P , * rr , r , ,
tion, that justice has not been done, may order a re-sale, on such terms as
are just.
Skc. 30. Upon confirmation of the report of sale the clerk shall enter
satisfaction of the judgment, to the extent of the sum bid for the premjgeg jegg eXpense8 jyjd C09tS) and for any balance of said judgment exe
cution may issue as in other cases, but no such execution shall issue on
such judgment until after a sale of the mortgaged premises and the ap
plication of the amount realized as aforesaid.
Sec. 31. The mortgagor or those claiming under him shall have one
year after the date of the order of confirmation, in which to redeem the
premises sold or any separate portion thereof, by paying the amount bid
therefore with interest thereon from the day of sale, and judgment creditors
may redeem in the order and manner specified in title one of this chap
ter : provided, that no creditor shall be entitled to redeem, unless within
the year allowed for redemption he files notice of his intention to redeem
in the office of the district court where the judgment is entered.
Sec. 32. The provisions of sections three, four, nine, eleven, fourteen,
fifteen and seventeen of title one aforesaid, shall apply to and govern
proceedings under this title.
Sec. 33. At the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, and
n0 0ne redeeming, the court upon the application of the purchaser or his
assigns shall grant a final decree, which shall recite the judgment afore
said, the fact of sale, the premises sold, and the amount bid therefore, and
that no redemption has been made, and shall adjudge and decree that the
title to said premises is in said purchaser or his assigns free and clear of
all equity of redemption on the part of any one who is a party to the
judgment. Such decree being recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of the county in which the premises lie, shall be effectual to pass
the title to the same as against the parties aforesaid,
Sec. 34. Whenever there is a sale for cash under the provisions of
this title, and after satisfying the mortgage debt with costs and expenses,
there is a surplus, it shall be brought into court for the benefit of the
mortgagor or the person entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 35. If such surplus, or any part thereof, remains in the said
court, for the term of three months, without being applied for, the district
judge may direct the same to be put out at interest, subject to the order
of the court, for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or as
signs, to be paid to them by the order of the court.
Sec. 36. "Whenever an action is brought for the foreclosure of any
mortg11"0 uPon which there is due any interest, or any portion or installment
of the principal, and there are other portions or installments to be
come due subsequently, the action shall be dismissed upon the defendant's
bringing into court, at any time before the judgment of sale, the principal
and interest due, with costs.
Sec. 37. If, after a judgment of sale is entered against a defendan
in such case, he brings into court the principal and interest due, with
costs, the proceedings in the action shall be stayed, but the court shal
enter a judgment of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a further or
der of the court, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any portion
or installment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to grow due.
Sec. 38. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent
the court from adjudging that the whole of the mortgaged premises shal
be sold, notwithstanding they consist of distinct farms or tracts, whenever
it is made to appear that a sale of the whole will be most beneficial to
the interests of the parties.
Sec. 39. "Whenever possession of lands foreclosed as aforesaid is
wrongfully withheld after final decree, the court may compel delivery of
possession to the party entitled thereto by order directing the sheriff to
effect such delivery.
CHAPTER LXXXII.
CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.
SicnoM Swjnoit
1. Judgment by confession, in what cases allow- 6. Effect of judgment entered under provisions
ed. of this chapter.
2 Statement shall be made—shall contain, what.
8. Shall be nled with clerk who shall enter judg- soBMirrnia cohtbotirst wtthoot actios.
ment—judgment roll. what. 7. Matter In dispute may be submitted to court,
4. Judgment may be entered on plea of coufes- when and how.
8. Judgment, how entered—what constitutes
6. Clerk may enter judgment on plea of
oion, when.
Section 1. A judgment by confession maybe entered without action,
either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
Sec. 2. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the defendant,
and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum ;
Second. If it is for money due or to become due, it shall state con
cisely the facts out of which it arose, and show that the sum confessed
therefore is justly due, or to become due.
Third. If it is for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a con
tingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability,
and show that the sum confessed therefore, does not exceed the same.
Sec. 3. The statement may be filed with the clerk of the district
court, who shall indorse upon it, and enter in a judgment book a judgment
of the district court for the amount computed. The statement and
verification, with the judgment indorsed thereon, become the judgment
roll.
Sec. 4. Judgment may al>o be rendered in the district court in vaca
tion, or in term, upon a plea of confession signed by an attorney of such
court, although there is no action then pending between the parties, if the
following provisions are complied with, and not otherwise :
First. The authority for confessing such judgment shall be in some
proper instrument, distinct from that containing the bond, contract, or
other evidence of the demand for which judgment is confessed ;
Second. Such copy shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment is entered at the time of filing and docketing such judg
ment.
Sec. 5. When the authority mentioned in the last section is filed with
the clerk of the district court, judgment may be entered thereon, in the
same manner as is provided in section one of this chapter.
Sec. 6. Any judgment entered under either of the provisions of this chapter in vacation, shall be as final and effectual as judgment rendered
upon a verdict of a jury, and unless special provision is mode for a stay
of execution upon such judgment, execution may issue immediately.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.
Sec. 7. Parties to a matter in dispute, which might be the subject of
a c'v^ action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts
upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the
same, to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought ; but it shall appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and
the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties ; the
court shall thereupon hear and determine the case at a general or special
term, and render judgment thereon, as in civil actions,
Sec. 8. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as in other
cases. The case, submission, and a copy of the judgment, constitute
the judgment roll, and judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, and is in the same manner gubject to
appeal
Sectiox 1. Every boat or vessel used in navigating the waters of
this state is liable : "
First. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, or consignee
thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of such boat
or vessel, on account of work done or services rendered on board or for
the benefit of such boat or vessel, or on account of labor done or mate
rials furnished by mechanics, tradesmen, or others in and for building,
repairing, fitting out, furnishing, or equipping the same ;
Second. For all sums due for wharfage or anchorage of such boat or
vessel within this state ;
Third. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-perform
ance or mal-performance of any contract of affreightment, or any contract
touching the transportation of persons or property, entered into by the
master, owner, agent or consignee of the boat or vessel on which such
contract is to be performed ; and,
Fourth. For all injuries done to persons or property by such boat or
vessel : provided, however, that in no case shall any boat or vessel be
liable, as aforesaid, for any debt contracted on account of work done or
services rendered on board or for the benefit of such boat or vessel, until
the contract therefore is fully and duly performed on the part of the person
engaging to perform the same.
Sec. 2. "Whoever wishes to institute an action against a boat or vesseh
shall file his complaint against such boat or vessel by name, with the
clerk of the district court of the county in which such boat or vessel may
be.
Sec. 3. The complaint shall set forth the plaintifff's demand in all its
particulars, and on whose account the same accrued ; it shall be verified
by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some credible person for him.
Sec. 4. "Whenever any such complaint is filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court, he shall issue a warrant returnable in twenty
days, directing and authorizing the sheriff to seize the boat or vessel
mentioned in the complaint, and detain the same in his custody, together
with its tackle, apparel and furniture, until discharged from such custody
by due course of law.
Sec. 5. Upon the return of the warrant, issued by virtue of the preceding section, proceedings shall be had in the district court against the
boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if the action had been insti
tuted against the person on whose account the demand accrued.
Sec. 6. The master, owner, agent or consignee of the boat or vessel
may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and answer the complaint.
Sec. 7. If the master, owner, agent or consignee, before final judgment
gives bond to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties to be approved
by the court, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, conditioned to satisfy
the amount which shall be adjudged to be owing and due to the
plaintifff, in the determination of the action, together with all costs accru
ing, such boat or vessel, with the tackle, apparel, and furniture belonging
thereto, shall be discharged from further detention by the sheriff.
Sec. 8. If judgment is rendered against any boat or vessel, in favor
of the plaintifff, the court shall make an order directed to the sheriff, commanding
him to sell such boat or vessel, together with its tackle, apparel,
and furniture, to satisfy the judgment, and all costs that may have ac
crued in the cause, which order shall be executed and returned in the
same manner as an execution.
Sec. 9. If a bond has been entered into, according to the seventh section of this chapter, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintifff,
execution sluxll be issued for the amount of the judgment and costs, in
favor of the plaintifff, ag:iiiist the principal and sureties in such bond.
Sec. 10. Whenever judgment is rendered against any boat or vessel
in favor of the plaintifff, and such boat or vessel has been discharged from
the custody of the sheriff prior to the rendition of such judgment, by the
giving of bonds or otherwise, or when from any cause whatever, said
judgment or any part thereof remains unpaid for the period of sixty days,
the masters and owners thereof, either or both, and in case the owner is
a foreign corporation, then the officers, members, or stockholders of such
corporation or either or any of them may be summoned as is hereinafter
provided, to show cause why he or they shall not be bound by the judg
ment in the same manner as if said action had been originally commenced
and prosecuted to judgment against them.
Sec. 11. The summons provided for in the last section shall be sub
scribed by the judgment creditor, his representative or attorney, describe
the judgment and require the party summoned to 6how cause within
twenty days after the service of the summons, and may be served in the
same manner that a summons is served in civil actions.
Sec. 12. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
person subscribing it that the judgment has not been paid or satisfied to
his knowledge, information or belief, and shall specify the amount due
thereon.
Sec. 13. The party summoned may answer, denying the judgment or
setting up any defense that may have arisen subsequent to the rendition
of said judgment, and in addition thereto, that he was not at the time
said cause of action arose against said boat or vessel the master, owner or
part owner thereof, or that he was not at the time said cause of action
arose against said boat or vessel, or at any time since, an officer, member
or stockholder of any foreign corporation which was the owner of such
boat or vessel at the time said cause of action arose, but no other defense
whatever.
Sec. 14. The party issuing tie summons may demur or reply to the
answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply, and the issue
may be tried and judgment and costs given, and enforced by execution in
the same manner as in civil actions.
Sec. 15. Justices of the peace, within their respective counties, have
cognizance of all cases arising under this chapter, when the demand
claimed does not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars.
Sec. 16. In all their proceedings, justices of the peace shall conform
to the provisions of law governing justices' courts, and as near as may be
to the provisions of this chapter, as they apply in the district court.
Sec. 17. Every warrant issued by a justice of the peace under this chapter, shall be returnable forthwith ; and upon the return thereof the
justice shall hear and determine the action in a summary manner : pro
vided, that if the master, owner, agent, or consignee executes a bond to
the plaintifff with sufficient surety to be approved by the justice, condi
tioned that he will satisfy the amount which may be adjudged to be ow
ing and due to the plaintifff on the determination of the action, together
with costs, then the boat, vessel, tackle, apparel and furniture seized by
such warrant shall be discharged from custody.
Sec. 18. All warrants issued under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be served and returned as writs of attachment are served and
returned.
Sec. 19. Whenever an order of sale is made for the sale of a boat or
vessel, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, the sheriff or constable has
power to sell such part thereof, or such interest therein, as shall be neces
sarj to satisfy the amount of judgment rendered in favor of the plaintifff,
and all the costs that have accrued.
Sec. 20. Upon good and sufficient cause shown by the master, owner,
agent, or consignee of any boat or vessel, sold under this chapter, the
court or justice of the peace may grant a continuance of the cause ; but
no such continuance shall operate as a discharge of such boat or vessel
from the custody of the sheriff or constable.
Sec. 21. No continuance of a cause, under this chapter, shall be
grauted to the plaintifff.
Sec. 22. In all cases arising under this chapter, if judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff, the master, owner, agent, or consignee of
the boat or vessel, or other person interested, may appeal from the judg
ment, as in other cases.
Sec. 23. All actions against a boat or vessel, under the provisions of
this chapter, shall be commenced within one year after the cause of action
accrues.
CHAPTER LXXXIY.
FORCIBLE ENTRIES AND UNLAWFUL DETAINERS.
Section Section
1. Forcible entry Into lands or tenements forbid- 11. Justices to nave jurisdiction—proceedings on
den. complaint before justice.
2- Justices of the peace to have jurisdiction. 12. Restitution not to be made, when—writ not to
3. Upon complaint made justice shall issue sum- Issue in any case for twenty-four hours.
mons. 13- Appeal, how and when taken.
4- Summons, how served. 14. Proceedings stayed by appeal.
6. Proceedings on return of summons. 15. Justice to grant certificate of appeal, when—
6. Summons served by leaving copy, when. effect of certificate.
7- Adjournment of trial granted, when. 16. Appeal not to be dismissed for want of form.
8- Depositions taken and used, when. 17- Amendments may be allowed.
9. Judgment how entered when defendant is 18. Answer to contain, what.
found guilty —complainant to pay costs, 19. Appellate court may compel justice to make or
when. amend return.
10- Proceedings when jury cannot agree. 20, Forms allowed.
Section 1. No person shall hereafter make an entry into lands or
tenements, except in cases where entry is given by law ; and in such
cases, not with strong hands, nor with a multitude of people, but only in
a peaceable manner ; if any person from henceforth does to the contrary,
he shall be punished by fine.
Sec. 2. Any justice of the peace has authority to inquire as hereinafter directed, as well against those who may make unlawful or forcible
entry into lands or tenements, and detain the same, as against those who
having lawful or peaceful entry into lands or tenements, unlawfully and
forcibly detain the same ; and if it is found upon such inquiry, that an
unlawful or forcible entry haa been made, and that said lands tenements
unlawfully detained by force and strong hand, or that the same after a
lawful entry, are so held or detained unlawfully, such justice shall cause
the party complaining to have restitution thereof.
Sec. 3. When any complaint is made in writing, to any justice of the
peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry or unlawful detainer, said
shall issue a summons, directed to the sheriff or any constable of
the county, commanding him to summon the person against whom such
complaint is made, to appear before the said justice on a day in such
summons named, which shall not be less than six nor more than ten days
from the day of issuing such summons.
Sec. 4. Such summons shall be served upon the person against whom
the same is issued, by delivering a certified copy thereof to him, at least
three days before the return day thereof; and the officer serving the same
shall make a special return of the time and manner of serving said sum
mons.
Sec. 5. After the return of said summons, and at the time and place
appointed therein, the said justice shall proceed to hear and determine
said complaint : provided, that if either party calls for a trial by jury, the
said justice shall issue a venire, in the same manner, and upon the same
terms, as in other cases in justices' courts ; and such jury shall be sworn
as in other cases.
Sec. 6. If at the time of making said complaint, it appears that the
Per8on against whom said complaint i9 made, is absent from the county,
the justice before whom the same is made, shall issue his summons as
hereinbefore provided, and make the same returnable not less than six,
nor more than ten days from the time of issuing the same, and such sum
mons may be served by leaving a true and attested copy thereof at the
last and usual place of such person's abode, not less than six days before
the return day thereof; such copy shall be left with some member of the
family, or some person residing at such place, of suitable age and discre
tion, to whom the contents thereof shall be explained by the officer, and
the said officer shall make a special return of the time and manner of
serving said summons ; and the action shall thereafter proceed as though
a personal service were made of such summons.
Sec. 7. The justice may at his discretion adjourn any trial under
tnjg cnapter> not exceeding six days ; but in all cases mentioned in sec
tion eleven of this chapter, when the defendant, his agent or attorney
makes oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial, for the want of some
material witness, naming him, that he has made due exertion to obtain
said witness, and believes if an adjournment is allowed, he will be able to
procure the attendance of said witness, or his deposition, in season to pro
duce the same upon such trial, and if such person will give bond, with one
or more sufficient sureties, conditioned to pay the said complainant for all
rent which may accrue during the pendency of such action, and all costs
and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the justice shall adjourn
said cause for such reasonable time as appears necessary, not exceeding
three months.
Sec. 8. The deposition of any witness whose testimony is considered
neces8ary 0y either party, may be taken for the same reason, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, as is provided by law for taking of
depositions to be used in justices' courts,
Skc. 9. If, upon the trial of any complaint under this chapter, the
justice or jury shall find that the defendant or defendants, or either of
them, are guilty of the allegations in the complaint, the said justice shall
thereupon enter judgment for the complainant, to have restitution of the
premises, and shall impose such fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars.
as he may deem just, and shall tax the costs for the complainant, and
may issue execution in favor of said complainant, for such costs, and shall
also award and issue a writ of restitution; but if the said justice or the
jury find that the person complained of is not guilty, the justice shall tax
the costs against the complainant, and issue execution therefore.
Sec. 10 If the jury cannot agree upon a verdict, the justice may
discharge them, and issue a venire, returnable forthwith, or at some other
time agreed upon by the parties, or fixed by the justice, for the purpose
of impanneling a new jury.
Sec. 11. When any person holds over any lands or tenements, after
a sale thereof on an execution, judgment, or on foreclosure of a mortgage
by advertisement, and expiration of the time for redemption, or after the
termination of the time for which they are demised or let to him or to
the person under whom he holds possession, or contrary to the conditions
or covenants of the lease or agreement under which he holds, or after any
rent becomes due, according to the terms of such lease or agreement, or
when any tenant at will holds over after the determination of any such
estate by notice to quit, in all such cases the party entitled to possession
may make complaint thereof to any justice of the peace of the county,
and the justice shall proceed to hear, try and determine the same, in the
same manner as in other cases hereinbefore provided for ; but he shall
impose no fine upon such tenants, or persons holding over.
Sec. 12. No restitution shall be made, under the provisions of this chapter, of any lands or tenements of which the party complained of, or his
ancestors, or those under whom he holds the premises, have been in the
quiet possession for three years next before the entering of the complaint,
unless his estate therein is ended ; nor shall a writ of restitution issue in
any case for twenty-four hours after judgment, if the party against whom
judgment is rendered, or his attorney, states to the justice that he intends
to take an appeal.
Sec. 13. If either party feels aggrieved by the verdict of the jury,
or decision of the justice, he may appeal within ten days, as in other cases tried before justices of the peace, except that his bond shall be with
two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by said justice, conditioned
to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the court may make
therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly accruing to said com
plainant during the pendency of such appeal.
Sec. 14. Upon the taking of such appeal, all further proceedings in
the case shall be stayed, and the appellate court shall thereafter issue all
needful writs and processes to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
Sec. 15. If a writ of restitution has been issued previous to the
taking of an appeal/as provided in this chapter, the justice shall forthwith give the appellant a certificate of the allowance of such appeal ; and
upon the service of such certificate upon the officer having such writ of
restitution, the said officer shall forthwith cease all further proceedings by
virtue of such writ ; and if such writ has not been completely executed,
the defendant shall remain in possession of the premises until the appeal
is determined.
Sec. 16. In all cases of appeal under the provisions of this chapter,
the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for want of
form only, provided they have been conducted substantially according to
the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 17. Amendments may be allowed by the court at any time before
final judgment, upon such terms as to the court appear just, in the
same cases and manner, and to the same extent, as in civil actions.
Sec. 18. All matters in excuse, justification or avoidance of the alle
gations in the complaint, shall be set up in the answer.
Sec. 19. The appellate court has power to compel the justice, by
attachment, to make or amend any return which is withheld, or insuffi
ciently or improperly made.
Sec. 20. The following or equivalent forms shall be used in proceed
ings under this chapter, to wit :
FORM OF SUMMONS.
Saun°ty Sinne9°ta' f } ss. The State of Minnesota,
To the sheriff or any constable of the county aforesaid :
Whereas, , of , hath exhibited unto a justice
of the peace, in and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against
of , for that the said , on the day of ,
at (here insert the substance of the complaint with legal certainty ;)
thereforee you are hereby commanded to summon the said , if
to be found in the said county, to appear before me at , on
day of , at of the clock in the noon, then and there
to make answer to, and defend against the complaint aforesaid, and fur
ther to be dealt with according to law, and make due return to me of this
summons, with your doings thereon.
Dated at , this day of , in the year one
thousand, eight hundred and
J. P., justice of the peace.
FORM OF WRIT OF RESTITUTION.
St County ofn6SOta; } SS- The State °f Minnesota'
To the sheriff or any constable of the county aforesaid :
Whereas, , of , at the court of inquiry of an unlaw
ful or forcible entry and unlawful detainer, held at , in the county
aforesaid, on the day of , one thousand eight hundred
and , before , a justice of the peace, in and for the
county aforesaid, by the consideration of the court, recovered judgment
against , of , to have restitution of, (here
describe the premises as in the complaint) ; thereforee you are hereby
commanded, that taking with you the force of the county, if necessary,
you cause the said to be immediately removed from the
aforesaid premises, and the said to have peaceable restitution
of the same ; you are also hereby commanded, that of the goods and
chattels of the said , within said county, you cause to be levied, and
the same being disposed of according to law, to be paid to the said ,
the sum of , being the cost taxed against said , for the said
, at the court aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents for this writ,
and thereof together with this writ, make due return within thirty days
from the date hereof, according to law.
Dated at , the day of , one thousand
eight hundred and
J. P., justice of the peace.
FORM OF VERDICT.
At a court of inquiry held at , on the
day of
, one thousand eight hundred and , before , a justice
of the peace, in and for the county of , complainant,
against , respondent, the jury find the facts alleged in the said com
plaint are true, that the said is guilty thereof, and the said
ought to have restitution of the premises therein described without delay ;
(or in case the jury do not find the allegation of complaint proved) the
jury find that the facts alleged in the same complaint ai-e not proved, and
that the said is not guilty thereof.
C. D., foreman.
J. P., justice of the peace.
OHAPTEE LXXXV.
ACTIONS BY PERSONS HOLDING CLAIMS ON UNITED
STATES LANDS.
SicTtox Section
1. Settler on public land may maintain action to S. Claim shall be marked—action not maintain
recover possession, or for injuries thereto. able unless by actual settler.
2. P lain till 's claim defined. 4. Claim considered abandoned, when.
Section 1. Any person settled upon any of the public lands belonging
to the United States, on which settlement is not expressly prohibited
by congress or some department of the general government, may maintain
an action for injuries done to the possession thereof, or to recover the
possession thereof.
Sec. 2. On the trial of any such cause, the possession, or possessory
right of the plaintifff, shall be considered as extending to the boundaries
embraced by the claim of such plaintiffl, so as to enable him to have and
maintain either of the aforesaid actions, without being compelled to prove
a natural enclosure : provided, that such claim shall not exceed in any ca«e
one hundred and sixty acres ; and the same may be located in two different
parcels, to suit the convenience of the holder.
Sec. 3. Every such claim, to entitle the holder to maintain either of
the aforesaid actions, shall be marked out so that the boundaries thereof
may be easily traced, and the extent of such claim easily known ; and no
person shall be entitled to maintain either of said actions for possession of,
or any injury done to, any claim unless he is an actual settler, or causes
the land to be constantly occupied, and has improvements, made thereon,
to the amount of fifty dollars.
Sec. 4. A neglect to occupy or cultivate such claim, for the period of
six months, shall be considered such an abandonment as to preclude the
claimant from maintaining either of the aforesaid actions.
Section 1. A judgment or order, in a civil action, in any of the dis*"ct
courts, may be removed to the supreme court, by appeal, as provided
in this chapter, and not otherwise.
Sec. 2. The party appealing is known as the appellant, and the adverse party, as the respondent ; but the title of the action is not to be
changed in consequence of the appeal.
Sec. 3. An appeal shall be made by the service of a notice in writing,
on a^verse Party» and on the clerk with whom the judgment or order
appealed from, is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or some speci
fied part thereof. When a party gives in good faith, notice of appeal
from a judgment or order, and omits, through mistake, to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the court may per
mit an amendment on such terms as may be just,
Sec. 4. Upon an appeal being perfected, the clerk shall transmit to
the supreme court a certified copy of the judgment roll, or order appealed
from, and the papers upon which the order was granted, at the expense of
tj,e appellant. When a case is made, or bill of exceptions allowed, it may,
for the purpose of the appeal, stand in place of or be attached to the judg
ment roll, and certified to the appellate court as aforesaid.
Sec. 5. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court
mav reverse) affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in the
respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parjjeg> an(j mfty y nece8SRry or proper, order a new trial. When the judg
ment is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete resti
tution of all the property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.
Sec. 6. The appeal from a judgment shall be taken within six months
entry t^Teo^ an(j from ^ onier vvithin thirty days after written
notice of the safne.
^£C. ^e appellant shall furnish the court with copies of the notice
of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he fails to do so the
appeal raay Jjg (lismiS3e(J.
Sec. 8. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court, by the aggrieved party in the following case3 :
First. From a judgment in an action commenced in the district court,
or brought there from another court, from any judgment rendered in such
court, and upon the appeal from such judgment the court may review any
intermediate order involving the merits or necessarily affecting the judgment.
Second. From an order granting or refusing a provisional remedy, or
which grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dissolve, an injunction, or an
order vacating or sustaining an attachment ;
Third. From an order involving the merits of the action, or some part
thereof.
Fourth. From an order refusing a new trial ;
Fifth. From an order, which, in effect determines the action, and prevents a judgment from which an appeal might be taken ;
Sixth. From a final order affecting a substantial right made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment
Sec. 9. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a bond shall
be executed by the appellant, with at least two sureties, conditioned that
the appellant will pay all costs and charges, which may be awarded against
him on the appeal, not exceeding the penalty of the bond, which shall be
at least two hundred and fifty dollars, or that sum shall be deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the
judgment of the court of appeal ; but such bond or deposit may be waived
by a written consent on the part of the respondent.
Sec. 10. Such appeal when taken from an order, shall stay all proceedings
thereon, and save all rights affected thereby, if the appellant, or
some one 'in his behalf, as principal, executes a bond in such sum, and
with such sureties as the judge making the order, or in case he can not
act, the court commissioner or clerk of the court where the order is
filed, directs and approves, conditioned to pay the costs of said appeal and
the damages sustained by the respondent in consequence thereof, if said
order or any part thereof is affirmed or said appeal dismissed, and abide
and satisfy the judgment or order which the appellate court may give
therein, which bond shall be filed in the office of said clerk.
Sec. 11. If the appeal is from a judgment, directing the payment of
money, it doe* not stay the execution of the judgment, unless a bond is
executed by the appellant, with at least two sureties, conditioned that if
the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof is affirmed, the appel1 int will pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or the part
of such amount as to which the judgment is affirmed, if it is affirmed only
in part, and all damages which are awarded against the appellant upon
the appeal.
Sec. 12. If the judgment appealed from, directs the assignment or
delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment
is not stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be asssigned
or delivered are brought into court, or placed in the custody of such officer
or receiver, as the court may appoint ; or unless a bond is executed by
the appellant, with at lsast two sureties, and in such amount as the court
or judge thereof, may direct, conditioned that the appellant will obey the
order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.
Sec. 13. If the judgment appealed from, directs the execution of a
conveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment is not
stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited with
the clerk, with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of
the appellate court.
Sec. 14. If the judgment appealed from directs the sale or delivery
of possession of real property, the execution of the same is not stayed,
unless a bond is executed on the part of the appellant, with two sureties,
conditioned that during the possession of such property by the appellant,
he will not commit or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon ; and that
if the judgment is affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupa
tion of the property, from the time of the appeal, until the delivery of t!:e
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment.
Sec. 15. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by sections
eleven, twelve and fourteen, it stays all further proceedings in the court
below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced
therein ; but the court below may proceed upon any other matter included
in the action and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And the
court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the security re
quired by said sections, when the appellant is an executor, administrator,
trustee, or other person acting in another's right,
Sec. 16. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
onty> notwithstanding an appeal and security given for a stay of proceedingS therein, if the respondent gives adequate security to make restitution
in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained
in the manner hereinafter provided from the court below, proceed to en
force the judgment. Such security shall be a bond executed by the
respondent or some one in his behalf, to the appellant, with at least two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment is reversed or modi
fied, the respondent will make such restitution as the appellate court
directs. Such leave shall only be granted upon motion and notice to the
adverse party, and in ease when it satisfactorily appears to the court that
the appeal has been taken for the purpose of delay.
Sec. 17. The bonds prescribed by sections nine, eleven, twelve and
fourteen, may be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appel
lant ; and a copy including the names and residence of the sureties, shall
be served on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit
is made as provided in section nine and notice thereof given.
^EC' ^ ^°a^ uP°n 811 aPPea^» 16 of no effect, unless it is accompanied
by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each worth double the
amount specified therein ; the adverse party may however, except to the
sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after notice of the appeal, and
unless they or other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, as
prescribed by law in other ca-es within ten days thereafter, the appeal
shall be regarded as if no such bond had been given ; the justification
shall be upon a notice of not less than five days,
Sec. 19. In the cases not specified in sections eleven, twelve, thirteen
and fourteen, the perfecting of an appeal by giving the bond mentioned
m section nine, stays proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment
appealed from, except that when it directs the sale of perishable property,
the court below may order the property to be sold, and the 'proceeds
thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate
court
Sec. 20. No discontinuance, or dismissal of an appeal in the supreme
court5 8nau preclude the party from taking another appeal in the same
cause within the time limited by law.
Section 1. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of
justice, or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the
court:
First. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or
other judicial proceeding ;
Second. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturb
ance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial pro
ceeding ;
Third. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of duty
by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner, or other person appointed or
elected to perform a judicial or ministerial service ;
Fourth. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by
a party to an action or special proceeding ;
Fifth. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order or process of the
court ;
Sixth. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and act
ing as such without authority ;
Seventh Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of an officer
by virtue of an order or process of such court.
Eighth. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while
going to, remaining at, or returning from the court where the action is on
the calendar for trial ;
Ninth. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceed
ings of a court ;
Tenth. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn
or answer as a witness ;
Eleventh. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to attend
or serve as such, or improperly conversing with a party to an action to be
tried at such court, or with any other person in relation to the merits of
such action, or receiving a communication from a party or other person in
respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to the court •,
Twelfth. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer, of
the lawful judgment, order or process of a superior court, or proceeding
in an action or special proceeding contrary to law, after such action or
special proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such inferior tribu
nal, magistrate or officer. Disobedience of the lawful orders or process
of a judicial officer, is also a contempt of the authority of such officer.
Sec. 2. Every court of justice, and every judicial officer, has power
- *^ pUn^jj contempts, by fines or imprisonment, or both ; but when the con
tempt is one of those mentioned in the first or second sub-divisions of the
last section, it must appear that the right or remedy of a party to an ac
tion or special proceeding, was defeated or prejudiced thereby, before the
contempt can be punished by imprisonment, or by a fine exceeding fifty
dollars.
Sec. 8. When a contempt is committed in the immediate presence of
^e court» or officer, it may be punished summarily, for which an order shall
be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and pres
ence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a
contempt, and that he be punished as therein described. Such punish
ment, however, cannot exceed that prescribed by section twelve ; where
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
court, an affidavit or other evidence shall be presented to the court or offi
cer of the facts constituting the contempt.
Sec. 4. In cases other than those mentioned in the last section, the court
or officer may either issue a warrant of arrest, to bring the person charged,
to answer, or without a previous arrest may, upon notice, or upon an order,
to show cause, which may be served by a sheriff or other officer, in the
same manner as a summons in an action, grant a warrant of commitment,
impose a fine, or both, not exceeding the punishment prescribed by section
twelve, and make such order thereupon as the case may require,
Sec. 5. If the party charged is in the custody of an officer by virtue
°f a order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence for
felony, an order may be made for the production of such person, by the
officer having him in custody, that he may answer, and he shall thereupon
be produced and held until an order is made for his disposal.
Sec. 6. Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to this chapter>
tne court or officer shall direct whether the person charged may be let
to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in custody with
out bail ; and if he may be bailed, the amount in which he may be let to
bail. The directions given in this respect shall be specified in the war
rant.
Sec. 7. Upon executing the warrant of arrest, the sheriff shall keep
the person in actual custody, bring him before the court or officer, and de
tain him until an order is made in the premises, unless the person arrested
entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.
Sec. 8. When the warrant contains the direction to let the person ar
rested to bail, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and
delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of the warrant,
a recognizance with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person
arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of
the court or officer thereupon, or pay, as may be directed, the sum specified
in the warrant.
Sec. 9. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest, and the recognizance,
if any received by him from the person arrested, by the return
day specified therein. If he fails to make the return, a warrant of arrest,
nQt Daiiabie> may be issued against him, specifying therein the cause of
issuing it.
Sec. 10. The officer to whom the warrant mentioned in the last sec**on 19 delivered, shall execute it by arresting the person proceeded against,
bringing him personally before the court or officer, and detaining him in
custody until otherwise ordered.
S E 0 ■ 11. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared,
the court or officer shall proceed to investigate the charge, by examining
him and the witnesses tor and against him, for which an adjournment may
be had from time to time, if necessary.
Sec. 12. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or officer shall determine
whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it is adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine shall
be imposed upon him, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or he
be imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both. But in the discretion of
the court or officer, (in case of inability to pay the fine, or endure the im
prisonment,) he may be relieved in such manner and upon such terms as
maybe just.
Sec. 13. If an actual loss or injury to a party in an action or special
proceeding, prejudicial to his right therein, is caused by the contempt, the
court or officer, in addition to the fine or imprisonment imposed for the
contempt, may order the person proceeded against to pay the party ag
grieved a sum of money sufficient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his
costs and expenses ; which order, and the acceptance of money under it,
is a bar to an action by the aggrieved party for such loss and injury.
Sec. 14. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an
act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he performs it ; and in that case the act shall be specified in the
warrant of commitment.
Sec. 15. Persons proceeded against, according to the provisions of this chapter, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it is an
indictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had on the
indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.
Sec. 16. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served,if the
person arrested does not appear on the return day, the court or officer may
issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the recognizance to be prosecuted, or both. If the recognizance is prosecuted, the measure of damages
in the .action is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the
aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was
issued, and the costs of the proceedings.
Sec. 17. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer is
required to keep a person arrested in actual custody, and to bring him before a court or officer, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the person
to attend, is a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up.
Section 1. Any male person, of the age of twenty-one years, of good
mora^ character, and who possesses the requisite qualifications of learning
ability, is entitled to admission to practice in all the courts of this
state.
Sec. 2. For the purpose of admission, he shall apply to the supreme
court or any district court when in session, and shall show first, that he is
of the age of twenty-one years, which proof may be made by his own
affidavit ; and second, that he is a person of good moral character, which
may be proved by certificate or other evidence satisfactory to the court.
Sec. 3. The applicant shall also be examined in open court, as to his
qualifications of learning and ability, by the judges, or under their direc
tion, at the term at which application for admission is made.
Sec. 4. If, upon the examination, he is found duly qualified, the court
shall direct an order to be entered, to the effect that the applicant is a
citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral
character, and possesses the requisite qualifications of learning and ability
to practice as an attorney and counsellor in all the courts of this state ;
and upon the entry of the order, he is entitled to practice as such attorney
and counsellor.
Sec. 5. It is the duty of any attorney and counsellor :
First. To support the constitution and laws of the United States, and
of this state ;
Second. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and
judicial officers ;
Third. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings or defenses,
only, as appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a person
charged with a public offense ;
Fourth. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the cause confided
to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to
mislead the judges by any artifice or false statement of fact or law ;
Fifth. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to him
self to preserve the secrets of his client ;
Sixth. To abstain from all offensive personality and to advance no fact
prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required
by the justice of the cause with which he is charged.
Seventh. Not to encourage either the commencement or continuance
of an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest ; and,
Eighth. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the
cause of the defenseless or oppressed.
Sec. 6. An attorney or counsellor who is guilty of deceit or collusion,
or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge, or a party to
an action or judicial proceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor, and
shall also forfeit to the party injured, treble damages, recoverable in a
civil action.
Sec. 7. If an attorney and counsellor knowingly permits a person not
his general law partner to sue out process, or to prosecute or defend an
action or proceeding in his name, he and every person who so uses his
name, shall severally forfeit to the party against whom the process was
issued, or the action or proceeding prosecuted or defended, the sum of
fifty dollars, recoverable in a civil action.
Sec. 8. No person shall appear in any action or proceeding, in the
supreme or district court, to maintain or defend the same, unless previously
admitted to practice, as herein provided.
Sec. 9. An attorney and counsellor has authority :
First. To bind his client in any of the proceedings in an action or
special proceeding by his agreement duly made or entered upon the
minutes of the court ; but such agreement or stipulation shall be disre
garded unless made in open corrt, or in presence of the clerk, and entered
in the minutes by him, or in writing and signed by the party against whom
the same is alleged, or his attorney ;
Second. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special
proceeding during the pendency thereof, or within two years after judg
ment, and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the
claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment.
But this section does not prevent a party employing a new attorney to
issue an execution upon a judgment, or to take other proceedings pre
scribed by the statute for its enforcement ; and when he does so, the
authority of the former attorney ceases.
Sec. 10. If it is alleged by a party for -whom an attorney appears,
that he does so without authority, the court may at any stage of the proceedings relieve the party for whom the attorney has assumed to appear
from the consequences of his acts ; it may also summarily, upon motion,
compel the attorney to repair the injury to either party consequent upon
his assumption of authority.
Sec. 11. The court or a judge may, on motion of either party, and
on showing reasonable grounds therefore, require the attorney for the
adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to produce or
prove the authority under which he appears, and until he does so, may
stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom he assumes
to appear.
CHANGE OP ATTORNEY.
Sec. 12. The attorney in an action or special proceeding, may be
changed at any time before judgment or final determination, as follows :
FirsL Upon his own consent, filed with the clerk or entered upon the
minutes •. or.
Second. Upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof, on the appli
cation of the client, or for other sufficient cause ; but no such change can
be made until the charges of such attorney are paid by the party asking
such change to be made.
Sec. 13. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the last section,
written notice of the change, and of the substitution of a new attorney, or
of the appearance of the party in person shall be given to the adverse
party ; until then, he is bound to recognize the former attorney,
Sec. 14. When an attorney dies, or is removed, or suspended, or
cea=es to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acting as
attorney> shall, at least thirty days before any further proceedings against
him, be required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint
another attorney : provided, that if such party is dead or absent from the
state, such notice shall be served by filing the same with the clerk of the
court where the action is pending.
LIEN OF ATTORNEYS.
Sec. 15. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether speciagreed
upon or implied, as provided herein:
First. Upon the papers of his client, which have come into his pos
session in the course of his professional employment ;
Second. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client ;
Third. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party in an action or
proceeding, in which the attorney was employed from the time of giving
novice of the lien to that party ;
Fourth. Upon a judgment to the extent of the costs included therein,
or if there is a special agreement, to the extent of the compensation spe
cially agreed on, from the time of giving notice to the party against whom
the judgment is recovered. This lien *is, however, subordinate to the
rights existing between the parties to the action or proceeding.
SUMMARY POWER OP THE COURT OVER ATTORNEYS.
Sec. 16. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or papers,
to a person from or for whom he has received them in the course of professional
employment, whether in an action or not, he may be required by
an order of the court in which an acUon, if any, was prosecuted, or if no
action was prosecuted then by order of the supreme court, to do so within
a specified time, or show cause why he should not be punished for a con
tempt.
Sec. 17. If however, the attorney claims a lien upon the money or
papers, under the provisions of this chapter, the court may :
First. Impose as a condition of making the order, that the client give
security in a form and amount to be directed to satisfy the lien when determined
in an action ; or,
Second Summarily inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien
is founded, and determine the same ; or,
Third. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and
upon the verdict or report, determine the same, as in other cases.
REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.
Sec. 18. An attorney and counsellor may be removed or suspended
the supreme court, at a general term thereof, for either of the follow.
* ._. j*. _j • : .
ine causes, arising after his admission to practice ;
First. Upon his being convicted of felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of his conviction
is conclusive evideuce ;
Second. Upon its being shown to the satisfaction of the court, that he
has knowingly signed a frivolous pleading, or has been guilty of any other
deceit or willful misconduct in his profession ;
Third. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of court,
requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the course of
his profession ;
Fourth. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section
five.
Sec. 19. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and
counsellor, as provided in the last section, may be taken by the court of its
own motion for matter within its knowledge, or upon the information of
another.
Sec. 20. If the proceeding is upon the information of another, the
accusa'ion shall be in writing and presented to the court.
Sec. 21. The accusation shall state the matter charged, and be verified
by the oath of the person making it, or of some other person, to the
effect that the charges therein contained are true.
Sec. 22. After receiving the accusation, the court shall, if in its opinion the case requires it, make an order requiring the accused to appear
and answer the accusation at a specified time in the same or a subsequent
term, and cause a copy of the order and of the accusation to be served
upon the accused, within a prescribed time before the day appointed in
the order.
Sec. 23. The accused shall appear at the time appointed in the order,
and answer the accusation, unless for sufficient cause the court assign
another day for that purpose. If he does not appear, the court may proceed
and determine the accusation in his absence.
Sec. 24. The accused may answer the accusation, either by objecting
to its sufficiency, or denying its truth.
Sec. 25. If he objects to the sufficiency of the accusation, the objection
shall be in writing, but need not be in any specified form, it being
sufficient if it presents intelligibly the grounds of the objection. If he
denies the truth of the accusation, the denial may be oral and without
oath, and shall be entered upon the minutes.
Sec. 26. If an objection to the sufficiency of the accusation is not sustained,
the accused shall answer it forthwith.
Sec. 27. If the accused pleads guilty, or refuses to answer the accusation,
the court shall proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If
he denies the matter charged, the court shall immediately, or at such time
as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation.
Sec. 28. In case of a judgment of suspension or removal, the accused
may within ten days after it is pronounced, make a case, setting forth the
evidence, and other proceedings in the matter upon the hearing thereof,
which shall be settled by the court in the same manner as a case in a civil
action; when settled it shall be filed by the clerk of the court by which
the judgment was given.
Sec. 29. The following papers shall be annexed together, and filed
by the clerk within two days after the filing of the case, or within such
further time as the court or judge thereof may prescribe :
First. The accusation ;
Second. The objections or answers thereto ;
Third. The case mentioned in the last section ;
Fourth. A copy of the entries upon the minutes of the court, relating
to the accusation and the proceedings thereon, including the order of suspensijn
or removal.
Sec. 30. Any court, except a justice's court, may suspend an attorney
aQd counsellor from practising therein, for any of the causes mentioned
in section eighteen, for a period not beyond the adjournment of the next
general term of the supreme court; the order of suspension shall state the
cause thereof, and be entered upon the minutes, and a certified copy there
of transmitted by the court by which it is made to the next general term
of the supreme court which may proceed thereon against the person sus
pended, in the manner provided in this chapter.
CHAPTER LXXXIX.
ARBITRATORS.
Section
1. What controversies may be submitted to
trators.
2. What claims shall not be submitted.
8. Parties to sign agreement—form of
meat.
4. Statement shall contain, what.
6. Submission irrevocable, without consent.
6- Duty of arbitrators.
7. Arbitrators shall be sworn.
8. Award to be made, when.
9. Shall be In writing.
10. Shall be delivered to cleric
Section
11. Uow disposed of by the court.
12. On what grounds, may be vacated.
13. In what cased, may be modified or c
14. Returned to court, when—proceedings in court
thereon.
15. Judgment, how entered.
16. Record of judgment, how made.
17. Record, how filed and docketed.
18. Costs, how regulated.
19. Duties and powers of arbitrators—construction
of chapter.
Section 1. All controversies which can be the subject of a civil ac^ont
may be submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators in the
manner provided in this chapter,
Sec. 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the claim of any
person, to any estate in fee or for life, to real estate, but any claim to an
interest for a term of years, or for one year or less, in real estate, and
controversies respecting the partition of lands between joint tenants, or
tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning
the admeasurement of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.
Sec. 3. The parties shall appear in person, or by their lawful agents
or attorneys, before any justice of the peace, and shall there sign and ac
knowledge an agreement in substance as follows :
" Know all men, that of and
of have agreed to submit the demand, a state
ment whereof is hereto annexed, (and all other demands between them as
the case may be,) to the determination of and
the award of whom or the greater part of whom, being made and reported
within from this day, to the district court for the county of
the judgment thereon shall be final ; and if either of the
parties shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice given
him of the time and place appointed for hearing the parties, the arbitra
tors may proceed in his absence.
Dated this day of in the year
And the justice shall subjoin to the said agreement his certificate, in
substance as follows :
State ot Minnesota, )
county of J
Then the above named and personally appeared,
(or the above named personally, and the said by
the said his attorney, appeared, as the case may be,) and
acknowledged the above instrument by theui signed, to be their free act
Before me, J. P. justice of the peace.
Sec. 4. If any specific demand is submitted to the exclusion of others,
the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement annexed to the
agreement, otherwise it is not necessary to annex any statement of a de
mand, and the words in the agreement relating to such statement may be
omitted, and the submission may then be of all demands between the
parties, or of all demands which either of them has against the other, or
the submission may be varied in this respect, in any other manner accord
ing to the agreement of the parties.
Sec. 5. Neither party has power to revoke a submission made as
herein provided, without the consent of the other; and if either of them
neglects to appear before the arbitrators after due notice, the arbitrators
may, nevertheless, proceed to hear and determine the cause upon the evi
dence produced by the other party.
Sec. 6. The arbitrators thus selected, shall appoint a time and place
for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time to time as may be
necessary ; and on the application of either party, and for good cause, they
may postpone such hearing to a time not extending beyond the day fixed
in such submission for rendering their award.
Sec. 7. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators shall
be sworn by an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly
to hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to make a just award
according to law and evidence.
Sec. 8. The time within which the award shall be made and reported,
may be varied according to the agreement of the parties ; and no award
made after the time so agreed upon, shall have any legal effect or opera
tion, unless made upon a recommitment of the award by the court to
which it is reported.
Sec. 9. To entitle any award to be enforced, according to the provisions
of this chapter, it shall be in writing, subscribed by the arbitrators
making the same, aud attested by a subscribing witness.
Sec. 10. The award shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators, to
the clerk of the court designated in the agreement, or shall be inclosed
and sealed by them, and transmitted to the clerk, and shall remain scaled
until opened by the court.
Sec. 1 1. The award may be accepted or rejected by the court for any
legal and sufficient reason, or it may be re-committed to the arbitrators for
a re-hearing by them.
Sec. 12. Any party complaining of such award may move the court
designated in such submission, to vacate the same upon either of the following
grounds :
First. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other
undue means ;
Second. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbi
trators, or either of them ;
Third. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, in refusing to
postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear
evidence, pertinent and material to the controversy, or any other misbe
havior by which the rights of any party have been prejudiced ;
Fourth. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so
imperfectly executed them, that a mutual, final and definite award on the
subject matter submitted was not made ;
Fifth. That the award is contrary to law and evidence.
Sec. 13. Any party to such submission may also move the court des
ignated therein, to modify or correct such award in the following cases :
First. Where there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an evi
dent mistake in the description of any person, thing or property, referred
to in such award ;
Second. Where the arbitrators have awarded upon some matter not
submitted to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision upon the mat
ter submitted ;
Third. Where the award is imperfect in some matter of form not
affecting the merits of the controversy, and where, if it had been a ver
dict, such defect could have been amended or disregarded by the court.
Sec. 14. The award may be returned at any term or session of the
court, that is held within the time limited in the submission ; and the par
ties shall attend at every such term or session, without any express notice
for that purpose, in like manner as if an action for the same cause was
pending between them in the same court ; but the court may require ac
tual notice to be given to either party, when it shall appear necessary or
proper, before it proceeds to act upon the award.
Sec. 15. Upon such award being confirmed or modified, the court
shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any sum of money
or damages have been awarded, that he recover the same, and if the
award has directed any act to be done by either party, judgment shall be
entered that such act be done according to such order ; the costs of pro
ceedings shall be taxed as in actions, and if no provision for the fees and
expenses of the arbitrators has been made in the award, the court shall
make a suitable allowance.
Sec. 16. A record of such judgment shall be made, commencing with
a memorandum reciting the submission, then stating the hearing before
the arbitrators, their award, the proceedings of the court thereupon in
modifying or confirming such award, and the judgment of the court for
the recovery of the debt or damages awarded, and that the parties per
form the acts ordered by the award, and for the recovery of the costs
allowed.
Sec. 17. Such record shall be filed and docketed as records of judg
ments in other cases, shall have the same force and effect in all respects,
be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to judgments in actions,
and may in like manner be removed by appeal and reversed, and execu
tion be issued thereupon.
Sec. 18. If there is no provision in the submission concerning the
costs of the proceedings, the arbitrators may make such award respecting
the costs as they shall judge reasonable, including therein a compensation
for their own services ; but the court may reduce the sum charged for the
compensation of the arbitrators, if it appears to them unreasonable.
Sec. 19. The arbitrators shall hear and receive the testimony of either
Part7> under oath ; and shall have power to administer all necessary oaths
to parties or witnesses appearing before them. Nothing in this chapter
contained shall preclude the submission and arbitrament of controversies,
according to the common law.
Section 1. Whoever performs labor, or furnishes materials or machinery
for erecting, constructing, altering, or repairing any house, mill,
manufactory or other building or appurtenances, or for constructing, altering,
or repairing any boat, vessel, or other water craft, by virtue of a contract or agreement with the owner or agent thereof, shall have a lien to
secure the payment of the same, upon such house, mill, manufactory, or
other building and appurtenances, and upon such boat, vessel, or other
water craft, together with the right, title, or interest of the person owning
such house, mill, manufactory, or other building and appurtenances, on
and to the land upon which the same is situated, not exceeding forty acres,
and if erected within the limits of any city, town of village plat, the lot
of ground on which said house, mill, manufactory, or other building and
appurtenance is erected, not exceeding in extent one acre.
Sec. 2. Every mechanic or other person doing or performing any
work toward the erection or repair of any house, mill, manufactory or
other building or appurtenance, or the construction, alteration, or repair
of any boat, vessel, or other water craft, or furnishing any material for
the construction of such building or vessel, erected or repaired under a
contract between the owner thereof and builder, or other person, whether
such work is performed as journeyman, laborer, carman, sub-contractor or
otherwise, whose demand for work so done or materials so furnished, has
not been paid or satisfied, may deliver to the owner of such building or
vessel, an attested account of the amount and value of the work or labor
performed, or the materials thus furnished and remaining unpaid, and
thereupon such owner shall retain out of his subsequent payments to the
contractor, the amount of such work and labor for the benefit of the per
son so performing the same.
Sec. 3. Whenever any such account of labor performed, or materials
furnished, is placed in the hands of the owner of any building or vessel,
as above stated, or his authorized agent, such owner or agent shall furnish
his contractor with a copy of such papers, so that if there is any disagree
ment between such contractor and his creditor, they may, by amicable
adjustment, or by arbitration, ascertain the true sum due ; and if the contractor shall not, within ten days after the receipt of such papers, give the
ow^r written notice that he intends to dispute the claim, or if in ten days
a^er ^v'no 8UCn notice> ne refuses or neglects to have the matter adjustcdj
as aforesaid, he 6hall be considered as assenting to the demand, and
the owner shall pay the same when it becomes due.
Sec. 4. If the contractor disputes the claim of his journeyman or
otn<jr person, for work done or materials furnished as aforesaid, and the
matter cannot be adjusted between themselves, it shall be submitted to
the arbitrament of three disinterested persons, one to be chosen by each
of the parties, and one by the two thus chosen, and their decision, or the
decision of any two of them, shall be conclusive in the case submitted.
Sec. 5. When the account is adjusted, as above provided, and the
contractor does not, within ten days after it is so adjusted, pay the same
40 n'8 cre<litor, with the costs incurred, the owner shall pay the same out
of the fund as above provided ; and said amount may be recovered from
the said owner by the creditor of the said contractor, to the extent in val
ue of any balance due by the owner to his contractor under the contract
with him at the time of the notice first given, as aforesaid, or subsequent
ly accruing to such contractor under the same.
Sec. 6. If by collusion the owner of any building erected by contract,
. ,. , * - .« ° ,J . ,
pays to his contractor any money in advance ot the money due on said
contract, and if the amount still due to the contractor, after such payment
has been made, is insufficient to satisfy the demand made in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, for labor done and materials furnished, the
owner shall be liable to the amount that would have been due at the time
of his receiving the account of such work and materials, in the same
manner as if no such payment had been made.
Sec. 7. Any person entitled to a lien under section one aforesaid,
shall make an account in writing, of the item of labor, skill, material
and machinery furnished, or either of them, as the case may l>e, and after
making oath thereto, within one year after the time of performing such
labor and skill, or furnishing such material and machinery, shall file the
same in the register's office of the county in which such labor, skill, and
materials have been furnished, which account so made and filed, shall be
recorded iu a book to be provided, separately, by the register for that
purpose, and shall, from the commencement of such labor, or the f'umishmg
°f such materials, and for two years after the completion of such labor
or the furnishing of such materials, operate as a lien on the several de
scriptions of structures and buildings, and the lots of ground on which
they stand, in the first section of this chapter named. When any labor
has been done, or materials furnished, as provided, on a written contract,
the same, or a copy thereof, shall be filed with the account herein required.
Sec. 8. Every person holding such lien, may proceed to obtain a judgment
for the amount of his account thereon, according to the course of
^eS^ proceedings in like cases ; and when any action is commenced on
such accounts, within the time of such lien, the lien shall continue until
such action is finally determined and the judgment sat isfied.
Sec. 9. When the owner of any house or buildings, described in the
^rst 8ect'on °f tn'3 chapter suspends its progress or completion, without
the consent of such laborers, mechanics or furnishers ; or if the progress
or completion of the same is suspended by the decease of the owner at a
stage when, from its unfinished state, such structure would go to waste,
the laborers, mechanics and furnishers thereto, or any of them, may at
their election, proceed with the same at their cost, so far as to inclose such
building and thereby prevent such waste : provided, the work so done
after said suspension, shall be according to the contract and the plan of the
owner.
Sec 10. If the person erecting as owner, any building described in
the first section of this chapter, is not at the suspension or completion of
the same, possessed of the legal title to the ground on which the same is
erected, but is possessed of the equitable title thereto, and the fact of such
defect of title is made to appear to the court before whom any judgment
under this chapter has been obtained ; or if the same is returned by any
legal officer, to whom any execution under this chapter is directed, the
court shall direct the officer who has returned, or who is authorized by law
to serve such execution, to rent or lease such building, until the rents and
issues thereof shall pay or satisfy the several liens on which judgment
may be had against the same : provided, this law shall not be so construed
as to interfere with prior bona fide liens on ground on which such build
ing is erected.
Sec. 11. In all other cases of judgment obtained in favor of any lien
holder, if the property bound by such lien will not sell on execution as
provided by law in other cases, having been once duly offered, the court
before whom such judgment was obtained, may direct the officer afore
said, to lease the same in the manner and for the purpose pointed out in
the preceding section ; and the officer giving such lease shall therein re
quire the payment to be made to him, or His successor in office, which suc
cessor shall have the same power and perform the same duties therein as
the maker of the lease should or could do ; and in cases where the money
may be collected by said officer on leases made under this chapter, he shall
forthwith pay the same into court, where the judgments were obtained,
which money shall be distributed to the several lien holders interested in
said judgments, in proportion to their several demands.
Sec. 12. All liens may be discharged by the payment of the judgment
or debt, with cost*, before the property on which such liens attached
is sold or leased under this chapter ; and if any lien holder, after the same
is duly tendered to him, proceeds at law, or refuses to give a due discharge
from such lien, such lien holder shall forfeit his lien and pay costs.
Sec. 13. If the owner of the property which is subject to a lien is
without the reach of process, or resident without the state, any lien holder
may proceed by attachment against the same, as in other cases, and the
court before whom the same attachment is pending, on the entry of judg
ment, on return of the proper officer, shall have the same power to order
leases, as is given in the tenth and eleventh sections of this chapter
Sec. 14. Executors and administrators, under this chapter, have the
same rights and are subject to the same liabilities that their testator or
intestate would be or might have if living.
Sec. 15. Every person in favor of whom any such lien has existed,
after having received satisfaction of his debt, or after final judgment
against him by a competent tribunal, showing that nothing is due by reason of such claims, shall at the request of any person interested in the
property on which the same was a lien, or who is interested in having the
lien removed, or of his legal representatives, lodge a certificate with said
register, that the said debt is satisfied and said lien removed, which certi
ficate shall be filed and recorded by the register on the margin of the re
cord, in the same manner that releases of mortgages are now by law re
quired to be recorded ; and when so recorded, shall forever discharge and
release said lien ; and if such person having received satisfaction as afore
said, by himself or attorney, or judgment having been rendered against
him as aforesaid, shall not within ten days after request in writing, lodge
a notice in writing with the register, as is prescribed in this section, he
shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved, any sum of money not exceed
ing one half of the debt claimed as a lien on such pronertv. to b« ™>coved in a civil action ; and the party lodging such certificate as aforesaid,
shall pay to the register twenty cents for recording each notice or certifi
cate as aforesaid.
Sec. 1 6. Whoever makes, alters, repairs or bestows labor on any article of personal property at the request of the owner or legal possessor
thereof, shall have a hen on such property so made, repaired, altered, or
upon which labor has been bestowed, for his just and reasonable charges
for the labor he has performed and the materials he has furnished, and
such person may hold and retain possession of the same until such just
and reasonable charges are paid, and if they are not paid within three
months after the labor is performed or the materials furnished, the person
having such lien may proceed to sell the property by him so made, altered
or repaired, or upon which labor has been bestowed, at public auction, by
S'vmS public notice of such sale by advertisement for three weeks in some
newspaper printed and published in the county, or if there is none, then
fry poking Up notice of such sale in three of the most public places in the
county three weeks before the time of sale ; and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied first to the discharge of such lien and the costs and ex
penses of keeping and selling such property, and the remainder, if any,
shall be paid over to the owner thereof.
Sec. 1 7. Any person who is a common carrier, and any person, who
at the request of the owner or lawful possessor of any personal property,
carries, conveys or transports the same from one place to another, and any
person who safely keeps or stores any personal property, at the request
of the owner or lawful possessor thereof, shall have the same lien and the
same power of sale for the satisfaction of his reasonable charges, upon the
same conditions and restrictions as provided in the preceding section.
Sec. 18. The following form may be used under this chapter :
State of Minnesota,) ^
County. )
A. B., affiant, makes oath and says : That the annexed is a true and
correct account of the labor performed, and material (or say machinery)
furnished by him (or them) to and for (here give the name) at said coun
ty ; and the prices thereof set forth in the account hereto annexed, are
just and reasonable, and the same is unpaid ; that said labor was per
formed, and material (or say machinery) was furnished for said C. D. at
the time in said account mentioned under and by virtue of a contract be
tween affiant and C. D., (if the contract was in writing, add, above copy
of which is hereto annexed, marked A.) and for (constructing, or say
altering, or say repairing a certain boat called, and so forth,) giving a de
scription of the water craft; (or say erecting, or say repairing a certain
house, or say mill, giving the common name of the building ; or say a cer
tain piece of land, giving location, etc. ; or say lot of timber, or logs, or
lumber, etc)
And affiant further makes oath and says : That the said C. D. was, at
the time said contract was entered into and said labor was performed, and
said materials (or say machinery) was furnished, the owner of house, (or
say mill, or say said manufactory, naming the kind of building,) and that
said building is situate upon a certain lot of land owned by said C. D.. in
town, section , range , in said county
and this affiant claims a lien on the premises.
(Signed,) A. B.
Sworn and subscribed before me this day of a. d. 18 .
H G , J. P.

