CHAPTER 76.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

   
 

Btcrioh SECTION ‘
I. Distinction between the tonne of civil a4:- 23. Promise not evidence of new contract untions abolished; to be but one form to be less in writing.
called civil action. 54. When payment is made on contract, limi~s. Pariiestoactienahswdesitnated. tauontooommencen-omnaonnenmncni
O.,Actlons when to be commenced. was made.
4. Action to recoverrsaiproperty within twen- 25. when Judsment is arrested or reversed,
ty years. plalntiif may commence anew within one
6. Actions to be brought within ten years. year.
‘ 6. Actions to be brought within six years. 26. This chapter notto extend to actions com- '1. Actions to be commencedwiihin three years. menced. ‘
8. Actions tobo cointnencedwithin two years. 27. Actions by whom prosecuted.
9. Actions to be commenced within one year. 28. Action by asslgnee not to preludice set en'lo. On current accounts, when cause of action 29. Executor, &c., may sue alone.

accrues. so. Husband must Join with wire in suit.
1!. Actions for penalty within one year after 31. when an intent is party, must sue by gnarthe commission or the oilence. dim82. Guardian how appointed.

3. Father may sue tor seduction oi‘ sdanchter.

34. Father may sue for injury to child.

85. when husband has deserted family: '71“
may prosecute or detend. ‘

38. How parties severally llabls,may be suedB7. Act|onnottoabs.t0b!d&i.h,bc.

38.Partners maybe sued by theirooullon
name; process how served in such case.

39. What actions to be tried in count)’ Wh0l‘°
the suhiect of the action is situated.

40. Actions to be tried in county where calls!
that-est arose. .

41. What actions to be tried in count!’ W119“

1%. Actions for reilei, to be brought within ten
Y¢ll’8s _

13. Limitations to apply to actions brought by
United States. ‘

14. when action is commenced.

15. Attempt to commence action equivalent
ween, ac. “

316. When cause or action accrue anddei'endout is out of the territory, time of absence
not to be included.

11- certain disability not a part. or limitation.

is. When personal repxesenuug-um.’ gommuloa actions in certain cases.

19. With alien time of war not to be part oi.

m“""-‘°n- 4 parties reside.
20. in case of injunction, &c., continuance 42. Action against non-resident by attachment
thenol not part or limitation. may be brought in county where defendant
~$l.Ilh¢DIrircenuetevail.hii1io1dha- hsaprsperty. '
“Walt-A ‘ 43. in what eases court may chanlo P1300 0‘

« 22, Limitation does notattach until all disabilities are removed.

trial.
44- Civil actions how commenced.

SIIUTION

I5. summons by whom signed and what to
contain.

‘SECTION
89. Pieadings may be amended once of course.
90. in what cases court may allow party to

40. summons to contain notice.

47. When copy of complaint must be served
with summons.

6. summons by whom served.

4!. summons how served.

59- when 0001’! ml!‘ Brant order that service
be made by publication.

51. Order what to contain; copy of summon;
and complaint to be deposited in post office
directed to defendant.

H. Defendant not served with summons may
come in In! time and defend.

5!. When one of several defendants are served with summons, plaintifff how to proceed.

54. Proof of service of summons how made.

56. Court acquiresjurisdictlon from service of
summons.

58. What pleadings are allowed.

50. Complaint first pleading of plaintifff‘.

0- Complaint what must contain.

01- When defendant may demur.

0- Dcmurrer what to contain.

63. Answer must be served in twenty days.

- When objections may be taken advantage
01 5! answer.

03- Answer what must contain.

"- When counterclaim allowed.

08- if defendant omit to set up counterclaim it
cannot afterwards he allowed.

'- 3¢lIIrate defenses how set up in answer.

'°- °°‘“'Nl|l!Dermit defendant to amend I!
cum‘ alas

7" W50“ liiaintlll‘ may reply and set up new
matter.

7!. Private statute how pleaded.

3- Pleading» in actions for libel or slander,
‘that necessary.

51- In actions um mentioned, defendant now
‘0 newer.

8!. Actions to recover property dietrained, de”"""“ I'll!’ answer that he owned the land.

33- Piaintid may unite several causes of action in complaint.

H‘ "“-°"’¢l llltlation in pleading not denied,
to be taken as true.

35- I-teriai allocation defined.

3. Variance between Wool and allegation
When material.

37. When variance not material, facts to be
‘WM noon the evidence.

5- What to be deemed a failure of proof.

amend.

91. When the name of defendant not itnown,
plaintiffl‘ may sue in any other name.

92. Court todisresard errors not atlecttng rights
of parties.

93. Supplemental pleading when allowed.

94. Arrests on civil process.

96. fudge to order arrest.
97. when such order may be made.‘

100- Atiidavlt and order to be served on defendant.

101. Order how to be executed.

102. Defendsntwhen and how discharged.

103. Defendant how may give bail.

101. When bail may surrender defendant in
their exoneration.

105. Ball may arrest defendant to surrender
him.

106. How hell my he proceeded azainst.

I07. Bail how exonerated.

NB. Sheriff to deliver order of arrest to attorney for piaintifl‘ with his return thereon ;
sherid how exonerated.

109. sheriff or defendant may give pisintid'notice ofjustitication of bail.

no. Qualification of bail, what to be.

ill. Ball to attend before Judge or Justice to
Justify. ‘

112. lfjudge or Justice and ball sufiicient must
indorse allowance on undertaking.

I13. Defendant may deposit amount of claim
with sheriff.

114. shcnfi‘ must deposite same in courtand

take certificate thereof.
li5. When money to be refunded to defendant.

H6. Money deposited to be applied in satisfaction ofjndgmeni.
H7. sheriff when liable as hall, how may discharge himself.

H8. Proceedings against sheriff, and proceedings on ofiiclal bond.

ll9. Bali when liable to shcrlfl. _

no. Defendant may move to vacate the order

of arrest.
12!. If motion made on affidavit, plaintifff‘ may

oppose by affidavit.

122. Action to recover possession of person!
property.

123. Piaintid‘ must sure an aaidsvit; requisites of affidavit.

I24. Plaintiff ml! require sheriff to take the

property.
125. Sheriff when to take the l!I"0l>0l’tYl26. Defendant may except to securitytin. When defendant may retain 90000-3100

of the propertyl28. When defendant’s surctiea must Jul“!!l20. Qualification of suretles.

:30. when sheriff may break open huiidinl to
take propel‘!!m. sncrnr to new support: 1- -¢¢INP''°‘'
in whom to deliver it.

IECTION

132. When plaiutiii‘ to indemnity sheriff.

133. Notice and atiidavit tobe filed with clerk
in twenty days.

134. when plalntiif may have property attached.

135. Warrant of attachment must be obtained
from Judge.

136. when warrant may issue.

137. Written undertaking to be made by plaintill‘.

138. Warrant to whom directed and what to
contain.

189. What property may be attached.

140. Warrant how to be executed.

141- Proceedings where real estate is attached.

142. When detendant. must designate number
of shares in corporation to sheriti‘.

143. Perishable property must be sold by sheriff; other property must be retained to an152. Defendant to enter into undertaking.

163. Derendant may move to vacate the warrant.

15I. when plalntiir may oppose motion by alldavit. _

155. sheritr when to retain warrant or attachmeut.

156. When party has money in hands belonging to another, court may order same to be
paid into court.

167. Proceedings when party disobey: order or
court.

168. Judgment deiined.

159. Judgment tor and against whom may be
given.

160. Judgment where there are several defend  
  
  
 

swer Judgment. ants.
144. When siieriif may deliver property to de- 161. Belief granted not to exceed that demon‘
iendant. ded.

162. When action may be dismissed without
final determination.

183. In all other cases Judgment to be rendered on the merits.

164. When Judgment may be taken against defendants severally.

166. Judgment upon failure to answer, when
and what cause made.

146. Action upon undertaking, what adeteucc.

146. When property claimed by third person,
sheriirto summon Jury to try right of property.

M7. when defendant must give evidence of
the property attached.

its. 1! judgment be recoveredbypialntin‘ how
sherin‘ must satisfy same.

149. Action brought by sheriff may be prosecuted by plaintim

0!‘ THE FORMS 0}‘ ACTIONS AT LAW.

SEC. 1. The distinction between the forms of actions at law, heretofore
existing, are abolised; and there shall be in this territo hereafter, but
one form of action at law, to be called a civil action, for t e enforcement
or protection of private ri hts, and the redress of private wrongs; except as otherwise express y provided by statute.

Sec. 2. In such action the part complaining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as e defendant.

0!‘ THE TIME 01-‘ COMMENCING ACTXONS.

$110. 3. Actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this chapter, after the cause of action shall have accrued, excctapt where in special cases atdiiferent limitation is prescribed by statu e.
Sec. 4. No action for the recove of real property, or for the recove of the possession thereof, shal be maintained unless it appear
that t e plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was seized 01'
possessed of the premises in uestion, within twenty years before the
commencement of the suit. e periods prescribed in the preceding
section for the commencement of actions, are as follows:

Sec. 5. Within ten years:
 An action upon a judgment or decree of a court of the United

S05, 0!’ Of any state or territory of the United States.

no. 6. Within six years;

1. fin action upon ‘a contract or other obligation, express or implied,

excepting those mentioned in the last preceding‘ section;

2' A“ °'°ti°“ “P00 if liability created by statutes, other than those
upon a penalty or forfeiture:

3. An action for tree upon real property:
. An action for taki'pnag8,,detaining, and injuring personal property,
including actions for the specific recovery thereof:
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the

person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not hereinafter enumerated:

6. An action for relief, on the ound of fraud ; the cause of action
in such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by
the aggrieved rty of the facts constituting the fraud.

Sac. 7. ithin three cars:

1. An action against a s eriti‘, coroner, or constable, upon the liabilit by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his ofce, or by omission of an otlicial dut , including the failure to pay money
collected upon an execution ; but this section does not apply to an action for an escape:

2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to the party aggrieved, except as otherwise provided by

Size. 8. Within two ears:

1. An action for libe , slander,’ assault, battery or false imprisonment:

2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the terrimzizc. 9. Within one year:

l. An action against a sheriff, or other odieer, for the escape of a
person arrested or imprisoned b a civil process.

Ste. 10. In an action broug-lit to recover a balance due upon a mumil. open, and current account, when there have been reciprocal de- ,
bonds between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account, claimed or
proved to be chargeable on the adverse side.

Ste. 11. An action upon a statute for a ‘penalty given in the whole or .
5|! Port, to the personwho prosecutes for t e same, must be commenced ]
within one year after the commission of the otfence; and if the action c
be not commenced within one year by a private part)’: it mag be 00"!‘
menced within two ears thereafter in behalf of the United tates, by
"19 Ittorney genera , or the district attorney of the county where the‘
odence was committed. _

Sec. 12. An action for relief not being before provided for, must
50 commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued. .

Sac. 13. The limitations rescribed in this chapter, apply to actions
bfollght in the name of the nited States, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

Sac. l4. An action is commenced as to each defendant, when the
luminous is served on him, or on a defendant who is a joint contractofo
or otherwise united in interest with him. _ _

Sec. 15. An attempt to commence an action, 15 defmled °‘lmV°l°m
i0 “I0 commencement thereof, within the meaning‘ of this chapter: When
the summons is delivered, with the intent that it s _all be actually served,
to the sheriff or other oliicer of the count , in whicli_the defendants, or
one of them usuall or last resided; or ity a corporation be a defendant
10 the sheriff or o er officer of the county in which 811011 °°"P°"3“°“
was established by law. or where its general business was transacted:
or where it kept an office for the transaction of business ; but such an
attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the
service thereof, within sixty days. _ h W

Size. 16. If, when the cause of action accrue against 3 P°"5“"’ c '

B"2§> Q4 mar-an-o can

be out of the territory, the action may be commenced within the term
herein limited after his return to the territory; and if, after the cause
of action accrues, he dc rt from the territory, the time of his absence
is not part of the limiteda time for the commencement of the action.
S20. 17. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned in «this

chapter, except for a penalty: or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other '

officer for an escape, e, at the time the cause of action accrued, either

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane ; or 3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence of a criminal, for a time less than his natural life; or

4. A married woman.

The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action, except that the period within which the
action must be brought, cannot be extended more than five years by any
such disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in any case,
lon er than one year after the disability ceases.

Size. 18. If a person entitled to bring an action, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause
of action survives, an action may be commenced by his personal re resentatives after the expiration of that time, and within one year rom
his death. If a person against whom an action may be brought, die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and
the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against his representatives, after the expiration, and within one year after. the issuing
of letters testamentary or of administration.

Sec. 19. When a person is an alien, subject, or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of . the
war is not part of the period limited for the commencement of the
action.

Sec. 20. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction, or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition, is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

See. 2l_. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it existed at the time his right of action accrued.

Sec. 22. When two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the
right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach until they are all
removed.

Sec. 23. N o acknowle ent or promise is sufficient evidence of a
new or continuing contract, y which to take the case out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby.

Size. 24. Whenever any payment of principal or interest has been
or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of exchange, bond, promissory note, or other evidence of indebtedness, if
such payment be made alter the same becomes due, the limitation shall
commence from the time the last payment was made.

SEC. 25. If any action be commenced within the time prescribed
therefore, and judgment be given therein for the plaintifff, and the same
be arrested or reversed on error or appeal, the plaintifff may commence
a new action within one year after such reversal or arrest.

Sec. 26. -This chapter does not extend to actions already commenced,

but the statutes now in force are applicable to such cases according to
the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

; but this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange,

transferred in ‘good faith and upon good considerations, before due.
. n executor or administrator, a trustee of an expressed
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joine action is prosecuted. A

SEC..30. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be 1
joined with her.

Sec. 31. When an infant is a party, he must a
dim, who may be appointed by the court in which
' h

lSi:c. 32. The guardian must be appointed as follows - '

. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of ‘the infant, if if
he be of the

age of fourteen; or if under that age, upon the application
of a relation or friend of the infant: ‘

2. When the infant is defendant, upon an application of the infant, if
he be the e of fourteen years, and appl within twenty days after the '
service of e summons, if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect
'0 0*? apply, then, upon the application of any other party to the action,
or . . .

Nd lpther may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of the daughter, “"
t e '

dian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter “I
01’ Ward geaiiot living with, or in the service of the plaintifff at the time
of the seduction, or afterwards, and there be no loss of service.

See. 34. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, PM
the mother may maintain an action for the injury of the child, and the "l"
guardian for the injury of a ward. '

Ste. 35. When a husband and father has deserted his family, the wt:
wife and mother may prosecute or defend in his name, any action which 33?}
he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers 0' *1
wd‘ Tights therein as he might have had.

Sec. 36. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or in- noItrument, ineludin

g the parties to bills of exchange an promissory $23
‘"188, and sureties on the same instrument, may all or any of them, be

included in the some action at the option of the plaintifff. .
. SEC. 37. An action does not abate by the death, marri' 8, 0!‘ Ollie!‘ *‘°“‘
disability of a

. . b (I
_ party, or by the transfer of any interest, if e cause of "
action survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage or other
disability of a pa;-1y,1he court on motion may allow the action to be
continued by, or against his representative or successor in interest.

slco 33. When two or more persons associated in any business, funétln
iness under a common name, whether it comprises the

11100 l
h persons or not, the associates may be sued by such coin‘ process in such case being served on one 9l'_m0l‘e 0f m:
and the judgment in the action shall bind the joint prop5:?’ of all the associates in the same manner, as if all had been named
e_n ants, and had been sued upon their joint liability: Any 0116 Of

sociates may also be sued for the obligation 0! all.

0!‘ THE PvI..\CI2 0!‘ TRIAL OI‘ CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 39. Actions for the following causes must be‘ tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is situated,
subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial as hereinafter ‘d d:

l. tiivthg recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest and
for in'uries to real property:

2. or the partition of real property: f 1

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage c we property:

4. For the recovery of ersonal property distraiiged fogd any aclzause.

Sec. 40. A t'ons f r t e followin causes must etri in ecouiity where the caiiiie or game part theregof arose, subject to‘ the lllllif powr f th urt t ha the la -e of trial as in section orty-t ee: e l). F<fr(t(l)ie retgoiareryngdaf a pdhalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,except that where it is imposed for an offense committed on a lagie, riitrer,

oth t e f t 't ted in two or more counties e ac ion
gs bgrbidugllii: in diriiy iroiiilitlyabordering on such lake, river or stream:
. Against a public ‘officer or person specially apipgited to execute
his duties for aniact done by him in virtue of his ce or against a
person who by his command or aid does anything touching, the duties of
h iii .
wgizci).  In all other cases except as provided in the next section,
the action must be tried in the county inwhich the parties or one of
them, reside at the commencement of the action, or if none of the parties reside in this territory, the same may be tried in any county w ich
the plaintifff may designate in his complaint, subject however to the
power of the court to change the place of trial as provided in section
fort -three:
no. 42. If the defendant is a non-resident of this territory, and 
plaintiff proceeds against him, by attaching his prop:-ty, such action
may be brought in any county where the efendant property liable
t tta h t.

0 EEC? 4'?“ The court may change the place of trial on the application
of all the defendants who answer in the following cases: . .

1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is
not the roper count :

M2. ien there is i-leason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be

(1 therein: '

3. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice would
be promoted by the change.

0!‘ THE MARKER OI‘ COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 44. Civil actions in the several district courts of this territory, inust be commenced by the service of a summons, except as hereinafter provided. ,

Sec. 45. The summons must be subscribed by the plaintiff or his
attorney and directed to the defendant, requiring him to answer the
complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the person whose name I8
subscribed to the summons, at a place within the territo therein specihed, in which there is a ost office, within twenty days after the
service of the summons, exc usive of ‘the day of service.

Sec. 46. The summons must also contain ii notice in substance as
follows:

1. In an action arising on obligation for the recovery of money only.

that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant
fail to answer the complaint: V

action; the service must be made and the summons returned to the
person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence.
Sec. 49. The summons must be served by delivering a copy thereof, as follows:
Ml]; If the suit be against a corporation, to the pigesident, or other head
e corporation, secreta , or maiia ' a nt t ereof:
2. If against a minor iirlder the agegh‘i'gf'ou‘i'eteen years, to such minor
personall ., and also to his father, mother, or $1111-dian, or if there be

none wit ii this territory; then to any person '

a ngthe care or control gg such minor, or with whom he resides, or by whom he is em. If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed for

my cause, to such guardian, and to the defendant personally:

4- In all other cases to the defendant personally, or by
of the summons at his usual last place of abode.

_ lie. 50. When the defendant after due diligence,
within the territory, and

leaving a

when that fact appears by affidavit, to the sat- j

isfaction of the court, or iudge, and it in like manner appears that a cause 1
e ef

05 action exists against endant, or that he is a proper party to the
lotion relating to real pro erty in this territory, such court, or jud ,
nay grant an order that t e service be made by the publication ofgea
Illminons in either of the following cases:
hen the defendant is a foreign corporation:
hen the defendant be’ a resident of this territory, has departherefrom with intent to d raud his creditors, or to avoid the ser_ t mof a summons, or shall keep himself concealed therein with the like
in e :
3- When the defendant is not a resident of the territory, but has
P"°_P°|_'ty_ therein, and the action arises on obligation, and the court has
jurisdiction of the subject of the action:
4- when the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law.
Sec. 51. The order must direct the
n'W3P0per published in the county where the action is brought, and if

P"b_li8lled at the seat 0 government of the territory, and for such length
of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less that once a week for six
weeks. In case of publication the court or judge must also direct a
°°P)’ of the summons and complaint to be forthwith depos
9°” M500: directed to the defendant at his

appear that such residence is not known to the party. making the g

co

_ l|_0 Iummons and complaint out of the territory, is e uivalent to uh!

ion and de sit in the post office; in either case, e service 0 the

'|Ill_unons is tel»: deemed complete at the expiration of the time pre3¢|‘ll>ed in the order for publication.

Sac. §2. If the summons

1101' received by him through

shall

'Plt’ll03ll0n, when the publication is ordered, personal service of a
0

heat

publication to be made in a 3

there is no newspaper [published in the county, then in a newspaper ,,

l

ited in “I8 (*4
place of residence, unless it "1

be not personally served on the defendant, Del
the post office, in the cases provided in "°’

the last two sections, he or his representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time before jud ment, must be allowed to
defend the action; and except in an action or divorce, the defendant or
his representatives may in like manner he allowed to defend after jud —
ment, and within one year after the rendition of such 'udg-ment, on we
terms as may be just, and if the defense be success ul and the jud
ment, or any part thereof, has been collected or otherwise enfor ,
such restitution may thereforee be compelled as the court directs. '

Sac. 53. When the action is against two or more defendants and
the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the plaintifff
ma proceed as follows:

ll If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon an
obligation, he ma proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise ‘not; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants, thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the (joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendants serve , and if they are subject to arrest, against
their ersons: or,

2. f the action be against the defendants severally liable, he may

proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if th
were the only defendants. '

Sec. 54. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint
or notice, if any accompanyin the same, must be as follows:

1. If served by the sheriti'§iis certificate, thereof: or,

* 2. If by another person, his affidavit thereof: or,

3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his foreman,
showing the same, and an affidavit of the de osit of a copy of the summons in the post office, if the same shall be eposited: or,

4. The written admission of the defendant.

In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit, or admission must state the time and place of service.

Sec. 55. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
action, the court is demed,to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have
control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of
a defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons upon
him.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 56. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties, of
their respective claims, and defenses for the judgment of the court. T

Sec. 57. All the forms of pleadings in actions at law, heretofore
existing, are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil
actions, and the rules b which the sutliciency of - pleadings is to_be determined, shall be r ated by the statute. _ _

Sac. 58. The on y pleadings allowed on the part of the pl!-till-I3:
are:

1. The complaint:

2. The reply.

And on the part of the defendant:
1. Demurrer: or,

2. The answer.

THE COMPLAINT.

‘SEC. 59. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, is the comp aint.

Sec. 60. The complaint must contain:

1. The title of the cause, specif ing the name of the court in which
the action is brought, the name of t e county where the action is brought,
and the names of the arties to the action, plaintiff and defendant:

_2. A statement ofp the facts constituting the cause of action, in orand concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner

as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended:

1

l. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
on the subject of the action:

2. That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue:

3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause:

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant:
5. That several causes of action have been im roperly united:

6. That the complaint does not state facts sugcient to. constitute a
cause of action.
Size. 62. The demurrer must distinctly specify the grounds upon
Which any of the objections to the complaint are taken; unless it do so, ‘
it may be disregarded, and treated as a nullity. It may be taken tc the

whole complaint, or to any of the causes of action mentioned therein.

- If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must b8 J
served upon the defendant, who must answer it witlun twenty da s 5
after service, or the plaintifff, upon tiling with the clerk proof of t e
Oervice, and of the defendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain_ judg"Nut, as in other cases of failure to answer; but where an application

to the court for ju ent is necessary eight day's notice thereof must
begiven to the dellegiildant. ,
z

0. 64. When any of the matters enumerated in section sixty-one,
and appear in the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken
answer.

Sec. 65. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer;
the defendant must be deemed to have waived the same, 0X?°Pt"‘8 ml)’
the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, Md “"3 °bJ°°t'°“ ‘half aw
°°mplaint does not state facts sunicicnt to constitute a cause of actionSid asasi

THE ANSWER.

Szc. 66. Th . f th defendant must contain: AI

1. A denial ofee:?iwal,lr 0 tilt): of the complaint, controverted by the °°'
defendant, or of any knovsfgdge or information thereof sufficient to form
I belief:

2- A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or colmtof

'3 2 In ordinary and concise language; Wl“'°m "°P9‘m°n> “ml in such

a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended.

Size. 67. The counterclaim, mentioned in the last section, must be
an existing one in favor of the defendant, and against the plaintifff, between whom a separate judgment might be had in the action, and arising
out of the following causes of action: .

1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction, set
forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintili"s claim, or connected with the subject of the action:

2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause of action arising
also on obligation, and existing at the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 68. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the
case mentioned in the first subdivision of the last section, he cannot afterwards maintain an action against the plaintifff thereon.

Sec. 69. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses

as he shall have; they shall each be separately stated, and refer to the

, causes of action which they are intended to answer, in any manner by
'which they may be intelli ibly distin iished; the defendant may

also answer one or more of ie several' legations in the complaint, and
demur to the residue.

Size. 70. If the answer set up new matter which is not replied to
as provided in the next section, and the issue he tried on the complaint
and answer alone, and judgment be given for the plaintifff, the court
may permit the defendant to withdraw or amend his answer upon such
terms as may be just. Sham answers and defenses may be stricken out.

THE REPLY.

Sec. 71. When the answer contains new matter constituting a
counterclaim, the plaintifff may within twenty days reply tolsuch new
matter, denying each alle .tion controverted by him, or any knowledge
or information thereof sul§i(‘.-icnt to form a belief; and he may allege in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint constituting
a defense to the codnter claim.

GENERAL RULES OF I"LEADlNGc

Size. 72. No other pleading shall be allowed than the complaint,
answer, reply, and demurrer.

Size. 73. Every pleading in a court of record, must be subscribed
by the party or his attorney, and when any pleading in a case shall be
verified by affidavit, all subsequent pleadings, except demurrers, shall
be verified also, and in all cases of the verification of a pleading, the
affidavit of the party shall state that the same is true, of his own
knowledge, except as to matters which are therein stated on his information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes it to be true.
And when a pleading is verified, it shall be by the affidavit of the par1}’, unless he be absent from the county where the attorney resides, or
trom seine cause unable to verify it, or the facts are within the knowl“lge Pf hfs attorney. 01' 011181‘ person verifying the same. When the
pleading is verilied by the attorney, or any other person except the
Petty, lle_shall set forth in the affidavit, his knowledge, or the grounds
ol his belief on the subject, and the reason why it is not made by the
party. lVhcn a corporation is a party'tlic verilicat ion may be made by
any officer thereof ; and when the United States, or any officer thereof,
in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the attorney general, in behalf of the territory, for the recovery of real ro ert
the pleadings need not be verified. P P Y,

Sec. 74. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading, the items of an account therein alledged, but he shall deliver to the
adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof, in writing, a copy
of the account verified_by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney,
 %:£;°:::.:* ‘° ‘?::.:::‘:;.°'  P"*°‘":':“  ""8

. 0 or 3 ereo ma or er a ur er or
more particular bill. , g , y

Size. 75. In the construction of a pleadi for the purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be libera ly construed, with a view
to substantial justice between the parties. i Sec. 76. If irrelevent or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading,
tmay be stricken out on motion of an erson a rieved thereb ' and
when the allegations of a leading areystli) indei‘lI§i%‘e or uncert-aiii’,,that
the precise nature of the c arge or defense, is not apparant, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain, by amend- 3
meats. Sig. 77.!‘ In plelading (al judgment,h<:‘iilotherbdetermination of ztiapoiigt, 3
oroceros i ' 'tin'ts not enecessa tos e e
acts confeninigleguarislcililclfiohc, lint such judgment or deteiiilnination may

stated to ha bee d l ' ade. If such alle ation be controverted, the iiiirty pleadihggihhll (blelblound to establish 0% the trial, the
facts conferring the jurisdiction.

Sac. 78. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a ;
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such per- 3
formance, but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part, and if such all tion be controverted, the
party pleifiding shall be bound to establish on t e trial, the facts showing
One per ormanee.

Size. 79. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, P
it shall be suliicient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day of "‘
its approval, and the court shall thereon take judicial notice thereof.

Sec. 80. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary 1!]
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of show- 3:
ing llleapplication to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter, out of which cttlletcguse of action arose; but it sllrall be sudieientutlo statetgueneralllyt,

t - hr, 1, d ' er in e )3!" i ' am i
such all miiznwiii <’:)dlntii<:v:rte)d, illicit) pelgiiitifi? slilallgbe boilind to establish

on trial, t at it was so published or spoken.

Size. 81. In the action mentioned in the last section, the defendant ‘tin
may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as de-_ M
rmmlory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount _ot
damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in

evidence the mitigating circumstances. _ _

SEC. 82. In an action to recover the possession of property dis- 
trained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person, by whose {M
command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon 
which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was, at

the time, doing damage thereon, shall be good without setting forth the
title to such real property. _ .

Sec. 83. The laintilf may unite several causes of action in the same Si:
colnplalnt, when they all arise out of. AMI
l. Contract ex ress or implied; or
2- injuries wit or without force to the person: 0|‘

3 - lnjuries with or without force to property 3 0|‘

4. lu juries to property : 5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for withholdi thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or e

6. %laims to recover personal property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof; or

7. Claims agutinst a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operations
of law. But e causes of action so united, must belong to one only of
these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require
different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

Sec. 84. Every material allegation of the complaint not specifically
controverted by the answer as prescribed, and every material allegation
of new matter in the answer not specifically controverted by the reply
as prescribed, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true;
but the all tion of new matter in a reply, shall not in any respect conclude the efendant, who may, on the trial, countervail it by proofs,
either in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.

Sec. 85. A material allegation is one essential to the claim or defense,
and which could not be stricken from the pleading, without leaving it
insufficient.

MISTAKBS IN PLEADINGS, ANID AMENDMENTS.

Sac. 86. No variance between the allegation in a pleadi and the
proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misl the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon
the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that
fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, andit must be shown
in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may order
the pleading to be amended upon such terms as may be just.

Size. 87. When the variance is not material, as provided in the last
section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs. .

Sec. 88. When, however, the allegation of the claim, or defense to
which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some (particulars only,
but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be eemed a case of
variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

Sec. 89. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course,
without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at
an time before the period for answering it, expires; or, if it do not
de y the trial, it can be so amended at any time within twenty days after service of the answer to such pleading; in such case, a copy of the
amended pleading must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, ei her at a term, or in vacation, the court may, in
its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good
faith, allow the defendant to answer upon such terms, as to trial by the«
court or referees, or as to costs, or otherwise, as may be just.

Sec. 90. The court may, at any time in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or when the amendment ,

does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the
pleading or proceeding to the fact proved; the court may likewise, in
‘t’ d1§°l'e‘i0na allow an answer or re ly to be made after the time limited
by this chapter, or by an order en urging such time; and may also, at
any time Wltllln one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken 1: ‘mt him through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neg ect; and may supply an omission _in any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken bya party, fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of the statutes, the
court may permit an amendment of such proceedings, so as to make it
conformable thereto.

Sec. 91. When the (plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be esignated in any pleadi or proceeding, by
any name, and when his true name is discovered, t e pleading or proceedings may be amended accordingly.

Sec. 92. The court must in every st:ge of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the pleadings or proce 'ngs, which does not affect

the substantial r' hts of the adverse party, and no judgment can be reversed or afectelgb reason of such error or defect.

Sec. 93. The p 'ntitl' and defendant respectively, may be allowed
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint. answer or reply, alleging

facts, material to the case, weaning after the former complaint, answer, or reply.

in the following cases ° '

1. In an action for the recove of damages, or a cause of action ariIllg on an obligation where the efendant is not a resident of the territory, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for a willfill injury to person or to property, knowing the property to belong to
mother:

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
dell‘: 0!’ incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in
°°'N{¢Ili or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or con'°Y|l0lI which, the action is brought:

5. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his
mm or is about to do so with intent to defraud his creditors:

. - en the arrest of the defendant is expressl authorized by spe¢IIl statutes, in an action for a fine or penalty, or or a willful violation
. But no female can be arrested in any action, except for a
willf in'ury to person, character or prpperty. .

Sac.  An order for the arrest of e defendant must be obtained
7'0“! I j of the court in which the action is brought.

Sec. . The order may be made whenever it appears to th'::n!‘c. e
1’? ‘lie affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that a s ient
“life of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in
Ioction ninety-five. _

310- 98. Before making the order, the jud e must require a writ- gm
"'1 llndertaking on the part of the plaintifff, wi or without sui-eties,to ,,.,..
"30 defect that if the defendant recover judgment, the phiintitf will pry
‘ll 0001! andoharges that may be awarded to the defendant, and l

E} ii

damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding
the sum specified in the iiiidertakiiig, which must be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff without
sureties, he must annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and
householder or f reeholder, within the territory, and worth double the
sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities.

Sec. 99. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at
any time afterwards, before payment. It must require the sheriff of
the count where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him
and hold im to bail, in a specified sum, and to return the -order‘ at a
time and place therein mentioned, to the plaintifff or attorney by whom
it is subscribed or indorsed.

Size. 100. The affidavit and order of arrest must be delivered to
the sheriff who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a
copy thereof. »

Sec. 101. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

See. 102. The defendant at any time before execution, may be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the '

amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 103. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant
shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the" court
during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned
in the third subdivision of section ninety-five, an undertaking to the
same effect as that provided by section one hundred and twenty-seven.

. Sec. 104. At any time before a failure to comply with their un* dertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration ; or
he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested in the following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be delivered
to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody, thereon, as
upon an order of‘ arrest, and'by a certificate in writing acknowledge
the surrender. 2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff ’s ce_r' tificate, a judge of the district court may upon a notice to the plaintifff
of eight (lays, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated, and on filing the order and the papers used on such application they shall be exonerated accordingly; but this section does not
apply to an arrest for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of
section ninety-five. _

,~ SEC. 105. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail

" at any time or place before they are finally discharged, may themselves

arrest him, or by a written authority indorsed on a certified copy of

the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

See. 106. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail can be proceeded against by action only.

3- Sec. 107. The bail may be. exonerated, either by the death of the
defendant or his imprisonment in a penitentiary, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process: 0"
by his surrendering to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested
in execution thereof within twentv days after ‘the commencement of
the action against the bail, or within sneh further time as may be grim‘
ted by the court.

Sec. 108. Within the time limited for that purpose the sheriff must.

or a copy thereof; the plaintifff within ten days thereof may serve upon
the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he must be
deemed to have accepted it and the shcrifi’ shall be exonerated from liabilit 

Size. 109. On the receipt of the undertaking, or copy and notice, the
sheriff or defendant may within ten days thereafter give to the plaintifff
or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of
the justification of the same or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter) before a jud e of the court, or justice of the peace at a specified time and place, 1 ie time to be not ess
than five, nor more than ten days thereafter; in case other bail be given
there-must be a new undertaking in the form prescribed in section one
hundred and three. '

Size. 110. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident of the territory:

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge or
justice of the peace on justification, may allow more than two bail, to _
justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the
whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufiicient bail.

Size. lI'l. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must attend before the judge or a 'ustice of the peace, at the time and place :
mentioned in the notice, an may be examined on oath, on the part of
the plaintifff touching his sufiicieney in such manner as the judge or
justice of the peace in his discretion may think proper; the examination
ipust be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail if required by
tie plaintifff.

Sec. 112. If the judge or justice find the bail sufficient, he must
annex the examination to the undertaking, iudorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability. _

_ Ste. 113. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of

Wm bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order;
tie sieriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the deP°'ita and the def cndant shall be discharged out of custody. .

Sac. 114. The sheriff must within four days after the deposit, pay
the same into court, and take from the officer receiving the same two
certificates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the
Plaintiff, and the other to the defendant; for any default in making
such payinent,the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of
the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.
. Size. 115. If money be deposited as provided in the last two sec- in
"0"-‘. bail may be given and justified upon notice, as provided in section :2‘,
one hundred and ten, at any time before 'udgment, and ‘thereupon the

Judge before whom the justification is haul, must direct in tlie_order of
allowance, that the money deposited, be refunded by the sheriff to the
defendant, and it must be ref undcd accordingly. _

Size. 116. When money shall have been so dc sted, if it remain on no
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for tie payment of money 

to the plaintifff, the clerk must, under the direction of the court apply lllot
lhe same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the jud merit, refund the sur lus, if any, to the defendant; if the judgment in favor
of the defeii ant, the clerk must ref mid to him the whole sum depositcdflnd rcinaiiiiiig uiiapplied.

Size. 117. If after being arrested the defeiidaiit (!St ape, or he rcs- ff’;

Wed, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead dtlci

9.76 G-Iain.-0

ESE!

tliereef the sheritl‘ shall liiinself he liable as bail, but he inay tliseliarge
lii1n:<elfl'i'm1i sueh liuliility. by the giving and justification of bail as provided in section one lituitlretl (llltl nine, one lllllltlrt‘-Ll. and ten, and one
liuiidred and eleven, and one hunclred and twelve, at any time before
process agaiiist the persoii of the 1le1'e11tl-.mt to eiiferce an order or judgnicnt in the ac-tioii.

Sec‘. 118. Il'a_j111lgine1itbe 1‘[_‘(:O\-'CI‘lZ‘Ll{lt,2;{1l]1Sl. the sheriff upon his
liability as lJ{lll,{1I](.l 1111 C_\'(_‘CllllOl1 tliereoii be returned iinsatisiietl in
whole or in pzirt, the 1'.1i'ti(rt-e1'li11g.< niay he h;u_l on the official bond of the
slieritfto collect the (letieienc-y as in other CIKSCS of tleliiiqueney.

Site. 119. The hail tzilct-11 on the :11'l'C':'5l,_ sliull 111ile-sstlieyjust.ify,o1'
other bail be given, or justified, be liable to the sheriff by an-.ti0n for the
claiiiziges which he niuy siistuiit hy reaisoii of such oinissieii.

Site. 120. A tlefeiiclaiiit. urrestetl 111:1)‘ at any time before the justitieatioii ot'l_i:1il,_ apply on motion to vzieaite the 0i'1lernfarrest', or to 1'L‘(ltlt;C
the itinettiit. of bail.

Sigr. 121. If the inetimi be made upmi illll(li1\'llS on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose. the same by attidavits or other proofs in addition to those on which the order of arrest

was made.

CLAIH AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTYSnc. 122. The plaintid in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this chapter.

Sec. 123. When a delive is claimed, an atiidavit must be made by
the plaintifff or by some one inrgis behalf, showing:

, I. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which must
be set forth :

2. That the property is wron fully detained by the defendant:

,3. The alleged cause of the tgtention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information, and belief.

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or 
pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution, or attachment against
the property of the plaintid, or if so seized,'that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,

5. The actual value of the property:

‘ Sec. 124. The plaintifff may thereupon by indorsement in writing upon
the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county, where the property
claimed, ma be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver it to
the plainti . _

Size. 125. Upon the receipt of the aiiidavit and no ice with a writ»'- ten undertakin , executed by one or more securities approved by 1110
sheriff, to the e ect that they are bound in double the value of the pro
erty as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action for 0
return of the property to the defendant, if return be adjudged: and f°’
the payment to him of such sum as may for an cause he recovered

ag.ainst.the plaintifff, the sheriff must forthwith ta. e the property (10?
cribed in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody; he must also without delay serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertakin , by delivering the same to him personally, if he can“ be found, or to his agent
from whose possession the property is taken, or if neither can be found

by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either,
son of suitable a e and discretion.

Sec. 126. he defendant may within three days after ‘the service
of a copy of the atiidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufiiciency of the sureties; if he fail to do so he must

be deemed to have waived all objections to them; when the defendant
excepts, the sureties mustjustify on notice in like

on arrest, and the shcritf shall be responsible for the s

with some perSize. 127. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaiiitilf, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintiffrequirc the return thereof, upon giving the sheriff a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for
any cause be recovered against the defendant; if a return of the property be not so required within three days after the taking and service
of notice to the defendant, it must be delivered to the plaintifff, except
as provided in section one hundred and thirty-two.
no. 128. The defi.’ndant’s sureties upon notice to the plaintiff of not
less than two nor more than six days must justify before a judge or
justice of the peace in the same manner as upon bail on arrest ; and upon
such 'ustitication the sheriff must deliver the property to the defendant;
the sheriff shall be responsible for the defcndant’s sureties, until they
justify or until the justitication is completed, or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time, but if they or others in their
places fail to °ustify at the time and place appointed, he must deliver the
tiie laintiff. _ _ _ _
Ste. 129. e qualifications of sureties, and their Justitication <
must be such as are prescribed by sections one hundred and ten and one ‘
hundred and eleven, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest. _
no. 130. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in _a ;
building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly demand its delivery; if ,
it be not delivered, he must cause the building or iiiclosure to be broken t
open, and take the property into his possession, and if necessary he may
Gill to his aid the power of his count '. _ _
Ste. 131. Wlieii the sheriff shall have taken property, ifs m_thl5
Ollnpter provided, he must keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to
T. party entitled thereto, u on receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. 132. If the property taken be claimed by any other. pers0_n
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make atiidavit of his
title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds 0f
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the_s eritf shall
not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifffs tulle“
the plaintifff on demand of him or his agent, indemnity_the sheriff against
mch claim, by an undertaking executed by two sutiicient securities, ae°0m nied by their atiiilavits, that they are each worth double the Vail”
05 Iii: property as s ecitied in the atiidavit of the plaintifff, and are freeholders and householilers of the county; and no claim to suehproperty
. my other person than the defendant, or his agent, shall valid against
l e sheriff, unless so made, and notwitstanding such Claims When _’°
made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indeinnity.

Sac. 133. The shcritf must file the notice and affidavit with 1155 P"°‘ Nu

E‘ D-‘diam

ceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is _

pending within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.
.5-r-racnxsn-r. .

Sec. 134. In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintiff at
the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have
the property of the defendant attached in the manner hereinm'ter rescribed, as security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the p aintiff may recover. Sec. 135. A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a judge

of the court, or from the clerk thereof, in which the action is brought.
Sec. 136. The warrant may be issued whenever the‘ applicant, or
some other person, shall make affidavit that a cause of action exists

against such defendant, specifying the amount of such claim, and the
ground thereof, and that as the applicant verily believes the defendant

is either,

1. A foreign corporation:
2. Not a resident of this territory, or has departed therefrom with

the intent to hinder and delay his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
summons, or that the defendant has assigned, secreted, or disposed of,
or is about to assign, secrete, or dispose of his property so as to hinder
or delay his creditors, or that the debt was f ratdu ent y contracted, or
that the applicant is afraid of losing his debt.

SEC. 137. Before issuing the warrant, the judge or clerk shall require a written undertaking on the rt of the plaintifff, with suiiicient
surety to the effect that if the defendhant recover 'ud ent, the laintif
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the de en ant, and al damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum s ecified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred and fty dollars.

county, and not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
suiiicient to satisfy the plaintili"s demand,.the amount of which must be
stated in conformit with the com laint. Several warrants ma be issued at the tiiii to th h  of dif ent counties y

same e e s er: s 1 er .

Sec. 139. The rights or shares which the defendants may have in
the stock of any corporation, together with the interests and profits
§)hereon,h and all other property in this territory, of such defendants, may

e attac ed and sold to sat‘ f the 'ud ent and execution.
s Sdnc. 140. The sherit1'“l:d’whoxi]i thgemwarrant is directed and delivere must execute the s m 'th ut dela as follows:

1-, Real property mustliehtzhligd by lezirving with the occupant thereElf: or if there be no occu ant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of

ie warrant certified b t e sheriff:
b 2-ttfellggngl prlrzpertyil capable of manual delivery to the sheriff, must
ea c yta mg itint h's tod :

3. Other personal propeiitylmiiiif beyattached by leaving a certified
CQPK of the warrant and a notice specifyin sthe property attached:
Wit 8 person holding the same, or as to a (§ebt, with the debtor, or

as to stock or interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or
other head of the _same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
gglggfi Elle Sheriff! must make a full inventory of the property at, an re urn t e same with the order of atta hm t.
is See. 141. If real estate is attached by virtue of angnwarrant of attachment, the officer on service thereof, shall make a certified copy of

said warrant and of his return thereon, which shall be filed and recorrtgages in the register’s office of the county in
which such real estate is situated, and from the time of filing as aforesaid, the same shall be and continue a lien on all real estate mentioned
or described in the return of the officer in such county, until the same
shall be discharged, and when said lien shall be discharged by the order
of said court, or by satisfaction of the 'udgment rendered in the suit, it
shall be the duty of the said register, w en requested, to record the satisfaction piece or transcript of the record of such order, in the book of
mortgages, and to enter on the margin of the page or es where the
said warrant and return are so recorded, a minute of we discharge or
satisfaction.

Sac. I42. Whenever the sheriff, with a warrant of attachment or
with an execution inst the defendant, ap lies to any person mentioned in the third :t$iiVi8i0Il of section one liundred and fort , for the ,
purpose of attaching or levying upon the property mentioned therein, ‘
such person must furnish him wit a certificate designating the number
of rights or shares of the defendant, in the stock of the corporation,
if any dividend or encumbrance thereon on the amount and descri
tion of the property, held by such corporation or person for the defen ant, or the debt owi to the defendant; if such person refuse to do
so, he may be requir by the court or judge, to attend before him and
be examined on oath concerning the same, and disobedience to the order
mag‘ be punished as a contempt.

so. 43. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff I
must sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on execu- 3
tion, and immediately deposit the proceeds with the clerk of the court.
He must also collect, and if necessary, in his name of office sue for
llledebts and credits attached, and deposit the amount collected with
the clerk. Other property attached by him, must be retained by him, to o
Inswer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner 1';
8 ected to execution upon another judgment.

zc. M4. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached to w
the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his giving a d,
Vffitten undertaki therefore, executed by one or more sufficient surelles engaging to re liver it, or pay the value thereof to the sheriff to

whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff in that action,
mtg’ be issued. '
i:

c. 145, If an action be brou ht upon such undertaking, against gj
“'00 principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that the property for re!
which the undertakin was given, did not at the execution of the warrant of attachment, be ong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

_ Sec. 146. If the property attached be claimed by‘ a third person as g
1'“ Property, the sheriff may summon a jury to try t e yalidit of such :3
claim, and proceedings must be had thereon, with the like e ect as in ,,,
case of seizure upon execution. _ ”'

Sec. 147. The defendant or claimant may be required to 8“v€1_1d be’ 3:
fore the court or judge for the purpose of giving any n°C9“3’Y “‘f‘’‘'‘ a
P313011 res ting the property attached, and may be thereupon examlied on oatliieo concerning the same. 1, J

Sec. 148. If t b ed by the plaintifff in such action, ,,
 Illerif must ‘tifile szihldccliiitniif the property attached by him: EOE’:

if it be sumcient for t t iir se: _

1. By paying to the plalintilio the proceeds of all sales of perishable
Pfoperty, and of any vessel, or share or interest therein, sold by him.
or of any debts or credits collected by him, 01' 90 much 3’ Sim" be‘ me’
999817 to satliysafz the judgment:

2. If any nee remain due, and an execution shall have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under the execution, so much of the
attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision
four of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, it’
enough for that purpose remain in his hands ; and in case of the sale of
any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation, the sheriff must execute to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall
thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto, which
were bad by the defendant: A ,
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall
have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having been sold or
converted into money, the sheriff must repossess himself of the same,
and for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment, and any person who shall willfull conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double
damages at the suit of the party injured : V - _
4. Until the judgment against the defendant be paid, the sheriff may
collect the notes, other evi enccs of debt, and debts that may have been
attached, and‘ prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of
such proceedings, and app y the proceeds thereof to the payment of the ,
judgment, or upon the order of the court, he may sell such notes, evidences and debts, and a ply the proceeds in like manner; when the
judgment and costs shal have been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable
demand, must deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached
property or the proceeds thereof. l
Sec. 149. The actions authorized b this chapter to be brought by
the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the plhintiff or under his direction,
upon the delivery by him to the sheriff, of an undertaking executed by
two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will indemnify the
sheriff from all damacres or costs on account thereof, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars in any one action; such sureties shall in all
cases, when required by the sheriff, 'ustify by making an affidavit that
each is worth double the amount of the penalty of the bend, over and
above all debts and liabilities, and property exempt from execution.
Sac. 150. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff
in such action, any undertaking received by the sheriff, except such as
is mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales, and money
collected by him, and all the property attached, remaining in his hands,
must be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent on request; the
warrant of attachment must be discharged and the property released
therefrom.
. Sec. 151. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the ac’ t1on,.he may apply to the judge, or to the court, for an order to discharge the same, upon the execution of the undertakin mentioned in
the next section, and if the application be granted, all t re proceeds of
sales and monies collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached,
remaining in his hands, must be released from the attachment, and dehvered to the defendant. ‘

Sec. 152. Upon such application the defendant must deliver to the
court or judge, an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, approved by such court or judge, to the effect that the sureties will on
demand pay to the laintiff, the-amount of the judgment that may be
recovered against t 1e defendant in the action, not exceeding the 811111

Spgcified in the uadertaliing, which must be at least double the amount
c imed by the plaintifff in his complaint.

‘a See. 153. The defendant may also at any time before the time for

a“s‘¥°"i“S '3-“Plresa apply 011 motion, to vacate the warrant of attachmen .

W Sec. 154. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the

l’

defendant, but not otherwise,

fidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which th
attachment was made.

the sheriff must return the same,

disehsged,

on, to e court in which the action was bro
Sac. Whenis

, at c has in '

;’;‘£‘.¥ thi

tion, is h d by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs

due to another party, the court ma

court, or delivered to such party,

the further direction of the court.

ught.

session, or under his control, any

with or without security,

y executed or
with his proceedings thereadmitted by the pleading -or examination of a

money or
capable of de ivery, which, being the subject of the litigaor is
y order the same to be deposited in

subject to

Sac. I57. Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a court shall

have ordered the deposit, or delivery,

order is disobeyed, the court besides punishing the disobedience,
lithe an order requiring the sheriff to take the mone

posit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court.

OI‘ THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Size. 158. A
the  in the

action.

of money or other thing, and the
may
y or thing, and dejudgment is the final determination of the rights of

Ssc. 159. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of ‘

30VB_I'nl plaihtiffs, and for or
led it may, when the
mate rights of the
Sec. 160. In

parties on each side, as between themselves.

the complaint, and embraced within the issue. _

, he action may be dismissed without a final determination of its merits, in the following cases:

I. By the plaintifff himself at any time before trial, if a provisional

not been allowed, or counterclaim made: - y either party with the written consent of the other:

3- By the court, where, upon the trial and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintifff abandons it:

4, By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and
the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal :

5. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when
there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.
All other modes of dismissing an action, by non-suit or othc_rv_vi_se, are
'50‘. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions, is
y an ent in the clerk’s register, and a notice served on the ad; judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.
_ . In every case, other than those mentioned in the last
ent must be rendered on the merits.

I34. lgshougb all the defendants have been served with the

dgment may be taken against any of them severally, when

_ would be entitled to judgment against such defendants if
the action had been against them alone.

, ted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer,
e shall have demanded iii his complaint, but
the court may grant him any relief consistent with

against one or more of several defendants, 1
justice of the case requires it, determine the ultiagainst several defendants, the court may, in -‘

_ against one or more of them, leaving the i
action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is

1
t
ii

V
I)
oi
W

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

Sec. 165. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint as follows:

1. In an action arising on obligation for the recovery of money, only
the plaintiff may file with the c erlr, proof of personal service of the
summons, and that no answer has been received within twenty days
aker the service of the summons, the clerk must thereupon enter
judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons against the defendant,
or against one or more of several defendants in the cases provided for
in this chapter:

2. In other actions the plaintiff may upon the like proof apply to the
court after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint; if the taking of an account or the proof of
any fact be neces to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry
the judgment into e ect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may in its discretion order a reference for that purpose; and
where the action is for the recovery of money only, or of specified real
or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the
court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of a long account be involved, by a reference as above provided:

3. In actions when the service of the summons was b publication,
the plaintifff may in like manner apply for ’udgment, and t e court must
thereupon r uire roof to be made of. e demand mentioned in the
complaint, an if t a defendant be not a resident of the territory,
must require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath‘ respecting any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for
his use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover; before judgment the plaintid
must give satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching
the restitution of any property collected, or received under the judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives are admitted to defend the action, and succeed in the defense.

 

‘CHAPTER 71.

ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

Stctxol -sszc-non
I. When issues arise upon pleadings. no. When either party may was cause 0'' '°''
2. new issues or law arise. trial.
3. when issue at tact arises. , II. when separate trial may be allowed da4. The term trial donned. tendants.
5- Court mm try issues or law. is. Atlidavit for continuance what to set tortiI. issues or {act how tried. 1!. Plaintllr must furnish court with col?! 0'
3. issue of tact in certain cases how disposed summons and pleadings.

°‘- 14. Jury how drawn by clerk.

8. Notice of trial and notice of issue when to 15. Oath to be administered to Jurors.

to be served. lo. Ballots when returned to the box.
I. issues on the calender how to be disposed 17. Parties may chailemzejumrs; parties when

°" to join in challenge.

Btcrron
is. ‘fatal how to proceed.

II. when and how Jury may have a view or

verdict, csuse when to be tried.

9- Whlloinrnrs nheent com-tmyuuom-n.
30- VMIiurymsybecuaur;eawuhoutgivillverdiet.
31- -Vllvhewterenderverdict.

31- -My my be polled at request ol either

3‘ 75¢“ lbecial verdict is inconsistent with
teneral verdict which to control.

"- Whcnmrymnusueu theemountot the
recovery.

8. Verdict in action to recover personal property.

9- Vhen Verdict is received, clerk to make
9"!!! In minutes or the court.

5 Vheltriai hyjurymaybeweivedhy me
Patties.

it. when questionoltsctistried bythecourt
IIOCII-[til when and how to be nude.

0- 00 Jldllnent for pielntitl’ on Issue or law,

9- Dletrictoourtto beaiwnys open {or the
lfllluctlonolbusineas.

“* -Wdlttoeppolntedsy for hearing.

‘5- 3706000! heeringto beeervedonadverse
POI’!!O8.Jedgments,&c.,nadeinvecstiontobeeriectusl.

47- iteterees and their powers.
5- Avvolntnlent or reterees, how denominated.

U-Whenand lnwhetcases court Inayorder

5!. in what eases reference rnty be orio:e i.
3- Number oi‘ rererees to he eppotnted.
5- Qt-announces of referees.

“- It-oort or reterees to standas decision or
thecoert.

 

 

ll.Whenparty to suhmitproposluonsupon
which he claims to recover.71. Judtlnentexeeptineertcincnsee, toluentered on the direction or thejnhe. 72. Clerk must keep iudclnent book.

7:. Judgment must be entered in Judgment
book.

74. when court may render judgment after
death of party.

75. Judensent roll, whet to contain and where
to he lied.

10. now Jlliltlnentsmadelienonreaipmpero
tr.

7:. To what property the lien extends.

'18. In what order Judgment to he entered in
Judgment book.

79. satisisction oi‘ indment; how acknowledged end entered.

EL Execution may issue in are years.

81. ‘three kinds or executions.

Btltxecutionbywhonianedelndtowhom
directed; execution what to contain.

83. Execution when made returnable.

at. Whoncertliledcopyotreoordtobeserved
with execution.

Q. Alter on years, execution to be issued on
leeve ot the court&. in ceseof deathot party alterjudgment,
execution may issue aelnst hh property.

87. To whatsheritexecntion must hedireeted.

S. When andhowexeoution mnyieeueagalnst
person of defendant.

9. Personarrestcdon executioutobeiupriak
oned.

90. When detendant has been once Imprisoned,

no other execution to issue against him.

9!. Property liable to attnchrnentrnay be taken
on execution.

Q. when rropeltfiscidned byihirdpenon,
bow sherif to proceed.

I3. Real estate notsultlect to execution, kc.

I4. Preceding section qualitied.

5. Proceedings when premises claimed are
worth 01000;”? 1!?! may be summoned by
sherif90- Proceedings when premises claimed ere

worth sIooo,oo; III’! me! be summoned by
sherid.

5£C‘1'lON

in. if excess be not paid, sheriff may-advertise
and sell.

98. Who entitled to benefits of this chapter.
99. Costs lobe charged 1‘, sheritvs bill.

100. What properly exempt from attachment,
levy, and sale on tlnal process.

101. Property holden for purchase money, as-.

102. Omcer how to proceed when part of certain property is exempt.

108. Detendant may select from property the
amount exempt.

I04. Levy may be made upon grain or grass
growing; proceedings in such case.

106. Real and personal property of wife, notiiable for husband’s debts.

- 100. Jurisdiction of district court in cases arising under the preceding section107. llusband to have a life estate in property
of wife.

ms. Writ how to be executed by sheriff.

109. Before sale, notice must be given; notice
how given and what to contain.

110. Penalty to otilcer, for selling without nonotice.

111. Sale how to be made. »

112. Real estate when and how may be redeemed.

113. Who may redeem.

lid. Property to be redeemed in sixty days.

115. When Judgment, debtor may redeem.

us. Payment mentioned in last section, to
whom made.

Section

117. ltedemptloner must produce to sherid’authority to redeem.

118. Court may grant order to stsywastemntil
time of redemption expires.

119. when purchaser is evicted, may recover
price paid withxintcrest.

120. In case or several defendants, when contribution may be compelled.
121. when judgment, debtor may be compelled to answer in regard to his property.
In. Court may order judgment, dcbtotbetore
him to answer concerning property.

123. Judge may issue awarranttoarrestdebtor.

124. Sheritl"s receipt discharge for Judgment.

126. When gamishee may be summoned teappear before the judge.

126. Witnesses mayberequircdto appearasln
other cases.

127. Proceedings when nutter is referred to
referee.

128. Judge may order property to be applied to

- satisfaction otjudgment.

129. Judge may appoint a receiver to take the
property.

130. Judge may by order. forbid atranster 01
property in certain cases» i

131. Judge may order a reference.

132. Charges and costs allowed.

13. Persons who disobey Judge ornsletoo, linble for contempt.

134. Port-going provisions to apply to.l88“°°°‘
the peace.

ISSUES.

SEC. 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion

are of two kinds :
1. Of law: and,
2. Of fact.

of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other;
they

Sec. 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,

on some part thereof.

Snc. 3. An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer: or,

2. Upon new matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim,
controverted by the reply, or upon other new matter in the answer:

or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply; issues both of law and of fact may
arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action.

Size.’ 4.  trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

Sec. 5. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it 58
referred as provided by the statute relating to referees.

Size. 6 .An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery of money
°“lY»_ 01‘ of specific real or personal property, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract, on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury.
unless a jury trial be waived, as provided by law, or a reference be ordered, as provided by statute relating to referees.

Sec. '7. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the court, subject) however, to the right of the parties to consent, or of the court to

order, that the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved

‘herein: be tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided by statute.

Sec. 8. At any time utter issue, and at least ten (hays before the
court, either party may give notice of trial; the party giving the notice
must furnish the clerk, at least four days before the court, with a note
of the issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk
must thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date
of the issue. The issues once placed upon the calendar of a term, if
not tried at the term for which the notice was given, need not be noticed for a subsequent term, but must remain upon the calendar from
court to court, until finally disposed of ; but when an issue of law is to
be_tried before a (judge out of court, no calendar need be made or note

Size. 9. The issues on the calendar must be disposed of in the following order, unless for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of
business, the court otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact, to be tried by a jury:
3. issues of fact, to be tried by the court:
. u f l .

Sso.”l0e.' oEiiliiir party, after the notice of trial, whether given by

himself or b the adverse party, may bring the issue to trial, and in the

the adverse party, unless the court for good‘ cause otherwise
dlncty may proceed with his case and take a dismissal of the action, or
a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.

Sac. 11. A separate trial between the plaintifff and any _of several
defendants, may be allowed by the court whenever in its opinion, justice
will be th b d.

‘Sec. 126.“ Ay. ipiirgtliiiiiuio ostpone a trial for the absence of evidence,
can only be made upon atliiiavit, showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to
procure it; the court may also require the moving party to state the
evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it _be considered
zhllctually given on the trial or offered, and overruled as lmp|'0P¢1‘: “W

3sldiult3imtTbl.i3eP}(ilii;iIi)i(iiI§(inust furnish the court, before the trial be- :
$5» with a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the oH'er of the :

cudant, if any shall have been made.

TRIAL av war.

Sec. 14. When the action is called for trial by my, the c!e§k must g
draw from the trial jury box of the court, the b lots containing the
panes of jurors, until the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted ,
1“-he ballots become exhausted before the jury is com lete, 318 -henlf.
under the direction of the court, must summon from t e b stander! 01'
:0 body of the county, so many qualified person! 83 1113)’ n°°°‘"''7

com lete the u . _

Si:c.Pl5. Aii shyon as the drawing of the jury 18 00mPl°t°d* ““ °°th 3
""133 be administered to each 'ul'0l‘, “mt he will “"3" “nd t"“lY "Y the
tilistter in issue between the piaintilf and the defendant, and a true verOt _ °ve sccordi to the evidence.

Sage]. 18. Wllign the jury is completed and sworn, _the hallots .con- 3
“Hing the names of the jurors sworn, must be laid aside till the jury,

'0 sworn is discharged, and then they must be returned to the box 5 3nd
"Hy ballot drawn, containing the name of a juror not so sworn, must
be returned to the box as soon as the jury ii 00mPl°t°d' th ,,

Sac. l7. Either party may challenge the jurors, but Whwbef”: lei

"3 Swen»! parties on either side, they must l°m m " °h‘l-“"53 or '°‘

‘ a juror becomes sick, so as to be una le to perform

3
1

it can be made; the challenges are to the panel and to individual jurors
as in criminal actions, except that there can be but two peremptory

challenges on each side".

CONDUCT 0!‘ THE TRIAL.

Snc. 18.‘ When the jury has been completed and sworn, the trial
must proceed in the following order, unless the court for special reasons, otherwise directs:

l. The plaintifff after stating the issue,
duce the evidence on his part:

2. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer his evidence

in support thereof:
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence only,

unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them
to offer evidence upon their original case:

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to
the jury on either side, or on both sides, without argument, the defendant must commence and the plaintifff conclude the argument to the

ur :
J  If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different counsel, the court must determine their relative order in the evidence and argument:

6. The court may then charge the jury.

Size. 19. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is pro r that
the jury should have a view of .real property which is the SEN of
the it’ tion, or of the place in which any material fact occurred it may
order t e jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of roper odicers, to the place, which will be shown to them by the jutge, or by a
person appointed by the court for that purpose; while the jury are thus
absent, no person other than the judge or person so appointed, must
speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.

Sec. 20. The 'urors may be kept together in char e of pro er oiiicers,
or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time efore the submission of the cause to the jury, be 'permitted to separate; in either case,
they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with any other person or among themselves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to form or express any opinion thereon, until
the case is finally submitted to them.

Sec. 21. If, after the impannelin of the jury,

must open the caseand proand before a verdict,
his duty, the court
a new juror may be

be discharged and a

may order him to be discharged; in that case,
sworn and the trial begin anew, or the 'uror may
new jury then or afterwards impanneled].

Sec. 22. In charging a jury, the court must state to them all metters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving
their verdict; and if it resent the facts of the case, it must also inform
the jury that they are e exclusive judges of all questions of fact.

Sec. 23. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
court, or retire for deliberation; if they retire, they must be left together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place,
under the char e of one or more officers, until they agree upon their
Verdfcta {Jr are ischarged by the court; the oiiicer must, to the utmost
°f_}“s ablhfya keep the jury thus together, separate from other 1'80!!!
without drink, except water, and without food except ordere by the
0011”; he must not suffer any communication to be made to them, nor
m31‘° 3")’ hlmselfa unless by order of the court, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict, and he must not, before the vertings, or 2;he vliirdiclt  on. _
so. . wiete'u arekett ' ‘
“do the of trial or afterjtlizir retirenpient :lt‘h(§.;.ill)et:'}dtel‘t)ncEutll1l:%0i:lhl::
1'mu?t11b¢:m ]:‘f0\[:ldt:ld 1\)V'lttll1‘8lllt}1l1bl? and sufiicient food and lodging,
thesylc 25 Uppnoiltietp _ jfore dseliigrigtat thehexpense of the county.
 :_ e ion_,teju maytalfewuh
. _ 2 _P‘P33"v (°x°°Pt °P°5*tl0ll8, which have een received as
evidence in the cause, or copies of sue parts of public records or privste documents, given in evidence, as ‘ought not, in the opinion of the
court, to be taken from the person having them in possession; and they
any also take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on
.ut:°trrI;le,r:l:n by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any
di Sec. 26. After the 'ury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
agreement between em as_to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, .they may
require the ofli_cer to conduct them into court; upon their being brought
Into court, the information required must be given in presence of, or
Iller notice to the parties or counsel. _
tExcept asqpthervyise pgovidgid Ky statuge, or in case ‘pf .
_ or calami requiri eir sc e, t e ‘u cannot e
dllcharged a.t'ter_ the cause is subiiigtted to them,rEntil thdy rliave agreed
it their verdict and rendered it in open court, unless by the consent
both parties entered upon the minutes, or unless at the expiration of
"1011 t1me_a_s the court deem proper, it satisfactorily appear that there is
no robability of an agreement.
l=0._2_8. In all. cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented
{NIB giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the
W087“! o_  trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action
'5; be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court directs.
_ I0.  While the j are absent, the court may adjourn from
tune to time, in respect to 0 er business ; but it is, nevertheless, to be
d9°1|_l0d open for every purpose connected'with the cause submitted to
“if Jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury is discharged. A final
Ifljournment of the court discharges the jury.

Sec. 30. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must
be Oonducted into court by the officer having them in charge; their ,1
F|_IlIIes must then be called, and if all do not appear, the rest must be

without giving a verdict.

Sec. 31. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the court or 3
the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and, if the foreman answer in the affirmative, they must, on being required, declare the
same.

Sec. 32. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded, the in

.l'"'{ may be polled on the request of either party, for which purpose P‘,
900 juror must be asked whether it be his verdict ; if an one answer

In the negative, the jury must be sent out for further deli eration. If
"'9 Verdict be informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury
under the advice of the court, or the jury may be in sent out.

Size. 33. When the verdict is given, and is we as the court may 
receive, the clerk must immediately record it in full in the minutes, and tot
Uflllt read it to the ‘my and inquire of them whether it be their veram; if any juror isagree, the fact must be entered in the minutes,
“d “*0 jury again sent out; but if no dis eemeiit be expressed, the
verdict is complete, and the jury must beagilitcharged from the case.

‘AA'5!‘ Danna

Ed

TH‘! VEIIDIC1‘.

Sec. 34. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A
general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon «all or
any of the issues, either in favor~of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
jnd ent to the court; it must present the conclusionsof fact, as estab ished by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and these
conclusions of fact must be so presented, as that nothing remains to the
court, but to draw from them conclusions of law. .

Sec. 35. In every action for the recovery of money. only, or specific real property, the ‘ury, in their discretion, may render a general
or special verdict; in all other cases, the court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues, and in all
cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon
particular auestions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a

' ing thereon. The special verdict or finding must be filed
with the clerk, and entered upon the minutes. ,

Sec. 36. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court must give
judsgment accordingly. .

no. 37. When a verdict is found for the plaintiil‘ in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counter -claim for
the recovery of mo is established, beyond the amount of the plaintifff’: claim as establis ed, the jury must also assess the amount of the
recovery. ,

Sec. 38. In an action for the recovery of specific personal proper-3
ty, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or. the defendant by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury must, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being in favor of the defendant,
they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, must assess the
value of the property, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if
any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party’
has sustained b reason of the taking or detention of such property.

See. 39. pon receivin a verdict, an entry must be made in the
minutes of the court, specilgying the time and place of the trial, the
names of ‘the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be rendered thereon, or, when the court is in doubt, what judgment ought to be given, it may order that the case be reserved for airgument or further consideration.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

Sec. 40. The trial by jury may be waived by the several partieis
' to an issue of fact in actions arising on obligations, and with the assent
of the court in other actions, in the manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial:
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk:
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
it _ Sec. 41. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its de° cision must be given in writing, and filed with the clerk within twenty
0 days after the term at which the trial took place; in giving the decision,
the facts found and the conclusions of law must be separately stawdi
judgment upon the decision must be entered accordingly.
$129. 42. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the
is lamtiif may proceed in the manner prescribed by the statute, upon the
ailure of the defendant to answer where the summons was personally
served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and

may arise in the said court, in the following cases: ‘

. In all cases other than those arising in obligation for the payment
of money only, when a summons has been sonally served in n the
defendant, and no answer has been made to e complaint, after t e time
for  the same has e ired. The said court in vacation may,
whenever it shall be proper toxdh so, take an account to hear proof and
render judgment thereon, or may order a reference as hereinafter provided; and when the action is for the recovery of money only, or of
s itic, real, or personal property, with damages for the withholding
goof, the court may hear and determine the same in vacation, and assess the damages; or, if the examination of along account be involved,

by a certiorari to a justice of the peace, the same may be brought on
for argument before the court in vacation, and heard and determined as
fully as if the seine had been determined in term:

_ 3. All motions made to the said court in actions or proceedings pendlllgthereiu, may be heard and determined by the court in vacation:

_ 4. All applications for judgment upon special verdicts, and all questions reserved for argument or further consideration, and all questions
of law pending in the said court, may also be heard and determined in
vacation, as well as in term.

Sec. 44. Whenever a plication is made to the judge of any of the .
Hid district courts, for t e hearing and determination of any of the ‘
9013! mentioned in the preceding section, the judgishall a point a day
is which he will hear and determine the same, w ' h shal not be less
fhln six, nor more than ten days from the time the application aforesaid
is made.

Sec. 45. The party making such ap lication shall notify theadverse :
Pfty that such ap lication has been in e, and that the hearing and de- :
 will taie place at a time and place mentioned in the said no“cc: which notice must be served on the opposite party at least six
days before the day of hearing.

‘Sec. 46. All judgments, orders, or determinations, made bgethe :1‘
3' b

3314 court in vacation, in any of the cases above mentioned, shall
hilendetiiactualasiftlie sameliadbeeninade in term.

TRIAL BY RE!-‘ERIIEI.

SEC. 47. A referee is a person appointed by the court 01' j“d8‘°s ‘
l. Totry an issue of law or of fact in a civil action, and report a "‘
t thereon:

. To ascertain an other fact in an action at law, or in a special
P"°°°0ding of a civil iiaturc, when necessary for the ilIf0|:!|1_8ti0n Of "19
°°‘“"a and report the fact either with or without his opinimon thereon:

3. To execute an order or judpent. _ A,
38¢. 48. The ap 'ntment o a referee is denonunated a reference. rel
3Ic. 49. Upon t e agreement of the parties to a civil action, or a :1
P'f°°60ding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon the 3..
million, a reference ma be ordered: °'

1. To try any or all issues in a civil action, whether of fact or

J’

l
l

' jury, the production of evidence,

IP‘

law, (except an issue of fact when the action is for a divorce dissolving
the marriage contract,) and to report a judgment thereon:

2. To try an issue or ascertain a fact in a special proceeding of a

civil nature.
Size. 50. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the

application of either, or of its own motion,

lowi cases: A

l.“§Vhen the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a
long account on either side, which case the referees may be directed to
hear, and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of fact involved therein: '

2. When the taking an account is necessary for the information of
ti; court, before judgment, or for the carrying a judgment or order into
e ect:

3. When a question of fact‘ other than upon

upon the motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action: or,
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special

proceedin of a civil nature.
ordered in a civil action, or in a

Sec. 5 . A reference may be
special proceeding of a civil nature, in any court, (except a justice’s
e or court in vacation.

court,) and may be ordered by a judg
Sec. 52. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not

exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties; if the parties do not agree,
the court or judge must appoint one or more, not exceeding three, who
residebiln the county in which the action is brought, or the 
is tria e.

Sec. 53. When the appointment of referees is made by the court
or jud e, the referee must be:

1. gualificd as a juror, as provided by statute:

2. Competent as a juror between the parties.

SEC. 54. The report of the referees upon the whole issue stands as
the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon, in the
same manner as if action had been tried by the court; and their decision may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special verdiet.

the pleadings arises,

PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRIALS IN’ GENERAL; ‘EXCEPTIONS.

_ Sec. 55. An exception is an objection taken, at the trial, to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial he by jury, court, or

referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a
. the charge to the jury, or at any other
time from thecalling of the action for trial, to the rendering of 1116
verdict or decision; but no exception is to be regarded on a motion for
a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material and affect
substantial rights of the party.

Size. 56. The point of the exception must be particularly stated:
and either delivered in writing to the judge, '
and immediately corrected ‘or added to until made conformable 10 t
hull}: 0!’ l_t maypllterwards be settled in a statement of the 08531
provided in section sixty-three of this chapter.

Sec. 57. No particular form of exception is required; the objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary t0
explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. If 316
tion edecision excepted to, be verbally made, it must, upon the excep
ing taken,  reduced .,to writing, and entered either in the judge’!
minutes, or in the minutes of the court, or in the statement.

direct a reference in the fol- _ the evidence

NEW TRIALS.

Size. 58. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the
same court, after a trial and decision by a ‘my, court, or referees.

Ste. 59. The former verdict or other ecison may be vacated and a
new trial granted, on the ap lication of the party aggrieved, for any of
the following causes materia ly affecting the substantial rights of such
P“"Y‘ . . . . .

l. Irregularitg in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing
party, or any or er of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial:

2. Misconduct of the jury or of the prevailing party:

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against:

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice:

5. Insutiicieney of the evidence -to justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is against law:

6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial:

7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to, by the party
 the ap lieation.

Sec. 60. hen the application is made for a cause mentioned in the '
fourth, fifth, and seventh subdivisions of the last section, it is made ei- ‘

ther upon the 'udge’s minutes, or a statement of the case pre ed as i

prescribed int c next section; for any other cause, it is ma e upon '
affidavit

_ Size. 61. The party preparing a statement, is to propose a draft of ,1
1‘: and within five days after the trial, serve it upon the adverse party, I

who may, within five days thereafter, propose amendments to it; if no
llnendment be proposed, the draft is adopted; if proposed, the statellmts and amendments may be submitted for settlement to the ‘udge or
Faeroe, before whom the trial was had, upon a notice of five ys; if
Such notice, be not served within five days after the amendments are
P‘°P0sed, they are adopted. _

Sac. 62. The application for a new trial, must, in the £rst instance,
be made at a regular term except when made upon an_ap .

S170. - The application for a cause mentioned in e fourth and
‘Rh subdivisions of section fifty-nine, can only be made when notice there- *1‘
Of. Oral, or written, was given in open court, immediately after the verdiet or other decision rendered; and thereupon, if the adverse party
°‘"“_°nti the court must appoint a day in the same term for  the
'PplIestion u n the judge’s minutes; if however, the application be

not heard at e same term, or if an appeal be taken, a statement of the
case must be made.

Klfb

oniu:ii.u. i-iiovisicics.

Size. 64. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiffma claim WI
‘Ill recover any rate of damages, to which he may be entitled or the
“"30 Of action established.

Size. 65. A party may, and if required by the court, must when

is criiosed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the
conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions
07 law which he desires to be ad'udged, or both; they 11:3’ be Writtell
Illdhanded to the court, or, at tlie option of the court, o and entered

E55 2!

in the judge’s minutes; but in either case they must be entered with ,
ang exceptions that may be taken, if either party require it. "
ac.  The provisions of this chapter respecting trials by jury
apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court
or referees, and in the same manner, theprovisions respecting trials by

the court, apply to trials by referees.

THE BANNER OP GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

Sec. 67. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless the court order
the case to be reserved for argument, or further consideration, or grant
a stay of roceedings. '

Sac. . When the case is reserved for ar ent, or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, on t e ground that ju ment
on ht not to be given in conformity to the verdict, or that it ll oubtfu what judgment should be given, the questions reserved may be decided by the court, and judgment thereupon rendered without further argument, or if not so decided, they may be brought before the court for
judgment,‘upon notice, and judgment thereupon rendered. ‘ w

Sec. 69. If a counterclaim established at the trial, exceed the plaintiE’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be given
for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
affirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

Sec. 70. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention;
if the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return

of the propertfy, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had,
and dam s or taking and withholding the same. '

; Sec. 7 . Judgments upon an issue of law, or of fact, or upon con-r

. fession, or upon failure to answer, (except where the clerk 18 otherwise authorized to enter the same,) must, in the first instance, ' be entered upon the direction of a single judge, or the report of referees
upon the whole issue, subject to review at the term, on the demand of
either party, as provided by statute.

Size. 72. The clerk must keep amo the records of the court, a
book for the entry of judgments, to be ca led the judgment book. ‘

s Sec. 73. The ‘rudiment must be entered in the judgment book, and
mint specify clearly t e relief granted, or other determination of th0
action.

See. 74. If a party die aRer verdict or decision upon an issue 0'

.-- fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless rendefudgmellt
thereon; such judgment is not a lien on the real property 0 ti!!! 4°‘
ceased party, but is payable in the course of administration on his estate.

Sec. 75. Immediatel after enteri the 'udg'ment the clerk must

: attach together and filey the followixiigg papiars, whidh constitute the
judgment roll:

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint, or co ies thereof, proof of service and that no answer has been received, t e report, if any, and a copy of the judgmcnt:

Of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the olfer of the defendant,
exceptions, and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in any way
Involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. If a state2. In all cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and a copy '

ment of the case be made, the same may be attached to the judgment
roll on thhe request of eitherlparty, and thencefort: forilns a part lgielireof .
When t edefendant is entit ed to judgment, if t e p aintiff s 1 not
have died the summons, with proof of service, and the pleadings on his
the copies of summons and pleadings served on the defendant, may
substituted therefore in makiii the jud ent roll, or the plaintifff
ma , at the instance of the defendlint, be orgldied by a judge forthwith
to e such papers. Upon an exemplilication of a judgment, as evidence, only that part of the roll which consists of the summons, pleadmgS" mg udgénetdli need'bdggWe!tL ll 'ud ent requiring the
ac. . ii in an men ro,u no.
payment of money, thi j iildgment may be Idiicketjed ggillll the (gplrk of tlti;
rth't ddd' thcountun'nwi
310: cle‘i'rked'f?tlie“d§i!siti'.i9(il: (fdiirt hi? sdzliagdufityed transdiipffif the ogriginal
docket; and thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real property
in the county, from the time of docketin it therein.

Size. 77. The lien mentioned in the ast section, extends to all the
j'hB8l‘i}:;0pc‘.l"lt¥] of the judgmentfctlebtor tiln the cogcility, owned by him at

e e e r erwar s ac uir .

Snc. 708. T: 0"(l!le{l;l2’1?1eI?ll0ned in sedition sevent -six, is a book
which the clerk must keep in his office, and in whic he must enter
alphabetically, under the name of each person:

1. The names of the parties to the judgment:

?. The amount of the judgment; and,
h'l’9l.)re§ldt(isl'l:iIdfid)ri gfsajitdgment may be entered in the clerk’s
1' ° tar and docket, upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an
ac owledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the
:‘:“*!"“*=°$.;='*=‘*“°*» °'  “:3? 9: ‘*':.,J'::.‘3::i:f“.:;,:;’.e:.’*‘:. “E;

m , is an on s v

ggirter’ llvrl::l(l)((::(3lI(‘nt1l judgment is sdlistigd in fact, otherwise

llplfn arileelxccution, is the duty ofjjthe palrtty or atct,<l:1rn3'i:’0o§l::a;'!l:)<l3’h
ac n e cou ma c der tliicventgi-Iyn e(J’ll't,S:tlSft::3Il)l,(:1nl?(? Iii): made withouyti it; Iiind whenever a
judgment is satisfied in fact, as  any one of several defendants, an
entry to that effect may be made in the register and docket.

-ran EXECUTION.

Sec. 80. The in whose favor ‘u ment is given, may, at any 1
lime within five yeggsqafter the entry tlilerigf, proceed to enforce the '
“"19: as prescribed by statute. _ _ ,

Sac. 81. There are three kinds of writs of execution; one against ‘C1
the rope.-ty of the judgment debtor, another against his person, and the
third for the delive of the ssession of real or personal pl‘0P°"_tYv °r
Iucli delivery with amages or withholding the same; they are "Sued
511 the name of the United States, and are deemed the process of _the
900;! 5 but they need not be sealed nor subscribed; 01°91“ ” P’°’°"b°d
in t e next section. .

Sec. 82. The writ of execution must be directed to the 8l_10_1’lEs
'“b0¢l‘ibed by the party issuin it, or his attorney, and must "{t9]l‘8"b1Y
refer to the judgment, stating tghe court, the county Where the J“d8"‘°“t
roll or transcript is filed, the names of the Parties: ‘he 3m°'-mt °f aw

lfldgment if it be for money, the amount actually due tll8_l'0Qn1 Ind l-11°
tune of docketing in the county to which the execution is issued, and
"W8! require the sherilT substantially as follows: _

1. If it be against the property of lh0j|1d8m°“t d°bt°’’ “ mu“ re‘

RH QBH

quire the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient propert cannot be
found, out of his real property; or if the judgment be a ien on real
property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter, or if the judgment ll'1)8 entered pursuant to the statute, the execution must conform to sue judgment:

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, leg-atees, tenants of real property, or
trustees,  mulst require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out o sue property: —

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it must require
the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county
viintil he pay the judgment with interest, or be discharged according to

aw: _

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it1Inl1lSl3dl'eq1li'lI‘)t:'. thetsltierti}{1i' to (jpli\'ei;%iedp3lssession 3f the spimupe,
par icu_ ary cs_cr1 ingi , _o c pa ‘y en: e ere , an may a
$2232’2i“§.2?a‘%2“’fe$““.i‘;$1’L§,i?..*“§’si’—“£3  imigii’ “*““%*'=

, ov s m ju men. on o- e rso
property of the party against whom it was rendered and the irflue of
the property for which the jud ent was recovered to he s '§ed
therein, if a delivery thereof caiiiibt be had, and if siiiiioient pliiigonal
property cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in the
first subdivision of this section, and in that respect, it in to be deemed
an execution against property.

See. 83. ‘The execution must be made returnable within sixty days
:!..l(;lLl(13!:l8ltSf11I;3E:§e1ptl)§T the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judgment

Sec. 84. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same is enforced in these
respects, by execution, as provided in the last three sections. Where
it requires the performance of any other not, a oertiiied copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given, or

ulpon the person or ofiieer who is required thereb , or by law, to obey
§)1le‘l_l?3'1:I{:?1i{)1;1(i£]e'l3 ol13e:lien<f:_e therpto epforced. If e refuse, he may be
: co ir. as or con emp . x

_ f Srzc. 85. A{'ter the lapse of five years from the entry of a judgment,

e i no execution ias been alread ' u d e ut' n can be issued only blylloate of tjie colqrt on In0t:iOif,sU‘}3)OllaIIi0elii£ct:.tl))l(io;‘l1?1 eliadvetiilse patity
sue cave mus not e ' , 1 ‘I; b ta ' e e on
the party, or other proointliiit  ejsiidlgmeiitfaor sldsme paiii thereof, rdmains unsatisfied and due. “Then the judgment has been rendered in
a justice’s court and docketcd in the office of the clerk of the district
court, the application for leave to issue execution must be to the district court of the county where the judcrment was rendered.

01 Sec. 86. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment, 61-t ecution thereon against his property may be issued and executed in the

*5 same manner and 'th th 11' t ' f 1», gm 1' ° - cept that such exetiiition c:niizbIi.'1l’)eeis:i)ie<ll‘ livithi: a“;:i:i' ifter lliilfgdiaiiiilii,

Ex. unless upon permission grantec1_by the judge of probate. . _

H_ SEC. 87. Wliere the execution is against the property of the ju ment debtor: it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where 0
Judgment is docketed. Wliere it requires the delivery of real or per'5°“3l P"°Pe1'l}’a it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where the
PWPEH-y or some part thereof is situated. Executions mtly heissued
at the same time to different counties. ' i

*3‘ Sec. 88. If the action be one in which the defendant inigllt ha“?

been arrested, an execution against the person of the 'udgment debtor
may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction oi! the court, after
the return of an execution against his property, unsatisiied in whole or
in part. An execution against the person may likewise be issued after such return, in cases mentioned in the fourth and lifth subdivisions
of that section, where the defendant has been provisionally arrested in
the action, and the order for his arrest has not been vacated; or upon an
order of arrest obtained in the same manner as for a provisional arrest.

Sec. 89. A person arrested on execution must be imprisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and there kept at his own expense
until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal discharge.

Sec. 90. When a defendant has been once imprisoned upon execution, no other execution can issue upon the same jud ent, unless he
escape, or die while charged in execution, or unless e be discharged
without the consent of the ju eiit creditor.

Ste. 91. All property liab e to an attachment is liable to execution;
it must be levied on in the same manner as similar property is attached;
until a levy, property is not affected by the execution.

Sec. 92. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as
llis pom, the shei'iE may summon from his county any twelve per‘ ed as jurors, between the parties, to try the validity of
the claim; they, and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff, and
if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish
the levy unless the judgment creditor give him a sufiicient indemnity
for proceedi thereon; the fees of the jury must be id by the claimant if the ver ‘ct be against him, otherwise, by the pliiaintiff. The fol‘ property is exempt from execution, except as herein otherwise

ly ovided.

Ssc.  There shall be exempt from sale on execution, or other
process of a court, a homestead ; that is to say, the land, and buildings ‘
illarson, occu iedas a residence and owned by the debtor, he or s e
liking I house older, to the value of one thousand dollars; such exemption shall continue after the death of such householder, for the benefit
0‘ the widow and family, some, or one of them, continuing to occupy
Illchhanestead until the youngest child shall become twenty-one years
0‘ I80, and until the marri e or death of the widow; and no release or
waiver of such 8XBlIlpi.lOIl,:%lall be valid, unless the same shall be in

. . 9 subscribed by such householder and his wife, if he have one,
“die wledged in the same manner, as conveyances of real estate,
"0 by law uired to be acknowledged. _

8:6. 94. uch exemption shall not alfect any laborer’s, mechanic’s, (‘I
‘I’ other lien, for labor performed, or materials furnished in the erection
‘lllfation, or repair of any buildin , or addition thereto, on such land;
Mr extend to any mortgage thereof, lawfully obtained; nor to any sale .
3‘ ‘|0l-pa ent of taxes, or assessment thereon ; nor to any debt caninctetl or iability incurred for the purchase of such land, nor to any
go or liabilities contracted previous to the time this chapter takes

1 Ste. 95. If, in the opinion of the sheriff,‘ holding an execution
Igtinst such householder, the premises claimed by him or her,_ are
‘Wftb more than one thousand dollars, he ‘hall 5“"“{‘°,“ 5”‘ ‘luamled
Ilrors of his county, who shall upon Oath: 10 _b°_3dm‘m5t‘3" t° them
lllch sheriff, appraise said premises; and. if, in the opinion of the
1"?» the property ma be divided without injury to the ‘interest of the
owner thgfeof, they 3 18“ set oil‘ so much of said premises, including
the dwelli house, as in their opinion shall be worth one thousand dollars, and e fegidue of such premises may be advertised and sold by
inch sheriff.

51'.‘ 9221!

Sne. 96. If, in the o inion of the jury, the value of the premisesbe
more than one thousand ollars, and the same cannot be divided as provided for in the last preceding section, they shall make and sign an
appraisal of the value thereof, and deliver the same to the sheriff, who
shall deliver a certified copy thereof to the execution debtor, or to some
one of his or her family, of suitable age to understand the nature of the
same, with a notice attached, that unless the execution debtor shall pay
to said sheriff the amount of such appraised value exceeding the sum of
one thousand dollars, within sixty days thereafter, that said premises
will be sold; and in case such execution debtor shall pay such excess to
the sheriff, as herein required, such premises shall not again be subject
to appraisal in like manner, until the expiration of one year after such

payment.

no. 97. In case the amount over and above one thousand dollars,
mentioned in the last receding section, shall not be paid within the
said sixty days, it shal be lawful for the sheriff to advertise and sell
the said premises, and out of the proceeds of such sale he shall ay to
said execution debtor the said sum of one thousand dollars, whicli shall
be exempt for one year thereafter, and the balance he shall apply on
such execution: Provided. That no sale shall be made unless a greater
sum than one thousand dollars shall be bid for such premises, in which
sheriff may return the execution for want of property.

ry householder occupying lands and tenements, to
sessory title, by leave or otherwise, shall be
hapler as fully as if such lands and ten 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
     
      
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 

nses of sellin off every homestead, as
d and includecf in the sheriff"s bill of
r process, under which the homestead

Np; 3 31113;; u'p"£l 1° 9): amed property shall be exem t from sale
9 [us °l,
i attachment, or any other line process of

S
:3

g looms, with the apparatus, and all
i '1~‘,lA_zp utensi s, put up or kept in any dwelling
‘f-‘Jun
_n7 plpcupied by any person or family, in any
am J or IP.

$13,; dead: ,

1:)-":.a _y ltrements required by law to be kept by any

9}‘
trel of every erson or family:

‘45 Ls library, an school books, of eve individual
ng in value one hundred and fifty do lars, and all
"'13 5' ‘

"'9ueJ‘Iolder, ten sheep, with their fleeces, and the yarn
0 Jared from the same, two cows, five swine, and pro,’O"u3d the'comfortable subsistence of such householder and

’ s :

am holder, all household oods, furniture and utensils,
,m(;£ lue two litlndred and fly dollars :

,-,,,,q plements, material, stock, apparatus, team, vehicle,
9:: ybrary, or other things, to enable any person to carry
 tram, trade, occupation or business in which such person
pm, P""1°‘P3“Y engaged, not exceeding in value two hun- ,, llnrs; the word team, in this subdivision, shall be con\

strued to mean either one yoke of oxen, a horse, or a pair of horses, as
the ease ma be:

10. Asu cient quantity of ha ,grain feed and vegetables necessary
for keeping for six months the animals nientioned in the several subdivisions of this section exempted from execution, and any chattel mortgage, bill of sale, or other lien created on any part of the property, except such as is mentioned in the ninth subdivision of this section, shall
be void, unless such mortgage, bill of sale, or lien, be signed by the wife
of the party making such mortgage, bill of sale, or lien.

SEC. 101. The property hereinbefore mentioned shall not be exempt
from any execution or other process issued upon a judgment rendered
for the purchase money for the same property.

See. 102. When a levy shall be made upon property of any class
or species, which is by law exem t from execution to a specified
amount or value, the oliicer levying t e execution may make an inventory of the whole of such property, and cause the same to be appraised
at its cash value, by two disinterested f rceholders of the precinct where
the property may be, on oath to be administered by him to such appraisers. he appraisers shall be entitled to‘ fifty cents each for their
services, and six cents r mile for travelin fees, for which the plaintifff in the execution sh 1 be liable to them, but the same may be collected on the execution for his use.

See. 103. Such inventory being completed, the defendant in the
execution, or his authorized agent, may select from such invento an
amount of such property, not exceeding, according to such appraisa , the
by law from execution; but if ‘neither such

Sec. 104. A lev ma be made u n rain or ass while growin , 1
and upon an other uhhargested crops gnbuf no sale tgliereof shall be matfe :
under such evy, until the same shall be ripe or fit to be harvested; and
any levy thereon by virtue of an execution, issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be continued beyond the return day thereof, if necessary, E
and remain in life, and the execution thereof may be completed at any
time within thirty days after such grain, grass, or other unharvested
0!? shall be ri , or fit to be harvested.

so. 105. ny real or personal estate which may have been acguired by any female before her marriage, either by her own personal
Industry, or by inheritance, gift, grant, or devise, or to which she may
at any time after her marriage, be entitled by inheritance, gift, grant, or
devise, and the rents, profits, and income of any such real estate, shall
be and continue the real and rsonal estate of such female after marPiage. to the same extent as efore marriage; and none of such propmy shall be liable for her husband’s debts, engagements, or liabilities;
but such property shall be liable for all debts of the wife contracted prior
to her siud marriage: Provided, That nothing in this section contained‘
shall be construed to authorize any married woman to give, grant, or sell 3‘
any such real or personal property durin coverture, without the conllent of her husband, except b order of t e district court of the county: and, Provided further, hat a separation between such husband
Ind wife, by an adjudication of a court, or by act of the legislature,
Wch married woman shall, in no case, be authorized to remove any such
P"08perty from the premises of her husband, without his consent:
ac. 106, The district court for the county where the. parties, or 3:
either of them reside, shall have jurisdiction in all cases arising_ under .,...
the provisions of the precedin section, except when the amount in eon- P"
lroversy, is less than one hundred dollars, and relates to personal estate,
in which case a justice of the peace shall have jllri8tli0¢l0": and um

E595

wife may institute proceedings to enforce the said provisicn,in her own name, or otherwise.
Sec. 107. If any married woman shall die without disposing of

any such real estate, the husband surviving her shall have a life estate
therein, by the curtesy.

Sec. 108. The shei-id must execute the writ against the pro rty
of the judgment debtor, by levying on the Klroperty, collecting the 
in action, as prescribed by the statute, se 'ng the other property, and
paying to the plaintifff the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy
the execution. .

Sec. 109. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
must be given as follows: .

1. In case of personal property, by posting written notice of the time
and place of sale, in three public places of the county where the sale is
to take place, six days successive y:

2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, describing the
property with suthcient certainty to enable a person of common understanding to identify it, for six weelrs successivel , in three public places
of the county where the property is situated, an also where the proper»
ty is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof, once a week, for the same
period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one, or if there be
none, and the roperty is not occupied by the judgment debtor, or by a
tenant or purchaser under him, then in a paper at the capital of the territc .

Slab. 110. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the
last section, phall forfeit one hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in
additionto his actual dam es; and a person taking down or defacingthe
notice posted, if done be ore the sale, or the satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars;
but the validity of the sale is not affected by either act.

Sec. 111. A sale must be made by auction between nine o’cloclr in
the morning and sunset; after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more must be sold; neither the officer holding the
execution, nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of personal
property capable of manual delivery, it must be within view of those
who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring
the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting
of several known lots or parcels, they must be sold separately, or when
a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion must be thus sold.

Sec. 112. Upon a sale of real property, where the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale is absolute; in
all other cases, the propert sold is subject to redemption, as provided
in the next five sections; the cfiicer must ‘its to the purchaser, a certiticate of the sale, proved or acknowledgeg,‘ so that it may be recorded;

“"“’‘3’ . . .
1 A particular description of the property sold:
. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel:

3. The whole price paid:

4. When subject to redem tion, it must be so stated; a duplicate of
which certiticate must be ti ed by the officer, with the register Of
deeds of the county.

Sec. 113. Property sold subject to redem tion, as provided in i110
last section, or any part sold separately, may e redeemed, in the manner provided in the next four sections, by the following persons 0?
their successors in interest: ‘

1. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest in the whole, or

anypartoftheproperty:

Ste. 114. The judgzent debtor, or redemptioner, may redeem the
property from the pure ser within sixty days after the sale, on payhim the amount of his purchase, and if he be also ii creditor, havi
a 'en prior to that of the redemptioiier, the amount of such lien, with

interest.

See. 115. If the property be so redeemed, by a redemptioner, either
the judgment debtor or another redemptioner, may within thirty days
after the last redem tion, again redeem it from the last redemptioiier, on
paying the sum ' on his redemption, with interest, and unless his

ien be ior to t at of the preceding redemptioner, the amount of such
lien wi interest. The property may be again, and as often as the
debtor, owner, or any redemptioner is so dis osed, redeemed from
redeinptioner, within thirty days after his r emption, and notice thereof
filed with the sheridl If no redemption is made in sixty days alter the
sale, the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed,
whenever thirty days have elapsed, and no redemption has been made
and notilied therein, the time for redemption has expired, and the last
redemptioner is entitled to a sheriti"s deed. If the debtor or owner reat any time before the time for redemption expires, the effects of
the sale are terminated, and he is restored to his estate.

Size. 116. The payment mentioned in the last two sections, ma be
liade to the purchaser or redemptionér, as the case may be, or for im,
to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the money is equivalent to payment. ’

Ste. 117. A redemptioner must reduce to the otiieer or person
$.13‘ whom he seeks to redeem, and le with his notice, in the sheriff’s »

_ 1. A co y of the docket of the judgment, under which he claims the
ht to redeem, certihed by the clerk of the court of the county,
W ere the judgment is docketed, or if he redeem upon a mortgage or
Other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified b the clerk:

2- A co y of an ass’ ment necessary to estab ish his claim, verified
by the adidhvit of ‘mine I‘, or of a subscribing witness thereto: -and,

3. An affidavit of himself or his agent, showing the amount then aetiially due on the lien.

Ssc. 118. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,
the court ma restrain the commission of waste on the property, by
°"d¢|' gran with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or judgment creditor; but it is not waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession aftorwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use
'3 in the same manner in which it was previously used, or to use_ it in
“If! ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary re in of
bmldin thereon, or to use wood or timber on the pro t For,
gator this repair at‘ fences, or for fuel in his family wlii a he occupies

 If the purchaser of real property sold on 61860503: 01'

' 8 in interest, be evicted therefrom, in consequence of irreg“ltfit in the proceedings concerning the I810. 01' Of _th° §'°'f"'“1 0"
d“¢l1II'ge of the judgment, he ms recover the price plldawlth 10107039
‘WI! the judgment creditor; sucz judgment craditofa if “*9 _1'°°°V°"Y
‘VII in consequence of the irregularity, shall thereupon be entitled to I
MW execution on the judgment, for t e price 'd on the sale_with _interest; and for that purpose the judgment sha be deemed valid against

Q.QQ&

F331

the judgment debtor, his personal representatives, heirs, or devisees;
but not against a purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer, whose
title or encumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such new executioii.

Size. 120. .When property, liable to an execution against several
persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judg»
ment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pay
without a ‘sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contributions
from the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon
an obligation of one of them, as security for another, and the surety
pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his roperty, or
before sale, he may compel repayment from the principa . In such
cases, the person so paying or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of
the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten days
after his payment he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment, and claim to contribution or
repayment; upon filing of such notice, the clerk must make an entry
thereof in the margin of the docket.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

Sec. 121. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in the same judgment issued
to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in
this territory, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll,
or a transcript of a justice’s judgment is filed, is returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return
made, is entitled to an order from a jud e of the district court in which
the execution was issued, requiri such judgment debtor to appear and
answer concernin his propertyrdiefore such judge, or a referee appojiigted by the ju ge of the court, at a time and place specified in the
or r.

Sac. 122. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof, by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the 3}t:.l.lSf8.cli0Ilrt;f
the court, or a ‘u e thereof, that an 'ud meut debtor as prope 9
which he unjusilydéef uses to apply toivdrdsg the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment
debtor to appear, at a speci ed time and place, to answer concerning the
same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application
of the property of the judgment debtor, towards the satisfaction of the
jutggmenltégs are providedhupon the return of an execution. of h udg
. ac. . Instead of t e order re uirin the attendance t e' merit debtor, as provided in the last iiwo s§ctions,the judge niay Jllpall
]:‘rplpf,dby) atiiilavit or tcliltherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger
e e e tor eavin e territo or conceali himself, issue a warrant requiring the s eriff of anyfydounty wherggsuch debtor may be, to
arrest him and bring him before such judge; upon being brought_b6fore the judge, he may be examined on oath, and ordered to enter into

an undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will attend from time

to time, before the judge, or referee, as he shall direct, during the pen‘
dency of the proceeding and until the final determination thereof, and
will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not ex-'
empt from execution; in default of enteri into such undertaking, he
ma be committed to prison by warrant of t e judge.

no. 124. After the issuing of execution against property, any per‘
son indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the exeth

cation, and the slieritfs recei
amount so 'd.

Size. 12 . After the issuing or return of an execution

erty of the judgment debtor, or of any
same judgment, and u

pt shall be a sufficient discharge for the

against propone of several debtors in the

pen proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of the
'udginent debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dolthe judge may by an order require such person or corporation, or
any otliccr or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place
and answer concerning the same; the ‘ridge may also, in his discretion,
require notice of such proceedings to be given to any party in the action. in such manner asinay seem to him proper.

Sec. 126. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify upon
any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial

of an issue.
Sec. 127. The party or witness may be required to attend before
the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or judge; if before

the referee, the examination must be taken by the referee, and certified
by the judge; all examinations and answers before a judge or referee
under this chapter, must be on oath, except that when a corporation
answers, the answer must be on the oath of an ofliccr thereof.

Sec. 128. The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any
other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earniijlgs of the debtor _for
his personal services, at any time within thirty ays next preceding
the order, cannot be soa plied when it is made to appear by the debtor’s
aliidavit, or otherwise, t iat such earnings are necessary for the use of
8 family supported wholly or partly by his labor. _

Size. 129 The judge may also by order appoint a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor in the same maiuier, and with the like I
authority as if the appointment were made by the court; the judge may‘
also by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of
0 judgment debtor, not exempt from execution and any interference

eivith. '
Size. 130. If it appear that a person or corporation alledged to have 3}

property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest 1
tnthe property, adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt "is recoverable only in an action against such pei's_on or corporation, by
the receiver; but the judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or_oth_er
deposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity he

Riven to the receiver to commence the action, and
*0 judgment and execution; such order may be me

the jail
direct. ge

°|'88,agrecd upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence or the facts.

Person so examined, whether a pa
Ind a fixed sum in addition,

itldge or referee, du y served, such P8350112 P“lYv °" witnm’ my 1”

rosecute the same
dilied or vacated by

granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may

Sec. 131. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a refS ,_ 13 _ - an t zh ' e tcreditor ortoany
to 2 The iudse may ovytycio t;3‘eJ‘;‘(l’t:.'i';‘n"or mt’ hi; charges’

t exceedi ten dollars, as costs.
Ste. 133. If an p6l'IOIll,u;)&l'l£)’, or iigtness, disobeyanorder of the

LC‘:

3?’!

Punished by the judge, as for a eonteinpti the proceediegs "‘°'°’°'.“’°
Pfelcfibed in chapter ninety-two of this Statute: 1'e5P9°““E the P‘"“5h"

meat of conteinlq.

supplements

Po
lol

tic

Sec. 134. e provisions hereiiibefore, in relation to proceedings

.-y to the execution, shall apply to executions issued by is jusl*°e of the peace_._

the
low
his expenses in the action, which

OF THE C6STS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

 

sncriox

Sizcriox

1. Fee bi'li'abolished, allowance given termed 2!. Costs in action by county, tobe paid by

costs.
2. when allowed or course to plaintifff.
8. In several actions on same instrument but
one bill of costs.
4. When allowed to defendant.
6. When allowed to either party in discretion
of the court.
8. Costs not sllowedin actions on Judgment except on leave granted.
7. Amount or costs allowed in certain cases.
8. Interest on verdict and report when allowed.
9. Costs how to be inserted in Judgment.
I0. The lees oi referees.
11. Costs on postponement of trial.
I‘). Costs on motion.
13. Costs against iniant plalntiu‘.
14. Costs not allowed when tender has been
made.
15. Costs in action by or against executors, kc.
lo. Costs in supreme court, on appeal in special proceedings.
1'1. Costs in actions by the territory or county.
18. Costs against asslgnee or cause or action,
after action brought.
19. Costs on settlement.
20. Costs in actions by piaintins who reside
out oi the territory.

Sec. 1.

Sue. 2.

county benented.

in. costs in actions by United statesonreiatlon

or individual.

23. Costs in actions upon writ or mandamus.
24. costs on actions brought in name or another by assignee.

26. when derendsntehsllbe entitled to costs
on appeal trom justice or the peace.

26. Interest accruing alter drst judgment not
to be allowed in certain cases.

27. Where money is brought into court by deiendant costs may be recovered by plalntim

28. This chapter not toapply tojuetlces’ courts.

29. when plalntlir required to file seonritv for
costs.

30. when plaintiii‘ required to ills security for

costs.

81. Order to die securltyior costs what to contain.

32. Bond tor security for costs.

33. Bond how to he died.

34. Defendant may except to suiliciency of security.

85. when securities may Justify.

I6. Auomevs when liable {or costs.

37. How attorney may relieve himself from
liability.

There are no statutes establishing or rggulating the costs
or fees of attorneys and council in civil actions, a
lished no rules or provision of law, restricting
of a party to agree with an attorn
hereafter the measure and mode o such ‘compensation,
eement, express or implied of the parties ; _
to the prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity, for
allowances are termed costs.

Costs are allowed, of course, to the
merit in his favor, in the following cases:

there are estabor controlling the 

or council for his compeniathlla 333

must be left to
but there may be alplaintifff upon a judgI. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim of
title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified bythe court
to have come in question at the trial:

2. In an action to recover the

possession of

rsonal property:

3. In the actions of which a justice’s court as not jurisdiction:

. 4. In an action for the recovery of money,

where the plaintiff recovers one hundred dollars or more; but in an action for assault,.batt'erYa

false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution,
versation, or seduction, if the plaintih‘ recover less than

criminal conilfty dollars

damages ,_ he can recover no more costs and charges than darnetges. And
in an action to recover the possession of personal property,i the 
us‘ recover less than fifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs

and charges than dams

ges, unless he recover also pr

,the valueof

Which: with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars; such value not be

dstsramisd the jury, court, or referee by whom the action is tried.

‘Sac. 3. on several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause in action against several parties
who ' t have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
can be lowed to the lplaintiff, in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, ' the parties proceeded against in the other actions,
were at the commencement of the previous action, open] within this
territo ; but the disbursements of the plaintiff may be a owed to him
as hereinafter provided. \

Sec. 4. Costs are allowed, of course, to the defendant upona judgment in his favor in an action for the recover of money, where e
plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars; and also in the’ other actions
mentioned in section two. ’

Sec. 5. In other actions, costs may be allowed, or not, and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties in the same or adverse
sides, in the discretion of the court. When there are several defendants
not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate anesters, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court
may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their
favor, or any of them 5 and in the following cases, the costs of an appeal
are in the discretion of the court:

1. Where a new trial is ordered:

2. Where a judgment is modified. .

Sec. 6. Costs can not be allowed to the plaintiff in an action upon
I judgment of a court of this territory, between the same parties, un1818 such action was brought, with previous leave of the court, for cause
shown; but this prohibition does not appl to an action upon the _jud
meat of a justice s court, brought in ano er county, or brought in t e
lune county, in case of the summons not havin been served on all the
defendants, er the death of a party, or the deal , resignation, incapacLillie act, or removal from the county of the justice, or the loss of his

et.

Sec. 7. When allowed, costs are as follows:

1. To the , _
ding jud eat when entered,) in an action arising on obligation for the reOOVG 0 money only, seven dollars; in another action, tW91V° d0]-13-"5
for al subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars: _

2- To the defendant; for all proceedings before notice of trial, five
dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars:

3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the trial of 1881188 Of
fact, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve dollars :

4. For the trial of the issues of fact, if separate from the t1‘l810fth8
issues of law, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve
dollars: ,

5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, when tried at the
1:110 time, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant: 1133311 d°1'

s:

6. To either party when any action has been removed to the supreme

court befo an-gum t ten d liars‘ for argument, fifteen dollars:
7. ,To either partynfcir eve 0 tertI’la 130‘ °1°°°d' Wee’ at whmh the

cause necessarily remains on e calendars 110‘ 7°“ ed’ °' P°StP°"°d’ ex’
clndlng that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars. _

Sec. 8. When the judgment is for the_.recov_6|'Y °f m°“°3'i “‘t°"°‘t
from the time of the verdict or report: ‘mm “W “dgment be amuy en’
tered, must be computed by the clerk, and add theretoSsc. 9. The clerk must insert in the entry of J‘1d8'”°“’i °” th° “

plication of tho prevailing party, upon two days notice to the other, e

plaintifff; for all proceedings ‘before notice of trial (inclu- _

Ii
ai
10

04
se

sum of the allowances for costs, as above provided, and the necessary
disbursements, including the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of
witnesses, the necessary expenses of commissions, the compensation of
referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon an appeal, which
disbursements are in the statute, also termed charges. T c disbursements must be stated in detail, and verified by affidavit, which must be
filed. Whenever costs are allowed by statute, the charges are also allowed, and when costs are not allowed, the charges are not allowed, ex-'3
cept where express provision is made therefore; Sec. 10. The fees of referees are three dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the referees, but the parties may agree in
writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate
must be allowed. ‘ '

Sec. 11. When an application is made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum, not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the
condition of granting the postponement. '

Sec. 12. Costs may be allowed on an original motion, or on an apeal from an order, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten
dollars ; and when costs are ordered against a party upon a motion,
proceedings on his part may he stayed until payment thereof.

Sec. 13. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintitt, the
guardian by whom he appears in the action is responsible for them, and
judgment therefore may be entered against both the guardian and infant.

no. 14. When in an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant alleges in his answer, that before the commencement of the
action, he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff, the amount so
tendered, and the allegation be found true, the plaintifff cannot recover
costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.

Sec. 15. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered, as in an action by and against a
person prosecuting or defending in his own right, but such costs must,
by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense; but no costs are recoverable in such action if brought
without leave of the judge of probate, against an executor or administrator within one year after the death of the person whom he represents,
nor after that time, unless it appear that the demand was first presented
to the executor or administrator, verified by oath, and payment demanded. ' ' "

Sec. 16. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in 8
special proceeding, is brought before the supreme court for review,
such proceeding is, for all _ rposes of costs, to be deemed an action at
issue on a question of law,ptii'om the time the same is brought into the
supreme court, and costs thereon may be awarded and collected in such
manner as the court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

3' Sec. 17. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name and for the “S0
of the territory, or in the name and for the use of any county, the territory or county shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same
extent as private parties.

M S20. 18. In an action in which the cause of action, after the com,,. mencement of the action, by assignment or any other manner, becomes

the property of a person not_a party to the action, and the proSCCllli0“
or defense IS thereafter continued, such person is liable for the C0815 in

the same manner as if he were a party,
enforced order. Sec. 13)., Upon the settlement before judgment of any action, no
ggteater sum_tc)z;3 Ea (tl}t’I£ina!;;le(lt from the defendant as costs, than at the

esprescri y iscaper.-A *' ‘.

Si:c._ 20. 'l:he attorney of a plaintifff who resides out of the territory, or is a foreign corporation, against whom costs are awarded to a dcfendant, is responsible to such defendant therefore to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; and the attorney neglecting to pay this
‘TIME, after due proceedings against him,’ may be removed by the court;
' ut e ma ‘relieve himself from responsibility, at any time before jud ment, by ling an undertaking for the payment, to the defendant, of t
costs and chaiiges, eirecuted. by a sufiicient surety. ’ _

Si:c._2l-. n all civil actions and proceedings by or in the name of
the Umted States, for the benefit of any count , instituted by any oilieer duly authorized for that purpose, and not rought on the relation or
for the use of a citizen, or upon an penal statute, the county to be
benehted shall be liable for costs in t same cases and to the same ex‘tent as if such suit or proceeding was instituted by an individual.

Ste. 22. When a suit or proceeding shall be instituted in the name
of the ‘United States, on the relation of any citizen, such relation shall
be entitled to and liable for costs, in the same cases and to the same extent as if such suit or proceeding had been instituted in his own name‘.

Sec. 23. For actions and proceedings upon writs of mandamus, the
Iuprome court may in its discretion, award or refuse costs to any partherein, and upon refusing an alternative or peremptory mandamus,

the court may award costs to be paid by the party applying for such
mandamus. T ‘
Sac. 24. When any action shall bebrought in the name of another,
by an assignee of any right of action, or by any person beneficially intereoted in the recovery in such action, such assignee or person shall be
lillilefor costs in the same cases and to the same extent, in which a
pyhnmtf would be liable, and the payment of such costs may be enforced

Iltachment in all cases where judgment is not by law required to be
tendered therefore, against such assignee or person interested.

Sec. 25. In all civil actions tried before a justice of the peace, if

W pwntitf shall appeal from a judgment in his favor, and shall not reGiver in a district court a greater sum for debt or damages, than he re¢°'V0l'ed the first judgment, the defendant shall be entitled to costs.
' Sec. . In comparing the sums recovered by the two judgments
for the purposes specified in the preceding section, the sum, if any allowed for interest accrued on the plaintifff's demand, after the first verdict, or judgment, shall not be included, and he shall not be considered
" hllving recovered more on the appeal than on the first trial, merely
00 account of the addition of interest accrued bcween the two trials.
SEC. 27. When a defendant shall bring money into court and offer
the same in satisfaction of the damages, demanded by the plaintifff, the
Plaintiff shall in all cases be entitled to the costs which had previously
accrued, though he may not recover a larger sum of damages than is 80
bmugllt into court.

and payment thereof may be

Sac. 28. The foregoing provisions do not apply to justices, courts. I

OF FILING SECURITY FOR COSTS.

SN‘. 29. VVhcn a suit shall be commenced in any court;
1. For, or in the name of the trustees of any debtor:

2. For. or in the name of any person being insolvent who shall have '

been discharged from his clebts pursuant to law, brought for the collection
of an debt. (.‘t')llll'il(flCLl before the :1.~.e.<ig1111u':11t of hi.-‘. estate; 01',

3. or, or in the manna cI'un_\' pu1'.~:u:1 m_»11n11itt.erl in execution for a
crime; or,

4. In the nulnc nlj any lniiml, \\‘l1u.-ac 11c.\'t I'riuI'1(l 11:15 not glvell secucity for costs ; or,
. 5, For a plaintiff not residing within the jurisdiction of such court,
or for several plaintifffs who are all non-residents ; the defendant may
require such plaintid to file security for the payment of the costs that
me be, incurred by the defendant in such suit.

n.‘ no. 30. If after the commencement of a suit, all the plaintiiiii shall
become insolvent or non- resident, and be discharged as aforesaid, or be
sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for any term less than
life, the defendant may also require such security to be filed.

812.0. 31. The order shall be to file such security, and that all proceeding! on the part of the plaintifff, be stayed until such security be
filed, and the sureties shall justify if excepted to. Such order may be
made by the court in which the action is pending, or by any judge there.of, invocation. upon due proof by affidavit, of the fact: entitling the defendant thereto. — . ‘s ,

S30. 32. Such security, shall be given in the form of a bond in the
penalty of at least one hundred dollars, with one or more suliicient
sureties, to the defendant, conditioned to pay, ‘on demand, all costs that
ma be awarded to the defendant in such action.

S20. 33. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending, and notice thereof be given to the defendant or his attorney. ’

SEC. 34. Within twenty days after the service of such notice the
defendant may except to the sufliciency of the sureties by giving notice
of such exception to the plaintiil"s attorney.

Sec. 35. Within twenty days after such notice of exception the
snreties shall justify by affidavit, that they are worth double the penalty of such bend over and above all debts, of which affidavit, a copy,
sllall be served on the defendant, or his attorney, and such justification
slmll operate to discharge the order to stay proceedings. _

Sec. 36. In the cases in which, according to the provisions of this
chapter, a defendant at the commencement of an action, shall be entrtled to require security for costs, the attorney for the plaintifff shall be
liable for such costs, to an amount, not exceeding one hundred dollars,
until security therefore be filed as herein provided, whether such securitg shall have been required by the defendant or not.

no. 37. Such attorney may relieve himself from such liability by
iilin security as herein provided, without being required to do so by

$3“ efendant, and by giving notice thereof to such defendant, or hit Sir
°Y-4

OF‘ THE FEES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS, AND OTHER

PERSONS, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATIVE TO‘

FEES.

 

“IOU
I-illswheettees.
I.!eesetcieItoithedistricteourt.
lfedolclutotthesnpnmecourt
Jesse! enlunissioners totske testimony.

‘ ’°0"|'JlQeoiprobete.
Ileeseteseeetousndsdmlnistrstors.
tfeaetwltnesses.

tl'essenheriuI,&c.

9-Jelsetesreners.

I0-Peesolconstsbles.

13. Visa services or eonstsble perrormedby

Inter.

lsreuornotsriespubuc.
‘ll--lesseiintleasortss posce.
M-osslstscivuscuonsberorojnsucosouho
Clhileewhentotsxooets.

30- Xe tees {or true! oi witnesses sllowed un' me
31-:Isn tees allowed (or serving Inbpcne,
$  elbuttwo witnesses allowed to prove
bunt.

l|.'nss'rsssrsreupiu.I:c.,nots1lowed.
.-Wildlllowsnceinsde for disbursements.
‘I-Que-otumcousybedispmed.
9-eleismorsnerinwoboevieonoe.

ilyrousocnsbtuoraeeas.
."~*fZ|'l,@I1lIlIIl0ncfI,&co
"-Nun-nu.

szcrsox I8. Peesot shes-ids sndeonstsbiesinpeoinste

court.

29. Fees allowed In chsncery.

so. Printers’ tees tor publlshlnx notices.

ll. Form of notice.

:2. Fees or publishing other notices.

83. when notice or mos-gage sole shell be
served.

84. Oinoersheilsetnpteble oi hisieesinhil
otlico.

I6. Thischepter not tospplytospecleleeses.

I8. “ Polio” donned.

1'1. Extortion prohibited.

3. when ices not to be term8. Penalty. _

40. Charges for services not sctuslly rendered.

ll. Prospective costs.

42. Allowsnco for one drett only.

43. Whstnottobeeomputedpeeteidrut.

44. Pea paid tor certified copies siiowed.

45. Attorney not allowed tees as wltneu.

46. Oilicer receiving fees to give receipt in
items.

4?. Fees for edmiulseerin: oath of oillee.

48. Feessllowed tooneooeer shsllbepeldte
soother perionninx the service.

40. When witnesses for United States shell receive fees.

00. when tees oi prosecution to be psid by
counts.

51. Attorney senersi may issue snepuies, to.

as. when clerk to sire witneu cenincstgtc.

”' WI of witnesses and Jurors in probate 63. Construction of the two preceding secLT‘:

tlons.

OF THE FEES OI‘ CERTAIN OFFICERS.

3:0. 1. For the services mentioned in this chapter, hereafter done
°" P°"f°l’med in the several courts in this territory, by the o$cere there“: O‘ In any proceedings authorized by low, the fees hereinafter pre shall be allowed.

FEB! 01' CLERKS 0}‘ THE DISTRICT COURTS.

_8sc. 2. The fees oi‘ the clerks of the district courts for any ser"Wl herein speciiied, to be rendered by them, shall be as follows:

For issuing and sealing every

writ when filled up by the olerk, sevOnty-nve cents; and each exempliiication or certincate when required,

“Witty-five cents.
cents

Entering the return of every writ, and filing such writ, nfteen

\

l’.nt<-1‘in_; an appeainiic-c, rctraxit, tllh-L.’i)lililtllllllll‘, non-suit, or default,
lift 1,-on t-cut:-a.

i'i1':t'vI'it1;__; every rule in ti‘.-1'11]. I'ui111=.i(-tl on Inotinn, fifteen cents for
each folio.

l'Iz1tc1'ii'1g every other rule not exceeding two folios, ten cents for each
folio, and for crery additional folio, four cents.

For certified copies of rules, the same fees as for entering such rules.

l'l\‘(.‘1'_\' report upon an assessment of damages, or other matter referred
to him, fifty cents. ,

Every certificate, twenty-five cents, but not to be allowed for certifying any paper to be a copy, for the copying of which he shall be paid.

Calling and swearing a jury, lifty cents. _

Sxx-can-1n<_;,_r earl: witness on trial, ten cents ; and swearing every constalilo to take cliarge of a jury, twelve cents.

l‘llli(.‘.1‘lll;j;' rt-c-o;;ni7.:n1r-c, twenty-five cents.

l'iI1it".]'lI'l;1_' cu-.1-y cause in a calendar for the court, and making a copy
tl1L‘1'c.ot' for the llLl1'._ ten cents.

Item-i\'i11_=_; and entering a verdict’, twenty cents.

Entering every cause or suit without process, tifty cents.

Certified copy of the minutes of a trial when required, fifty cents.

Entering every final judgment, tifty cents.

Entcriilg satisl'act.ion of a judgment, fifteen cents.

Drawing a special jury in any cause, titty cents.

Attendance in striking a special jury, certifying the names selected,
and delivering such certificate to each party, tifty cents. '

Rcadin.-:5 and filing a habc-as corpus, certiorari, or writ of error, fifteen cents.

For a subpoena, summons, or execution when issued by a clerk, on
request, and for sealing the same, titty cents.

Filing a complaint or other pleading, an :lfii(l1l\'it, or other papers or
proceedings, ten cents ; all papers annexed together and filed at the same
time, to be considered as one paper, and no allowance to be made for
reading any paper or proceeding in any case.

Copies and exemplitications of records and of pleadin‘gs, to be returned on certiorari or writ of error; copies and cxempli lcations of all
records, pleadings, and proceedings furnislicd on request, when no special provision is otherwise made, eight cents for each folio.

Searching the records or files in his oflicc, if a copy is not required,
twenty cont.-s f‘m- the re:-arrts or files of each year, except for otiiccrs of
the court.

Receiving and tiling the ]J;L]nt1':w. of any i1l..:'tIi\'I_‘1ll, fifteen cents in each
case. » .

Copies of such papers, eight cents for each folio. _

For-administering the~oatl1 of office to any officer, and certifying the
same, twenty-five cents.

» Recording credentials of. ordination of ministers, and giving ccrtiti—cate of the same, fifty cents.

Recording certificate of the solemnization of marriage, twenty-fli/6
cents.

Entering transcript of justice’s judgment, twenty-five cents.

Entering appeal from justioe’s court, twenty-live cents.

Foreach blank writ furnished attorneys, with seal for the same, ‘if’

teen cents.

.,F-ntcring a surrender of bail, fifteen cents.
Issuing commission to take deposition, fifty cents.
. Ifwang venire facias, twenty-five cents.
Lertiticate of jurors’ or constables’ attendance at court, to be paid from
the county treasury, each, ten cents. ' ' ’

Entering forfeiture of recognizance, fifteen cents. /

-Entering discharge of bail, twenty cents.

For entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States,
twenty-five cents.

For a certified copy of such declaration, under the seal of the court.
cents.

or enteri the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship, twenty- ve cents.
or a certified copy thereof, under the seal of the court, fifty cents.
For all services required by law, to be armed b such clerks re~
spectively, and not specially provided for law, su fees as the supreme court sliall, I3; eneral rule or order prescribe, co ding as
near as may be, wi tshe rates herein prescribed: Prom’ , ‘Unit the
gross amount of the fees of any clerk of the district court shall, in no
case, exceed the follow’ sums :
In case of a judgment cognovit or confession, two dollars.

liianycase wherein there is noap ianee bythe defendant, three
&illars;andinanyothercase,eight llars.

T228 0]’ TI!!! CLERK 0!‘ TH}: SUPREME C0031‘.

. Size. 3. For drawi a writ of error, or other process issued under
sal of the court, one do lar. _,
For atlixi the seal to any process of the court, twenty-tive cents.
5vFor filingllglie papers sent at one time from a district court, twentye cents

Reading and £ling any petition relating to any proceeding in court,
ten cents.
Entering the ap ce or default of appellant, or plaintiff, or of defeiglant, or respo ent, fifteen cegts. t ,
uteri 1 rd r, fteen cen s.
_For a dlgrttiii clip; :1? gvee such rule or order, and all pers, 
in%, and proceedings filed wit him, six cents for each fo io.
ntering every decree or sentence, six cents for each folio.
Entering eve judgment or order, fifteen cents; and six cents for
each folio moregian two. _ _ ‘ _
Engrossing every remitter to be sent to a district court, eight cent!
for each folio.
Every certificate given on request, relative to any matter of 081180:
Mleen cents.
axi costs t -6 cents.
Entémg eve’ryws?itsyfac:i:n on the record, fifteen cents. .
Taking security in cases authorized by law» tW_°ntY'5V° °°”t"
Entering each cause in the calendars “Dd makms °°PY f°’ um 1”"
ten cents. ,
th:'or searching records and files in his office, except for 8!I1t°l" ‘ml
'1' alto an t . .
For se:'li?e‘s, req:i‘ii-ieflerh ‘ law, or the rules of the court not herein
provided for, such fees as e court shall direct.
Entering causes without pf0c888a tWW‘)"£"° cmt"
Admission of attorneys, one dollarri:i:s or coinnssioiriziis re us! 'r!8‘l'W°F'S . 4, 11; to ho commission shall be issued to take I
9985: in any Iddgitanor  Sznyding in law or cl13n°°"Yv ‘hm?’ :
entitled receive the same fees as allowed ¢0.l“‘“°°’ °“'h° Pu“ 0'

‘FEES; OP JUDGE 01‘ I’R.0BA.TE._

seventy-five cents; when contested or approved, one ‘dollar and seven.ty-tive cents: . ‘
Hearing any complaint, or an application for the appointment, of ,3.

;_{l,l'll‘\ll'.}T‘I. ]'l'.'I_\‘ r-:"1:*'..:~'. ’ ‘ S30. 5, For granting letters of administration, when not contested,

.-\1_=5u_-.'1.-.w.1'!.1:t:' “.1 _=I_"-.1':r<‘.'1;._r1. 111"‘-._\' wn*.~<. marl \~.l'1r-11 mu) guzmlian slmll he
app .:i1:i..«.r:l ‘L’-.-r 11:.-1'»: lll-".11 mac ‘in-1‘.=-«:1 at 1_l1r-s:n:1t'time,t\.\'c1':I.}'—fi\'e ccllts
i'+.:1‘c;u_-hpr.-is;-.11.:1'1crIlu- l11'.~:t- for xxluom .-'nc-l1 3_;l.lL1l.'tlltlIl .-‘shall be ap}.=nir1L:*r_l.

l)['u;'*1'(‘-._* :’..y- -1;.r-~‘:.:-.t:"- of :1 xx"-.1l. xx-}n_-11 1]ul c-.ont:_-~—;1ml_. .<c\'m1t}'-lire L.-01115;
\'s‘l1+"H ("0!1h':aU.‘;l. um‘ cluli-.'.':1' Lll1l_l .~<"-\'t_-'IiI_\—ll\'t' I-t'11l~.~'.

l)l’l'l'l't‘ flu‘ .‘,~i_‘lill'.'E‘_'-f_ '..:1 t_'~l:1!:_'. ~:;_*\':_-.111\,'-l'1\'v (-01:15.

{‘::ri1i7«_«-ti:_1'1‘;'~-:l z-=1:-.‘.(‘. ram-:i.»ll:-.1':ml_lli1‘1}' L-t':11t.~«;.

t)1'I.l_:_-1‘ i'¢'r1' t_ll'~ij'llI‘llll'.'Ill. .‘~'::\'\_'Hl:,'-ll\‘1‘ L"~;‘1ng;_

l'l\:Ll:1llllE|;_1' :-.1:*.l ;1ll=J\'-.'ll!_'_;_‘ :-.11 lll\'l‘1ll:1T_\', lll.lL"l__‘ll L‘-.c-ms fol‘ 0.1l(.'ll folio.

-‘\*i'1:l;-.i.~.;:‘,'iz:.1:' 1111 :-;'_el: in am a_*'_\'m"-11"m1' or utlzcr pe1'.~+o11_. aml L*.01'til'3'iI1g

the same when ‘necessary, tifteen cents.
Examining and allowing accounts of executors, administrators, or
other persons, for the first page, fifteen cents, and for each additional

page, five cents. ;
or each citation, summons, or other process, twenty-five cents. VVarrant to appraise or divide an estate, seventy-live cents.
Issuin a commission to examine and allow claims . 'nst an estate,
fifty cengs. . “gm ,
- Approving and filing a bond given on an appeal, fifty cents. <
Approving securities of executors or others, twenty-five cents.
. Each order to divide an estate among heirs, or to set off dower,
twenty-five cents. .
Order For allowance to a widow, or to children under seven years of
age, twe.nty- ve cents. , ~
Appointment of agent on partition of real estate, twenty-live centsi .
Order for saleeof personal estate, or for publication of any notice, or
any other ordinary order, in proceedings before him, .where no other
provision is_expressly made, twenty-five cents. .
Each order for sale of real estate to -pay debts of an estate, tift cents.
Extending the time for settling an estate, or examining and a lowing
claims against an estate, twenty-live cents. _ =
Granting reference of accounts of executors or administrators, or 
lowing report thereon, tifty cents. =3
For a bond of executors, administrators, or guardians, on an 8p'P¢3l»
fifty cents. ' , . '
Disallowing application for letters of administration, or probate Of 8
Will: to be paid by the party applying, fifty cents.
, Fora warrant to set off dower, fifty cents.
Ordering and drawing a quietus, fifty cents, .
Iiroportiomng an inso vent estate among the creditors, ‘seventy,-Eve
cen s. _
Entering and filing a caveat, fifteen cents.
Entering the accounts of an executor administrator or guardian, tifteen cents for each folio. , ' ,
  .oath gt‘ a.nfexec_utor, or administrator, fifteen cents.
Recording mrecor s or iles in his office, for each year, ti_fteen_ cents.
_ _8 W 3 and the proof thereof, letters of adrnnustration, of
§“E‘1'd“m$l11Pa and every other matter required to be recorded, for each
olio, fifteen cents; and where any will or other matter is_in any other

than the English language, eighteen cents for each folio.

-Wwsmuduimnéeavyl wnmom my other -1.lzsn«‘tl:'e 31:31:95-'5..tv_v:1l1g-live cents i"o1_' each folio. .—-»fm-.
gh eire:nph1‘ueunem—of» the p!'olJa$6 'el"¢'i1*v_'i‘il_, 7o1_“_(§'*let1efg ieghnanm-‘Y , or of administratiai, or"ol"ony' other proceedin or!ordér'-‘had
-when i gwhims drwf IWy‘othei_- 'p'efs'»1ilEd cu reccrgetl'in his lot‘% trmsnglsed clu:1!a yes], or fun-n1s_ edon request to any-15arson,*_"i'i?l
 required law t_o‘be perfonned ud F of‘ 6-1

f¢I"wl_i_ioh-'n_ 'eoinpaI1seti’eyn-_ ‘is not’ herein l lproyildyedi-' Iing_ll::!liiHfeehr:r_*ai

  lab‘ Uiltabiished  supreme‘ court; by getreral
rlihsdbllréupondingps near-_as may be with the-rates herein‘-speoiiiod"'
 -whole enlounvoftihes-uu_u:ed liyany judge .of probatti
liilllrdiril Behalf,‘-in'any*case-not‘ contested, -slrnil in '_nd_-‘ease exceed
Hp!!! l&rsg--unless-elnevsame be-auditedend certified to be just by
tagged,-m district cm: of-the county." - s _ ~ » s s V

I "¢THl_¢l' ll.|3 T_'. ‘

”"*"."J‘-"- *""=-'3-11?)!!!-'o!' zx1:co-ron'e'.mn itourzitsiriuironsg I‘

’5_9Ii¢.7 31"-'  services, and in lieu ot"_all'other-"feels;-onle dollar
#‘  cents -for each half ‘day, enI_l"lheir~actu'al and ‘necessary

_ " ‘Unit i'or the benefit ‘of the estate; but the probate court may
ulnwexeeuem s_nd_‘edministra;tors, in mes or unusual didicnqly or
e. 'i

H , such-further ‘sum as thejudge  deem-re-osonab

I": l"V‘i!'a ulau} 1;,

_. _ FEES ‘or 'Wx"rrr1:s's2s.
i"S""‘-I’:-'.:.'. '- 3- - »- . .. -.
'3'!!!» 7. "For—i1ttending'-in any suit or proceeding pending in a courl;
oH'ceol'd;'-‘one dollarifor each day, ‘and ‘liffy cents for cacl1'hhli' day.-' ' "
F0!‘ {Mending in an justice’s court, or before any officer, person, or
iulhorized to ta e the examination of witnesses-, one dollar for
NBII tiny, and fifty cents for each half‘ do" . - ' _  ' _ '
" ‘POI’-’ tr'uV'eling,' at the rate of six cents‘ per mile .in coming to_the-place
0FlI5UI'Ith;hce, tube estimated from the residence of'_ such. witness, if
1VHIi"§dII !efritory',‘cr from the boundary" line of this-temtory, urhzch
‘lid! Witness passed in coming, if his residence be out 01 the territory.‘
The secretary of the territory, _treasurer,'attorney general-, snd- clerk,
‘of dbeds, -county surveyor, or 'ndge of probate: n_ttend_mg 011 fl
3 ',"r uiring the ‘same, with bil 3, records, or other w_r1t_ten ew3U&e‘,  ' entitled to one dollar per day, undfor traveling,  the
me of six cents per mile, coming and returning from the residence of

paIlIaI"‘wit.ness.
.91  _ _

Ins or 3333111‘ In r:x;;co1-mo Pnocnss-Issvnn our or THE counts
o-for-aw AND EQUITY, AND av JUDICIAL A in) o'rHI-:1: armor:-as, an-n
""|NI'o'r'n3n- sznvxcns. ' ' '
sl.¢,._ 3. For serving a summons, replevin. 01' WY _P"°°'~’53 i’§u°FI by ’
I36oIII't'0f'i§w,'ofu.s1|bp<3na to appear and answer In Chaucer)‘: 0_f1¢_=
d&§'1'vh¢n service is made on one defendant only, and_for_ the service
W each additional, lift cents. . _ ' , _- -_  -. '
  in ma in such sen-ice,'ten cents-per nu-le for _go1ng
91"!" becompnted in :1 cases from the court, house of -the county
nl ‘ 't'I}Q'g@fvice is made, or from the ploce"nrhere the ‘court has
I.Isuallybéen'held therein. _ ' ',__ i  a-bond of*plaintifffin'.replev1n_, or taking‘ a bond _cn- the
mirrors aemgdgm, or in any other case where he is authorized-y to
‘*0’!-he same, ifty-cents.  ' ‘ , _
“F‘or‘a‘eurl'ilIdd copy of such bond when requested, f\V¢"t3"“"e "°“"’

For a note of every capias delivered to a defendant, on request, ten

1; .
cel;“:l' a copy of every summons or complaint, served by him when

made by the sheriff, ten cents for each folio. _

For a copy of every other writ when demanded, or required by law,
fifteen cents.

For serving an attachment for the payment of money, or an execution for the payment of money, or a warrant issued for the same purpose, and do ivered to him by the county treasurer or an county commissioner for collecting the sum of two hundred and fifty ollsrs or less,
four per cent, and for any sum more than two hundred and iifty dollars, two per cent; advertising goods or chattels, lands or tenements,
for sale on any execution, if a sale be made, one dollar, audit‘ the execution be sta ed or settled after advertising and before sale, hfty cents.

The fees allowed by law, and paid to any printer by such sheriff, for
publishing an advertisement, of the sale of rml estate, for not more than
six weeks, and for publishing the postponement of any such sale_shall
be paid by the party requiring the same: _

The fees herein allowed for the service of an execution and for advertising thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution, in the
same manner, as the sum therein directed to be levied ; but when there
shall be several executions against the defendant at the time of advertising his property, in the hands of the same sheriff, there shall be but
one advertising fee charged on the whole, and the sheriff shall elect on
which execution he will receive the same.

For every certificate, on the sale of real estate, fifty cents ;and for each
copy thereof, twenty-five cents; which, together with the register-’s
fee for filing the same, shall be collected as other fees on execution.

For drawin and executing a deed pursuant to a sale of real estate,
one dollar, to e paid by the grantee, in such deed.

Serving a writ of possession, or of restitution, putting any person
entitled, into the possession of premises, and removing the occupant, one
dollar; and the same compensation for traveling as is herein allowed on

other writs.

Taking a bond for the liberties of the jail, fifty cents.

Summoning a jury upon a writ of inquiry, attending such jury, and
making and returning t 1e inquisition, one dollar and fifty cents.

Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an order of the court,
ant; returning the panel, one dollar and twenty-five cents. f Hi

ummoni a ‘u nrsuant to an rece t or summons c any o cer,
in an speciraif pdocrdreding, seventy-hvle cenids, and for attending such jury en_ required, fifty cents. h b t te U er in any
rm u a ersonu na a eascor us 0 ' s1 oransw
court, Elllrdgdoi ar ;pand for tliffiveling, each nfile’from they'ail, fifteen cents.

_dFor attellldillg any court with such prisoner, one dollar per day, besi es actua necessa ex nses.

Bringing up a pegon upjfon a habeas corpus, with the cause of his arreslt, pend deltlentiqn, one dollar; and for traveling, fifteen cents, fol’ each
mic romt e 'ai.
_ Attending biefore any oliicer with a risoner, for the purpose of having hun surrendered in exoneration of his boil, or attending to reeeivea
prisoner so surrendered, who was not committed at the tune, and 1'9ceiving such prisoner into his custody, in either case one dollar.

Attending a view when ordered by the court one, dollar and twenty
tine cents per day, including the time occupied in gain and returningServing an attachment upon any ship, boat, or \.-3535 in proceedings
to enforce any lien thereon created by law, one dollar, with such addi' to reasonable.

or  and returiii

attached in any case, one do r
day actually employed, and lift

same, six cents for each folio.
For selling any ship, boat or
hire thereof so attached, and
as ‘for sales on execution.
or v
mi. £a~."."
for each co
Ilpanses o
expenses to
‘C
F or

feesas

ent townships
blishing

to he

cut of the territorial treasury.
For summoning grand or peti

tycents per each juror summon

 a subpoena for witnesses,
honed, and ten cents for each mile act
when two or more witnesses live in the
charged only from the farthest.
for a debtor in jail, in all cases where the

himself, fifty cents for each 
cage on every execution, live cents

sliallbe

 and providing

r is unable to support
For mil

lobecom utedfromthecourth

I-‘or se  lands on the forecl
tingadeedtothepiirchaser,andt'or

and exaou

such sale, three dollars.

eserving the some, as the office

y cents for each half
iig the inventory, twenty-live cents

_ such notice as req
paid by the county,

any services which may be
are allowed by law for such

For  the supreme court, onedollar and ti
allowed by the auditor, on the certificate of tlfitey

egpenses in  possession
r issuing the warrant shall 00¢-f

an inventory. and appraisal of pr

9
praisers, for each
3 and for draftfor copying the

per day each to the a
for each folio; a
essel, or the tackle, apparel and furniV

for advertising such sale, the same, fees

noticeofanygeaeralors
andwardsi
yot‘notice,and tencents

pecial election to the inspectors
n the county, twenty-live cents,
per mile traveling one way, and
lured by law; such fees and
as other contingent expenses there-v

rendered by a countable the same
services to a constable. .
cents each day;
clerk, and paid

t;iurors, to attend the district court, Efcents for each witness sumy traveled in going only ' but
same direction, traveling’ fee

per mile for  only,
county. “I

e f a rggnge vertisement
081" 0 mo 8033,1008 required on

ouse of his

I'll! OP C0l0NlI8o

Sec. 9.
herein allow
For conlini

“ch d‘ , ng a sherif in any

rem such confinement,

For all services rendered by
ed to sheriffs for similar service.

to be paid by such sherif before

. them, the same fees as are 1
house on civil process, htly cents fog
heshall be entitled to be disunless otherwise ordered by the court.

P383 0!’ OOHITLILII.

Sac. 10.
For servi
‘loll person
For a co

Plleeofres

Forserv

“teen cents.

named therein, twen
of every

Constables may be allowed to receive the following
nga warrant or other writ, not herein provided 1'01‘: Ill

‘E8: '3

ty tive cents.

summons delivered on toque“: 0!’ 1°“ 0‘ “'3
ence of defendant, tifteen cents. _
ingasubptanaorsiimmons, oneachpartyorntmatllonma

For serving an attachment, lifty cents.
For each copy of an attachment, fifteen eents.

Foreachcopy

of inventory of

property seized on attachment, httssa

F  summons on garnishee ifty cents.

For copy of any -affidavit -or other paper not otherwise enurneratetl,

per folio, ten cents.
For posting u_p each notice, fifteen cents.
For each mile actually traveled to serve any process, to give or post
up notice, ten cents.
Committing to prison, fifty cents.
For summoning a jury, one dollar.
For writing a ist of jurors, fifteen cents."
For attending on ‘a jury, fifty cents."
On all sums made on execution and paid over, charged upon the defendant, five per cent. ‘ ' '_
For notifying a plaintifff of a service of warrant, or summons, or attachment, returnable in three days, twelve cents: - ' “
For serving every writ of replcvin, fifty cents.
For summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking appraisement,
iift cents. ‘ ' ' '
-or taking and approving security in any case, twenty—{ive cents.- '
- Sec. 11. lVhen the_ services mentioned in the last section are performed by any other person, the same fees shall be allowed as constables are entitled to receive, and no more.

PI-II-ZS OF l\'0'I‘AI-IIES ‘PUBLIC’.

Sec. 12. For drawing and copy of protest of the non-payment of a
promissory note, or bill of exchange, or of the non-acceptance of such
bill, one dollar, in the cases where by law, such protest is necessary,
but in no other case. ' ' 

For drawing, and a copy of every other protest, fifty cents.‘

For drawing, copy, and serving every notice of non-payment of note
or non-acceptance of a bill, tifty cents. ' ’

For drawing any atiidavit or other paper or proceeding, for which
provision is not herein made, twenty cents for each folio, and copying
the same, six cents for each folio. '

For takin , the acknowledgment of deeds, and for other services anthorized by ‘law, the same fees as are allowed to other officers for similar services.

FEES OF Jl.‘."-'I‘IC_l2S 0}‘ THE PEACE.

Sec. 13. J ustices of the peace may be allowed to receive the following fees, and may tax the some in all cases where applicable:
For a summons, warrant, or subpoena, twenty-live cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents. '
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.
For taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.
'For aclministcrin an oath, iiftecn cents.
' For certifying t e same when administered out of court, -fifteen
cents. ‘
For a writ of attachment, t.wenty—Iive cents.
For entering a judgment, twenty-five cents.
For every adjournment, fifteen cents.
F9’ every bonds recognizance, or security directed by law to be taken
and approved by the justice, twenty-five cents.
For Swearing a jury, twenty-live cents.
Ftor l'.[l.l{lI1g' an examination, deposition, or confession, per folio, fifteen
cen s.

For copy of proceedings, or of any paper or examination, in any ‘case
when demanded, per folio, fifteen cents. =

‘and such trav

-For entering a satisfuct-inn of judgment, twenty-live cents: -For entering‘ amicable suit without process, twenty-five cents.

For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.

For o ening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.

For ti ing every paper required to be filed, five cents.

For issuing notice to take deposition, twenty-five cents.

For taking recognizance, certifying oath, or affidavit, and making return to an appeal, including travel, one dollar.

For making return to writ of certiorari, per folio, fifteen cents.

For a search warrant, twenty-five cents.

For every atiidavit, or other paper drawn by the justice, for which
no other allowance is ‘made by law, per folio, tifteencents.

For a commitment to jail, twenty-five cents.

For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents. _

For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailer, twenty-five cents.

F or discharging a- prisoner after a hearing, on_ motion to discharge,
fifteen cents. ' .

For an execution, twenty-five cents.

For every other writ, not herein enumerated, twent -five cents.

For taxing costs, fifteen cents.

For ma ing and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty cents,
and such tiger sum as may be all_owe_d by the party making the application. A ‘

For holdiii an inquisition, in cases of forcible entry and detniner, in
addition to ot er fees, one dollar. ‘

For taking and certifying the acltnowledginent of a deed, for eacli
grantor named therein, twenty-five cents.
For traveling to perform any _duty, when not otherwise provided for,
e

is necessary, going, per mile, ten cents.
I’R0\‘lSION§ IN REL.\TIO.V' T0 FEES IN wsrrcizs’ counrs.

_ Sizc. 14. In all civil actions, unless otherwise provided, the party
in whose favor judgment is given, shall recover costs, and the justices’
courts may give or refuse costs on all motions, at their discretion, unless
otherwise directed. ;
Sisc. .15. At the time of entering a judgment for costs, in a.n3'_ca8e,
the justice may roceed to tax the costs in such case, and no notice of
such taxing nee be given to the party against whom judgment is rencred. .
Size. 16. The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of witnesses
unless the same be proved on the oath of some person qualified to testify in the cause. '
Sec. 17. No fees shall be allowed for travel, in serving a subpoena,
unless the same be charged by a constable, or sheriff, or be proved by
the oath of the person who served the same.
SEC. 18. The attendance of onl ’ two witnesses to each particular
feet before a 'ustice of the peace, sliall be taxed in the bill of costs. '
Size. 19. l\To fees for copies, or exemplifications of documents or
papers, or for depositions, shall be allowed, unless such copies of depositions ivere used upon the trial. ~
Sec. 20 No allowance for disbursements, except to ofiieers, shall

i be allowed, unless the items are particularly specified, and proved to the

justice, and the same were,
reasonable in amount. _ _ .

Sec. 21. The justice shall hear any evidence which may he 9%?“
lo him, to prove that any charge is unreasonable, or that the service has
not been rendered. ' ' '

in the opinion of the justice, necessary and

I‘

I
I

. shall be entitled to fifty cents for his services in each cause,

constable, to any writ, shall be
‘ faeia evidence, that such return is correct, and that the

service as been rendered, or disbursement made. ,
Sec. 23. The 'ustic'e shall have power, when he shall deem it necessa , to comman any constable to attend at the trial of the cause,
tax in the bill

and s i make an entry thereof in his docket, and may
of costs fifty cents for each half day such constable shall so attend ‘by

his command.

rams or nncisrnas or nrzns.

Sec. 24. For entering and recording any deed or other instrument,
twelve and a half cents for each folio, to be paid when the same is left
for record.

' For every certificate, twenty-live cents.

For copies of any records or papers, when required, seven cents for
each folio.

For recording any deed or other paper, in any other than the English
language, twenty cents for each folio. ' For every entry of a discharge of a mortgage,

record, ten cents.
For filing every other paper, and making an entry thereof, when need
three cents for each

in the margin of the

essary, six cents.
Searching for every such paper, on request,
pa er examined.
r searching the record, ten cents.

tens or Arrnsrsans, coinussioxrns, AND OTHERS.

Sec. 25. All appraisers of estates of deceased persons, appraisers
of roperty taken on writ of attachment or r levin, persons appo'nted
un er a legal process, or order for assigning ower, or maki partition
of real estate, sheriffs’ aids in criminal cases, and all other private persons perfonning any other like service required by law, or in the execution of legal process, where no express provision is made for compensation therefore, shall be entitled to one dollar for each day, and fn:'_ty

2 0!‘

cents for eachhalf day, for their services, and four cents a mile
travel in going and returning.

PE!!! 01' JUIOIS.

_ Sec. 26. Each grand and petit juror, except‘
titled to one dollar and lifty cents for each day’s attendance upo
district court, and six cents for each mile traveledin going and returning by the most usual route, to be paid out of the trcasu of the county, by the treasurer thereof, on the certificate of the cler of the court.

Each talesrnan summoned and acting as a juror in a court of tgeco
to .
'urors.
i... any
be paid

in the same manner herein provided for the payment of grand
‘ ' Each juror sworn in any action in a justice’s court, or be
_sheriH, on any writ of inquiry, shall be entitled to iifty cents, to
in the first instance by the party requiring such jury
‘Emit juror sworn before an coroner, on any inqu
shall be entitled to one dollar or each day’s attendance on
See. 27. The fees of witnesses and jurors in the probat
be the same as allowed by law to jurors and witnesses in the

courts.
Ste. 28. The fees of sheriffs and constables, for services rendered

est taken by him:
such inquests
e courts shall
district

in probate courts, and for the advice of process therefrom, shall- be
suc as are allowed by law to constables for similar services in civil
proceedings before justices of the tieace, and where no fees for such

services are provided for by law, ey shall be entitled to such fees as
are allowed to sherifs for similar services in the district court.

TIES 1'0 3!! ALLOWEDMTHE PARTY RECOVERIXG JUDGHENT IN CHAN‘
CIIY, IN CASE A SOLICITOR SHALL HAVE BEEN EMPLOYED.

Sec. 29. Drawing every bill, answer, or other pleading or proceedi in a cause, for every folio, twenty-five cents. ‘ '

or every engrossment of such drafts to file, for every folio, ten
cents. ‘

For every other necessary copy, seven cents.

Attending the judge out of term, upon petition or upon any special
motion, one dollar.

Attending the court of chancery in term, upon a special motion,
founded on a previous notice, one dollar.

And if such motion be a nod or opposed, one dollar and nfty cents.

Serving every rule or or er or copy of interrogatories, twenty-live
cents.

Serving a subpoena to appear and answer on an injunction, seventySve cents.

Every necessary notice or summons actually served, including a copy
thereof and service, thirty-seven cents. .
£ Drawing instructions for the examination of each witness, twentyve cents.
Drawi brief for counsel, or an special motion or petitiofla 0f ‘V5535
notice sha have been given, one ollar.
Drawing brief for counsel, upon the hearing of a cause before the
court, when there has been an answer, plea or demurrer to the bill, or

before any proper officer on a reference to take and state in account,
two dollars.

Drawing cha ea or discharges before a master, for each folio, twenty-two ents be odicer. .
' Attetfding, a pt;-lhepti-)yol)iir<(:,1l:l.upon any matter referred to him, not

herein otherwise rovided for, if 8131105: 0110 d°n”'If not argued, fifty cents. ,
“Attending a proper odicer on a summons, or upon a taxation of costs,
cents.

py of a bill of costs, delivered with notice of taxation, or filed after

taxation, if before a decree, fifty cents. .
If after a decree, one dollar: Provided, That the costs in each GU96

shall not exceed twenty dollars.

51:0. 30. For publishing notices of any application of an insolvent, ;

for six weeks, and furnishi evidence of suc
and six -seven cents; if pu lished ten weeks, two dollars.
Sec. 1. Such notice may be published in the follow: manner:

publication, one dollar ”

1. A general heading, statm whether such notices are or the PW’ I

pose of be‘ di 1.. from ebt or for the pu o of lmi the
P0901! exdrrlgeratfeld f;-grlaidimprisonmlent. 85311 5° Pfergrid t° ”°h ° ’ of
‘P “cents; next, the name of the applicant; 1193‘: 9” am’ °! the fr“
pu  of guch noticg; next, [ha B81110 Of ‘.110 oMcer  Wh0m

the creditors are regluired to appear; next, the place 8-§P0lM°d f°"‘“°h'

a - 3, gim f ch 9. rance. An GVGTY 31701} ‘P’
pa‘3..°.1‘.-’.?.'.“i°i.;u“§’§ deerhed .2 gliduu i Elia notice had been publish“

at length, , .
Sec. 32. For publishing any other notices 01' 3")’ °’d°" °’h“m’

D

- vice was actually rendered by

summons, or any other proceeding or advertisement, required by law
to be published in any newspaper, not more than forty cents per folio,
for the first insertion, and twenty-five cents per folio for each insertion
after the first. ’ ‘

See. 33. VVhen notice of any sale by virtue of a mortgage, shall be
published in other than the county in which the premises are situated,
a copy of such notice shall be served, at least four weeks before the
time of such sale, on the person in possession of the mortgaged premises, in all cases where the same are occupied; and where they are not
occupied, and the mortgagor, his heirs or personalrepresentatives,shall
reside in the county where such premises lie, then upon such mortgagor, his heirs or personal representatives, as the case may be; proof of
the service of such notice may be made, certified and recorded in the
same manner and with the like effect, as proof of the publication of a

notice of sale under a mortgage.
(:1,-..~:1:1u1. PROVISIONS.

Srzc. 34. Every officer, whose fees are hereinbefore ascertained,
limited, and appointed, shall publish and set up in his office, fair tables
of his fees according to this chapter, within six months after the passage thereof, in some conspicuous place, for the inspection of all persons
who have business in sue 1 office, upon pain of forfeiting for each day
the same shall not be put up through such officer’s neglect, a sum not
exceeding two dollars, which may be recovered by a civil action, in
the name of any person, before any justice of the peace of the same
county.

Sec. 35. The allowance of any fees by this chapter, shall not apply
to any case where special provision is otherwise made by law for any
particular service, but thefees for such service, shall be such as are
provided in the statute requiring the service, or providing the compensation therefore.

Srzc. 36. The term “folio” when used as a measure for computing
fees or compensation, shall be construed to mean one hundred words,
counting every figure necessarily used, as a word; and any portion of
a folio, when in the whole draft or paper there shall not be a complete
folio, and when there shall be any excess over the last folio, shall be
computed as a folio.

Size. 37’. No judge, justice, sheriff, or other officer whatever, or
other person to whom any fees or compensation shall be allowed by
law for any service, shall take or receive any other greater fee or reward for such service but such as is or shall be allowed by the laws of
this territory.

See. 38. No fee or compensation allowed by law shall be demanded
or received by any officer or person, for any service unless such serhim, except in the ease of prospective
costs hereinafter specified; but this section shall not prevent any officer
from demanding any fee herein allowed for any service of which he is
entitled by law to require the payment, previous to rendering such service.

See. 39. A violation of either of the last two sections shall be
deemed a misdemeanor; and the erson guilty thereof shall be liable
to the party aggrieved for treble t e damages sustained by him.

See. 40. N o fees shall be taxed for services as having been rendered by any attorney, solicitor. clerk, sheriff, or other officer, in the progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered, except
when otherwise expressly provided.

Sec. 41. Prospective costs may be charged and taxed for filing decree, and for one execution.

able for

See. 42. Wlienever any allowance is made for drafting any process,
pleading, or proceeding, it shall be made for on] one draft of the same,
althoug several may iave been issued and used:

Elise. 43. . N_o record, writ, _return, pleading, instrument or other
writing copied into any proceeding, entry, proces. or suggestion, shall
(I: computted as any part of the draft of such proceeding, entry, process,

sugges ion.

Sec. 44. The legal‘ fees paid for certified copies of the depositions
of witnesses, filed in any clerk’s office, and of any documents or papers
recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily used on the trial of a
?I18e,tor on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in the taxation
0 cos s.

Sec. 45. No attorney, ‘solicitor, or counsel, in any cause, shall be
allowed any fee for attending as a witness in such cause.

Sec. 46. Every officer, upon receiving any fees for any otlicial du1)’ or service, shall, if required by the person, paying the same, make
out in writing and deliver to such person a particular account of such
700$, specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt
the seine; and if he refuse or neglect to do so, he shall be liable to the
party paying the same for three times the amount so paid.

Sec. 47. No fee shall be charged by any officer for administering
the oath of office to any member of the legislature, to any military othGer, or to any township officer, and no more than twelve cents shall be
Cllllrged for administering such oath to any other officer.

Sec. 48. When a fee is allowed to one officer, the same fee shall be
allowed to other officers for the performance of the same services, when
such officers are by law authorized to perform such services.

See. 49. When any person shall attend a court of record as a witness in behalf of the United States, upon the request of the public
prosecutor, or upon a subpoena, or by virtue of a recognizance for that
Purpose, and it shall appear that such person has come from any other
State or territory of the United States, or from any foreign country, or
that such person is poor, the court may, by order, on its minutes. difeet the county treasurer, of the county in which the court shall be set‘"1840 pay to such witness such sum of money as shall seem reasonis

ex enses. _ _
Sec. 50. hen any prosecution, instituted in the name of this terTil-Ofy, for breaking any law of this territory, shall fail, or when the defendant shall prove insolvent or escape, or be unable to pay the fees
when convicted, the fees shall be paid out of the county treasury, unless otherwise ordered by the court: Pirovided, That no fees shall be paid
out of the county treasury for mileage to the district attorney.

_ S30. 51. The attorney general and district attorney in each county
is authorized to issue subpamas, and compel the attendance of witness3'» On behalf of the territory or county, without paying or tendering
fees in advance; and any witness failing or neglecting to attend, after

being served with a subpoena, may be proceeded against, and shall be
liable in the same manner as provided by law in ct ier cases where fees

have been paid or tendered.

Sec. 52. The clerk of any court, at which any witness shall have '

attended on behalf of the United States, in a civil action, shall give to
Web witness a certificate of travel and attendance, which shall entitle

him to receive the amount from the treasurer of the county where the
suit arises. , , .

Sec. 53. The provisions of the next two preceding sections of this
058 ter, shall extend to all suits and information brought in the name
°f tlle attorney neral, or any other person or persons, for the benefit

of the county w ere the suit arises.

ACTIONS TO DEQJRMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY; AND OTHER PROVISIONS TO ACTIONS
CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY. A

guano); stcrrox \
I. An action allowed to determine adverse 12. Purchaser or land may recover {or Injury
claim to real property. . after sale.
I. It defendant disclaim no cost allowed. 18. A sale , of land pending action does not
I. in an action to recover dower, a denial or prejudice rights.
to right must be shown. 14. Action for possession oi land against ten4. Where right he; ,_,ermlnated during penden- ant.
cy of action. 16. Nuisance detlned, action therefore.
6. New trial may he had in actions to recover 16. Waste donned, action therefore.
real property. 17. What judgment allowed.
I. when court may allow third trial. 18. Damages tor wiiiully cutting trees.
7. How Judsmau entered after new trial. 19. when damages mitigated.
8. K87 recover pronts only for six years. 20. Cutting timber for highway.
9. survey or property in dispute allowed. 21. Damages for forcible eviction.
10. Order for the survey, what to contain. 22. Damages {or three times amount may be
ii. A mortgage not a conveyance. received.

Sec. 1. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant of real property, 'nst any person who claims
an estate or interest therein, adverse tdlgin, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate or interest. ‘

Sec. 2. If the defendant in such action, disclaim in his answer, any
interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff cannot recover costs.

Sec. 3. In an action for the recovery of dower, before admeasuremeat, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real property, against
a co-tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition to the evidence of his
right, that the defendant either denied the plaintiil"s right, or did some .
act amounti to such denial.

81:0. 4. u an action for the recovery of specific real or personal property, when the plaintifff. shows a right to recover, at the time the action was commenced, but it appears that such right has terminated during
the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according
to the fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the
property.

See. 5. Any person, against whom a 'udgment for the recovery of
apeoilie real property is rendered, may within six months after written
notice of the judgment, upon payment of all costs and damages recovered thereby, demand another trial, by notice in writi to the adverse
party, or to his attorney in the action, and thcreuponnsxe action may be
brought to trial by either party.

Sec. 6. It‘ on a second trial, as provided in the last section, judgment be to the same effect as on the first, no further trial can be bid:
unless the court in its discretion, on motion by the party, as to whom
ttl: Ildgment last rendered is less favorable than the first, order a third

S_s:c. 7. The judgment given on a trial to be had under the last two
|0°t10!|3. must be annexed to the 'udgment roll of the former trial, and

the judgment last given shall be t e final determination of the rights of

the parties. If a prior °udgment shall have been executed, restitution
must be ordered as the last judgment may determine the rights of the
parties, and the sameymay be enforced by execution.

Sec. 8. Damages for withholding the prope t recovered, can in
no case exceed the fair value of the property, exc sire of the use of
improvements made by the defendant for a period not exceeding six
years; and when permanent improvements have been made by a defendant or those under whom he claims, holdin under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good Faith, the value thereof
must be allowed as a set off against the damages of the plaintifff for the
use of the pro rty.

Size. 9. e court in which an action is pending for the recovery
of real property, may on motion, upon notice by either party, and for
cause s own, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter
upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof for the
purpose of the action.

Sac. 10. The order must describe the pro erty, and a copy thereof
must be served on the owner or occupant, an thereupon such party
:3’ enter upon the property with necessary surveyors and assistants,

make such survey and measurement, but if any unnecessary injury
he done to the property, he is liable therefore.

Sec. 1]. A mciitgage of real property is not to be deemed a conveyance, so as to e le the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure.

Sec. 12. When real property shall have been sold on execution,
the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his
interest, may after his estate becomes‘ absolute, recover dame for
injury to the propert by the tenant in possession, after the e, and
before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

Sec. 13. An action for the recovery of real property, against aperson in possession or in receipt of the rents and profits thereof, cannot ;
be pre'udiced by an alienation made by such person, either before or
after t e commencement of the action, but in such case if the defendant
have no property sufficient to satisfy the damages recovered for the
Withholding of possession, such damages may be collected by action‘
against the purchaser. _

Size. 14. When in case of a lease of real property, and the f8IlI1l'6 A
Of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a substituting right to re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the
P"°Pel'ty, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a
re-entry upon the property; but if at any time before the eIpll‘It_l0l1 of
II! months after possession obtained by the plaintifff on recovery in the
action, the lessee or his successor in interest, as to the whole or part of
the property, pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court the amount of rent
then in arrear, with interest and the costs of the action, and perform
the other covenants on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to the

possession, and hold the property according to the terms of the original
C880.

31

ACTIONS ron NUISANCES, wasrrz, AND WILPUL TRBSPASS on REAL
riiorrurrv.

Sec. 15. Any thing which is injurious to health, or indecent, or N.
Glfensive to the senses, or an obtrusion to the free use of property, so '°
88 to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property» 19 11
nuisance, and the subject of an action; such action may be brought bl’
any person whose property is injiirioiisly affected, or whose personal

enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance, and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

Sac. 16. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesey in dower, for life or
years, joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste
thereon, any person injured by the waste may bring an action against
him therefore, in which action there may be judgment for treble amages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the
property.

Snc. 17. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction, can only be given in
favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the
action to be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term,
or to have been done in malice. ‘

Sec. 18. Every person who cuts down or carries off any wood or
underwood, tree, or timber,‘or girdles, or otherwise injures any tree,
timber, or shrub, on the land of another erson, or in the street or
highway in front of any person’s house, vil age or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds of any city or town, or
on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, is
liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action in
any court having jurisdiction, except as provided in the next section.

Sec. 19. If upon trial of such action itrappears that the trespass
was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause
to believe that the land on which the trespass was committed was his
own, or that of the person in whose service, or b whose direction the
act was done, judgment must be given for only t e single damages assessed in the action.

Srzc. 20. Nothing in the last two sections authorizes the recovery
of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood
land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.

See. 21. If a person be put out of real property in a forcible manner without lawful authority, or being so put out, be afterwards kept
out by force, recover damages therefore, judgment may be entered for
three times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

Sec. 22. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if ‘a person
claiming in good faith under color of title to be rightfully in possesssion so put out, or kept out, recover damages therefore, judgment may
be entered in his favor for three times the amount at which the actual
damages are assessed.

ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

 

SECTION

1. Action for partition of real property allowed.
2. To whom summons is addressed.

3. Complaint how to set forth interests of parties.

4. Creditors haying general liens may be parties. 5. Liens on individual shares.

6. Unknown owners made panics.

7. Rights of parties may be put in issue.
8. Order may allow sale or partition.

9. Ifanner of making partition.

lo. Referees to make report.

it. when report is continued Judgment how

rendered.

12. Tenants in dower, &c., not affected.

18- Expenses of referees and surveyor.

14. Sale when allowed.

15. When part only is sold, life estate.

16. Before sale certain creditors may be made
Parties.

17. Certificates as to general liens.

18. Court may order reference as to liens.

19. Court may order reference as to liens.

N. Notice to creditors to make proof.

91- Referees to report priority of liens.

33- Any creditor may have report corrected.

33. Proceeds of sale how applied.

24. Sale not to be delayed by reference.

15- Referees may deliver securities to parties.
. lianuer of litigating as to claims.

SEC. 1.
Pro ertyas joint tenants,

’S1:c'rrox

27. All sales to be at auction.

28. Terms of sale to be directed in order.

29. Separate secureties allowed. _
30. Estate for life, or by the curtesy, how dls

posed of.

31 . What title passes by the sale.

32. Sum in gross allowed for dower, lac.

33. Investments if no consent given.

3:. Proportion of proceeds how ascertained.
35. Unknown tenants in dower how protected.
38. Investment for inchoate right of dower.
37. Dower how released.

38. 'i‘er1ns of sale to he published.

89. Who may not purchase at sale.

40. Referees to report sale.

41. Report when to be continued by the court.
42. Receipt of incutnbrances.

43. (‘onveyances must be recorded.

44. conveyances what to he a bar of.

46. Proceeds of sales, when invutsdu

46. Investments how to be made.

47. Securities to be in name of parties and

filed with clerk.

48. The clerk to collect interest.

49. Partition made equal by compensation.
60. infants share on sale of guardian. V

61. Shares of insane persons.

53. Consent to partition by guardian.

63. The territory may be made party.

6-l. (‘em of partition how allowed.

possession of real

or as tenants in common, in which one or more

01' em have an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may

brought by one or more of such

"18 proper county, for a partition thereof according to the respective

fights of the

great prejudice to the owners.

Sec. 2.. The summons must be addressed by

persons interested therein, and for a sale of such
‘)3 01‘ a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made w

pro r’ out

name to all the joint

‘Wallis. or in common who are known, and generally to all persons unknown havin

or claiming an interest in the property.

Sac. 3. he interest of all persons in the property whether such

Persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the comp
as far as known to the plaintifff, and if any one

citically and particularly

laint spe0l' more of the parties or the share or quantity of interest of any of the

Pilrties be unknown to the plaintifff or be uncertain or continge

ownership of the inheritance, depend upon executory
ent remainder so that such parties cannot be named,

maindcr be a conting

nt, or the
devise or the relllat fact must be set forth in the complaint.
Sec. 4. The plaintifff may at his option make creditors, having spepersons in the district court of

citied or general lien upon the property, or upon any particular portion
thereof parties to the action.

See. 5. When the lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of
the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, is thenceforth acharge only en the share assigned to such party, but such share must be nrst
charged with its first proportion of the costs of the partition in preference to such lien.

Sec. 6. If a party having a share or interest be unknown, or either
of the known parties reside out of the territory, or cannot be found
therein, and such fact be made to appear by atiidavit, the summons may
be served on such absent or unknown party by publication, directed by
the court or judge in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. When the
publication is made, the summons as published must be accom nied 
a brief descri tion of the roperty which is the subject of t e action.

Sec. 7. he rights of e several parties, plaintifffs as well as defendants, may be put in issue tried and determined by such action. And
where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the premises is
necessary, the title must be ascertained by proof, to the satisfaction of
the court, before the °udgment for partition or sale is given. .

. Sec. 8. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by evidence
to the satisfaction of the court that the property, or any part of it is so
situated that partition cannot be made without eat prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof, andgibr that purpose may
appoint one or more referees; otherwise upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a partition according to the respective rights of
the parties as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees thereof, and must designate the portion to remain undivided for the owners
whose interests remain unknown or not ascertained.

Sec. 9. In making the partition, the referees must divide the property, and allot the several rtions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively: considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties, as determined b the court,designating the several portions by proper land marks, an may employ a surveyor, with the
necessa assistant, to aid them therein.

Szc. Y0. The referees must make report of their proceedings specifying the manner of executing their trust, describing the property
divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular description of each share.

Sec. 11. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if necessary appoint new referees; upon the report being confirmed, judg;
ment must be rendered, that such partition be effectual forever, whi

judgment is binding and conclusive:

1. On all the parties named therein and their legal representatives
who have at the time any interest in the property divided as owners in
fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder;
or inheritance of such property, after the determination of a particular
estate therein, or who by any cotingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest in an individual
share thereof, as tenants for years, for ‘life, by the curtesey, or in dower:

2 On all persons interested in the property who may be knownato
whom notice shall have been given of the application for partition, by
the publication directed by section six; and, ,

3. On all other persons claimingfrom such parties or persons or either of them.

Sec. 12. But such judgment and partition cannot affect tenants or
persons having claims as tenants in dower, by the curtesy, or for life, to
the whole of the property which is the subject of the partition; nor can

such judgment and partition preclude any except such as are
specified in the last section, from claimin title to the property in question, or from controverting the title of the parties between whom the
partition is made.

Sec. 13. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, must be ascertained and allowed
by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by
law to the ‘referees must be paid by-the plaintid, and may be allowedas
part of the charges.

Sec. 14. Ifthe referees re rt to the court that the property, of
which partition shall have been 'rected, or any distinct portion thereof
is so situated that apartition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, and the court is satisfied that such report is correct, it may thereupon by an order direct the referees to sell the propertg or portions so situated.

to. 5. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate by the curtesy, in dower, or for life, or years, in an
undiiided share of the property, the whole of such estate may be set
of in an part of the roperty not ordered to be sold.

Size. 6. Before e making of an order for sale, where the crediton having a ‘tied liens have not been made ‘es, the court on the
motion of eitlieecrl party, must direct the plaiiiti to amend his complaint
if necessary, by making every person, having a specified lien on the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, y mortgage, divise, or
otherwise, a party to the action. .

Sec. 17. The plaintid must roduce to the court the certificate‘ of
the clerk of the district court, w ere the property is situated, showing
whether there are any general liens  judgment upon theproperty or
siiyé part thereof. _

re. 18. Unless it be made to appear to the court, by the certi6taste of the clerk, pursuant to the last section, that there are outstanding
no general liens on the property, or on any share or parcel thereof, the

court must order a reference to ascertain them. .
Sec. 19. If it appears by the certificate, that there are outstanding

of record, such general liens, the court must appoint a referee to ascertain whether such liens have been paid, or if not paid, what  remains due, or secured by them respectively, and the order of priority

in which the titled to be d out of the property.
SEC. 20. eyTali: Bllalntif must cpiiilise a notice to be served at least ten

bye before the time for appearances, on each person having such general liens, to appear before the referee, at a specified time and place, to
Illslte proof by his awn affidavit or otherwise, of the true amount due
or to become due, contingently or absolutely, on his judgment.

Sec. 21. The referee must receive the evidence and report the
names of the creditors whose liens are establllislhed, the amoupts theatre?
and their io;-i reg tive , and if sue iens are con ingen _ e
must speciily thctaiii. lg? musly attach to his report the prop? Of I01'Vl°0
of the notices, and the affidavits and copies of other evidence before

hm . . . .
Sec. 22. Any creditor having a lien, ind 5°“! d""l"’5°d "Nb

the report of the referee, may move the court to correct it at. 80)’ “m°
hefore distribution of the proceeds of sale. on ten days notice *0 “"3
plaintifff, and the other persons in whose favor hens are reported, and
thereupon the court correct the report on the evidence reported»
or if necessary, ma or er a new reference of the whole or of any.

of the matter. W en confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights

of the several creditors on whom notice was served.

5&5

Sec. 23. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property must

be applied, under the direction of the court, as follows:

1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action:

2. To pay the costs of the reference:

3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens, in-their order of
priority, by payment of the sums due, and to become due, the amount
remaining due to be verified by atiidavit at the time of payment:

4. The residue among the owners of the property so d, according to
their res ective shares. ,

Size. 4». The proceedings,-to ascertain the amount of incumbranoes,
and to determine their riorit , as above provided, or those herein authorized, to determine t e rig ts of parties to ‘funds paid into. court,
must not delay the sale nor affect any other party whose rights are not
involved in such« proceedings.

Sec. 25. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees on any part thereof, may be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto whenever the court so directs; but in case no direction
be given, all such proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or
be deposited as required by

SEC. 26. — When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels, belonging to persons who have become parties to the action, and who are
known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between
such parties, for the determination of their respective claims thereto,
which must be ascertained and adjud ed by the court; further testimony may be taken in court, or by a re eree, at the discretion of the court,
and the court may if necessary, require such parties to present the facts
or law in controversy, by pleadings as in an or’ ‘rial action.

Sac. 27. All sales of real property made ‘Ely referess under this
chapter, must be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon
notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution ;~ the notice must state the terms of the sale, and if the
property orany part of it is to be sold subjectxto a prior estate, charge,
or specific lien, that must be statedin the notice.

Sec. 28. The court must in the order for sale, direct the terms for

credit which may be allowed for the purchase money, of any portion of

' tion of which the

the premises, of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that porpurchase money is required by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, parties out of the territory, or tenants in dower, or by the curtesy;
orktior life, or years, when the estate of such tenants is ordered to

so . .

Sec. 29. The referees may take separate mort s and other socurities for the whole, or convenient portions of t e purchase money.
on such parts of the property, as are directed by the court to be sold on
credit, in the name of the clerk of the district court, and his successor
in office, and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the
name of such owner.

Sec.‘ 30. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesys
01' for life, or years, in the whole or any part of the property in question:
has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at the time of the order for sale, and the person en tied to Ouch
estate has been made a party to the action, such estate ma be first set
off out of . any part of the property, and a sale made of suc parcel, 8115'
Ject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if in the judgment of the court, a due r rd to the interest of all the parties require!
that such estate be also so d, the sale may be so order .

Sec. 31. If a sale of the property including such estate be ordered.
the estate and interest of every such tenant or person passes thereby 3

law, or directedby the court. - ‘

Qdthe purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property, disfrom all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest, whether
the same be to the individual share of a joint tenant, or tenant in comman, or to the whole, or any part of the roperty sold.

Sac. 32. The persons entitled to su estate, in dower, tenancy b
alrtesy, or tenancy for life or years, whose estate shall have been sol ,
are entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed upon principles of law a licable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such
estate, and  the person so entitled may consent to accept instead
thereof, by an instrument under seal dul acknowledged or proved, in
same manner as deeds for thepurpose 0 record.

See. 33. If such consent be not given at or before the report of
sale, the court must ascertain and determine what proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable
sum to be invested for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate

' in dower, by the curtesy, or for life, and must order the same to be deposited in court for that purpose.

Sec. 34. Theprcporticns of the proceeds of the sale to be invested,
Inust be ascertained and determined in the several cases, as follows:

1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its proportionsinust be one third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or
of the sale of the individual share in such property, upon which the
claim of dower existed:

2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life, or cars, be ineluded in the order of sale, its proportion must be the who e proceeds
fit the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual share thereof
in which such estate may be. ~

And in all cases the proportion of the expenses of proceedings must
be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.

‘See. 85. If the persons entitled to such estate in dower, b the
ourtesy, or for life, or years, be unknown, the court must provi e for
1-ileproteotion of their r' hts, in the same manner, as far as may be, as
if they were known andliad a peered.

Sac. 36. In all cases of s es in partition, when it appears that a
married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of _the property
divided or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future
fght or estate therein, the court must ascertain and settle the proportional value of such inchoate, contin ent, or vested right or estate, according to the principles of law app icable to annuities and survivor_Ii|ipI, and must direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be
"Waited, secured or paid over in such manner as to protect the rights
and interests of the parties. _ .

Sec. 37. A married woman may release such right, interest, or
Eli-ate to her husband and acknowledge the same in the manner required
by law, in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by married women,
before any odicer authorized to take acknoxvledgment of ‘deeds, 01' If
executed out of this territory, before any officer residing. in the state,
territory, district, or county, where the acknowledgment 18 made: W1}0
is authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in
this territory. Upon the release, the share of the proceeds of the sale
"iii from her contingent interest, must be  to her husband, and
‘he re ease, or the payment, investment, or otherwise securing of a share
11' the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar against such right, estate, or

Sac. 38. The terms of the sale must be made known at the time ; -1
Ind if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they must be sold '

Ieparate .
3Ic.  Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of

either of them, can be interested in the purchase, nor can a guarcian of
an infant party be interested in the pu e of any real property, 
the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of is section are void.

Sec. 40. After completing the sale, the referees must report the
same to the court, with adescription of the ditferent parcels of land,
sold to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or socured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities if any taken; the report must be filed in the oiiice of the clerk of the district
court of the county where the roperty is situated.

Sec. 41. If the sale be con rmed by the court an order must be
entered, directing the refereesto execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale, which they are hereby authorized to do;
such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition
of the proceeds of the sale. -n

Sec. 42.. When a party, entitled to a share of the property, or an '
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belopagr to him, and must also pay over to the 
tid' or his attorney, and e his receipt for-the costs and charges of the
action. '

Sec. 43. The conveyances must be recorded in the county where
the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the property in any we , who shall have been named as parties in the action, and against al such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been served as is directed by section six,
and against all persons claiming from them or either of them. Sec. 44. The conveyances shall also be a bar against all persons
having specified or general liens or encumbrances, by judgment, on any
undivided share or interest in the premises sold, who shall have been
served with notice, as prescribed by section twenty, and also against
all persons havi specific liens of any undivided share or interest
therein, who shal have been made parties tothe action; but no creditor
having such specific lien can be affected by the sale or conveyance, unless he has been made a party.

Sec. 45. When there are proceeds of sale belongingto an unknown
owner, or to a person without the territory, who has no la lrepresentative within it, or when there are proceeds arising from a sale of an
estate subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtasy, or tenant for lif'e,,or years, which are paid into court, or deposited
with an officer, by order of the court, the same must be invested in securities on interest for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

Sec. 46. When security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when
an investment of any such proceeds is made, it must be done, excepts!
herein otherwise provided, in the name of the. clerk of the district
court of the county where the papers are filed, and his successors in
odice, who shall hold the same, for the use and. benefit of the 
interested, sub'ect to the order of the court.

Sec. 47. hen security is taken by the referees on a sale, and tho
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in  under
their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled, or when such shares’

and. proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such securities must be taken in the names of, and payable to the parties res ively enlitled thereto, and must be delivered to such parties upon

't eir receipt therefore‘ such agreem t d ‘ t t be tu ned
and filed with the clei’-k. en m recap mu. re r

Sat‘. 48. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by

whom an investment is made, and his successors in o£ce, must receive
the interest and principal as it becomes due, and appl and invest the
same as the court may direct; and must file in his otliyce, all securities
taken, and keep an account, in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the clerk's office free for inspection by all persons, of investments, and monies received by him ereon, and the disposition thereof. Sac. 49. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without re'udice to the rights and interest of some of them, the court may 'uclge
compensation to be made by one party, to another for equality all
tition; but such compensation cannot he required to be made to ot era
by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant, it apthat he has onal property sumcient for that purpose, and that
interest will promoted thereby.

Sac. 50. When the share of an infant is sold, the _proceeds of the

sale may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general guardian, or to the special dian appointed for him in the action, if such
general or special g-Iiargiifili-, before the yment of such share into court
shall have given the security required y statute.

Sec. 51. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate, of an insane person, or other person, adjudged
inca le of conducting his own afairs, whose interest in real pro rll have been sold, iriay receive in behalf of such person, his e
of the proceeds of such real property, from the referees, if the guardian before the mon is id into court, shall have executed with sufficient sureties, an uiide ing approved by a judge of the district court,
that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will
render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

Sec. 52. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian enti‘loll to the custody and arrangement of the estate of an insane person,
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own atiiiirs, who
Is entitled to real estate, held in 'oint tenancy, or in common, or iii any
other manner, to authorize his lieing made party to an action for the
partition thereof, may consent to a partition, without action and agree
“P911 the share to be set off to such infant, or other rson entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf to the owners o the shares of the
Pugh to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order from

court.

Sac. 53. The territory may be made a party to an action for the
sale or partition of real property, in which case, the summons and comKlsint must be served upon the attorney general, who must appear on

of the territory.
81¢. 54. Thecosts of partition, including fees of referees, andother

disbursements, must be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share,
in the lands divided, in roportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included ens s ecified in the judgment; in that case, they
In a lien on the several s es, and the jucvlgment may be enforced by
execution against the rties  here however a litigation
arises between gene the parties only, the court may require the expense of such litigation,to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

ACTIONS RESPECTING CORPORATIONS.

 

Bscrroit ‘sac-rioir
I. ‘rho kind or corporation included In_ this 5. Actions how commenced against corporachapter. tlons. ’

2. when foreign corporation may me.
3. Foreign corporation cannot sue,wIien anact ry. ~

I.  7
4. ‘ran per cent. interest on bonrhills notnald act or incorporation.

allowed.

Sec. 1. This chapter embraces all corporations, includi in such ~

designation, all associations having any corporate rights, whe er creay s cial acts of legislation, or under general lawswxcept that no
part of e chapter, other than the next section, extends to municipal or

religious corporations, or to a corporation for a publi
try, an academy, or a society for literary or charitable purposes,

the encoura ement of the fine arts, unless such corporation has, b its

charter, or e law of its organization, shares or stock, from whic , in

some contingencies, a dividend may be made.
Size. 2. A foreign corporation, created by the laws of any other

state or country, may prosecute in the courts of this territory, "in the

same manner as corporations created under the laws of this territory,
upon giving security for the payment of costs of suit, in the same manner that non-resideiits are required by law to do.

Sec. 3. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action in ‘this terut of, or in consideration

ritory upon an obligation or liability arising o
of an,act which is contrary to the law or policy of this territo _, or
which is thereby forbidden in respect to corporations or ass one

therein, whose general business is similar to that of such ‘foreign corporation. , _
Sac. 4. When judgment is rendered inst a bank or banking asyment of

sociation, for any bill or other contract, or the absolute pa

money, payment of which has been refused on presentment at the bank
or place of business of the defendant, the‘ plaintifff may recover interest
at t e rate of ten per cent. a year, from the time of such refusal, unless
in the act of incorporation, a different rate of interest or measure of

damages has been prescribed.

Sec. 5. Actions may be commenced against corporations, in the same
manner as other civil actions, and where service of summons shall 
made according to the statute, the plaintifff may proceed thereupon In

such action, in the same manner as in civil actions against natural persons.
S20. 6. In actions brought by a corporation, within the laws of this
' territory, it shall not be necessa to prove in the trial of the causeath°
existence of the corporations, ufiless the defendant shall, in his ansWel’§
deny the existence of such corporation. _
Sec. '7. In actions by or against corporations, under the laws of this
; territory, it shall not be necessary to set forth in the complaint or answer, t c act or acts of incorporation, or the proceedings by which Such
corporation was created, or to set forth the substance thereof, but the

same may be proved by reciting the title of such act.

OF PROCEEDINGS AGAINST CORPORATIONS IN CHANCERY.
._.___._.._._____________.
ucrron sszcrrox

1. nuunction against corporations in certain 14. Making directors, &.c., parties attcrdecree.

cases. 15. am against stockholders, Inc.
I. Issalns and continuance or injunction. 16. Proceedings thereon.
3. Jurisdiction of court over omccrs, ate. 17. Proceedings if corporation be insolvent.
4. Construction of last section. 18- Distribution of property.
5. Jurisdiction conrerred how to be exercised. 19. when stockholders compelled to pay on
9- hffilesterins corporate pruperw. . stock held by them.
7. Distribution upon decree. 20. ltnlorcing payment by directors.
8- Surreuler oi corporate rights. 21. Discovery by corporation.
0. Procecdinsl against certain insolvent cor- 22. Discovery by omccrs, aw.

Dorations. 23. Answers how tar evidence and how coml¢- who may apply for injunction, ac. peiled.
Ii. court may appoint receivers. 24. Answer, &c., not to be nsodon indictment.
1!. Powers and obligations or receivers. 25. staying proceedings in civil actions.

18. when stockholders, &c., may be model 28. Certain corporations excepted.

Sec. 1. Upon a bill being filed under the direction of the attorney
postal in any district court, such court shall have power to restrain by
Iiljtinctiom, any corporation from assuming or exercising any franchise,
ll , or privilege, or transacting any business not authorized by the

_ _ r of such corporation, and in the same manner to restrain an individuals from exercising an corporate rights, privileges, or {re ' es
not granted to them by any aw of this territo .

Sac. 2. Such injunction may be issued be ore the coming in of the
answer, upon satisfacto proof that the defendant com ained of, has
lillrped, exercised, or c aimed any franchise, privilege, 'berty, or cor rigbt not granted to them, and after the coming in of the answer,
2331 Injunction may be continued, until judgment at law shall have been

Sec. 3; The district court shall have jurisdiction over directors,
lingers, trustees, and other odicers of corporations:

1. To compel them to account for their omcial conduct in the manmt and disposition of the funds and property committed to their

2. Tb decr d l t b them to the corporation when
2:)’ I';presen(:? :24 ctgmilt):  oty all su,ms of money, and of the
be

all ro rt which the ma have uiredtothemselves,ortransferred to olt)hei'):, 0); may havz loszor wdzled by any violation of their
duties as such creditors, managers, trustees, or other officers:
3. To suspend any such trustee, or other oiiicer from exercising his
9300 whenever it shall awiear that he has abused his trust:
4. To remove any such trustee, or officer from his odice, upon proof

5. To direct, If necessa ,nev& election to be held by the body or
I113: purpose, to supply any vacancy created

6. In case ther:e be no such body or board, or all the’ members of such
board be removed, then to report ‘the same to the governor, who shall
50 authorized to an such vacancies:

7. To set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees, or
other officers of any cor oration, contrary to the provisions of law, or
for purposes foreigp to t e lawful business and objects of such corporation, in cases w ere the person receivin such alienation knew the
purpose for which the same was made; an * - ' e « - ‘

8. To restrain and prevent any such alienation, in cases where it may
be threatened, or there may be good reason to apprehend that it is intended to be made. I

Sec. 4. Whenever any visitatorial powers over any corporation, are
or shall be vested by statute, in any cor rate body or public officer, the

rovisions of the preceding section sh I not be construed to direct or
impair the powers so vested. ‘ '

SEC. 5. ‘The jurisdiction conferred by the third section of this ‘chapter, shall be evidence as in ordinary cases, on bill or petition, as the case
may require, or as the court may direct, at the instance of the attorney
general prosecuting in behalf of this territory, or at the instance of any
director, trustee, or other officer of such_ corporation, having a general
superintendence of its concerns. , A ‘ 1

Size. 6. Whenever a judgment at law, or a decree in ehancery shall
be obtainegi against any corporation incorporated under the laws of this
territory, and an execution issued thereon, shall have been returned unsatisfied in whole orin part, upon the petition of the person obtaining
such judgment or decree, or his representati‘ves,the district court within the proper county, may sequestrate the stock, property, things in action, and effects of such corporation, and may appoint a receiver of the

same.
, Sec. 7. Upon a final decree on any such petition, the court shall

cause a just and fair distribution -of the property of such corporation,
and of the roceeds thereof, to be made among the fair and honest creditors of we corporation, in roportion to their debts respectivel 2 W110
shall be paid in the same or er as provided in the case of a V0 untary
dissolution of a corporation. .. ‘ ‘ -'
1 S20. 8. Whenever any incorporated com any shall have remained
insolvent for one year, or for one year shall ve ne lected or refus
to pay and discharge its notes, or other evidences o debt, or for one
year, shall have suspended the ordinary and lawful business of such corporation, it shall be deemed to have surrendered the rights. P1'W“€8°9a
and franchises, granted by any act of incor oration, or ac uired under
the laws of this territory, and shall be adju ‘ d to be disso ved.
Sec. 9. Whenever any corporation havi banking p0W81'9a 01' 113V‘
' ing the power to make laws on pledges, or posits, or authorized 
law to 1n:1l;e i11s111':'111ces, shall become insolvent, or unable to pay 113
(lebts, or slmll 111~g1m-:t or refuse to pay its notes or evidences of debt
on (lemn11(l, or 5111111 have violated an of the provisions of its act_ or
a1¢_-ts of lI1(‘()I‘ p1'1r:1tim1._ or of any other law, binding on such corpomtlofls
any court. l1:1vi11g equity jurisdiction, may, by injunction, restram_sucll
o01_'pn1';1tio11 31111 its ntlicers, from exercising any of its corporate Hghus
P1‘1\‘i1t‘:.:r';~f_. and 1" 1‘:111cl1ises, and from collecting or receiving an d_€bt5_ 01'
(l011‘1:111(ls._ and from paying out, 01' in any way transferri 01' elivering
to any pL_'I'.~a0n. any 01' the monies, property, 01' effects 0 such c0t‘p0I'8'
t1r_a1_1 ._ 1111111 e.=11r_rl1 001111 shall otherwise order.
yr 5.20. 10. Such injunction may be issued on the application of the
81‘-¢01'_ney general, in behalf of this territory, or on the application of any
creditor or stockholder of such corporation, upon bill, or petitions 5'35
for that purpose, and upon due proof of any of the facts in the last section required, to authorize the issuing of the same. . Whenever such injunction shall issue against any bani: for any violation of its chattel‘:
on the application of any creditor, the court shall proceed to Enal decree

in such case, and adjudgve a forfeiture, if the proof is sudicieiit, notwithstanding, siich creditors may settle with such corporation, and ‘relinquish his claim inst said corporation, and in all such cases, the attorne general, un er the direction of ,the governor, or an creditor,
shall have the right to a pear and prosecute such suit; and’ such suit
shall not be discontinue ,if either of them so appear and prosecute such
suit to final judgment.

Size. 11. Upon such application being made, in any stage of the
proceedings, thereupon the court may ap int one or more receivers to
take charge of the propert and effects o such corporation, and to collect, sue or, and recover e debts and demands that ma be due, and
the property that may belong to such corporation, who shall in all
resgiects be subject to the control of the court.

so. 12. Such receivers shall possess all the wers and authority
conferred, and be subject to all the obligations an duties imposed upon
receivers appointed in case of the voluntary dissolution of a corporaii.

Sec. 13. If such application be made by a creditor of any corporation,
whose directors or stockholders are made liable by law for the pa ment
of such debt, in any event or contingency, such directors or stoc oldon or any of them, may be made parties to the bill or petition, either
in the tiling thereof or in any subsequent stage of _ the proceedings,
whenever it shall become necessary to enforce such llablllth

Sec. 14. If any creditor of a corporation desire to ma siich_directors or stockholders parties to the suit, after a decree therein against
the cor ration, be may do so on filing a supplemental bill against th,
found upon such decree; and if such decree was rendered in a proceeding instituted by the attorney general, such creditor may, on his
plpplication, be made complainant therein, and may in like manner make

directors and stockholders sought to be chargedydefeiidants in such
suit.

S20. 15. Whenever any creditor of a corporation£shall spelt tic:
Olllrge the directors, trustees, or other superintending o cers o s_u_c
co rati n th t kh ld thereof, on account of any liability
cr;)toed lb‘; lag, heeiiisaymfileohifsbill for thitit purpoiI1ei_ igaitfly dllltflct
°0'l.l'|'- hhall ' 'd't' to 3110 *3 -s.c')'ié’. '1-he ‘2°;'..'£Z' 2i3li'i';,LZ§Z3 a§I'e3Z°‘i. in other hues, and
gen (ilieces , shall cause an account to pie galflen of  proper‘-3;nI(I;¢.l

ts us to and fr such cor ration, an s a ap in one or_
m3T8. who shal(1m;>0ssess allptlhe Powers conf¢‘:‘rti'he<EO 8:141 la3r’f'“:il.°°‘lt°
obligations imposed on receivers in case 0 e vo un 80 Iltion f ' ,

Snocflg. lain on the coming in of the answer, or upon the taking
of an such account, it shall appear that such corporation is m80lV0|1¢:
Ind it has no property or effects to satisfy tsueh ci;:dif0|t’;Ia 1h;;:1:t"*
ml eceed with t ' ti receiver, 0 390° 3"‘ ° " "
iveylildhilities, of sugli d?l!”§(?t‘(J!1l'snd5Iltaln8yt00kl1°ld¢73i and °“f°"°° ti” "m°

' d ' . .
byS'i:sc.  llsplgnodhtgnatladddree being inadeélp 11; ‘ialneg N05 3PPl'°3’
an . . l
onnoiosltrctlihdblldgrtirtlllzmctdhtt iihdll cauftliyaqiist and fair distribution of
the property of such cor ration, and of _t e proceeds thereof, to be
made among its fair and onest creditors, in the order and in the proportions prescribed in the case of a voluntary dissollltimi Of 3 °°"P°““
tion.

Size. 19. In all cases in which the directors or other oiiicers of a '

°°"P°l'ntion, or the stockholders thereof , shall have been made ie;
to a suit in which ‘a decree shall be rendered, if the pr0P°“Y ° ‘“'°

against direot- l

corporation shall be insufficient to discharge its debts, the court shall
proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and remainin unpaid on the shares of stock e d by him, or so much thereof
as shal be necessary to satisf the debts ‘of the company.

Snc. 20. If the debts of t e company shall remain unsatisfied, the
court shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the directors
or other officers, and of the stockholders, and to decree the amount payable by each, and enforce such decree as in other cases.

Sac. 21. Upon any application to the court -having jurisdiction in
any of the cases provided in this chapter, such court may compel such
corporation to discover any stock, property, things in action, or effects
alleged to belong or to have belonged to it, the transfer and disposition
thereof, and consideration, and all the circumstances of such disposition. ‘

Snc. 22. Every officer, agent, or stockholder, of any corporation,
against which proceedings shall be instituted, according to the provisions
of this chapter, and every person to whom it shall be alleged that any
transfer of property or effects of such corporation has been made, or in
whose possession or control any such property or effects shall be alI ed to be, may be compelled, in the discretion of the court, to answer
a ill filed to obtain any discovery in the receding section s ecified,
notwithstanding such answer may expose tlie corporation, of which he
is a member, to a forfeiture of its corporate rights or any of them.

Snc. 23. The answers of the officers or cuts of any corporation,
shall be evidence against the corporation, in t e same manner, and to
the same extent as if such answers had been given upon an examination of such officers or agents, as witnesses in the cause, and such ,officers or agents may subse uently be examined as witnesses b either
party, under the order of t e court; but no such answer shall e compelled, unless by special order of the court.

Snc. 24. Neither the answer of any such oHicer or agent, nor his

I testimony upon any such subse uent examination, shall be used as evidence upon an indictment or 0 er criminal prosecution or proceeding
against him.
Sec. 25. Whenever any bill shall be filed, or any application shall

- be made against any corporation, its directors or other superintending

officers, or stockholders, according to the provisions of this chapter, the
court may, by injunction on the application of either party, an at any
stage of the proceedings, restrain all proceedings at law, by any creditor
against the defendants in such suit, and whenever it shall appear necessary or proper, may order notice to be published, in such manner as the
court shall direct, r uiring all the creditors of such corporation, toexlnbit their claims an become parties to the suit, within a reasonable
time, not less than six months from the first publication of such order,
and in default thereof to be precluded from all benefit of the decree
which shall be made in such suit, and from any distribution which shall
be made under such decree.

Snc. 26. The provisions of this chapter, shall not extend to any
incorporated librar , or lyceum society, to any religious corporatiims
or any incorporate academy, or select school, nor to the proprietors
Of any burying ground, incorporated under the laws of this territory.

. the deceased person.

ACTIONS BY on AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, LEGATEES, HEIRS, &c.

 

Sltcrioit , Si:c'rion'
I. A cause of action for injury to person does 5 18. In what cases heirs liable and to what exnot survive. 1 tom.

,r 19. When debts expressly charged by will.
'20. Preference of debts.
21. No preference between debts of some

2. other causes of action do survive.
3. When death ensues on injury. I
4. Representatives of deceased regarded as on

person. ' class.
5. Assets not presumed on failure to answer. J 22. Defence tiiat there are debts of a prior
class.

'1. Executor of executor mg to we 35 such, 23. Judgment for excess only over prior debts.
8- Real property of deceased not am-cted by I 24. Payment of prior debts snowed.
lillllllcnt Isalnst executors. ;‘ 25. Real property inherited covered by file
9- Eobcts ot inventory as evidence. Judlmeuh
l0. Executor in his own wrong not liable. 26. When heirs and devisees personally liable.
ll. Next 01 kin who have received distribution 2'7. Contribution among heirs or legatees.
liable for debts. 28. Devlsees .and heirs not liable when there

12. Each liable for the whole amount received. are assets.

I3. Next ot kin may compel contribution. 29. Liable tor detlciency only.

M. Legatseo when mm, my debts, _ 30. when debts have been expressly charged.

15. (tests in actions against next or kin and’ 31. Devisces subject to action samcss heirs.
legatees. 32. Child how after making will provided for.

18. Recovery exoneratestrom further liability. 33. Witness to will who is dovlsee.
H. Rain and deviseos liable tor debts. ‘

Sac. 1.
dies with
three. _

Size. 2. All other causes of action, by one against another, whether
arising on contract or not, survive to the personal representatives of the
former, and
the executors or administrators, may maintain the action against the parix against whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death, against
his representatives. _

Sec. 3. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, the personal representatives of the former, _may maintain an action against the latter, if the former might have maintained an

' lotion, had he lived, against the latter, for an injury caused by the same
set or omission; but the action must be commenced within two years
after the act. or omission, by which the death was caused; the damages
fhefiion cannot exceed five thousand dollars, and the amount recovered,

18 to be for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be
distributed to them in the same proportions, as the personal property of

8. Statute or limitation in case or death. i

A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person,
the person of either party, except as provided in section

S30. 4.
they are all

In an action against several executors or administrators,

considered as one person, representing their te-stator. or in.
tettate, and judgment may be taken, and execution issued against all
who are named as defendants in the summons, altliou h it be served onI)’ On part of them, in the same manner as it‘ serve on 8“: except 33

provided in the next section. _ _ ,
SEC. 5. When a judgment is taken against an administratorpr executor, upon failure to answer, it is not to be deemed evidence of assets

against the personal representatives of the latter; thereforee, v

A
I

' wrong, for having

70

U’

an

in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets, and was
personally served on him. a .

Snc. 6. The time which shall have elapsed between the death of a
person, and the granting of letters testamentary, and of ‘administration
on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period of six months after
the granting of such letters are not to be deemed any part of the time limited for the commencement of actions by executors or administrators. Sac. 7. An executor of an executor, has no authority as such to
commence or maintain an action or proceedin , relati to the property
of the testator of the first executor, or to ta c any c arge or control
thereof. ,

Sec. 8. The real property
not bound or in any wa affected by a
administrators, nor liab e to be sold,

upon such judgment.
Sec. 9. In an action against executors or administrators, in which

the fact of their having administered the estate of their testators or intestate, or any part thereof, comes in issue, and the inventoiy of the
property of t e deceased, filed by them, is given in evidence, e same
may be repelled by evidence : ’ .

. That any property has been omitted in such inventory, or was not
returned therein at its full value: p i .

2. That such property has perished, or been lost without the fault of
such executors or administrators, or that it has been fairly sold by them
at private or public sale, at a less price than the value’ so returned, or
that, since the return of the inventory, such property has deteriorated
or increased in value ; in such actio_n the defendants cannot be charged
for any things in action specified in their inventory, unless it appears
that they have been collected, or might, with due diligence, have been
collected.

Snc. 10. No person is liable to an action as executor of his OWII
taken, received, or interfered with the property of a
deceased person; but is responsible to the executor, as general or special administrator of such deceased person, for the value of all property so taken or received, and for all damages caused by his acts, to the
estate of the deceased. .

Sec. 11. The next of kin of a deceased person, are liable to an action by a creditor of the estate, to recover the distributive shares received
out of such estate, or so much thereof, as may be necessary to satisfy
his debt; the action may be against all the next of kin jointly, or against
any one or more of them, severally. ‘

Sec. 12. In such action, the plaintifff may recover
the assets received by allthe defendants in the action,
satisfy his demand; and the amount of the recovery must
among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the asaéts received
by each; and no allowance or deduction can be made from such amounts
pinlaccount of their being other relatives to whom assets have also 1709“

e ivered. A

See. 13. Anv one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery is

which belonged to a deceased person, 18
'udgment against his executors or
y virtue of an execution issued

the value of all
if necessary to

had pursuant to the last section, may maintain an action against all the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets have been paid
°°i“‘lYa 01' against any of them separately, for a just and equal ‘contri‘1ti0n, and may recover of each defendant, such amount as shall be in
the same roportjon to the whole sum collected of the plaintifff, as the
value of t e assets delivered to such defendant, bore to the value of
the assets delivered to all the relations of the deceased.
SEC. 14. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the testator, to recover the value of" a legacy received by them. The action

be apportioned '

be brought against all or only one of the legatees. I noh tion
t.l1?plaintiE cannot recovei unless he shows: n ' ac

1. That no assets were delivered by the executor‘ or administrator,
of the deceased, to his heirs or next of kin ;or,

2. That the value of such assets, has been recovered by some other
creditor; or,

3. Thafsuch assets are not sumcient to satisfy the demands of the
plaintiE; and in the last case, he can. recover only the deficiency.

The whole amount which the plaintiff can recover, must be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion, to the amount

of their legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered
of each 1 tee.

Sac. 1 . If an action be brought against several next of kin jointly, or against several legatees jointly for assets delivered to them, and
a recovery be had against them, the costs of such action must be apportioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of
the debt, or damages, recovered against each of them.

Sec. 16. In case a 'udgment against several next of kin, of a testator or against sever legatees, the payment on satifaction of the
amount recovered, against any one of the defendants discharges such
defendant and exonerates him, and his property, from the judgment.

Sec. 17. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by a creditor of
a deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent of the value of
Isll any pro , or inherited by, or devised to them; if such action
59~qIllIt e heirs, all the heirs who may be liable must be made
pths to the action.

Sec. 18. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it appear
that the personal assets of the deceased were not sufficient to disc arge
‘ta 0!‘ that after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor
his been unable to collect the debt, from the personal representatives
of the deceased, or from his next of kin, or legatee; if the personal
assets were sufficient to pay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof
sllll have been collected, as mentioned in the last section, the heirs of
such deceased person, are liable for the residue.

Sec. 19. But the last section does not affect the liabilit of heirs,
for a debt, of their ancestors, where such debt was by his wil , ex reesl! ¢lnl'ged exclusively on the real property descended to such airs,
or where such debt is by the will expressly directed to be d out of
the real 0 , descended before resorting to the perso property.

Size.  n cases, where the next of kin, legatees, heirs, and devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they
Innst give preference in the payment of the same, and are liable there
5|’: in the following order:

l 1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United
; 2. Judgment, 'nst the ancestor or testator according to the priority
"'°'°°f mwtivael; . . .
3. Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills, unhquiihted demands, and accounts. .
~ Sec. 21. No preference can be given by any nextof 100, leglleea {
5351'» or devisee, to one debt over another, of the same class, except one a
°P00i5ed in the second subdivision of the last section; nor is a debt, due
.‘ ?tyIble, entitled to a preference over a debt not due; nor does the
oanmenoemerit of an anion against any next of km, legatee, heir, or
dwlsee, for the recovery of a ebt, entitle it to preference over others
of the same class.

to. 22, The next of kin, legatees, heirs, and devises, may show 13

S
that there are debts of a prior class, unsatisfied; or that there are un- cl

paid debts of the same class, with that on which the action is brou t;
and if it appear, that the value of the personal property deliver to
them, or of the real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class, judgment must be rendered in their favor.

Sec. 23. If the personal property delivered to such next of kin or.
legatee, or if the real estate, descended or devised to such'heir, and
devisee, exceed the amount of debts- which are entitled to a preference
over the debt for which the action is brought, judgment must be rendered against them only for such a sum as shall be a just proportion to
the other debts of the same class, with that on which the action is
brought. ~

Sec. 24. If a debt of a class rior to that on which. the action is
brought, or of the same class, sha l have been paid by any next of kin
legatees, heirs, or devisees, they may prove such payment, and the
amount of the debt so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount
to be recovered, in the same manner as if such debts were outstanding
and unpaid, as prescribed in the last two sections.

Sec. 25. If it appear that the real property so descended was not
aliened by the lien at the time of the commencement of the action, or
if the heir confess the claim, and show what real roperty has descended to him, the court must order that the debt of the piixintiff, or the ropertion thereof, which he is entitled to recover, be levied of the tea propert so descended, and not otherwise; and every judgment rendered in
we action has preference as a lien on the real property descended, to
any judgment obtained against such heir personally, for a debt on demand in his own right.

Sec. 26. When it appears in the action, that before the commencement thereof, the heir has claimed the real property descended to him,
or any part thereof, he shall be personally liab e for the value of the
property so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefore, and execution awarded, as in actions for his own debts. But no real property
aliened in good faith by an heir, before action commenced against 131111»
:3 liable to execution, or in any manner affected by a judgment against

m.

Sac. 27. In actions brought against several heirs jointly, or several
devisees jointly, the amount which the plaintifff recovers must beapporticned among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the deVl5688 Of
the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property d880°_"d°d
or devised, and such proportion only can be recovered of each heir or
legatce. _

Sac. 28, Devisees made liable, by the foregoi provisions of this
chapter, to the creditor of their testator, are not sdlqiable, unless it appear that his personal assets, and the real property of the testator descended to his heirs, were insufficient to discharge the debt ; or HD1639
it appear that after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor has been unable to recover the debt, or any part thereof, f rom the
personal representatives of the testator, or from his next of kn» 01'

egatees, or from his heirs.

Sec. 29. In either of the cases specified in the last section, 1110
amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real propeflz
descended to satis the debt of the plaintifff, and the amount wluc
such plaintifff may ave failed to recover from the personal representatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the reel pr0P°1'tY
devised to them respectively.

Sec. 30. But the last two sections do not affect the liability“ of devisees, for_a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by 's will,

expresslyoharged exeiusively upon the real property devised, or by the
terms of the will made payable exclusively y such devisee, or made
payable out of the real property devised, before resorting to the personalproperty, or to any other real property descended or devised.

Sec. 31. The provisions of this chapter, with regard to heirs, and
to proceedings by and ‘against them, and to judgments and executions
against them, are E-pphcable to action and proceedings against devisees,
ant; theyagiustl in ' e maipner the {Elmly sued. of tat te child

so. . ii cases w ere, y e rovisions an s u ,

born after the malii of a will, is entlitled to succeedy to a portion oi,‘
the testator’s real an personal property, such child shall have the same
ngahts and_:'ieinedfi'e3‘ to copipel a ‘distribution ol'.&lei§ fpersonztil ‘pi-‘opertyé
an a part: on o _e rea propo y, as are provi or nex o in an

for heirs, and shall in all respects, be liable in the same manner, mid to
the same extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the rsonal pioperty delivmd to hil:i,and the real property descended to im,
as is rein prescri in re tion to next of kin, and heirs and such
child may recover of the legatees and devisees who ma have received
pi:-otaglen any realhiirhpltirsonal rope ' of the testator, e share or porn erect’ to w °c e may entit ed.

Ste. 33. The provisions of the last two sections, relative to a child
born at'ter_the making of a will, apply espally to every person, who
being a witness to a will, is entitl , y e rovisions of any statute,
to recover a portion of the real or personalp property of the testator
from the legatees and devisees named in such will.

 

CHAPTER 79.

ACTIONS. ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES
AND F ORFEITURES.

Sizctiou

szcnox
1- Olllclsi bonds to the territory iiovl oonsmi- ii. Pines wn-n not provided for must be paid
“L , into the treasury.

2- -U13’ Dersoii aggrieved may prosecute.
3- Leave or court must be obtained.

‘- -\ Judxment in favor of one para, how to
‘M 063% l

12. Who may be in oniciai capacityla. In what cases omclal persons may sue.

it. When speclsl department or organization
sues.

5' Amount recovered not to exceed uiidcrta- 15. new action may be brought.
kluso , is. now action may be brought.
6. Execution to be first enforced against priii- , i7. Wiien Judgment against county‘ to be pre“Mlo ; seated to commissioners.
7' Mlonnt collected to be limited by the un- ~ 18. Judgment mast be included in tax list.
dertaklos- 19. Treasurer must payjudgment against coun3- N000 and iorteitures iiow prosecuted. tr

9- Amount to be recovered in certain macs. ~ 20. I-‘-xecutlou not to issue sareptoii leave oi

10. Enects of recovery by collusion. court.

Size. 1. The omcial bonds, or other security of a public oliicer, to
the territory, or the United States, whether with or without securities,
1| to be construed as security to the territory, and also to all persons

seiierally, for the omcial delinquences against which it is intended to
provide. If it be a county, city, village, or other munici al body, it-is
in like manner to be construed as security severally, to al rsons intended to be secured, as well as to the body politic named t erein.

‘ ~-Sec. 2. When a public oilicer by oilieial misconduct or neglect of
duty, forfeits his ollicial bonds, or renders his sureties liable upon an’
omcial security, any person injured thereby, or who is by law entitled

to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own
name, against the officer and his sureties, to recover the amount to

which he may be entitled by reason of the delinquency. - .Sec. 3. Before an action can be brought by a plaintid, other than
the territory or body politic named in the security, leave must be «obtained of the district court, or a judge thereof, within the district or
county where the action is triable, and leave can onl be granted on a
production of a copy of the bond, and an affidavit lowing the delinquency, and if the delinquency be such, as that if established on the
trial, it would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave’
must be granted.

S20. 4. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does
not preclude the same or another party, from an action on the same socurity for another delinquency. ' c

Sec. 5. If it appears in an action against a surety, on an odicial security, that he has already been obliged, by reason of prior recoveries
against him on the same, to pay amounts, which in the egate are
equal to the extent of his undertaking, or that by reason 0 the’ insolvency of his principal, he will be obliged to pay to that extent, on judgments already recovered against the surety, tlierecovery againsta surety must in allsuch cases be limited by the amount of his undertaking,
except as otherwise provided by law. ‘

a See. 6. Upon the execution issued on a judgment, recovered upon
the otlicial security of a public officer, against him and a surety, there
must be indorsed a direction to the oilicer to whom the'exec.ution. is elivered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal,
ficient can be found, and if not, then to collect it out of the property of
the surety.
Sec. 7. A If there be several 'ud ents, on which executions ai'e.at
' the same time, in the sheriff’s an s, against a public officer, and his
sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum eater than that for which
the sureties are liable, the court must, on tieir applications W91‘ t_h°
amount to be collected of them, to the amount of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same to be applied as the judgment or execution, in proportion to such amount. _ '
-,. Size. 8. Actions for fines and forfeitures, may be -prosecuted by the
" officers or persons to whom they are by law given, or who, by special.
' provision of law, are authorized to recover them; and Wile‘-11°’ P"°“'
ecuted by public oliicers, or by private persons, are governed P? 93°
szlilme rules as other civil actions, except as otherwise specified In 9119
c a ter. ‘
,. Slim. 9. When an action is brought for a penalty, which is limit,°d
“1 by law, not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought T01’
that amount, and upon trial, the amount recovered must be determin

in roportion to the offense.

[y no. 10. A recovery of a jud ent, for a penalty or forfeiture. by
collusion between the parties, wit intent to save the defendant from
the consequences contemplated by law, in case where the penalty or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to the prosecutor, does not preventthe

recovery of the same, by another person. i _‘
Sec. 11. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted or appropriated law, must be paid into the treasury of the territory; and whenever, y the provision of law, any property, real or personal, is forfeited to the territory, or to any officer, for its use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the ounds of the forfeiture, ma be
brought by the proper officer, in the istriet court of any county w era

such property may be.

Sac. l2. The
can capacity:

The board of coun commissioners of a_ county :The trustees of a school district: ,

Any organized department of a municipal corporation, having a board
of officers in charge of a particular branch of public service, and s cially authorized by statute to rosecute. In such action, the plaintifffs
may be designated by their otlibial name, or the action may be brought

in the name of the body, in whose behalf the action is brought.
Sac. 13. Every such action be either,

1. On a contract made with them in their otiicial capacity; or,2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law in favor of such
odioers, or the body represented by them; or,

3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such officers or body;
or, 4. To recover damages for an injury to their odicial rights or propfollowing othccrs may prosecute actions in their ofe

rgnc. 14. When an organized department of a municipal corpora- ~
lien, is authorized by statute to sue,Ait shall, for purposes of the action, }
lhtgzemed the real party in interest, though the corporation of which it
18 d

, be the party ultimately to be benefited by the action,
or responsible for any loss incurred therein.

_ Sec. 15. An action may be brought against the o§cers mentioned :
111 Ioction twelve, in their ofhcial capacity, or againstfthe body they
represent, either upon a contract made by such officers xn'the1r omcial
ctplcity, and within the scope of their authority, or for an injury to the‘
rights of the plaintifff, arisin from some act or omission of such officers,
or of the body represented by them.

Ste. 16. The actions authorized by this chapter. may 59 51‘°“8ht 1!

Y 01‘ against the officers mentioned in section twelve, upon a cause "'
of action which accrued duri the term of their redecessors, 88_ We“
as during their own term of o cc, and when broug ta ma)’ 59 °°“t"‘“°d
by 0!’ against the successors in odice, of the parties, whose‘ names may
{W ‘hat rpose, be substituted in the action. - _

Sac.  If judgment for the recovery of money, be rendered against 
I county, or the board of commissioners of a county, _on, account of the g,,
liability of such county, and the judgment be not satisied, or proceed- °°'
lngs thereon stayed by appeal, or otherwise, before the next annual meeting of the board of commissioners of the coun . 8 certified °°PY,°f_lh°
docket of the judgment, may be presented to e board of commission'3": at their annual meeti .

Sac. 18. The board 0 commissioners must, thereupon, cause the 3:
uneunt due on the 'udgment, with interest from the tune of the recov- ,5.
cry, until the first onday in February after such meeting, to be added
to the tax of the county, for whose liability the same was recovered:
and the same must be collected as other contingent charges of the
county.

Ssc. 19. The treasurer of a county against which: 01' 383313‘ “'h°'° 7'“

officers, a judgment has been recovered, for a liability of the coimty,

the execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal, must, upon
demand, and the delivery to him of the certified copy of the docket of

the judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be suiiicient mom:
of the county in his hands, not otherwise specifically appropriated. f
he fail to do so, he shall be personally liable for the amount, unless the
collection thereof, be afterwards stayed upon appeal.

Size. 29. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment mentioned-in
sections seventeen and nineteen without leave of the court nor must
leave be granted until the court is satisfied that payment has been demanded of the proper county oilicers, as provided in the last two sections, and that the board of commissioners, have wrongfully omitted to
include the amount in the, tax list, as provided in section eighteen;
when execution is issued the property of the county, only is liable

thereon. V

P

   

CHAPTER 80.

ACTIONS T0 VACATE CHARTERS AND LETTERS PATENT, AND TO PREVENT THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE. — - ~

 

SECTION SECTION
_ 1. Scire facias and qno wnminto abolished, 9. Judginentmaydetcrmino right of Olilumms
action substituted. 10. when claimant may enter upon once.
2. Action to vacate cliorierof corporation. ll. Punishment for refusal to deliver books3. In what cases action may be brought. 12. Person entitled may recover dnlnaileso
4. Leave to be met obtained from court. 13. When several claimants to oriice all may
5. Action for nsui-pins; omcc or franchise. be liiclu ded. ,
6. Action to vacate letters patent. 14. Judgments in actions under this chapter.

'7. when private person may be joined as: 16. Corporation maybedlssolved.

 

plalntltl‘. 16. Costs may be ordered.
3- When fol‘ \19I\I'iJlIItr office and receiving fees 17. Injunction, and receiver appointed.
defendant may be arrested. | 13, Reconl when med with secretaryuo Size. 1. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quowarranto, and pro3: cecding by information in the nature of quo warranto are abolished, and
the remedies heretofore, obtainable in these forms may be obtained by
civil actions under the provisions of this chapter. But nothing contained
in this section, affects any right already acquired or any judgment 0!‘
order already made, or any proceedin already taken. n Sec. 2. An action may be broug t by the attorney general in ti“

"" name of the territory, whenever the legislature so directs, against a corporation for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that
5“°h act» 01' renewals Was procured upon some fraudulent suggesfiolls 07
concealment of a material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some
of them, or with their knowled e and consent.

Ic- Ssc. 3. An action may be %)1‘0llglil2 by the attorney general, in the
name of the territory, on leave granted by the supreme court, or ajudgc

cause of action, ma

thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the existence of a corporation other than municipal, whenever such corporation :

1. Otfends against any of the provisions, of the act, or acts creating,
slteri , or renewing such corporation; or,

2. iolates the provisions of any laws, by which such corporation
forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or,

3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges, or franchises, by failure
to exercise its powers; or,

4. Whenever it has done, or omitted any act, which amounts to a
surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or,

5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred
upon it by law. '

And it is the duty of the attorney general, to apply for leave, and

upon leave granted, to bring the action in every case of public interest,
whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions,

can be proved; and also in every other case, in which satisfactory security is given to indemnify the territory against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

. S30. 4. Leave to bring the action, may be granted, upon the application of the attorney general, and the court or judge may, in their
discretion direct notice of such application to be given to the corporation, or its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may hear the
cor oration in opposition thereto.

no. 5. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the territory, upon his own information, or upon the complaint
of a private party, against the party offending in the following cases:
I. When an person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any pu lic oiiice, civil, or military, or any franchise within this
territory, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of this

torrito‘V; or,
2. hen any public officer, civil, or military, has done or suffered an
Ictywhich by the provisions of law makes a forfeiture of his office; or,

3. When any association or number of persons, act within this terfitoryas a corporation, without being duly incorporated. And it is the
duty of the attorney general to bring the action, whenever he has reaIOII to believe that any of these acts can be proved, or when he is diMcted to do so by a judge of the supreme court. _

Sec. 6. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the territory, for the purpose of vacating or annulling
letters tent, granted by the territory in the following cases:

1. Wrfilen he has reason to believe that such letters patent, were obtained by means of some fraudulent su estion or concealment of a material fact, made by persons to whom thg same were issued or made, or
without his consent or knowled e; or, . _ ‘

2. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent, were issued through mistake, or in i orance ofa material fact: _

,3. When he has reason to elieve that the patei_itee,_ 01' 111059 claim‘
ing under him, have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms
lndeonditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have by
any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same. _

SEC. 7. ‘Vhen an action is brought by the attorney general by VI!‘.m9 Of this chapter, on the complaint or information ot any person havlngan interest in the uestion, the name of such person must be J0lDG(l
With the territory as p aintitf. .

- S30. 8. Whenever such action is bro htagainst a person for usurping an othce, the attorney general, in a ditioii to the statement of the

also set forth in the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to the otiioe. with a statement ot' his right there.

-IL

to; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his
usurpation thereof, an order may be granted b a judge of the supreme
court, for the arrest of such defendant and olding him to bail, and
thereupon he may be arrested and held to bail in the same manner, and

with the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities as

in other civil actions where defendant is subject to arrest.

Size. 9. In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged
to  entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice reuires.

q Sec. 10. If the jud ent be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitleguilind the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing such official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the oiiice, and it is his duty immediately thereafter to demand of
the defendant in the action, all the books and papers in his custody, or
within his power, belonging to the oHice.

Size. 11. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver over such
books or papers pursuant to the demands, he is to be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and the same proceedi may be had, and with the
same eiect, to compel delivery of such ks and papers, as are prescribed by law to obtain books and papers from a justice of the peace,
where the same are withheld from his successor in office.

Sec. 12. If ju ment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitl , in favor of such person, he may recover, by action,
the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation
of the office b the defendant, ‘

8120'. 13. %Vhere several persons claim to be entitled‘ to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought inst all such persons,
in order to try their respective rights to such 0 cc or franchise.

Sec. 14. . When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against whom such action has been brought, is adjudged guilg Of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfull holding or exercisin any 0 cc,
franchise, or privilege, judgment must be rendered, that such defendant
be excluded from the office, franchise, or privilege, and also that the
plaintifff recover costs against such defendant; the court may also, in
its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding one
thousand’ dollars, which fine, when collected, must be paid into the
treasury of the territo .

. Sec. 15. If it be a judged that a corporation against which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has by neglect,
abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges, and fran°h13°3a judgment must be rendered that the corporation be excluded
from such corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.

$20. 16. If judgment be rendered, in such action, against a corporation, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may
cause the costs therein, to be collected by execution against the persons

claimin to be a cor orat' ' ' ' other
officemgof such corpgratign, or by process against the directors 
SEC. 17. When such judgment is rendered against a corporatiom
the court has the same power to restrain the corporation, to appoint 3
receiver of its property, and take an account and make distribution
thereof _among its creditors, as is given in the chapter upon actions
{especting corporations, and in the cha ter upon the voluntary dissoution of corporations, to the court of chancery; and it is the duty of the

attorney general,_ immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to

Q

Sec. 18. Upon the rendition of such judgment 'nst a corporation,
or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it is the duty of the

attorney general to cause a cop of the ' d nt ll to be t‘ h 'th
filed in the office of the secretat):y of the .l:l:r§'t’ii(i'y. r0 on M

  

CHAPTER 81.

OF THE REMOVAL OF ACTIONS TO THE SUPREME
. COURT.

339710!‘ szcrioit

1- -llldsment, &c., may be removed tosupreme 17. Appeal perfected, proceedings stayed.

°°‘"'t- 18. Respondent may entorce Judgment in cer3- -llldlments, &c., how examined in supreme tain cases by giving security.

0033- I9. Undertaking in one instrument or several.
3- JPPGID how taken. N. security to be approved and to Justin‘.
‘-T|8l00flIOI¢£l¢IlI0i.‘IlDbO¢hlII3eIlbylp- 3i.Per-isiiabiepsopertymaybesoid.

9901- 22. Writs or error may issue out of supreme
5- Aweai how made. court.

0- cieri: to transmit papers to appellate court. 23. writ or error when to operate as stay at
7- intermediate orders when reviewed on ap- proceedings.

9001- :4. suaiciency or security to be deter-mined by

3' Vlllulldclncnt may be given on appeal. Judge or clerk.

'- About when to be taken. 25. iiona u-ii-en to be filed.

10- Appellant must furnish papers to the as. Prevailing pun: entitled to costs.

27. Writ of error in capital case must be aiiowed by judge.

°°“‘ ‘"34 churns course.

13- 11 Jlldsment to pay money, security to stay 29. Judge may make order (or the custody et
'-‘3°¢““°lI- prisoner.

M. It to defiver documents, they must bede- 80. supreme court may allow ten per cent.
Doslted. damages.

15- II to execute conveyance it innstbedopos- st. Discontinuance does not preclude party

“°d- lroni suing out another writ.
10. it to deliver property, security tor. as. am oi exceptions.

. A judgment or order, in a civil or criminal action, in any
of the district courts, may be removed to the supreme court, as proviin this cha ter.
_ Sac. 2. All) enal juedgments in the district courts, may be examined and ailirm , revers or modiiied, by the supreme court, or if nec93881)’, a new trial may be ordered; such examination may be had upon
8 Writ of error or appeal, as hereinafter provided.

‘Sec. 3. Any party aggrieved, may appeal in the cases prescribed in

'99‘:

£25

k

Sec. 4. The rty appealing, is known as the appellant, and the ad- ‘I11
""8 party, as tli’: respondent; but the title of the action is not to be 3;’
changed in consequence of the appeal. _ .

_ Sec. 5. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in wri- A,
“"8: on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the judgment

or order appealed from, is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or
some speci ed part thereof. When a party gives in good faith, notice of
appeal from a judgment or order, and omits, through mistake, to do any
other act necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the
court ma permit an amendment on such terms as may be just. Sac. . Upon the appeal, allowed by the provisions of this chapter,
being perfected,'the clerk with whom the notice of ap eal is filed, must,
at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to t e appellate court,
a certified copy of the notice of appeal, and of the judgment roll.

Size. 7. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review
any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting
the judgment. l

SEC. 8. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or
all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.
When the judgment is reversed or modified; the appellate court may
make complete restitution of all the property and rights lost by the crroneous jud ent.

Size. 9. he appeal allowed by this chapter, must be taken within
sixty days after notice of the judgment, if heretofore rendered, and
within six months after a judgment shall be rendered.

Size. 10. The appellant must furnish the court with copies of the

' notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he fail to do so,
the appeal may be dismissed.
L Sec. 11. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court, in the followin cases: 1. n a judgment in an action commenced ‘in the district court, or

brought there from another court; and upon the appeal from that 'udgment, to review any intermediateorder, involving the merits, an necessarily atfecting the judgment: 2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such action, when
such order in effect determined the action, and presents a judgment from
which an appeal might be taken:

3. In a final order affecting a substantial right, made in special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment.

Size. 12. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written

.'_' undertaking must be executed, on the rt of the appel ant, by at least
two sureties, to the effect that the appe lant will pay all (lam 5: 009“
and charges, which may be awarded against him on the appe , not exceedin two hundred and fifty dollars, or that sum must be deposited
with t e clerk, with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide
the judgment of the court of appeal; but such undertaking or deposit
may be secured by a written consent, on the part of the respondent.
SEC. 13. If the appeal be from a judgment, directing the payment
of money, it does not stay the execution of the judgment, unless awr1tten undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at 1808*
two sureties, to the effect that if the jud ent appealed from, or any
t thereof be affirmed, the appellant wi 1 pay the amount directed t0
paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the
judgment shall be adirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon the appealuSEC. 14. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assignment 01'
delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgmen’: is not stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be ass‘i§ned
or delivered, be brought into court, or placed in the custody of su Officer or receiver, as the court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be
entered into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, «

SQ

in such amount as the court or judge thereof, may direct, to the effect
that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court, upon the
a .

P so. 15. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of a
conve once, or other instrument, the execution of the 'udgment is not
stay by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited
with the clerk, wlilth whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the a ate court.

Sec. 16. llpethe judgment a pealed from direct the sale or deliveéy
of possession of real pro erty, t e execution of the same is not stay ,
unless a written underta ing be executed on the part pf the ap ,
with two sureties, to the effect that during the possession of sue property by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer to be committed, any
waste thereon; and that if the judgment be afhrmed, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the
ap , until the delivery of the Essession thereof, pursuant to the
j ent, not exceeding a sum to fixed b a judgzof the court, by
which the judgment was rendered, and whic must specified in the
iindertaltin .

Sec. 17.8 Whenever an appeal is perfected. as provided by sections
thirteen, fourteen, and sixteen, it stays all further proceedings in the
court below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matterembraeed therein; but the court below, ma proceed upon any other matter included in the action and not affected y the judgment appealed from.
And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with, or limit the
security required by sections thirteen, fourteen, and sixteen, when the
appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person actirg
in another’s right, and may also, in all cases, limit such security to an
amount not less than five thousand dollars.

Size. 18. In an action arising on contract, notwithstanding an appeal and security given for a stay of proceedings thereon, if the respondent give adequate security to make restitution, in case the judgment is
reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court below,
proceed to enforce the judgment; such securi must be an undertakinlg
executed to the appellant, by at least two sii cient sureties, to the e fact that if the judgment be reversed or modilied, the respondent will
make such restititution as the appellate court may direct. _

Sec. 19. The undertakings prescribed by section twelve, thirteen,
fourteen, and sixteen, ma be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant; an a copy including the names and residence of
the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the notice Of
appeal. unless a deposit is made as provided in section twelve, and notice thereof °ven.

Size. 20. g1An undertaking upon an appeal, is of no effect, unless it
be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each worth
double the amount specified therein ; the adverse party ml)’ lI0W6V€1‘s
except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten_days after notice
of the appeal, and unless they or other spreties justify before a judge
of the court below. as prescribed by law in other cases within ten days
thereafter, the appeal must he regarded as if no such undertaking had
been given; the justification must be upon a notice of not less than five

days.

See. 21. In the cases not provided for in sections thirteen, fourteen, ifteen, sixteen, and seventeen, the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking mentioned in section twelve, stays proceedings in
the court, below, upon the judgment appealed from, exgpgt that when It
directs the sale of the perishable property, the court w my order

the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to a ide the judgment of the appellate court.

Size. 22. Writs of error in civil and criminal cases. may issue of
course out of the supreme court of this territory, in vacation as well as
in term, and shall be returnable to the same court.

Sec. 23. No writ of error, shall operate to stay or supereede the
execution in any civil action, unless the plaintifff in error or some person in his behalf, shall give bond to the defendant, with one or more
sufficient sureties, with conditions, that the plaintifff shall prosecute his
suit to effect, and shall pay and satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered thereon.

Snc. 24. The sulliciency of sureties, and the sum for which the
bond shall be given, shall be determined in each case by any judge of
the supreme court, or by the clerk from whose oliice the writ of error
is issued, according to such general rules as the court may from time to
time establish.

Sec. 25. The bond, if any is given, shall be filed in the office of the
clerk of the supreme court, for the use of the defendant, and no execution shall be issued thereafter, upon the judgment complained of during
the pendi of the writ of error, and if execution shall have been already issued t e clerk shall make and  a certificate of “the issuing of
the writ of error, and the filing of the bond ;. and after notice of such
certificate to the officer holding the execution, all further proceedings
thereon shall he stayed.

Sic. 26, The party prevailing on a writ of error, in any civil action, shall in all cases be entitled to his costs, 'nst the adverse par, and if the judgment is amrmed, the court shmuadjudge to the defent in error, damages for his delay, not less than seven per cent, and
not exceeding twelve er cent a year, on the amount recovered by the
former judgment; and, in such case they may also in their discretion’
award to the defendant double costs.

Size. 27. N o writ of error upon a 'udgment for any capital 056000:
shall issue, unless allowed by one of tlie ju es of the supreme court,
after notice given to the attorney general of t e territory. .

Sec. 28. Writs of error upon 'udgment in all other criminal case:
‘shall issue of course, but they she I not sta or delay the 0380113100 Or I
the judgment or sentence, unless they shal be allowed by one of the
judges of the supreme court, with an express order thereon: "0" 3 9”)’
of proceedings on the judgment or sentence. ,

Sec. 29. When a stay of proceedings shall be ordered, as provided
in the preceding section, the judge may at the same time make such order as the case may -require, for the custody of the plaintiffs in 9”°’ °’
for letting him to bail, or the party ma , upon a writ of habeas corpus:
procure his enlar ement, upon giving hail, if entitled thereto.

Sec. 30. In 1 cases where the ju ent of the court below 118-9
been superceded by a writ of error, and t e judgment shall be allirmed
by the supreme court, the supreme court shall award ten per cent dainages upon the amount of the judgment below, exclusive of interest and
posts, and execution shall be issued therefore, in favor of the defendant

n error.

See. 31. No discontinuance, non-suit, or dismissal of a writ of error in the supreme court, shall preclude the party from suing out another writ of error, in the same cause within the time limited by 18WSnc. 82. If any person who is or shall be iinpleaded before 8
court in any civil action, where a writ of error lies, toahigher tribu_1IB 9
shall allege an exception, such exception, being reduced to writing,
‘hm be "8“°d b)’ ‘he .l“d89i allowing the same, and shall become a part
Of the record,  the party  the same shall so elect.

OF MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTION!
AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

_...______..._.________.
Burton sncrxorr
1. Parties not summoned in an action may he 24. When and now served by mail.
summoned after Judgment. 26. When and how served by mail.
2. If Judgment debtor die, his representatives 26. Delendant appearing, entitled to notice»
may be summoned. 27. service of papers when partyresides out 1
3. Contents of summons. the territory.
4. Ailidavit must accompany summons. 28. Summons, pleadings, &.c., to be filed.
5. Party summoned may defend by answer. 29. Notice good, though title omitted.
0. Party issuing summons may reply. - 80. The above provhion not to apply to sum
7. Answer and reply must be variled. mons or process.
8. Defendant may serve otter to compromise 8?. Panel‘ lost-01' Withheld how supplied. ‘
action. 22. successive actions on same contract.
9. Defendant may oGer to liquidate damages 33. Actions when consolidated.
conditionally. 84. Action when deemed pending.

10. It plaintiir acceptor refuse, eirects thereof. 36. Action to determine advese claims.

11- A Party may be required to admit paper to 38. Jurisdiction or court over persons.
be genuine or pay expenses of proving it. 37. Jurisdiction of court over corporations.

12- Party may demand inspection and copy of 8. Jurisdiction of court over causes of action.

paper. 3. Actions barred in another state or territolz. An order deilned. I7.
14. lotion denned. 40. Resistor of actions to be kept by clerk.
ll. lotion how made. 41. Haioriiy of rcterees may act.
is. Nations to be made in the district, Etc. 42. Time how computed". when notice necessary, how to be served. 43. Legal notices, how published.
18. in the absence of judge, motion may be 44. Counsel to speak only one hour without

transferred. leave.

19. Order for the payment or money how en- 46. Persons prosecuting or dessadinx without
lorccd. probable cause liable.

20. on motion, witnesses may be examined 48. mania or action prosecuted as prescribed
orally. by this statute. A

21. When answer admits part of claim, court 47. Animals from Justices’ Ind Prob-*0 00"“
may order it satisiled. where to be made in ilrst instance.

9- Notices and other papers how served on 48. Dofendantmuatanswercompiaint in twenOwoeite party. ty days.

9:. Notices and other papers bow seared on
Wbosite para.

Snc. 1. When a 'u ent is recovered against one or more of several rsons, jointly inde ted upon an obligation, by proceeding as proVid by statute, those who were not originally summoned to answer
the complaint, may be summoned to show cause why they should not
be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned. .

Sec. 2. In case of the death of a judgment debtor, after judgment,
the heirs, devisees, legatees, or personal representatives of the udglnent debtor, or the tenants of real property owned by him: 81“? °°t°d

the judgment, may be summoned to show cause why the udgmept
8 ould not be enforced against the estate of the judgment ebtor, in
their hands respectively. The proceedings thereon are subject to 
provisions of the chapter upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs and devisees. _
Size. 3. The summons provided in the last two sections, must be

subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representative, or attorney.
describe the judgment, and require the person summoned; *0 3h°W °“'-‘"7

within twenty days after service of the summons, and must be served
in the same manner as the original summons. ‘

Sec. 4. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of the
person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his
knowledge or information and elief, and must specify the amount due

thereon.
Sec. 5. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer,

within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently, and in addition t ereto; if he be proceeded inst according to section one, he may make the
same defense which mig t have been made originally to the action, except the statute of limitations; if he be procee ed against according to
section two, he ma make the same defense which e might have made

to an action upon t e judgment. A

Size. 6. The party issuing the summons may reply to the answer
if a counterclaim be set up therein, and the issue may be tried, and
judgment may be given, in the same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the application of property charged to the payment of the judgment, may if necessary, be compelled by attachment.

Sec. 7. The answer and reply must be verified in the same manner, and ‘are subject to the same rules as the answer and reply in an

action.

OFFER 01-‘ THE DEFENDANT T0 COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART 01'
THE ACTION.

Sec. 8. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment,
serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be taken * inst
him, for the sum or property, to the effect therein specified. the
plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof, within ten days, he
may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice
of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly; if the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to
obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must
pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

‘ Sec. 9. In an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant

. may with his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in Writing: “Wt
if he fail in his defense, the amount of the recovery be assessed. at a
specified sum, and if the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereto in
writing, with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the amount must be assessed accordin ly.

t See. 10. If the plaintifff do not accept t e offer, he must prove the
amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been made, and ‘cannot
be permitted to give it in evidence; and if the amount assessed in his
favor do not exceed the sum mentioned in the. offer, the defendant may
recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense, in respect to the question of amount; such expenses
must be ascertained at the trial.

ADMISSION OR INSPECTION.0l‘ WRITINGS. ,

_: Sec. _II. ' Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney,
3 at any time before the trial, any document or papers, material to the
action, and request an admission in writing, of its genuineness; if the
adverse party, or his attorney fail .to give the admission within four
days after the request: and if the party exhibiting the document or paper»

he afterwards put to expense, in order to prove its genuineness,and.tlie

same be finally proved, or admitted on the trial, such expense, to be

ascertained at the trial, must be paid by the pzirtfrefusing the admission. unless it up rs to the satisfaction of the court that there were
reasons for t e refusal.

Sec. 12. The court, before which an action is pending, or a judge
thereof, may order either party to give to the other, within a specified
time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book,
document, or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing
evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein; if
compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document, or paper, from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be
such as he alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from
compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is
examined as a witness.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

Sec. 13. Every direction of a court, or 'udge, made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is enominated an order.

See. 14. An application for an order is a motion.

Size. 15. All motions may be made to the court at term; motions
may likewise be made to a judge out of court, as provided in other parts
of the statute.

Sxc. 16. Motions must be made within the district in which the
action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable,
except that where the action is triable in one judicial district, the motion must be made therein. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by any A judge of the court, in any part of the territory; no order to stay procee ings for a longer time than_twenty. days,
can be granted by a judge out of court, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party. ' ’

Sec. 17. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served 
t days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court, or .
j , ma by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
iic. l . When a notice of a' motion is given, or an order to show J‘
cause provides for a motion, before a judge out of court, and at the t
time fixed for the motion, he is unable to hear it, the same may ‘be
transfered, by his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion
ln' ht or‘ inall have been made. _
to. l . henever an order for the payment of a sum of money is C
made by a court pursuant to a provision of the statute, the same. may 2
be enforced by execution, in the same manner as if it were a judgment, except that the person cannot be arrested unless specially directed in the order, nor can real property be sold thereon, eXC9Pt "‘ “'9
cases where the same is by law a charge upon Tetfl P1'°P°"lY°

Sec. 20. Upon a. motion, any Person present in court, whose affidavit or deposition would be admissible thereupon, may be orally examSsc. 21. Where the answer of the defendant, admits part of the

lsjntig‘. claim to be jug, the court on motion, may order such defento satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order, as it enforces a provisional remedy.

3838 25:)

' or gives the pl

11

8"?

NOTICES; FILING, AND_SERVICE OP PAPERS.

Size. 22. Notices must be in writing; and notices and other papers
may be served on the party, or attorney, in the manner prescribed in
the next three sections; where not othewise provided by statute.

Sec. 23. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party
or attorney, on whom the service is required to be made; or it-may be
as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his abscence from his
office, by leaving‘ the papers with his clerk therein, or with a person
having charge ereof ; or when there is no person in the o$ce, by
leaving it, between the hours of six in the morni , and nine in the
evening, in a conspicuous place in the office; or if it be not open so as
to admit of such service, then by leaving it at the at.torney’s residence
with some person of suitable age and discretion:

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the papers at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning, and nine in the eveni , with some person of suitable

age and discretion.
no. 24. Service by mail may be made, when the person making
the service, and the persons on whom it is to be made reside in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

Sec. 25. In case of service by mail, the papers must be deposited
in the post office addressed to the person on whom it is to be served at
his place of residence, and the postage paid ; and in such case, the time
of service must be increased one day, for every iifty miles distance between the place of deposit, and the place of the address.

Sec. 26. A defendant appears in action when he answers, demurs,
aintlff written notice of his appearance, after appearance
otherwise than by answer, a_ defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings, in the same manner as if he had answered; but when
a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him, unless he be
im risoned for want of bail.

ea. 27. Where a plaintifff or defendant who has appeared, resides
out of the territory, and has no attorney in the action, the service ma
be made by mail, if his residence be known; if not known, on the, cler
for him. But where a party has an attorney in the action, the service
of [Snipers must be upon the attorney, instead of the party.

so. 28. The foregoing provisions of this chapter, do not apply to
the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a
party into contempt.

Size. 29. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual, though the
title of the action in which it is made be omitted, or be defective either
in respect to the court or parties, it‘ it intelligibly refer to such. action
or proceeding; and in furtherance of justice upon pro
other ‘defect or error in any notice, or other paper or proceeding may

be amended by the court, and any mischance relieved within one year

thereafter.

Sec. 30. The various undertakings required to be given by this
statute and the affidavits and other written proceedings ’
must be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk
32"“ expressly provide for a diferent dis

e undertaking provided for by this cha
1')’ flf personal property, must after the justification
gfllvered by the sheriff to the parties respectively

ey are taken; the summons and several pleadin

per terms, any

in an action,
thereof, unless the
position thereof, except 
pter, on the claim and deliveof the sureties 
for whose benefit
. in an action mus

be filed with the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, resPeclwelys 01' the “d"°"-‘e party. 0!! aproof of the omission is entitled.

without notice, to an order from a judge that the some he filed within a
term specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Ste. 31. If an original pleading or paper he lost or withheld, by any
person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original. .

Sac. 32. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract, or tninsaction, whenever after the former action a new cause of
action arises therefrom. , .

Sec. 33. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of action
which might have been joined, the. court may order the actions to be
consolidated into one.

Sac. 34. An action is deemed to be pending from the time of its
commencement, until its final determination upon appeal, or until the
time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment has beensatisfied.

Sec. 35. An action may be brought by one person against another,
for the purpose of determining an adverse "claim, which the latter makes
against the former, for money or property upon an alleged obligation;
and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compellingone

- to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is bound as
suret .

SIZE: 36. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of a court
of this territory, unless he appear in the court, or be found within the
territory, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein; and in the
last place, only to the extent of such property, at the time the jurisdiction attached.

Szc. 37. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of ;
this territory, unless it appear in the court, or have been created by, or 1
under the laws of this territory, or have an agency established therein,
for the transaction of some portion of its business, or havrproperty
therein; and in the last case, only to the extent of such property at the
time the 'urisdiction attached

Sac.  When the court has jurisdiction of the parties, it may exercise it, in respect to any cause of action, whenever arising, eircept
for the specific recovery of real property situated out of this territory.
or an injury thereto, and except as also provided by statute, in relation
to roceedings against foreign corporations. _ ‘

no. 39. When a cause of action has arisen in a state or territory
out of this territory, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof,
in action thereon cannot there be maintained 'nst a person, by reason of
the lapse of time, an action thereon cannot maintained against him,
in this territory, cxce t in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had the
cause of action from tlic time it accrued.

Size. 40. The clerk must keep among the records of the_court, ti. 3‘
register of actions; he must enter therein the title of the action, with
brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had therein.

Sec. 41. When there are three referees, all must meet, but two of in
them may do any act which might be done by all; and Whenevef 3")’ 3"’ eel
tliority is conferred on three or more persons, it may be exercised  ii
Ll;|j0l‘l1y upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provi ed

statute.

Sec. 42. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein pro- :5
Vided, must be computed by exchiding the first day, and including the
last. If the last day be Sunday, it must be excluded.

DOG:

5'25

Sec. 43. The publication of I lnotices required by law, or by’ an
order of a judge or court, to be piiflished in a newspaper once in each
week, for a specified number of weeks, must be made on the day of
each week in which such newspaper is published; and in all cases
where a munici al corporation is required to publish legal notices, and
ma designate t e papers in which the publication is to be made, it must
male such designation; all such legal notices must be published in the
pa er so designated. _ ‘

he time for publication of legal notices, must be computed so as to
exclude the first day of publication, and to include the da on which the
act or event of which notice is 'ven, is to happen, or which completes
the full period required for pub ication. '

Size. 44. No counsel can be rmitted to speak on the argument of
any case, more than an hour, wi out special leave of‘ the court, granted
before the argument begins.

Size. 45. A person who, without probable cause, prosecutes an action, or maks a defense, or takes any 1 proceedings a inst another,
is guilty of a contempt, and is also lia le to an action t erefor, at the
suit of the party aggrieved. '

Size. 46. Rights of action, given or secured by existing laws, may
be prosecuted in the manner provided by statute. If ii case ever arise,
in which an act for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this statute, the
practice heretofore in use, may be adopted, so far as may be necessary
to event a failure of justice.

‘no. 47. No action or proceeding shall, in the first instance, be removed by any writ, process, or appeal whatever, from a probate or justice’s court, to the supreme court of this territory; but in all cases
where an action or proceeding is removed from either of the said pro-'
bate er justice’s court, the same must be, in the first instance, removed
to the district court of the count . '

Sec. 48. In all actions in e district court, the defendant is required to answer the plaintifff’s complaint, in twenty days after a summons has been legally served upon him; and if such answer is’ not made
and served upon the complainant, within twenty days of the service
of the summons, the plaintifff may proceed to take final judgment against
thgeqliefendant, according to the provision of the statute in such case provi .

 

.. CHAPTER 83.

or SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS.

 

33°'"°" _ lszcriox '
1. Parties designated pialntiii and detendsnt. i 6. Writ alternative or peremptory8. Jndzment and order same meaning as in nc- 7. when peremptory writ allowed.

9003- - 8. Proceedings.
3- WY“ 0' mllldlllml d00nOd- 9. Answer on return of writ.
4. To whom and for what issued. 10. it no answer, peremptory writ allowed6. When not to issue- I ii. No pieauiing but writ and answer.

8t:c'ri0.'t

12. issue when tried.

in. issue when tried.

it. run same as in civil actions.

ie. If Judgment for plaintifff, damages recovered.

to. Pine may be imposed in certain cases.

i1. District courts to have original jurisdicms . _

_l8. Writs of prohibition to be issued by supremecourt.

i9. Writ how served.

50. Proceedings upon return of writ.

2!. Proceedings upon return of writ.

93- Court must renderjudginent.

23. -Prohibition absolute when granted.

44. on commitment for criminal offense he
to proceed.

as. if party remanded, proceedings, to.

48. Until Judgment given, party how kept.

47. Notice when to be given.

48. When notice to district attorney.

49. Return may be controverted.

60. In case of sickness, how to proceed.

5! Obedience to writ and order how enforce:

58. onicer not liable to action for obeying wri

53. Persons once discharged cannot be agal
imprisoned.

54. Penalty on person who shall imprison per
son who has been discharged.

56. Transferring party to elude writ a misde

   
   
  

24. Who may prosecute it. meanor.
26. Who not entitled to prosecute it. 50. Transferriaix party to elude writ a misde
II. To whom application made. nieanor.

71. Proof required in certain cases.

28. What application to state.

29. Writ to be granted without delay.

Ii. (‘ontents of writ.

3i. Writ not discharged for defect in form.
32. Penalty if oiiicer refuse to grant writ.

83. Return of writ.

34. Onicer to bring the person in custody before court.

5. if return be not full, attachment to issueI6. if sheriff neglect, attachment to issue to
coroner. '

I7. Precept to sheriff’.

I8. Precept how executed.

3!. Cause of imprisonment inquired into.

ili. if no legal cause shown discharge granted.
ii. When party to be remanded.

in. in certain cases, party discharged.

43- besaiity or certainorder not inquired into.

6!. Person aiding and assisting liable.

58. Punishment on conviction.

69. In case of danger that party will be carried

off‘ wan-ant may issue.

00. Arrest of person having custody of party‘
61. Warrant how executed.

82. Person to be committed or bailed.

83. Forfeiture for refusing copy of order.

64. Writ when made returnable.

06. Writ to be indorsed.

68. Writ by whom served.

67. Writ how served.

68. Writ how served.

69. Duty of ofiicor to obey writ.

70. Charges of bringing up prisoner may be

ordered to be paid.

7!. When return to be made.

72. Common law provisions abrogated.

73. Writ to bring up prisoner to testify.

Sec.’ 1. The rt rosecuti a s ecial roceedi me be known
as the plaintifff, Nip; file liidverse 33:: are the «ibfendaniig y

Sac. 2. A judgment in a specia proceeding is the final determination of the rights of the parties therein. The definitions of a motion
and an order in a civil action, are applicable to similar acts in a special
proceeding.

WRIT OF IANDAHU8.

Sac. 3. The writ of mandamus is defined and regulated as in this
chapter prescribed.

Sec. 4. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
01' person, to compel the performance of an act, which the law special!
_enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station; but though
I‘ may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or proceed
to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.

_ Size. 5. This writ ought not to be issued, in any case, where there
18 a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of the
law. It is issued on the information of the party beneficially interested.

Size. 6. The writ is either alternative or pereméiltory. The alternative writ must state concisely the facts, showing e obligation of the
defendant to perform the act, and his emission to rform it, and command him, that immediately after the receipt of t e writ, or at some
other specified time, he do the act r uired to be performed, _or show
cause before the court, out of wliiclieilnc writ issued, at a specified time

and place, why he has not done so; and that he then and there return the writ, with his certificate of having done as he is commanded,
The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words
requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be omitted. ,

SEC. 7. When the right to re uire the performance of the act is
clear, and itis apparent that no vaiiid excuse can be iven for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allow in the first instance; in all other cases, the alternative writ must be first issued.

Sec. 8. The motion for the writ, the allowance, and the service
thereof, and the enforcement of obedience thereto, must be such as the
court shall direct.

Size. 9. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further
day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall have
been served, may show cause by answer, made in the same manner as
an answer to_a complaint in a civil action.

See. 10. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandate must be allowed against the defendant; if an answer be made coutaini new
matter, the same shall not in any respect conclude the plaint' , who
may, on the trial or other proceedings, avail himself of an valid. objection to its sufficiency ; or may eountervail it by proof, eit er in direct
denial, or by way of avoidance.

Sec. 11. No other leading or written allegation, is allowed than
the writ and answer; these are the pleadings in the ease, and have the
same effect, and are to be construed and ma ' be amended in the same
manner, as proceedings in a civil action, an the issues thereby joined,
must be tried and the further proceedings had, in the same manner as
in a civil action.

See. 12. Issues of fact, joined in the case of mandamus where the
same is issued out of the supreme court, may be tried as provided in
the next section. .

Sac. 13. When the parties consent thereto, the court may try the
issues of the fact, arising upon the pleadings of the parties, or the same
may be referred, as in civil actions in the district court; but when
either party refuses to consent to a trial, other than a trial by jury, the
said supreme court may order a jury of twelve men, (possessing the
requisite qualifications for 'urors in the district courts,) to be summoned to appear forthwith, before the said court, to try the said issue; and
in case any of the jurors so summoned, should for any cause be rejected, or be disqualified to act as a juror in the case, the court may order
others to be summoned until a jury shall be obtained.

Sec. 14. When a jar shall beimpanneled, the same proceedings
shall be had as in the trial of a civil action in the district court.

Sec. 15. If 'udgment be given for the laintiff, he shall recover the
451113308 which e shall have sustained, to e ascertained by the court:
°'j111'Ya 01 byrreferees, as in a civil action, together with costs and
35:18”: Ind 8- peremptory mandamus must also be awarded without

e a . - Siic. 16. Whenever a perempto mandamus is directed to a plrblio
095001‘: body. or board, commanding ‘the performance of any public duty
specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court, that such edieer 01'
any member of such body or board, has without just excuse, refused or
neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine
not exceeding two hundred and fiftydollars, upon every such officer 0!‘
ynelnber of such body or board; such fine, when collected, must be paid
into the territorial treasury, and the payment of such fine is a bar to an
303-1011 fol‘ any penalty incurred by such oflioer, or member of such bod)’

or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

Ssc. 17. The several district courts of this territory shall have
original (jurisdiction in cases of mandamus, except in cases where such
writ is 'rected to one of the judges of the said district court in his official capacity, and the said court shall proceed upon all such cases, in
the same manner as ‘in a civil action.

WRIT8 OP PROHIBITION.

Sec. 18. Writs of prohibition shall on] be issued out of the supreme court; and such writs shall be applied forxupon‘ affidavits, by
motion, in the same manner as writs of mandamus, and if the cause
shown, shall appear to the court to be sufficient, a writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall command the court, and party to whom it shall
be directed, to desist and refrain from any further proceedin s in the
suit or matter specified therein, until the next term of ' the‘ sai sitprenre
court, and the further order of such court thereon; and then to show
cause why they should not be absolutely restrained from any further
proceedi in such suit or matter. ,

Sec. 1 . Such writ shall be served upon the court and party to
whom it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ of mandamus;
and a return shall in like manner he made thereto by such court, which
mag be enforced by attachment.

ac. 20. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall have 2
been directed, shall, by an instrument in writing, to be signed by him ‘
and annexed to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the
matters therein contained, as sufficient cause why such court should not
be restrained, as mentioned in the said writ, such party shall thenceforth
be deemed the defendant in such matter, and the person prosecuting
such writ may take issue, or demur to the matters so relied upon‘ by
such defendant; and the like proceedings shall be had, for the trial-__ of
issues of law or fact joined between the parties, and for the rendering
of 'udgment thereupon, as in a mandamus. _ _ . _

12c. 21. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall be directed, shall not adopt such return, as above provided, the party prosecuting such writ, shall bring on the argument of such return, as upon
I! rule to show cause; and he may, by his own affidavit, and other proofs,
Oontrovert the matters set forth in such return. _

Sec. 22. The court, after hearing the proofs and allegations of the
parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the said court and from proceeding in such suit or mat1&1‘, do issue, or a writ of consu tation, authorizing the court and party
10 roceed in the suit or matter in question. _ . _

so. 23. If the part to whom such first writ of prohibition shall r:

be directed, shall ado t the return of the court thereto, as above provid°da and ju ent s ll be rendered for the party prosecuting such
writ; ii prohi ition absolute shall be issued. but if judgment be given

against such party, a writ of consultation shall be issued as above proVl ed.

5U

'59

or run win-r or assess coarus.

Sec. 24. Eve person im risoned, or otherwise restrained of his
liberty, except in t e cases in e following section specliiiida Inf)’ P"°"
eciite a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions _0f 91“ °l"'P'
ter, to obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, If it 91”“ P‘'‘’‘''
to be unlawful.

5:

tl

Size. 25. The following persons shall not be entitled to prosecute
such writ: Persons committed or detained by virtue of the final judgment, or decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or decree;

tion; nor shall any attachment, or other process issued upo
order, be deemed an execution within the meaning of this section.

Size. 26. Application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed
either b the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in
his beha f, as follows : To any °udge of the supreme or district court,
being within the county where t e prisoner is detained; or if there be
no such officer within such county, or if he be absent, or for any cause
be incapable of acting, or have refused togrant such writ, then to some
officer having such authority residing in any ad'oining county.

Sec. 27. Whenever application for any we writ, shall e made to
any officer not residing within the county where the prisoner shall be
detained, he shall require proof by the oath of the part applying, or by
other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer in suc county authorized to grant the writ; or if there be Olte,»tl)8ll he is absent, or‘ has refused to grant such writ; or for some cause, to be specially set forth, is
incapable of acting, and if such proof be not produced, the application
shall be denied. ‘

Sec. 28. The petition must-state in substance:

1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is 
oned or restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by whom he is so

confined or restrained, and the place where, naming both parties, if their
names be known, or describing them if they are not:

2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of glnty
process, judgment, decree, or execution, specified in e twentysection of this chapter : _
3. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint, according
party:

to the best of the knowledge and belief of the

4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any
or process, a copy thereof must be annexed, or it must be averred,
by reason of such prisoners being removed or concealed before the app ication, a demand of such copy could not be made, or that such demand
was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to the officer or person
havin such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was refused 1

5. f the imprisonment be all ed to be illegal, the petition must also state in what the alleged ille ity '

warrant, order,
that

consists:
t_ 6. It must be verified by the oath of the party
ion.

Siic. 29. Any officer empowered to grant any writ applied for under this chapter, to whom such petition shall be presented, shall. 31'8"‘?
such writ without delay, unless it shall appear from the petition itself.
or from the documents annexed, that the rty applying therefore is_, by
the provisions of this chapter, prohibited rom prosecuting such writ.

, Sec. 30. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued under the provisions
of this chapter, shall be substantially in the following form:
In the name of the United States, to the sheriff of, &.c., (or

f‘ You are hereby commanded to have the bod of C. D., b
Pm°n}‘-<1 89d detained, as it is said, together wit the time an cause of
such imprisonment and detention, by whatsoever name the said C- Dshall be called or charged, before E. F., judge of the district court, 8-5
&°-a (07 "nmedlately 330!‘ the receipt of this writ,) to do and receive

making the applicato A. B.)
you imwhat shall then and there be considered cones ' ti, - .

I“ _ _ mung c said C. D. And
?“e;l:n there this writ.

    I»  for 
1. If the person having the custody of the ' '

- . _ prisoner, be designated
.:'.‘*.;.°:.:’.’.,‘t::."::“.:.°:.‘;.f::;.:' “°  °- by   me, or 
-ma .ppm.., ....1 ..;  ::;,“.::"::;.?::E°:;:;"::.“ by 9:

o s e  9
‘sllillsll be deemed the person to whom it is directed, although it may be
eoted to him by 0. wrong name or description or to another r r2. If the person who is directed to be prodiiced, be deslgnapteedwg .
name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described ii;
my other way, so as to designate the person intended.
‘O 135:-;:u3i;l_.itifoa;_ otfzer, authoriztglpy thltlarpllioviilgns of this chapter,
- _ corpus, s wi_ u y r use to grant such
Writ when legally applied for, he shall forfeit for every such offense, to
339 p8l'ly~sggrieved, one thousand dollars.
dulSy3;ri3i:& SEES ]::it'so_ns hupontwhoml any sucéi writ shall llliave been
, s e in is re urn am y an unequivoca y:
hi-limz:;lr¢t:1r0|1"el.lt£3r:lia:e, or have not e party in his custody, or undgr
n : .
th 2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint,
f e authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting
orth the same at large .
 :hu';hP":?' be d°t3i‘:;d bYf'i;t‘:f 5;‘ ‘my W31‘. W13-lrant, or other
_ . 01’! ya a copy ereo s a annex to e return, and
the original shall be produced and eichibited on the return of the writ,
to the officer before whom the same is returnable:
h‘4. If the person _upon whom such writ shall have been served, shall
V V0  the party in his power or custody, or under his restraint at any
‘"2; Pl’:(t)‘l)'d0l' subsequent to the date of the writ, but has transferred
on ' to whom. a:’Cv’i'..l°il.'§2"‘rZi “i'v°:i§1°E;.l'§ '§l.‘5'i'.y"l3iLi§u."3IlZ°"lTf§l
trsnsfer tool: place. ’ ’ y
°ep'It'h;l;'eturn naust be sigliild by the person makiig; the same,’ and exere '
his ........  53:3 ..,,...‘:;,2:‘:.:’;':.* §’:?,‘;:i2.d°;';: ::::.?’““' 
h§:0b-°e34- Tilda pdegon or officer, on whom ttllile habeas corpus shall a
n . . . . _
‘ll’: Iccordiiiglo the minadihfnttirdllgsdblli  i2’.i.:ce}eit}i‘iini:(ii'sl<:"bfhiiiec:lli::tli)- be
“'5 0‘ fuch person, as hereinafter provided.
‘.2 3:11 lgfthe personlulzotn wthomtiuch writbshallodhave beep duly 1,“
ty namied in sucliuwiirlii Iiiliigtleiiiaklinz ieiyfulleahadmcfiip icitrreliiciiiigtb eevptrr: m
such writ, within the time r uired by the provisions of this chapter,
Md no suhicient excuse shaleltlie shown for such refusal or neglect, it
lllall be the dgilty of the oliicer before lvlvhom such tylrit shall have been
"40 Few , f f ' . f, h '
lune an 8t'll8I::l|l!e|8!‘:tpo8‘gl1I(ll!‘1|Bel.  pzersbnf diihbltceil ioetlieei) shf:irittl' vbllhari;
county in this territory and commanding him forthwith to apprehend
'“¢l'I person, and to brih him immediately before such ofliccr; and
0" lllch person being so brought, he shall be committed to close custod s in the jail of the county in which such officer shall be, until he
‘Lil make return to such writ, and comply with any order that may he
made by such officer, in relation to the person for whose relief such
writ shall have been issued.
bar. 36. If it sheriff of any county, shall have neglected to return If e

such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner or other person, to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the
same, and such sheriff upon being brought up, may be committed 30 the
jail of any county other than his own. . _

Sec. 37. The oiiicer by whom any such attachment shall be issued,
may also at the same time, or afterwards, issue a precept to the ‘sheriff,
or other person to whom such attachment shall have been directed,
commanding him to bring forthwith before such officer, the rty for
whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who shall t ereafter
remain in the custody of such sheriff' or erson, until he shall be discharged, bailed, or remanded, as such 0 car shall direct.

Sec. 38. In the execution of such attachment or prece t, or of
either of them, the sheriff, or other person to whom they sh l he directed, may call to his aid the power of the county, as in other cases.

Size. 39. The officer before whom the party shall be brought, on
such writ, shall immediately after the return thereof, roceed to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into Sic cause of the
confinement, or restraint of such party, whether the same_ shall have
been upon commitment, for any criminal or supposed criminal matter,
or not. _ _

Sec. 40. If no legal cause be shown for such im risonment or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, such officer s ll discharge such
party from the custody or restraint, under which he is held.

Sec. 41. It shall be the duty of _ the oiiicer forthwith to remand
such rty, if it shall appear that he is detained in custody, either: _

1. y virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the l-lnjll-ed
States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction;
or

,2. By virtue of the final judgment or decree, of any competent 00"“
of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution, issued upon such
judgment or decree; or, _ .

3. For any contempt speciall and lainly charged in the commitment, by some court, officer, or body, ving authority to commit fol‘
th.;1f:o'i)‘llea!l2lll?l:l(3s(i.iI(:l]8a:l8tle1flllga\I’lf(lilch such party may be legally detained
has not expired. _ _ _ ,

Sec. 42. If it appear on the return, that the prisoner is in c1l5t°d¥
by virtue of civil process, of any court legally constitumda 01' *59“°‘_l by
an officer, in the course of judicial proceedi before him, authorized
by law, such prisoner can only be dischargdds in one of the tollowIi'8
cases:

1. When the jurisdiction of such court or officer, hasbeen exceeded
either as to matter, place, sum, or person:

2. Where, though the original imprisonment was lawful,yet by 801113
act, omission, or event, which has taken place afterwards, the party 1185
become entitled to be discharged: :

3. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance 1'0quired by law, rendering such process void: , W _ ,

4. Where_the rocess, though in proper form has been issued In 8
case not allowed y law:

5. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under such
process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him: or,

6. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment, 0rd"! °r
decree of any court, nor by any provisions of the law. _

:1 Sec. 43. But no officer on the return of any habeas corpl18e '55.“°d

“ under this chapter, shall have power to inquire into the legality or JU3‘

tice of any judgment, decree, or execution, specified in the precedi98
second section.

Sac. 44. If it appear that the party has been legally committed for
any criminal offense, or if he appears, by the testimony otfered with
the return, upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an odence,

the commitment be irregular, the officer before whom such
party shall be brou ht, shall proceed to let such party to bail, if the
case be bailable, an good bail be offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such party.

Sec. 45. If the party benot entitled to his discharge, and be not

' ed, the odicer shall remand -him to the custody, or place him under

e restraint from which he was taken, if the person under whose custody or restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled,
he shall be committed by such officer to the custody of such officer or
person as by law is entitled thereto.

f Sac. 46. Until judgment be givelili upon the return, the officer beore whom such shall be br t, ma either commit such rt
to the custody ofpdirciysherid of thcinizgounty iii which such oliicer lfhall
mar place him, in such cartaiog under such custody, as his age and

r circumstances ma r .

Sec. 47. When it a}p$rs from the return to any such writ, that ;

the party named therein is in custody, on any process under which any '

pdperslopnliabz an i(pte‘restl:)iin ‘tiiiontlinuing liintprlilscipment or l’tt;8alltl'II:!}llt,
nooers maeorssc ,uniisa spear e
party so interested, or his attorney, ifgfe have one, if ‘to found within the county, shall have had sudicient notice of the time and place at
which such writ shall have been made returnable.

Sec. 48. When it shall appear from the return, that such party is ‘
detained upon any criminal accusation, such officer shall make no order *4
for the discharge of such part , until sudicient notice of the time and
place at which such writ shall. have been returned, or shall be made returnable, shall be given to the district attorney, of the county in which
Inch o$cer shall be, if to be found within the county.

Sac. 49. The party brought before any such oilicer, on the return it
Of my writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the material facts set "‘
forth in the return, or allege any fact to show either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge,
which allegations or denials shall be on oath; and thereupon such 0 oer shall proceed in a summary way, to hear such allegations and proofs
08 {my like produced in siapport oifsuchhimprisonmielnt ort_ detepttzlilon, or
against e same, and to is e we party as t ejus ice o e case
ling require. P05
‘H to. 50. Whenever from the sickngsg or infirmity oi the person, pi

fected to be reduced b an writ of a eas cor us, we person can- °‘
30*: without dp r, be bgoug t before the officer before whom the writ
is made returnab e, the party in whose custody he is, may state the
fact in his return to the writ, verif ' the same by his oath; and if
Inch officer be satisfied of the trut 0 such allegation, and the return
be otherwise suliicient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return,
and to dispose of the matter; and if it appear that _the_ person detained,
5' illegally imprisoned, confined, or restrained of his liberty, the officer
shall ta writ ofdischa , eommandi those having such person
In their custody, to discharge him forthwi ; and if it appear that such
person is illegally detained, imprisoned, or confined, and is not entitled
to be bailed, such odicer shall cease from all further proceedings thereon.
Sac. 51. Obedience to any writ of discharge, or to any order for Obei
the discharge of any prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions of 3';
this chapter, may be enforced by the officer issuing such writ, or granting such order, by attachment, in the same manner as herein provided

for a neglect to malle a return to a writ of habeas corpus, and with the

like effect in all respects ; and the person  of such disobedience,

shall forfeit to the party aggrieved, one thousand twohundred and fifty

dollars, in addition to any special damages such party ‘may have sustained. . ,
Sec. 52. No sheriff or other oiiicer shall be liable to any civil action for obeying any such writ or order of discharge; and if any action

shall be brought against such officer’, for suffering any person committed to his custody to go at large, pursuant to any suc writ or order’, he

may setup the same in answer, inbar of the action. a » n

no. 53. No person who has been discharged by the order of any

officer, upon a habeas corpus, issued pursuant to the provisions of this

chapter, shall be again im risoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for

the same cause; but it shal not be deemed the same cause: a
1. If he shall have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal

charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense, by legal order or process of the court wherein he shall be bound etay recognizance
to appear, or in which he shall be indicted, or convict for t c same
ofence, by the legal order or process of the court wherein he shall ‘be
bound by rec 'zance to appear, or in which he shall be indicted or
convicted for t e same offense; or,

2. If, after a discharge for defect of proof, or for any material defect
in  commitment, in a criminal case, the prisoner be again arrested
on sufficient proof, and committed by legal processforthe same offense;
or, s . ~ .

3. If in a civil suit the party has been discharged for any illegality
in the judgment or process hereinbefore specified, and is afterwards
imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action; or,

4. If in any civil suit, he shall have been dischar d from commitment on -process, and shall be afterwards committ on execution in
the same cause, or on mesne process in any other cause after such first
suit shall have been discontinued.

1 Sec. 54. - If any person shall knowingly recommit, imprison, or _rest train of his liberty, or cause to be committed, imprisoned, or restrained
of his liberty for the same cause, except as provided in the last section,
any person so discharged, or shall knowingly aid or assist therein, he

shall forfeit to the party so aggrieved, one thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars; and shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

r Sac. 55. An one having in his custody, or under his power, any

' person who by t e provisions of this chapter, would be entitled 10 8
writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of his detention, who
shall with intent to elude the service of any such writ, or to avoid the

effect thereof, transfer any such prisoner to the custody, or lace him
under the power or control of another, or conceal him or c aiige tho
place of his confinement shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

, Sec. 56. Any one having in his custody, or under his power. 33‘?

person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been duly 13sued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, who with the intent

to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, shall

transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power 0?

control of another, or conceal him, or change the place of his conhnemcnt, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

id Sec. 57. Every person who shall knowingly aid, or assist in tllb
violation of either of the last two preceding sections, shall be deemed
guilty of misdemeanor. '

Size. 58, Every person convicted of any offense under either of the
last four sections, shall be punished by line or imprisonment, or both.
in the discretion of the court. in which he shall beconvicted; but such

tine 5l‘lIll not exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonment six
an .0

Sec. 59. Whenever it shall appear b satisfactory proof that any
one is held in illegal confinement, or cus y. and that there is reason to believe that he will be carried out of the territory, or su er some
irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a habeas
corpus, an officer authorized to issue such writs may issue a warrant
under his hand and seal, reciting the facts, and directed to any sherif,
constable, or other erson, commanding such oilieer or person to take
such prisoner, and’ forthwith to bring him before such odieer, to be
dealt with according to law.

See. 60. When the proof mentioned in the last section, shall also be
sutiieient to justify an arrest of the person having such prisoner in custody‘, as for a criminal odence, committed in the taking or detaining of
sue prisoner, the warrant shall also contain an order for the arrest of
such person for the offense.

Size. 61. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be directed, shall execute the same by bringing the prisoner therein named,
and the person who detains him, if so commandedby the warrant, before the officer issuing the same; and thereupon the rson detaining
such prisoner shall make a return in like manner, and e like proceedings shall be had as if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the
first instance.

Sec. 62. If the person having such prisoner in his custody, shall be
brought before such officer as for a criminal odence, he shall be examined, committed, bailed, or discharged by such oliicer, in like manner as
in other criminal cases of the like nature.

Sac. 63. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a co y of
any order, warrant, process, or other authority by which he shal detain any rson, to any one, who shall demand such copy and tender
the fees t ereof, shall torfeit two hundred dollars to the person so dotained. '

Sac. 64. Eve writ of habeas corpus may be made returnable at a
day certain, or fort with, as the case may require.

Sec. 65. Every such writ shall be mdorsed with a certincate that
the same has been allowed, and with the date of such allowance, which
indorsement shall be si ed by the officer allowing the writ.

Sac. 66. Writs of hiibeas corpus can only be served by an elector
of some county within this territory; and the service thereof shall not
be deemed complete, unless the party serving the same, shall tender to
the person in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such son he a
sheriff', coroner, constable, or marshal, the fees allowed y law for
hfinging up such prisoner; nor unless he shall also give bond to the
sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal, as the case may be, in a penalty
double the amount of the sum for which such prisoner may be detained
if he be detained for an s cific sum of money; and if not, then in the
penalt of one thousan doll)l‘hrs, conditioned that such person shdm
the charges of carrying back such prisoner, if he shall be rema ,
and that such prisoner will not escape by the way, either in going to
or returning from the place to which he is to be taken. _

Sec. 67. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued pursuant to this
chapter, ma be served by delivering the same to the rson to whom
it is directed; if he cannot be found it may be served y being left. at
the jail, or other place, in which the prisoner may be confined, with
any under officer or other person of proper age, having charge fol‘ ‘ht?

the time of such risoner.
Sec. 68. If e person on whom the writ ought to be served conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the party attempting to serve the

same, it may be served by amazing the same in some conspicuous place
on the outside, either of his dwelling house, or of the place where the
party is confined.

Snc. 69. It shall be the duty of every sheriff, coroner, constable,-or
marshal, upon whom a writ of habeas corpus shall be served, whether
such writ be directed to him or not, upon payment or tender of the
charges allowed by law, and the delivery or tender of the bond herein
described, to obey and return such writ, according to the exigency
thereof; and it s all be the duty of every other person, upon whom
such writ shall be served, having the custody of the individual for
whose benefit the writ shall be issued, to obey and execute such writ
according to the command thereof, without requiring any bond or the
‘ yment of any charges, unless the payment of such charges shall have

en r nired by the officer issuing such writ.

Size. 0. Every oliicer allowing a writ of habeas corpus, directed
to any other, than a sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal, may, in his
discretion, recpuire as a duty to be performed, in order to render the
service thereo effectual, that the charges of bringing n such prisoner
shall be paid by the petitioner, and in such case he sha l, in the allowance of a writ, specify the amount of such charges, so to be paid, which
shall not exceed the lees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services.

Sac. 71. If the writ be returnable at a certain day, such return
shall be made, and such prisoner shall be roduced, at the time and place
specilied therein; if it be returnable f with, and the place be within twenty miles of the place of service, such return shall be made, and
such prisoner shall be produced within twenty-four hours; and the like

time shall be allowed for every additional twenty miles.

Sec. 72. The provisions of the common law, in regard to the writ
of habeas corpus, treated of in this chapter, are hereby abrogated, except so much and such parts thereof, as may be necessary to carry into
fu 1 effect, the provisions herein contained; and the authori of courts,
and officers to award such writ, or to proceed thereon by t e common
law, shall be exercised in conformity to the provisions 0 this chapter,
in all cases therein provided for.

S20. 73. Nothin contained in this chapter, shall be construed to
restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus, ‘when
necessary to brin before them any prisoner for trial, in any criminal
case lawfully pen ing in the same court, or to bring any prisoner to be
examined as a witness, in any suit or roceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall t ink the personal attendance and
examination of the witness, necessary for the attainment of justice.

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

size-rioic 'Si:c'rioi¢

I. Judgment by confession in certain cases. 7. Parties may submit controversy without sc9. statement in writing, what it must contain. tion.

8. Statement to be illeil and clerk to enter 8. Judgment same as in other cases but withJudsmento

out costs.
A. Pics of confession signed by attorney. 9. Judgment may be entorced or appealed
5. Authority must be filed with the clerk. from as in an action.

0. Judcment Ihlll be binding and OIBONIII.

Sec. 1. A judgment by confession, may be entered without action,
either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against

contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.

Sec. 2. A statement in writi must be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to e following effect:

1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum:

2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely
the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed
therefore, is justly due, or to become due:

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liabilii , it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability,
and must s w that the sum confessed therefore, does not exceed the,
same.

Sec. 3. The statement may be filed with the clerk of the district
court, who must indorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a
jilndgment of the district court for the amount computed, with tive dolcosts. The statement, and affidavit with the judgment indorsed
thereupon, become the judgment roll. _

Sec. 4. Judgments may also be entered in the district court in vacation, or in term, upon a lea of confession signed by an attorney of
such court, although there he no suit then pending between the parties,
if the following provisions be complied with, and not otherwise :

1. The authority for confessi such judgment, shall be In some
proper instrument, distinct fromntfiat contaimng the bond, contract, or
other evidence of the demand for which judgment is confessed:

2. Such authority shall be produced to the officer signing such judgment, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the udgment shall be entered, at the time of filing and docketing such judgment. '

Sec. 5. When the authority mentioned in the last section, shall ;
have been filed with the clerk of the district court, judgment may be
entered thereon, in the same manner, as is provided in section one of
this chapter. . _ _

Ste. 6. Any judgment entered under either of the_provisions of
this chapter in vacation, shall be as tins! and edectual, as judgment rendered upon a verdict of a jury, and unless special .rovision.be made
for a stay of execution upon such 'udgment, execu ion may issue 111).
mediately upon the condition of we judgment.

9!’.- of sale, upon de ault being made

3

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

Size. 7. Parties to a question in dfilerence, which might be the subject of a. civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same, to any court which would have 'urisdiction if an action had been brougllitg but it must appear by aiii vit that the centreversy is real, and t e proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties ; the court must thereupon hear and determine the case
at a (general term, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were den i .
peSi:cIlg8. Judgment must be entered in the ju'

er cases, but without. costs for any proceeding prior to
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment,

ent book, as in othnotice of trial.
constitute the

jutgment roll.
no. 9. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if
it had been rendered in an action, and is in the same manner subject to

an appeal.

 

CHAPTER 85.
or THE FORECLOSURE or MORTGAGES BY ADVERTISEMENT.
SECTION snc-non

1. llortgege of real estate may be roreclosed ll. Mortsesor may redeem in one year.
in certain cases by advertisement. 12. It premises not redeemed P01031539’ °““‘
2. What requisite to entitle party to foreclose. tied to deod3- Mortsase my be foreclosed for each instal- in. surplus money to be paid in m°r*8*8°'mento 14. Evidence of sale how perpetuated4. Notice to be-given by publication. 15. Amdsvit shall be recorded by reslltet 0!

5. Notice what to contain. deeds.‘
6. sale, how, when, and by when made. 18. Note to be made by IOIWJCT in Hill’!!! 0‘
'7. Sale how may be P0WP0l°d- the record.

17. Record sufncient to pass the tltlBi8. Subsequent mortgazee °mm°d l'° ’°d°°m‘
19. What shall be deemed evidence of the sale

and torcloeure ol me OIIIIIUO! l'°d¢'lW°"

8. separate tract of land now sold.
9- N01‘?-83890 may purchase premises.

10. Oiiicer to give purchaser a. certificate or
sale. ‘

of real estate, containing therlclein a powef
in an condition of zinc mo es
5’. "E3?

ea

Sec. 1. Eve mortgage

may be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases and in the manner
inafter s cified. .

Sec. . To entitle any party to give a notice as hereinafter prescri ,
and to make such foreclosure, it shall be requisite:

1. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall have accrued. by which the power to sell become operative:

2. That no suit or proceeding shall have been instituted at law, to
recover the debt then remaining secured by such mo , or any part
313700‘; 01' If any suit or"proceediiig has been instituted, that the same

recorded, and if it 1 have been assigned, that all the assignments

Sac. 3. In cases of mortgages given to secure the paymentof mo
by installments, each of the installments mentioned in such mortgafq?
in epe ter the first, shall be talren and deemed pp be a aileparate and

dent mortgage ° and su mortgage for eac of me installments, may be
foreclosed in the same manner, and with the like effect, as if such separate mortgage were given for each of such subsequent installments,
and at redemption of A any such sale the mo r shall have the
like efect, as if the sale for such ins ments ha been made upon an
independent prior mortgage. .

Sec. 4. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by a sale of
the mo d premises, or some part of them, shall be given by publishing e same for six successive weeks, at least once in each week in
a news 1' rinted in the coun where the premises intended to be
sold, orpme ‘part of them, are sitttyiated, if there be one, and if no newspaper be printed in such county, then such notice shall be published in
a pseper Bubléhed at tpie seahtalcif gov_e_rnment.

ac. . very no ce s spec: y:
if 1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the assignee,
any:

2. The date of the mortgagp, and when recorded :

3. The amount claimed to e due thereon, at the date of the notice:

4.. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substantially gvith that contained in the mortgage; and a

. Th t’ d 1 f l .

Ste. (E. llgliignsalld tlstiiiill) bisaai public vendue, between the hours of
nine o’clock in the foreman, and the setting of the sun, in the count
in which the premises to be sold, or some part of them, are situate ,
and shall be made by the person ap ointed for that purpose in the mortgIge,_or by the sheriff, under sheriti)‘, or deputy sheriff of the county, to
h‘;.“ bsliicdlinsale may be postponed from time to time, by inserting 3
a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in the newspaper I
in which the original advertisement was published, and continuing such
alblicaticpp ulpetil the time totiwhich plhe sztale shall pe postponed, at the

use t re ues sue pos ponemen .
cc. 8. If t e mortgagednpgremises consist of distinct farms, tracts, 1!
er lots, they shall be sold separately, and no more farms, tracts, or lots, ‘
shall be sold, than shall be necessary to satisfy the amount due on such
ln<:lI1gIge at the date of the notice of sale, with interest, and the costs
.nSi:°:p;nw"Tl.ilel0i‘::d by hmliis 1331' s or his or their legal represent- I
-um.’ méy fairly» ..'.."‘.a“.n éood rait'»’»‘."p’urchasé the premises -o  "
lised, or any rt thereof, at such sale. _
Sac. 10. Whenever any lands and tenements shp.ll;>£"'{)’]d;hbYdV‘t"): Q
tu f ' ed ‘ t , 1 s e e u 3
detiie ii ceviiehrohtlti-e;:1l-itgxinmalrirhg ndiidn aiallegfgie egive to the purchas- 1
01’ or purchasers, a certificate in writing, under s , setting forth a description of each tract or parcel of the premises sold, the sum paid
therefore, and the time ’when the purchaser or urchasers will be entilied to a deed for the same unless they shall be redeemed as provided
in this chapter; and such dfiicer shall, within ten days from tl-ne_time of
Isle, file in the odice where the morlgge is recor ed, a duplicate 01

Inch certificate, signed by him, and su duplicate, ccrtiticate, or a copy

certified by the register, shall bestslren and deemed evidence of thefacts
therein contained.

Sec. 11. It shall be lawful for the mortgagor, his heirs, executors,
administrators or assigns, whose lands or tenements shall be sold in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, within twelve months after
such sale, to redeem such lands or tenements, by paying to the purchaser, his executors, administrators or assigns, or to the officer who
sold the same, the sum of money for which the same was sold, together
with interest on the same, at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, from
the timeof such sale; and such payment being made as aforesaid, the
said sale and the certificate granted thereon as aforesaid, shall be null
and void ; anything in this chapter, to the contrary notwithstanding; and
the hail of the sheriff shall be responsible for the faithful paymentto
the purchaser aforesaid, of all monies received by him, or any of his
deputies aforesaid. But no mortgagor shall be entitled to retain the
possession of the mortgaged premises, after the sale thereof, as provided in this cha ter. Sec. 12. I such mortgaged remises, so sold as aforesaid, shall not
be redeemed as aforesaid, it shal be the duty of the o$cer or his successor in oiiice, or other person who shall have sold the same or his executors, or administrators, or some other person appointed by the district court for that purpose to complete such sale, by executing a deed
of the premises so sold to the original purchaser, or to the creditor who
may have acquired the title of such original purchaser, or to the creditor who may have purchased such title from any othenpurchaser, or to
the assignee as the case may be of the certificate of sale.

Sec. 13. If after sale of any real estate, made as herein prescribed,
there shall remain in the hands of the oiiicer or other person making
the sale, any surplus money, after satisfying the mortgage on whic
such real estate was sold, and payment of the costs and expenses’ of
such foreclosure and sale, the surplus shall be paid over by such oilicer, or other person on demand to the mortgagor, his legal representatives or assigns.

Sec. 14. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence of any sale
made in pursuance of t e provisions of this chapter, may procure:

1. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of any notice of stponement, to be made by the printer of the news per in
which t e same was inserted, or by some person in his employ owing
the facts ; and,

2. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice: *0 b9
made by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale, stating the
time and place at which the same took place, the sum bid, and the name
of the urchaser: .

3. he affidavit specified in the last preceding section, may be taken
and certified b an officer authorized by law to administer oaths. Sec. 15. uch affidavits shall be recorded at length by the register _

of deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, in abook kept
for the record of mortgages ; and such original affidavits, the record
thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts therein contained.

Size. 16. A note, referring to the page and book where the evidence
0f 9-11)’ 8318 having been made under a mortgage is recorded, shall b0
made by the register recording such evidence, in the margin of the record of such mortgage, if such record be in his oiiice.

Snc. 17. A record of the affidavits aforesaid, and of the deed executed on the sale of the premises, shall be sufficient to’ pass the title
thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar of all claim or

equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representatives,

and of all persons claiming’ ' under him or them, virtue of t'tle
su uent to such mortgge; but no title aceruinlgy prior to thl:nzxei:ution such mortgage, s be afected thereby.

Ste. 18. An rson to whom a subsequent mortgage ma ha
been executed, sgallnbe entitled to the same privilege of redemgtionvoll

the mo premises, that the mo r might have had, or of satisfying e prior mo ; and shall y such satisfaction acquire all
the benefits to which suc prior mortgagee, was or might have been entitled.

Sac. 19. When the mo d premises, or any part of them, shall
have been purchased at such e by the mortgagee. his legal re essentative, or his or their assigns, as herein before provided, the sill vits of
the publication ‘and amxing notice of sale, and of the circumstances of
such sale, shall be evidence of the sale, and of the foreclosure of the
equity of redemption, as herein speoitied, without an; conveyance being executed, in the same manner, and with the like e ect, as a conveyance executed by a mortgagee upon such sale to a third person.

 
CHAPTER 36.

OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE COLLECTION OF DEMANDS
AGAINST BOATS AND VESSELS.

ltcrron stories

I. lasts, &e., for w§“ dam. mug. II. Execution for plalntllr how Issued.

8. Sultmsybelustltutedagalnstboat. 1!. Justlossouhe peace hsreeo¢nlsaaee,&c.<
1. salt how lnsututetl sulnst boat. 13. Proceedlnxs betore Jnstlces at the peace.
4. Complalnt what to cootaln. 14. Warrant Issued by s justlce how returned.
5. When warrant to be Issued. - 15. Warrant Issued by a Justice how returned.
C.Proeeedlacshoweonaucted. I6.Partotboat,lsc.,Inaybesold.

‘I. Who may deem, ac. I7. Oontlauanee how granted.

8- ltansverlsnotmadsla twentydaysJndg- I8. Contlnuaneewhsnrvfnledo

must, to. . 1!. Fees 0! officers.
9. Bond may be glren and boat dlscharted. 90. Appeal allowed.
to. Beat, &.c., may be sold. 21. Llmltatlon or sctlon.

Sec 1 Eve boat or vessel, used in navigating the waters of this 5

territory shall be ' ble: _

1. For all debts contracted b the master, owner, agent, or consignee
thereof, on account of su plies fhrnished for the use o such boat or vessel, on account of work one or services rendered on  of such boat
or vessel, or on account of labor done ormaterials  by mechanicliitradesmen, or others in and for bugding. fepmfmso mung 00*» ‘ll!’nil or iii’ suchboatorvess : ,

2.rEbr alliiurirsnzne for wharfage or anchorage of such boat or vesBel within this territory: _

3. For all dammdg or damages, accrui from the non-performance,
or mal-performance of any contract of a reightment, or any contract
touching the transportation of persons or property. enfefed "110 by “"3

master, owner,’ agent, or consignee of the boat or vessel on which such

contract is to be performed; and,
4. For all injuries done to persons or property by such boat or vessel. '

SEC. 2. Any person having a demand as aforesaid, instead of proceeding for the recovery thereof, against the master, owner, agent, or
consi of a boat or vessel, may at his option institute. suit against
such oat or vessel by name.

Sac. 3. Any plaintifff wishing to institute suit against a boat or vessel, shall file his camplaint against such boat or vessel by name, with
the clerk of the district court of the county in which such boat or vessel shall lie or be.

Size. 4. The complaint shall set forth the plaintiffs demand in all
its particulars, and on whose account the same accrued; it shall be
ygified by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some credible person for

Sec. 5. Whenever any complaint, as aforesaid, shall be filed in the
odicc of of the clerk of the district court, it shall be his duty to issue a
warrant returnable in twent days, directin and authorizin the sheriii’ to seize the boat or vessefrmentioned in t e complaint, an detain the
same in his custody, together with its tackle, apparel, and furniture,
until dischar ed from suchcustody by due course of law.

S20. 6. glpon the return of any warrant, issued by virtue of the
next preceding section, proceedings shall be had in the district court

a against the boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if suit had been

instituted against the person on whose account the demand accrued.

Sec. 7. The master, owner, agent, or consignee, of the boat or vessel, may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and answer the comaint. ‘

P Sec. 8. If in any action, commenced under the provisions of this
chapter, the master owner, agent, or consignee, of the said boat or vessel, shall not ap ear and answer the complaint, in twenty days after
the said action 8 all be commenced, the plaintifff may proceed to take
ju ment, in the same manner, and under the same restrictions, as in a
civi action against a natural person ; if an issue of facts should be J01!)ed, the proceedings shall be had as in other actions.

Snc. 9. If the master, owner, agent, or consignee shall, before final
ju ent in any suit instituted by virtue of this chapter, give bond!
to e plaintifff in such suit, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the court, or the 'udge or clerk thereof in vacation, conditioned to satisf the amount which shall be ad'udged- to be owing and due to the
p aintifl’. in the determination of t e suit, together with all costs accrumg. such boat or vessel, with the tackle, apparel, and furniture, belongin thereto, shall be discharged from further detention by the
sheriff.
Sec. 10. If ‘udgment shall be rendered against any boat or vessel:
in favor of the p aintiif, the court shall make an order directed to the
sheriff, commandin him to sell such boat or vessel, together with It!
tackle, ap rel, an -furniture, to satisfy the ju ent, and all 009“
that may ave accrued in the cause, which order s 1 be executed and
returned in the same manner as executions. .

Sac. IL If bond and security shall have been entered into, 0¢°°'d'

ing to the ninth section of this chapter, and jud ent shall have been
rendered in favor of the plaintifff, execution shalllvlzissued for the amount
of Judgment and costs, in favor of the plaintifff, against the principal and
security in such bond. _
Sec. 12. Justices of the peace, within their respective counties,

Sec. 14. Each warrant issued by
chapter, shall be returnable forthwith
warrant, it shall be the duty of the
termine the complaint of the plainti

a justice of the peace under this
5 and u on the return of such

é'_ustice of t e peace to hear and de3

‘served and returned.

Sec. 16. Whenever an order of sale shall be made for the sale of a
boat or vessel, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, the sheriff or
constable shall have power to sell such part thereof, or such interest
therein, as shall be necessa to satisfy the amount of 'udgment renndered in favor of the plainti , and all the costs that may ve accrued. ,

S20. 17. Upon good and sufficient cause shown b the master,

owner, agent, or consignee of any boat or vessel, sold

ter,'the court or justice of the peace may grant a continuance of
cause; but no such continuance shall o rate as a discharge of such
boat or vessel from the custody of the s eriff or constable.
Sec. 18. No continuance of a cause, under this chapter, shall be
granted to the laintiif.
Sac. 19. S eriifs, constables, and other officers, shall receive the
same fees and compensation for their services under this chapter, as

are allowed them in cases of suits of attachment. V
Sec. 20. In all cases arising under this chapter, if  shall

have been rendered in favor of the plaintifff, the master, owner, agent,
or consignee of the boat or vessel, or other person interested, may appeal from the judgment, as if the , or either of them, had been sued.

Sec. 21. All actions against a boat or vessel, under the provisions
of this chapter, shall be commenced and sued within one year after the
cause of such action shall have accrued.

C

 

CHAPTER 87.

OF FOBCIBLE ENTRIES AND UNLAWFULIDETAINERS.

 

cases.
7. Continuance when created.
8. Deposltlons may be used In certain cases.
9. Judgment how entered where defendant is
found sumy.
to. Proceedings when jury cannot I809II. treble dslnllu allowed.

3- Upon compmm belnz nled, justice to issue
summons.

0. Summons how served.

5-Trlslbyjm-ymsybedeusndedlryetthsr
rent.

or this cha‘-E i

A

L
ti

I

~ or either of them, are absent from

850710!

lands, tenements,'or other .
on by law ; and in such cases, not with strong hands, nor with a m titude of peop
henceforth do to the contrary, and
be punished by line.

hereinafter directed, as well age
or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other pos
the same as against those who, having lawful and
lands, tenements, or other possessions, unlawfully

Snolrsol .
12. Action lies to recover possession or leased 19. It restitution allowed before appeal, justice
premises. ‘ to give certiilcate.

la. Limitation to preceding section. 20. Proceeding in appellate court.

I4. Complainant may bring civil action against 21. Amendments allowed.
defendant. 9!. What matters to be set up in answer.

l5. Penalty for neglect to serve as Juror. 23. Appellate court may compel amended telo. Fines to be for the use ol common schools. turn.
17. Appeal when and how taken. 94. Forms adopted.

A 18. Stay or proceedings upon appeal.

Sec. 1. No person or persons shall hereafter make an entry into
possessions, but in cases where entry is 'vle, but only in a peaceable manner; and if any person from
thereof be duly convicted, he shall

peace shall have authority to inquire as

inst those who may make unlawful
sessions, and detain

eeful entry into
‘n the same; and
if it be found upon such inquiry, that an unlawful or forcible entry hath
been made, and that the said lands, tenements, or other possessions, are
unlawfully held, or are detained by force and strong hand, or that the
same, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then such justice shall
cause the part complaining to have restitution thereof.

Sec. 3. en any com laint shall be made in writing, to an juitice of the peace, of an sue unlawful or forcible entry or un awful
detainer, said justice sllall issue a summons, directed to the sheriff or
any constable of the same county, commanding him to summon the person or persons against whom such complaint shall have been made._*°
appear before the said justice on a da in such summons named, which
shall not be less than six, nor more t ten days from the day of issuing such summons, and at the place therein mentioned.

S20. 4. Such summons shall be served upon the person or personf
against whom the same is issued, by delivering a certified copy thereof
to such person or persons, at least three days before the _return day
thereof; and the odicer serving the same shall make a special return of
the time and manner of serving said summons. _

Sac. 5. After the return of said summons, served as herembefore
provided, and at the time and place appointed in said summonssth°_5”d
j}1I::ice shall proceed to hear and determine said complaint; Ifroetdsd,

t if either party shall call for a trial by jury, the said justice shall
issue a venire, in the same manner, and upon the same terms: 3? “'
other cases provided for trial by jury in justices’ court; and such 1111'!’
shall be sworn as in other cases.

Sec. 6. If at the time of making said complaint, it shall be inbde to

‘net whom said complaint is 111346:
utglld county, it shall be the duty of
the justice before whom the same is made, to issue his summons _as
hereinbefore provided, and make the same returnable not less than 8.1!»
nor more than ten days from the time of issuing the same, and Such
summons may be served by leaving a true and attested copy th0T°°f ‘t
the last and usual place of such erson or persons’ abode, not 1083 ill“
six days before the return day tllereof ; such copy shall be left with
some member of the family, or some person resid' at such laces °f
suitable age and discretion, to whom the contents ereof shal he 81'
plained by the officer leaving the same ; and the said officer shall mil“
aspecial returnofthetimeandmanner ofserving said summons; and

Sec. 2. Any justice of the

appear that the person or persons

nth
.doIntnd or let to him, or her, or to the person under whom he or she

the suit shall thereaftia-' proceed the some as though a personal service
were hard of such summons. Sni:.- 7. The justice may at his discretion, ad'oiirn any trial under
this chapter, not exceeding six days; but in- all! cases inciitioned in
section twelve of this chapter, it‘ the defendant, his agent or attorney,
shall mslie oath that -he cannot safely proceed to trial, for the want or
some material witness, naming him, that he has made due exertion to
obtain said witness, and believes if an adjournment be allowed, he will
be able-to procure the attendance of said witness, or his deposition, in
uissoli-to produce the some upon such trial; in which csse,'il' such _per ons will giro bond, with one or more sumcicnt sureties, con‘ O  I . .

reiiloiiu le time as may appear necessary, not exceeding three months.

-. Sec. 8. The deposition of any witness, whose testimony may he

considered necessary by either party, may be taken for the same reason,
sin the lame manner, and with the same etfect, as is provided by law for
hiring of -depositions to be used in justices’ courts.

--i -.8so. :9. .11’, upon the trial of any complaint under this chapter, the
‘justice or ju shnll liud that the dcliendzint or defendants, or either of
then, are guilty of the alleg'a.tions in the complaint, the said justice shall

thereupon eiiterjudgincnt for the complainant, to have restitution of
thspreniisos, and shall impose such tine, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, considering all the circinnstaiiccs, as he may deem just, and
shall tax the costs for the complainant, and may issue execution in liwor
of said-comphiinont, for such costs as in other actions ox delicto, and
the Iltidjustice shall also award aiul issue-is writ of restitution; but if
the said 'ustice or the jur , find that the person complained of is not
guilty, to coin laint, in t icir opinion, not having been supported, the
maid justice shal.l tax the cost against the coinplainant, and issue exe-Illlliou therefore.

- S30. 10. II" the jury, iinpanncled as nforesaicl, cannot agree upon I‘
‘I verdict, the justice before whom the trial is pending, in.-iy discharge -"
-tail jury, if in his opinion. they are not likely to agree upon .a verdict,
and issue a venire returiiulile fortliivith, or at some other time agreed
llpon b the iartics, for the ur so ofiiiipunucling ii. new jury.

. SlD.y.ll'.. ]The compliiiiiaiii ofpiiiiy l'ofciblc entry, or ofuny uiilawliil E

'tiei-',_ as aforesaid, who shall recover against the person co_InpliuIlcd

01.3! aforesaid, shall be entitled to recover treble damages, with costs
of-suit, by a civil action against the offender or olfcnilcrs, to be brought
before any justice of the peace, or court ol' record, for that purpose!
 ahoays, That nothing contained in the foregoiiig part 01 this

vlllpter, shall be construed to extend to any person or persons Wllu

- re had quiet, ble, and uninterrupted occupation of any lands,
tenements, or otlier possessions, otherwise than by deiiiise or lease, for
-i-lie-"period of three whole years, next before the entering of‘ ‘such coinplaint, an thing in this chapter to the contrary iiotwitlistanding.

-SEC. .1 . Vvlien any person shall hold over any lands, i—0I.l01l19nl-5: 01' A”

_ ' _ t-or
er possessions, after the tcrniination of the time tor which they are low

holds possession, or contrary to the conditions or covenants of the 18350
0!‘ agreement, under which he or she holds, or alter any rent shall have
-become due, according to the terms of such lease or agreements and

Niall Doinaiii unpaid for the space of three days; in all Such 03995: if

the lessor, his heirs, executors, iuhniiiistrators, assigns, agent or attoiii tic , shall miilie deniiind in writing of such tciiaiitii. that lit} 0" sh“ 5h“ t
dc irer possession of the premises held as iilorcsaid, and it such tenlm

shall refuse or -neglect, for’ the space of three days alter such demand,
to quit the possession of such lands or tenements, or to pay the rent
therefore, so due and unpaid as aforesaid, upon complaint thereof to any
'ustice of the cc of the proper county, the justice shall proceed to

ear, try, and etermine the same, in the same manner as in other cases
hereiiibefore rovided for: Provided, That in all cases mentioned in
this section. tlie justice shall impose no fine upon such tenants. '

Size. 13. The precedi section shall not entend to any person who
has, or shall have continue in possession three years, after the termi‘nation of the time for which the premises were demised» or let to him
or her, or those under whom he or she claims; or to any person who
continues in possession three years, quietly and peaceably by disseisin,
anything contained in this chapter, to the contrary’ notwithstanding.

Size. 14. The complainant shall be entitled to bring a civil action
against the person complained of, and who shall be found guilty on the
trial, and may recover treble damages from the time of notice to quit
the premises, and untiltliat time, damages only.

See. 15. Every person summoned as a juror, or sub ed as‘:
witness, who shall not appear, or who appearin , shall re use to serve
or give evidence in any prosecution instituted virtue of this chapter, shall forfeit and pay for eve such default or refusal, unless some
reasonable cause be assigned, suc fine, not exceeding ten dollars, as the
said justice shall think proper to impose.

Sec. 16. All fines imposed by virtue of any provisions in this chapter, shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county where the action
is commenced, for the use of common schools; and the said 'ustice may
commit the person against whom the fine is imposed, to e common
jail of the county, until such such fine be paid, or the said justice may
issue execution therefore, as in other cases ex delicito.

Sec. 17. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the verdict of the
jury, or decision’ of the justice, he may appeal within ten days, as in
other cases tried before justices of the peace, excepti his bond shall
be with two or more sudicient sureties to be approved y said justices
conditioned to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the court
may make therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly aocruiig
to said complainant durin the pendency of such appeal. _

, SEC. 18. Upon the ta ing of such appeal, all further roceedingsm
the case shall be thereby stayed, and the appellate court s all thereafter
issue all needful writs and processes, to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, according to the true intent and meanin thereof.

- Size. 19. If a writ of restitution shall have been issued previous lo
the taking of an appeals, as provided in this chapter, the justice shall
forthwith give t e appellant a certificate of the allowance of such appeal; and upon the service of such certificate upon the otlieer having
such writ of restitution, the said officer shall forthwith cease all further
proceedings by virtue of such writ; and if such writ shall not liavebeen
completely executed, he defendant shall remain in possession of the
premises, until the appeal shall have been determined.

v- Sec. 20. In all cases of appeal under theprovisions of this chapter, the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the proceeding!

for waiit of form only, provided they have been conducted substantially,
accordm to the provisions of this chapter. _
SEC.  Amendments to the com laint, summons, or answer: “‘
matters ct form only, may be allowed y the court at any time befom

flnatl judgment, upon such terms as to the court shall appear just to the
par ies.

:0; SEC: 22.. All matters in excuse, justification, or avoidanceof “I0
allegations in the complaint, shall be set up in the answer. ~

. Sec. 23. The appellate court shall have power to eomipel the jugtice, by attachment, to make or amend any return which is all be withheld, or insufficiently or improperly made.

1

Sec. 24. The fo owing or equivalent forms shall be used in proceedings under this chapter, to wit:
Form of summons.

Territory of Minnesota,

Count of l '3'
To the s eritf or any constable of the count aforesaid:

Whereas, of tli exhibited unto a justice
of the peace, in and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against
of for that the said on the day of at

(here insert the substance of the complaint with legal certainty ;) thereforee, in the name of the United States, on are hereby commanded _to
summon the said if to be {is
peer before me at on day of at of
the clock in the noon, then and there to make answer to, and defend against the complaint aforesaid, and further to be dealt with aceordiglto law, and make due return to me of this summons, with
your 'ngs thereon.

Dated at this day of in the year one
thousand eight hundred and .

J. P. justice of the peace.
Form of writ of restitution.

Territory of Minneso

Count of i ”‘

To the s rill’ or any constable of the county aforesaid:

Whereas, of at the coiirtof inquiry of an unlawful or forcible entry and unlawful detainer, heldat in the
count aforesaid, on the day of one thousand
eight undred and before a justice of the peace,
in and for the county aforesaid, by the consideration of the court, recovered judgment inst of to have restitution

of, (here describe t e premises as in the complaint;) thereforee, in the
name of the United States, you are hereby commanded, that taking with
you the force of the county, if necessary, you cause the said .
to be immediately removed from the aforesaid premises and the said
to have peaoeable restitution of the same; you are also hereby comDlnded, that of the goods and chattels of the said _ within said
county, ou cause to be levied, and the same being disposed of accor’ (lit; to Kw, to be paid to the said the sum of
lleilg the cost taxed against said for the said _ _
It the court aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents for this Writ.
and thereof ther with this writ, make due return within thirty days
from the date ereof, according to law.
Dated at

. am day of one thousand

eight hundred and .

Form of verdict.
At a court of inquiry },¢]d at on the day of Pol

one thousand eight hundred and 2 b°f°T° _ 3
justice of the peace, in and for the county of 1 °°'_nPl‘“"‘“‘,‘*
against respondent, the jury find the facts alleged in the said
coin aint are true, that the said is guiltythereofi and the

Iui ought to have restitution of the premises therein described without delay; (orincase the jury ‘do not tind the allegation of _
complaint proved) the jury find that t.he facts alleged in the same complaint are not proved, and that the said is not guilty thereof.
C. D., foreman.

’ J. P., justice of the peace.

CHAPTER 88.

OF ACTIONS BY PERSONS HOLDING CLAIMS ON UNITED
STATES LANDS. ’

sncnon ' Sncrron
l. Settlers on public lands may maintain ac- 3. Claim must be marked.
tlon for truurtes, ate. 4. Abandonment 0! claim.

2. PlsIntltl"s clslm how defended.

Sec. 1. Any person settled upon any of the public lands belongihog
to the United States, on which settlement is not expressly prohibit
by congress or some department of the general government, my maintain an action for injuries done to the possession thereof, or to recover‘
the possession thereof.

Sec. 2. On the trial of any such cause, the possession, or possessory right of the plaintifff, shall be considered as extending to the boundaries embraced by the claim of such plaintifff, so as to enable him to
have and maintain either of the aforesaid actions, without being com—'
pelled to prove a natural enclosure: Provided, That such claim shall“
not exceed in any case, one hundred and sixty acres; and the ssmemay
be located in two diferent parcels, to suit the convenience of the holder.

Sec. 3. Every such claim, to entitle the holder to maintain either

of the aforesaid actions, shall be marked out so that the boundaries ’
thereof may be easily traced, and the extent of such claim easily known; ‘

and no personshall be entitled to maintain either of said actions for pos3°33i°n Of, 01' any injury done to any claim unless he been actual settler:
or cause the land to -be constantly occupied, and improvement made
thereon, to the amount of fifty dollars. . '

Sec. 4. A n lect to occupy or cultivate such claim, for the pefiotl
of six months, she I be considered such an abandonment as to preclude
the claimant from maintaining either of the aforesaid actions.

OF THE RELIEF OF INSOLV INT DEBTORS.

section b

A srxrrron , ,
I. insolvent debtor may be discharged from l6. insolvent msybeexsmlncd at the hearing.
4 his debts.

Is. Where propertylnas been sold, amount in
be paid to clerk of court. 17. when Judas to direct an assignment at
estate.

l8. i-‘indlng or Jury to be conclusive.
19. Property of insolvent vested in assiznce.

‘ I: Petition and schedule what to contain.

3. Andsvitto hesnnexsd topetitian; term or
‘— atlidsvit. M

4. ‘order for creditors to show cause.

6. contents or notice to be publiscd in newspaper. 20. Courfwhen to grant insolvent discharge.
Grower howpuhlisbedwlieneredltsrsreslde 2l.Wli.stpsperstobeliedIIthclerk. '*
intheterrilnry. 2%. Disehsrsoollndaneutvhcmtobeuteredy

‘L Court when proot, kc. by clerk. ,  8. Trial by jury when ordered. 23. Discharge may he pleaded
9. Jury drawn as in civil actions. 24. Discharge when voidsble.
lo. Jury how drawn in vacation. 25. Writs ot error may issue within
1:. Jury how drawn in vacation. es. New hearing wnausnowea. 
33. III‘! bow-to Proceed.

I3. Verdict to be recanted.

Mo llyinrr do not ssree, Judge to render Judgllitllto

QGIBC.

ol the proceeds of sale, kc. ‘

Sec. 1. Every insolvent debtor may
as hereinafter provided, upon executing an assignment of all his propmy, real and personal, for the benefit of his creditors, and upon cons
plilboe with the several provisions of this chapter. i ,

‘Sec. 2. Such insolvent debtor shall petition a judge of the district
court, praying to be discharged in ursuance oi‘. the provisions of this
chapter, and shall annex to, and deliver with his petition to the oiicer
to whom it shall be presented, a schedule containing:

1.‘ *A full and true account of all his creditors:

_ 2. The cc of residence of each creditor, if known to such insolvent,
and if not wn, the fact to be so stated: a '

3. The sum owing to each creditor, and the nature of each demand,
Whether arising on written security, on account, or otherwise:

‘ 4. The true cause and consideration of such indebtedness, in each
tine, and the place where such indebtedness accrued:

' 6. A statement_of an existing judgment, mortgage, or collateral or
Other security, for the payment of any such debt:

6. A full and true inventory of all the estate, both real and‘ personal,
in law, and in equity, of all chases in action, debts due, and men ‘sf 21!;

had, of such insolvent, of the incumbranccs existing thereon,
l-lifbooks, vouchers, and securities relati thereto. » L = t

1 Sec. 3. An-affidavit, in the followi arm‘, shall be annexed to the
laid petition, account, and inventory, an shall be sworn to and subfcfibed by such insolvent in the presence of the officer to whom the
said is addressed, who shall certify the same: - * _ e v v

' “ , do swear, (or aibnn, as the case may be,) that
"he sceountlof my creditors, and the inventory of my estate, which are
annexed to my petition, and herewith delivered, are in all respects just
and true, and that I have not, at any time or in any manner wlntevef.
disposed of or made over any part of my estate for the future benefit of

in bar toactlon.

27. Jmlxmentonwhsttobeoomeslieo. .
28. Judge may make order for the distribution,

be discharged rs... his .:.u.,;

1

or in order to defraud any of in creditors, and
created or acknowledged a ebt for a greater
I have not paid, or in any

with a view fraudulently to

myself, or my family,
that I have in no instance,
sum than I honestly or truly owed, and that
way compounded with any of my creditors,

obtain the pra er of my petition.” .
Sec. 4. T e odicer receiving such petition, schedule, and affidavit,

shall make an order, requiring 1 the creditors of such insolvent to
show cause, if any they have, at a certain time and place, to be specified by him, why an assignment of the insolvent’s estate should not be
made‘, and he be discharged from his debts.

Sec. 5. The officer granting such order shall direct notice of its
contents to be published in a newspaper printed at the seat of government of the territory, and in a newspaper printed in the county in
which such ap ication is made, if there be one ; and if one-fourth
in amount, of t e debts owing by such insolvent, shall have seem in
an other state or territory, or be due to creditors residing there, such
0 cer shall also designate a newspaper at the seat of overnment of
such statee or t¢:il'i't1qryéri:d which suciihnotigle shall be puglished.

Sac. . If e itors of su ins vent reside within the territory, the seid officer shall direct such notice to be published once in
each week, for six successive weeks, and if any of such creditors reside out of the territory, the notice shall be directed to. be published
once in each week for ten successive weeks.

Sec. 7. On the day, or at the term appointed in such order, or any
subsequent day or term, that the judge or court before whom cause is
required to be shown, ma appoint, t e said judge or court, as the case
may he, shall proceed to ear the proof and allegations of the parties,
an before any other proceeding be had, shall require proof the publication of the notice as herein directed., -Sn-c. 8. Every creditor opposing the discharge of an insolvent, under this chapter, nisy at the time ap inted for the tint hearing, dew be had, that

discharge. _

Sec. 9. Upon such demand being made to an court, before which
a hearing shall be had, a ‘my shall be drawn in e same manner as for
the trial of civil actions, llrom the jurors summoned and attending said
court, who shall be sworn as prescribed in this chapter.

Sec. 10. If such demand be made to any court in vacation, he 811!“
nominate eighteen freeholders of the county, and shall issue a summons
to the sherid‘ or any constable of the county, commanding him to cause
the persons so nominated to appear before such odicer, at a time and
place to be s ecilied in the summons, not less than six nor more thlll
twelve da s mm the time of issuing

Sec. 1 . At the time and place so appointed, twelve of the person!

so summoned and appearing, shall be balloted for and drawn, in NW
manner as jurors in a court of record, and shall be sworn by the judge.
well and truly to hear, try,’ and determine the wilidity of the objection
so s .
Sac. 12. Such jury so drawn and sworn, either by a court, 0!‘ j“d8°
in vacation, having heard the proofs and all ‘ens of the parties; 953“
determine the matter submitted to them, addutelor that purpose sh!“ 5°
_kept together by some proper o$cer, to be sworn as usual in like easel
"3 °°‘“'“ 0f N00111: _until they agree upon their .verdict,
dict shall be conclusive in the premises, unless reversed on’ writ of
ror, as hereimtter directed.

.830. 131. Theverdictsorsndered,shallbereeeI1ledbytl‘neoiIi'tot'
' , in the minutes of the proceedings.

bi.-.c. 14. There shall be but one  before a jury, in any one
under this chapter. If such jurv cannot agree alter being kept together
a reasonable time, then they shall be discharged, and the court or judge
rshalhlddeeide upon the merits of the application, as if no jury had been
.j .

Sec. 15. At the hearing of any such petition, before a jury or otherwise, the insolvent may be examined on oath, at the instance of a
creditor, touching his estate or debts, or any matter stated in his
ule, and may be r ired to state any change which may have occurred
in the situation of is propegav, since the making of his schedule, and
psrticula whether he has lectcd any debts or demands, or madeaiq
transfer c any part of his real or personal estate; but this shall not be
construed, to prohibit any such creditor from contradicting or impeaching, by other competent testimony, any evidence given by such insolvent

Size. 16. If it shall appear on such examination, or otherwise, lg
competent proof, that such insolvent has collected any debts or demands,
or made any transfer absolute, or conditional, or otherwise, of part
of his real or personal property, since the making of the schedu e annexed to his tition, he shall be required to pa forthwith to the 0506!‘

he Kenri shall he had-, the
tiull amount of debts and demands so by him coll or received, and
the full value of all property so b him transferred, except such partof
the said debts and property as sha l satisfactoril appear to the judgeer
court, to have been necessarily expended b we insolvent, for the support of himself, or his family; and no discharge shall be granted to him
under the provision of this chapter, unless such payment shall be made
within thirty days thereafter, to the assignee of such insolvent.

8:0. 17. If it shall satisfactorily appear to the judge, or the court 1
before whom such application is iiding, in cases where no jury has :
been required, or the jury have 'sagreed, that the insolvent is just
and truly indebted to the creditors, in the sums mentioned in his sch ule and affidavit, that such insolvent has lionestlyand fairly given a true
account of his estate, and has in all things, conformed to the matter required of him in this chapter, the judge or court before whom the application shall be . pending, shall direct an assignment of all such insol\'ent’s estate, both in law and in equity, in possession, reversion, or sogloilllief, except such property as maybe by law expt from execuSzc. 18. When any of the matters in the last section, required to r
beestablished previous to granting an order of ass’ ment, shall have "‘

been submitted to a jury as herein provided, and s have been found
in favor of the insolvent, such finding shall be conclusive as to such
matters, upon the officers or court before whom the proceedings are
'ng; and the otliccrs or court shall direct an pssig-nment accordingyz Provided, That the jury may increase or diminish theamount of
my debt, by such insolvent set forth in his schedule. _

Sac. 19. Such assignment shall vestin the assignees, all the interest Pr
of such insolvent at the time of executing the same, in any estate, or 3:
mpny, real or personal, whether such interest be legal or equitable;

no ' tinterest shall s to the sssignees by virtue of such asIignlnent, uiims the same shalln'beeome vested within three years after
the melting of the assignment; and in case of its  so vested, it
shall pass to the assignees in the same manner, as it would have vested
in such insolvent if no assignment had been made by him.

Site. 20. Upon such insolvent’s proclucingacertiticate under the Cow

hands and seals of.thesssigmes,~exeeutodin the presence-of such oicer,
or of two witnesses, and proved by the affidavit of one of them, stlti-ng
-that snchinsolvent has assigned and deliveredfor the use of all his
creditors, all his estate so directed to be assigned, and all the boob,
vouchers, and securities relating to the same; and upon his also producing a certiticate of the register of deeds of the proper county, that such
assignment has been duly recorded in his office, the officers or. count
w‘ho*directed such assignment, shall grant to such insolvent a discharge
from his debts, which shall have the effect declared in the 
~secticns of this chapter. . * -- A 1 ‘ .
' 'SBC. 21. The petition, stlidavit, order of discharge, and all the testimony, proceedingspand pa rs in the case of such insolvent, shall be
filed in the o$ce of the clot of the district court; whose duty it shall
lreto enter upon the doelret of judgments in such court, the namesnf
the several creditors, mentioned in the schedule of such insolvent, as
-plaintiffs,‘ and the -name of such insolvent, as defendant, and to enter. a
judgment in said docket by confession of defendant, for the several sums
respectively  or shown to be due in andby such scheduleand
Sec. 22. The said clerk shall also enter a disc of such judgment upon the docket, by order of the, court, and sue discharge may
he pleaded in all cases hereinafter mentioned.
. Sec. 23." In any action which shallbc brought  such insolvent, or his personal representatives, a discharge granted pursuant to
‘the provisions of this chapter, may be pleaded in his answer, in bar of
‘any action upon an contract made by suchinsolvent, and in bar of anyaction upon any liabi ity of such insolvent, incurred by making or indorsmg
any promissory-note or bill of exchange, previous to the execution of his
assignment, or incurred b him in consequence of the - ment by any
party to such note or bil .of the whole, or any part of e money se‘cured thereby, whether such payment be made prior or sub neat to
«the execution of the assignment by such insolvent :. Provided, T same
or the -consideration be included in such schedule. _
- Sec. 24. Every discharge granted to an insolvent under this chapter, shall be voidafile in each ot the following cases : _ .
— 1. If such insolvent shall have willfully sworn» falsely In his all”!-vit annexed to his petition, or upon his examination in relation to any
material fact concerning his estate, or his debts, or to any other matefml fact :
2. If, after the presentation of his petition, he shall sell» Orin ‘{9}’
W"? transfer or assign any of his property, or collect any debtsdue hill}:
*a shall» not give a just and true account thereof, on the hearing of his
‘application, and shall not also pay or secure the payment of theIn0lI0}'
«:10 collected, or the value.of' the property so assigned, as‘ here1nbcf0I'—8
irected: - - - - A
‘ 3. If he shall secrete any part of his estate, or any books or writi"8‘
relative thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors: _
' 4. If he shall fraudulently conceal the names of any of his c1'ed|t0"a
or the amount of any sum due to any of them: _ '
5.’ If he shall pay, or consent to the payment of any portlonof the
debts or demand of any of his ‘creditors, or shall grant, or consent to
the granting of any gift or reward to any such creditor, upon 8")’ 9"
press or nnphcd contract or trust, that the creditor so paid or rewarded,
“should abstain or desist from opposing the discharge of such inB0lV¢nt‘

' '6. If he shall be guilty of any fraud whatever, contrary to the MIG
intent of this chapter.

Sec. 25, Writs of error from the supreme court, may be sued onlwithin one year next after the renditim of the several judgments

against such insolvent in the district court, and if upon the hearing of
such cause in the supreme court, it shall appear by affidavit that any
clause in the last preceding section has been violated, then and in that
case, a new trial or hearing, shall be awarded to the district court, in
which such jud ents may have been rendered.

Sec. 26. T e new hearing to be had, in pursuance of the last preceding section shall be in all respects conducted according to the provisions of this chapter; and the judgment rendered on such new hearing shall be final and conclusive in t e premises.

Sizc. 27. No 'udgment rendered in pursuance of _the provisions of

this chapter, shall be, or become a lien upon any other property, than
such as may have been assigned in satisfaction thereof.

Sec. 28. The court in which judgment may have been rendered in
pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may from time to time make
such order, for the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the property assigned by any insolvent as to said court may ap r most for
the interest of the creditors; and for the payment from tlizap

salesof such property, of all legal fees and expenses accruing on the ’
application for discharge by any such insolvent.

CHAPTER 90.

OF THE RELIEF OF PERSONS CONFINED IN JAIL ON
CIVIL PROCESS.

ncnoii sscrioii

1. Person contlned in prison how discharged. 8. Jaiior when to dischsrse debtor.

2. Notice or application to be given plaintifff. s. Debtor may tent! for dtschsrso over! ten
a. Notice how served. dm4. Justices on hearing how to proceed. to. Bilbct or discharge.

6» Hainug mg gppcgr ma gxunlne prisoner. ii. Jndtment shall remain in full force.

0. Justice. mm; m magnum oath to prison- I2. Debtor liable for support in prisonat ; go... 0; ..u., is. riainurtmar order prisoner dlschsrsoth
7- Certincstp of discharge, and torn oi’.

Size. 1. Every rson _confined in jail, on an execution issued on a '1:
judgment recover in an action for injury shall be discharged there- cm
from at the end of ten da s from his first confinement, upon the conditions hereinafter s iii . _ , ,

Sec. 2. Such xpcefrson shall cause notice to be given_to the plaintiE 3';
in the suit, his agent or attorney in writing, that 0}‘ 3 cemln ‘hi’ and hm" P"
and at a certain place, he will apply to two_justices of the cc of the
county where the person is committed, statin the names o such Justices, for the ur e of obtaining a discharge roin his imprisonment. _

Sec. 3. uc notice shall be served by a c0£)’ 011 the Pl3"m3.a h“ 1“

nt, or attorney, twenty-four hours before the our of hearing the_a

ieation in cases where the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney lives wi in twent miles of the lace of the hearing, and twenty-four_ hours shall
be add to the time oi’ the notice, for every twenty additional miles,
the plsintif, his agent or attorney, shall reside distant from that placeSize. 4. At the time and place specified in such notice, such person
shall be taken under the custody of the jailor, or the sheriff or his deputy, before such justices, who shall examine the prisoner on his oath
concerning his estate and effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judgment for which he is committed; and they shall also
hear any other legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced by
the debtor or the creditor.

Sec. 5. The plaintifff in the action may,.upon such examination propose to the prisoner any interrogatories, pertinent to the inquiry, and
they shall if required, by the creditor be proposed and answered in writing, and the answers shall be sigfied and sworn to by the prisoner, and
the plaintifff in the action may have a copy of the interrogatories and answers, certified by the justices, upon paying therefore the legal fees.

Sec. 6. If upon such examination the justices shall be satisfied that
the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, they shall administer to him
the following oath, to wit: .

“I, do solemnly swear that I have not any estate, real
or personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except such as is by
law exempted from being taken in execution, and thatI have not an
other estate now conveyed or concealed, or in any way disposed of, wi
design to secure the same, to my use or to defraud my creditors; so help
me od.”

SEC. 7. After administerin the oath, the justices shall make a certificate under their hands, as fo lows:

To the sheriff or jailor of the county of . .

The undersigned, two justices of the peace for said county, certify

that - confined in your jail, upon an execution at the suit of
is entitled to be discharged from imprisonment if he be imprisoned for no other cause.

Size. 8. The jailor upon receiving such certificate, shall forthwith
discharge the prisoner, if he be imprisoned for no other cause.

SEC. 9. If such justices should not discharge the prisoner, he shall
be entitled to apply for his discharge at the end of every succeedin 1611
days, in the same manner as above provided, and the same proceedings
shall thereupon be had.

Size. 10. The prisoner after being so discharged, shall be forever exempted froin arrest or imprisonment for the same debt, unless he Shall
be convicted for having willfully sworn falsely upon his examination
before the two justices, or in taking the oath before prescribed.

SEC. 11. The judgment against any prisoner, who is discharged as
aforesaid, shall remain in full force against any estate which may then,
or at any time afterwards belong to him, and the plaintifff in the 86130“

may take out a new execution against the goods and estate of the pris-.

oner, in like manner as if he lia never been committed in the execution.

SEC. 12. If the debtor shall undertake to satisfy the execution, he
shall not be entitled to his discharge until he has paid all the charges
for his support in prison, in addition to the sum due on the execution,
and the costs and charges thereon.

§n('. 13. The plaintifff in the action may, at any time, order the
P1'{S0ner to be discharged, and he shall not thereafter be liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST GARNISHEES.

 

SECTION
I. When and in what causes partr mav be summoned as gnruishee.
2. Gsrnlshoe how summoned in district court.
I. Gsriiishec how iiabie.
4. Proceedings when gai°iiisiu-c- l’Pfll~‘iE lu appear.
5. Warrant what to contain.
3. Suit when commenced against gsrnishee.
7. Case when adjourned.
8. Case when adjourned.
9. Court when to render jiiiigiiient in case or
gsriiishee.
10. Proceedings when dtsconiinued as to garniuhee.
ll. Execution how to issue.
I2. Gsrnlshee when entitled to costs.
18. Payment by the gsrnishcc to ofuccr, same

SEFTION

I4. Indorsement of officer evidence of fact
therein stated.

15. Otncer holding execution, how to procred.

l6. nfiictvr holding; r-xm-iitic.-ii. how to prot‘-.-ed.

17. Effect ofjiidgineiit zvzaiiist carnishee.

18- Defendant cannot maintain action against
garnishue.

I9. Limitation of preceding section.

20. Promissory notes, deemed ('ll°ccLB.

21. Proceedings when monies ure due to defendant at it future time.

22. Proceedings when monies are due to defendant at s future time.

23. Corporations may be procecdetl against
under this chapter.

as payment to defendant.

Sec. 1. In any action commenced in any court of record, or jusiice’s
court, founded upon contract, expressed or implied, or upon a judgment
or decree, or after the rendition of said judgment in any action, if the
plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, shall make and file with the clerk of
the court, or 'ustice of the peace, stating that he has good reason to
believe, and oes believe, that any person (naming him) has property,
money, or effects, in his hands or under his control, belonging to the
defendant in such action, or that such person is indebted to the dei'endant, ifthe action is in thejustice’s court, the justice shall issue a summons against said person, re uiring him to appear before such justice
at a time and place mentioned in said summons, not less than six nor
more than twelve days from the date thereof, and answer under oath all
$lestions put to him, touching his indebtedness to such defendant, and

8 pro rty, money, and effects of the defendant in his possession,
within is knowl c, or under his control, which summons shall be
served and returne in the same manner as a summons issued against a
defendant in other cases. The garnishee shall be entitled to the same
fees as he would if he were subpcnnaed as a witness in such_case.

Sec. 2. In actions pending in the district court, the garnishee may
be summoned in the same manner as defcndaiits are summoned ‘ii! that
court; the summons must require the garnishec to appear beiorc the
court or judge, at a time and place mentioned in the summons, not ‘less
than twenty days from the service thereof, and answer such questions
as shall be put to him touching his indebtedness to the ilcieiidaiit in the
action.

Sec. 3. The person summoned as a garnislieei “'0'” ‘lie Elm? Or “"3
service of such summons, shall be deemed liable to the. plai_niiii' in such
suit, to the amount of the property, money. or effects in his ‘hands, or
posteion, or under his control, or due from him to the defendant. in
such suit: Provided, That when the defendant is a householder having
a family, nothing herein contained shall be il]')I)ll(‘,tlbl(3 to any indebtedness ot such garnisliec to the dcfemlant for the personal 1:150!‘ 03 S119“

vu

defendant, or his family, for any amount not exceeding the sum of
twenty-five dollars.
Size. 4. If such garnishee neglect or

and place mentioned in such summons,
court shall continue the cause to some other dig, and without further
h

showing than the proof that the summons been properly served
upon the garnishee, and his fees paid or tendered, issue a warrant to

bring such garnishee before him.
Sac. 5. Such warrant shall command the officer forthwith to take

the body of such garnishee, and bring him before such court, and shall
contain a further command that such officer shall, after he shall have
arrested the garnishee, notify the plaintifff of such arrest; and such
warrant shall be served and returned in the same manner as warrants

issued in other cases.
Size. 6. The rsonal service of a summons upon such

refuse to appear, at the time
and answer as aforesaid, the

garnishee,

i shall be deemed t e commencement of suit in the name of the plaintifff,

against such garnishee, which may be entered on the docket as suits in
other cases.

Size. '7. On the application of such garnishee, before such court,
or on some other day to which the same may be adjourned, the plaintifff
may proceed to examine the riiishee, on oath or otherwise, as the
plaintifff ma elect, touching t e matter alleged in the atiidavit, and the
justice shal take minutes of such examination and file the same with
the other papers in the cause. «

Sec. 8. Upon closing the examination, if a suit be pendi and undetermined between the plaintifff and defendant, the cause shal be continued, but it shall not be necessary to adjourn the same to any day certain.

Sec. 9. After the final determination of the action against the defendant iii the case mentioned in the preceding section, the court in
which the action is pending shall, if judgment be rendered in favor of
the plaintifff, proceed to render judgment in the matter pending against
the said garnishee; and if it appear from the testimony of the said garnishee, or other testimony which may have been taken in the case, that
the said garnishee is indebted to the defendant, or that he has property
belonging to the defendant in his possession, the court shall proceed to
render jud ent against the said garnishee, to the amount of his indebtedness to t c said defendant, or for so much thereof as maybe necessary to satisfy the laintitf’s demand. th d

e eSnc. 10. If t e plaintifff fail to recover judgment against
fendant, in the cases mentioned in section seven of this chapter, or if
the defendant pay the ‘udgment rendered in such cases, or Sta)’ 1110
93909130“ thereon, wit in the time and in the manner prescribed b
1_3W, It Bllall in either case be deemed a discontinuance of all procee ings against the garnisliee. .

Sec. 11. If judgment be rendered against the gariiishee,
mag issue execution thereon as in other cases. ‘ac. 12. If the garnishee shall on demand, deliver to the officer
having such execution, all the property, money, and effects, in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, and y 8“
monies found to be due from him to the defendant, at the time t e suit
was commenced against him, or so much of the money, property, and
elfécisa 88 may be necessary to satisfy such execution, then the costs
which may have accrued against such garnishee, shall be paid out of the
P"°P°"iY2_ m°11e)', and effects so paid over or delivered to such officer.

Sac. 13. The oliicer having such execution shall indorse all monies
receivedfrom such gariiishee, and a description of all property and effects delivered to him by the garnishec, and such delivery or payment
shall be deemed 9 del1Ve|')’ 01' payment to the defendant in such suit.

the court

upon such execution, and such entry or transcript thereof shall be
prima facia evidence «of the facts therein stated.

Sec. 15. .Whenever the garnishee shall pay or deliver to the officer
having such execution, any property which ma be sold on an execution
by existi laws, the officer shall proceed to evy upon and sell th
same at u lie auction or vendue, as in other cases; and if the 'shee shall deliver to the o$cer an notes, bills, bonds, or other clioses
in action, the officer shall return t e same to the court, to be retained
in his hands for the use of the plaintid', and the plaintitl‘ may sue and
collect the same, or so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the
judgment against the defendant, and costs; the balance, it’ any, shall be
returned to the rnishee or the defendant. All bills, bonds, notes,
accounts, and ot er choses in action, secured or delivered under the

ovisions of this section, shall be taken, subject to all liens, set offs,
lihbilities, and equities existing between the or’ inal parties thereto.

Sec. 16. If the rnishee to the officer vingesuch execution,
any bank note or bil , the same s I be paid over to t plaintifff at the
par value thereof, if he will accept the same, if not, it shall be sold in
the same manner as other personal propert .

Sec. 17. Judgments rendered against $e rnishee, under the provisions of this chapter, shall have the same area and effect, as they
would have under existing laws, if such defendant had been named as
plaintiff therein.

Size. 18. No suit shall be maintained or recovery had by such defendant against the garnishee, for the amount of money sworn, proved,
or admitted to be due from such garnishee to the defendant. or for property of the value thereof, money or etfects in the hands of such garnishee as aforesaid, while such proceedi is pending.

Sec. 19. The preceding section aha 1 not be soconstrued,as to pre- Z
vent such defendant from prosecuting for, and recovering of such gar- '
nishee, any other or future sum of money due from such garnishce, or
the possession or value of any other property or effects in the hands of
such garnishee belonging to such defendant.

Size. 20. Bills of exchange, and promissory notes not due, in the
hands of the rnishee at the time of the service of the summons,
shall be deem “ e%cts ” under the provisions of this cha r.

Sec. 21. If it shall appear upon any examination or tria , had under
the provisions of this cha r, that any sum or sums of money is, or are
owing and payable from t garnishee to the defendant, at some future
time or times, it shall be the duty of such court, after the examination
or the rendition of the verdict, if a trial by jury is had, and after the
"kl. (if the cause is tried by the court) to note the time or times when
"I0 sum or sums of money mentioned in this section, shall become due
Ind payable, and shall thereupon continue the cause until after the time

01' times so noted.
Sec. 22. After the said sum or sums of money become due and r:

plyable as mentioned in the preceding section, the court shall, at the I:
request of the plaintifff, render 'udgment 'nst the garnishce, as men- ‘I
tioned in section nine of this c apter; the same proceedings shall
50 had thereon and with the like effect, as if the said sumcr sums
of money had been due and payable at the time of the service of the
‘ ' . . h e  00

Size. 23. Corporationsma be rocecded against asgarnis es, in e
same manner and with the like ghectpas individuals, under the provisions of 3,
this chapter, and the rules of law regulating proceedings against corpo- °'“
rations.

$1

4.-an-.a

0

OF THE PUNISHME1‘iT OF C-ONTEMPTS.

 

SECTION SECTION
1. Cuntcmpts tietiucd. ‘ 9. Warrant to be returned.
2. What courts and judicial officers may pun- 10. Warrant how executed.
I311. 11. On anpeiiraiicc of party how to proceed.
3. Coutenipts in presence 0! court, how pun- 12. Party found guilty, iined or Imprisoned.
lshed. 13. Indemnity to injured party also required.
4. In other cases bow to proceed. 14. Imprtsoiinient in certain cases.

5. 1! party imprisoned, be may be brought up. 15. Party liable to indictment.

6. Whether to be bailed or not, when directed. 16. when It second .wu'raut to issue.

7. Warrant of arrest how executed. ' 11. liineas an excuse for not producing party.
A 8. But now given.

Sec. 1. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of justice, or proceedings therein, are deemed to‘ be contempts of the authority of the court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the judge
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or
other 'udicial proceeding:
2. breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceedi :
“$3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner or other ‘person appointed or elected to perform a judicial or ministerial service:

‘ 4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by a
party to an action or special proceedings 2

5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the
court: D

6. -Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and acting
as such without authority: '

7. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of an officer by
virtue of an order or process of such court: _ _ A

8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while going *0»
remaining at, or returning from the court where the action is on the calendar for trial: '

9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings
of a court:

I0. Disobedience of a subpoena dulv served; or refusing to be sworn
or answer as a witness: ' _

11. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing
with a party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any other
person in relation to the merits of such action, or receiving a communication from a party, or other person in respect to it, without iinmed1ately disclosing the same to the court:

12. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer, of the
lawful .l‘}d8'm°“t» order, or process of a superior court, or proceeding
in an action or special proceeding contrary to law, after suc action or

special proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of such
inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer.

Disobedience of the lawful orders or process of a judicial officer» is
also deemed to be a contempt of the authority of such officer.

Sac. 2. Every court of 'ustice, and every judicial om;-er, has power to punish contempts by dues or imprisonment, or both; but when
the contempt is not one of those mentioned in the [irst or second subdivisions of the last section, it must appwr that the right or remedy of
a party to an action nor special proccedin , was defeated -or prejudiced
thereby, before the contempt can be punished by imprisonment, or by it
fine exceeding fifty dollars. Contempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the manner provided by statute. __ Sec. 3. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court or officer, it may be punished summarily, for which
an order must be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudgmg that the person proceeded against is
thereb guilt of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein descri ; sue punishment, however, cannot exceed that rescribed by
section twelve; where the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and resence of the court, an nllidavit must be presented to the
court or o oer, of the facts constituting the contempt- .

Sec. 4. In cases other than those mentioned in the last section, the
court or officer may either issue a warrant of arrest, to bring the person charged, to answer; or without a previous arrest may, upon notice
or upon an order to show cause, grant a warrant of commitment; but
no warrant of commitment can be issued without such previous arrest
to answer, or upon such notice or order to show cause.

Sec. 5. If the party charged, be in the custody of an o$cer by virtue of a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence
for felony, an order may be made for the production of such rson, by
the otliccr having him in custody, that he may answer, and he s thereltpoii be reduced and held until an order be made for his disposal.

Sac. . Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to this
diapter, the court or otiiccr must direct whether the person charged.
may be let to bail for his appearance upon-the warrant, or detained in
custody without bail; and if he may be hailed, the amount in which he
may be lotto bail. The directions given in this respect, must be specified in the warrant.

Sac. 7. Upon executin the warrant of arrest, the sheriff must keep
the person in actual custofy, bring him before the court or officer, and
detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person
arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as §ovided in the next section. .

See. 8. When the warrant contains the direction to let the person
arrested to bail, he must be discharged from the arrest, upon executing
and delivering to the ofliccr, at any time before the return do of the
warrant, a written undertaking with two sufficient sureties, tot e effect
that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and
abide the order of the court or officer thereupon, or pay as may be dirccted, the sum specified in the warrant.

Sec. 9. The officer must return the warrant of arrest, and the undertaking, if any received by him from the person arrested, by the return day specified therein. If he fail to make the return, a_ warrant of
arrest not bailable, may be issued against him, specifying therein the cause
of issuing it. . _

Sec. 10. The ciiicer to whom the warrant mentioned in the last
Ieclion is delivered, must execute it, by arresting the person proceetied
figainst, bringing him personally before the court or officer, and detaining him in custody until otherwise ordered.

Sac. 11. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared, the court or clliccr must proceed to investigate the charge, by

examining him and the witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment maylbe had from time to time, if necessary.

See. 12. pen the evidence so taken, the court or oihcer must determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be ad'udged-that he is guilty of the contempt, a line
must be im ed upon im, not exceeding two hundred and iifty dollars,
or he must imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both. - But in
the discretion of the court or oiiicer, (in case of inability to pay the
line, or endure the imprisonment,) he maybe relieved in such manner,
and upon such terms as ma be just.

Sec. 13. If an actual oss or injury to a party in an action or special proceeding, prejudicial to his right therein, have been caused by
the contempt, the court or officer, in addition to the fine or imprisonment imposed for the contempt, may order the person proceeded against
to pay to the party aggrieved a sum of money suiiicient to indemnify
him, and to satisfy his costs and expenses ; which order, and the acceptance of money under it, is a bar to an action by the aggrieved party for such loss and injury.
Sec. 14. When the contempt consists in the omissionto perform an

act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be impzisoned unti he shall have performed it; and in that case the act must
specified in the warrant of commitment.

Sec. 15. Persons proceeded against, according to the provisions of
tllis olmpter. are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it
he an illtii(,'lIll)lC! nll'c_=I1r-9, but the court, before which 3 oonviction is
illlti rm the inc_lir:1m0nt._ in passing sentence, must take into consideration the pm1isl11rmnt. lurfore inflicted.

51:0. 16. i\'hcn1hc warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the
person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or odicer may
issue nnutl1t_‘1' w :1 rrant of arrest, or may order the undertakingto be prosecllted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted‘, the measure of damages in the action, is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the
aggx-im-ed p:u°t._v, by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant
was lS:4l1(‘.(l, mu the costs of the proceedings. ’ _

Sec. 17. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter,_an officer _is
required to keep a person arrested in actual custody, and to bring hun
before a court or officer, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the
person to attend, is a sulcient excuse for not bringing him up; not
can the odicer be required to confine a person arrested on a warrant, in
a prison, or otherwise to restrain him of personal liberty, except so far

as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

' OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

Bacrioii ‘stcriou

.1. What attorneys and counserors now in ot- 18. Proceedings when attorney claims lien.

lice may practice as such. 19. Attorney when and by whom suspended
9. Who may be admitted to practice. 20. By whom proceedings may be instituted.
8. Application for admission and proof thereon. 2!. accusation to be in writing.
L nxamtnation. 1 ac. Aecnsatton what: to conuin.
6. Order entitling him to admission. 23. Order for acmsed to appear and answer.
6. Application to be made to suprcniecourt. 24. Accused to appear, or it not, how to pro7. General duties of attorneys. ceed.
8. Punishment for deceit or collusion. 25. May object to, or deny accusation.
I. Not to permit other person to use his name. M M. Objections now made.
to. Authorityot an attorney. :7. It objection not sustained, must answer
It. hoceedtnss when he appears without a.u- tortbwith.

tborlty. , 28. it accused plead guilty, court topronounce
12. Compelling attorney to produce authority. Judgment.
l3. Attomey how changed. 29. on Judgement of suspension or removal,
M. Notice ofchange. ' case may be made by accused; case how
iii. when attorney dies, notice to be served on settled. '

opposite party. so. The Judxment roll. .
II» Lien of attorney and its effects. ' 31. In what cases other courts may suspend,
17. Proceedings to compel attorneys to deliver and their duty thereon.

papers, ac. l

Size. 1. The following persons are entitled to practice as attorneys
and counsellors in all the courts of this territory:

1. Those who were duly admitted as attorneys or counsellors of the
supreme or district court before the passage of this chapter, and whose
names are still on the rolls of attorneys of that court.

Size. 2. Any male person, of the age of twenty-one years, of good
moral character, and who possesses the requisite qualifications of learning and ability, is entitled to admission to practice in all the courts of
this territory. T

Sec. 3. For the purpose of admission, he must apply to the supreme court of the territory, and must show: _

1. That he is of the age of twenty-one years, which proof may be
made b his own affidavit; and,

2. T at he is a person of good moral character, which may be proved
by certificate, or other evidence satisfactory to the court.

Sec. 4. The applicant must also be examined in open court, as to 4
his qualifications of learning and ability, by the judgfsa 91' Under the“
direction, at the term at which application for admission is made.

Sac. 5. It‘, upon the examination, he be found duly qualified. the :
court must direct an order to be entered, to the effect that the applicant
is a citizen of the United States, of the age  twenty-ope F9373: Of
good moral character, and possesses the requisite qualihcations of learning and ability, to practice as an attorney and counsellor in till the courts
of this territory; and upon the entry of the order he is entitled to practioe as such attorney and counsellor. _

Sec. 6. No person can be admitted to practice as an _attorney and :
counsellor, except on application to the supreme court in term, and 0,
When admitted to practice in the supreme court, the attorney and counsellor so admitted, may practice in any of the courts of this territory.

Sec. 7. It is the duty of an attorney and counsellor:
1. To support the constitution and laws of the United States, and of

this territory:
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and 

officers:

3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings, or defenses,
only, as appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a person
charged with a public offense:

4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes contided to
him, such means only as are consistent withtruth, and‘ never to seek
to mislead the judges b any artifice or false statement of fact or law:

5. To maintain invio ate, the confidence, and at every peril to himself to preserve the secrets of his client:

6. To abstain from all offensive personality and to advance no fact
prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause with which he is 

7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of
an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest; and,

8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the
cause of the defenseless or oppressed. .

SEC. 8. An attorney or counsellor who is guilty of deceit or collusion, or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge, or a
party to an action or judicial rocceding, is punishable for a misdemeanor, and shall also forfeit to ie party injured, treble damages, recoverable in a civil action. .

Sec. 9. If an attorney and counsellor knowingly permit a person
not his general law partner to sue out process, or to prosecute or defend an action or proceedin in his name, he and every person who so
uses his name, shall severa ly forfeit to the party against whom the process was issued, on the action or proceedin prosecuted or defended,
the sum of fifty dollars, recoverable in a.civ' action. AUTHORITY OF‘ AN ATTORNEY AND ITS lUBAT!0N.

Sec‘. 10. An attorney and counsellor has authority:

1. To bind his client in any of the proceedings in an action or special
proceeding by his agreementffiled with the clerk, or entered upon the
minutes of the court, and not otherwise.

2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special proceeding during the pendency thereof, or within one year alter j?ment, and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge e
claim or acknowled e satisfaction of the ‘judgment. But this section not prevent a y from employing a new attorney to issue an execution upon a j ment, or to take the other proceedings prescribed by the, statute for its enforcement; and when he
does so, the authority of the former attorney ceases.

1 SEC. 11. If it he alleged by a party for whom an attorney a posts:
a‘ that he does so without authorit , the court may at any stage of 9 P"°"
ceedings relieve the party for w cm the attorney has assumed to appeal‘
from the consequences of his acts; it may also summarily upon motimii
compel the attorney to repair the injury to either party consequtmt “P
on his assumption of authority.

Sec. l2. The court or a judge may, on motion of either part)’: "*1
on showing reasonable grounds therefore, require the attorney for 330
‘dV°"9° Part)’, or for any one of several adverse parties, to produce 01'
prove the authority under which he appears,.and until he does so, any
stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom he assumes

to appear.

2. Upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof, on the application
ient, or for other sufficient cause; but no such change can be

made until the charges of such attorney have been paid by the party
asking such change to be made.

Sec. 14. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the last section, written notice of the change, and of the substitution of a new attorney or of the appearance of the party in person must be given to the
adversie party; until then, he is bound to recogniée the former attormgu. 15. When an attorney dies, or is removed, or suspended, or
ceases to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acti as
attorney, must, at least irty days before any further procee ings
agaimt him-, be required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint another attorney or to appear in person.

LIEU OI‘ A'l"l‘0R8EY8.

Sec. 16. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether
speeiall agreed upon or implied, as provided in this statute:

l. Uvpon the papers of his client, which have come into his possession in the course of his professional employment:

2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client:

3. Upon inone in the hands of the adverse party in an action or
proceeding, in w ich the attorney was employed from the time of giving notice of the lien to that party:

4. Upon a j ant to the extent of the costs included therein, or if
there be a s ' agreement, to the extent of the compensation s ially
Igreed on, from the time of giving notice to the party against W cm the
' nt is recovered. This lien is, however, subordinate tothe rights
existing between the parties to the action or proceeding.

IUIXAIY POWER 0!‘ THE COUI1; OVER ATTORNEYS.

Site. 17. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or pa- i
pars, to a person from or for whom he has received them in the course f,
of professional einplo nt, whether in an action or not, he may be required by an order 0 the court in which an action, if agy, was proseouted, or if no action was prosecuted, then by order the supreme
court, to do so within a specified time, or show cause why he should
not be punished for a contempt. _

Site. 18. If, however, the attorneLclaim alien upon the money or :1
pgers, under the provisions of this c r, the court may: _ _

. Impose as a condition of mold t e order, that the client ve

security in a form and amount to be ‘rected. to satisfy the hen W en

mail in an action; or, _ _ _

2. Summarily to inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien
is founded, and determine the same; or, _

3. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury. 01‘ refer ‘t9 and “P00
the verdict or report, determine the same, as in other cases.

REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OP ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

Sec. 19. An attorney and counsellor may be removed or suspended
by the supreme court, at. a general term thereof, for either of the followi causes, arising after his admission to practice:

1. pon his being convicted of felony, or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of his conviction-is

conclusive evidence: O .
2. Upon its being shown to the satisfaction of the court, that he has

knowingly si ned a frivolous pleading, or has been guilty of any other

deceit or will iil misconduct in his profession: .

3. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court, re-i 1

pairing him to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the course of

iis profession: ' V A

4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section sevein
‘Sec. 20. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and

counsellor, as provided in the last section, must be taken by the court

of its own motion for matter within its knowledge, or may be taken upon the information of another. A a Sec. 21. If the proceeding be upon the information of another,the
accusation must be in writing, and must be presented to the court.

Sec. 22. The accusatioiimust state the mattercharged, and must be
verified by the oath of the person making it, or of some other person to
the effect that the charges therein contained, are t-rue.~

Sec. 23. After receivingthe accusation, tliecourt must, if in its
opinion the case requires it, make an order requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusation at a specified time in the same or a subsequent term, and must cause a copy of the order and of the accusation
to be served upon the accused, within a prescribed time before the day
ap ointed in the order.

no. 24. The accused must appear atstlie time appointed in the order, and answer the accusation, unless for sufiicient cause the court assign another day for that purpose. If he do not appear, the court may
proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

Sec. 25. The accused may answer the accusations, either by objecting to its sufiiciency, or b denying its truth. i

SEC. 26. If he object to the sutiiciency of the accusation, the objection must be in writing, but need not be in any specified form, it being
sufficient if it present intelligibly, the grounds of the objection. If he
deny the truth of the accusation, the denial may beoral al1d‘Wi'-1100*
oath, and must be entered upon the minutes. A

See. 27. If an objection to the sufliciency of the accusation be not
sustained, the accused must answer it forthwith.

Sec. 28. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer the accu“*t‘0*1a the court must proceed to judgment of removal or suspensionIf he deny the matters charged, the court must immediately, or at such
time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation. ’

SEC. 29. In case of a judgment of suspension or l‘8!II0V31i thew‘
cused may within ten dayssafter it is pronounced, make a case setting
forth the evidence, and other proceedi in the matter upon the.heai'mg thereof, which must be settled by t e court in the same manner M
a case in a civil action; when settled it must be filed by the clerk of
the court liywhich the judgment was given. .

Sec. 30. The following papers must be annexed together, and filed
by the clerk within two days after the filing-of the case, or within such

further time as the court or ' ‘
_ ju thereof ma rescribe:
l. The accusation: dge y P

2. The objections or answers the;-eta;

the accusation and the proceedi

lay and counsellor from pra
tioned in section nineteen,
the next general term of t1

the minutes, and a certified copy

territory, which may
the manner provided in this chapter.

3. The case mentioned in the last section:
4. A copy of the entries upon the minutes of the court, relating to

pension or removal.

ngs thereon, including the order of susSac. 31. Any court except a justice’s court, may suspend an attorcticing therein, for any of the causes menfor a period not beyond the adjournment of
ie supreme court in the territory; the order
of suspension must state the cause thereof, and must be entered upon
thereof transmitted by the court by

which it is made, to thenext general term of the supreme court in the

proceed thereon against the person suspended, in

 

 

CHAPTER 94.

scene:
1. District courts to have chancery Jurisdiction.
2. Jurisdiction oi the court in suits in chancery.
8- Jaristiiotiorrot the court in suits in chan“WO ’
1- Hunter and special terms of courts 0.’ chancery.
5. Application to court or chancery how made.
0. Complainant may insert any number or detendants.
70 80¢ i IlIOW$o
8- Costs allowed when pleadings are prolix.
9. when bills of discovery may be filed.
10. Answer not to be used against detendant

'73- Bnbllena how served.
13. Order for dereadant to plead, answer or
demar.
M. Who deemed absent defendants; order to
Invest how made.
We When complainant may N11?!’ to plea.
I0. Proceedings in easaot demurrer.
‘I7. Whsnpieaordeinarrerisoverrniod detentilllt must answer.
18- When pica allowed complainant to pl)’
costs.
IO. Proceedings where exceptions are taken to
IIIIVCY.
99- Colnnlalnantto pay costs it exceptions are
overruled.
2i. Proceedings when cross hill is med.
99- Bill hciore whom sworn to.
33- lales by consent how entered.

or THE COURT or CHANCERY.

Sncrx 01¢

24. Amendments how made.

25. (‘ausc when at issue.

28. Defendant may interrogate complainant.

97. Issues or {act now tried.

28. Bill when to be dismissed.

29. Proceedings it defendant do_noi. appear.

ll. in what cases complainant required togive
bond a!tcr decree.

ll. Force and eifect or decree in chanccry.

82. Decree need not be enrolled, pllv-‘Y8 how
filed.

88. Decree to transfer real estate, client of.

34. Receiver not appointed until after notice.

35. Supreme court may make rules of practice.

36. Supreme court may makcrules or practice.

8'7. Judge may make order at reference.

38. Courts may have power to enforce decrees
and orders by attachment, &.c.

39. Writs at he excat when to be issued.

40. When writ not to be granted.

41. when the writ may be discharged.

0. Injunction when to be granted‘.

«I3. Writ of, when made returnable.

44. When writ not to be granted.

45. When writ not to be granted.

48. When not granted arterjudgment.

47. Money paid Into court, how and when paid
out.

48. when injunction to stay prooeedllnn. ml!
be renewed.

4.9. when injunction may issue to stay proceedings at law.

50. Damages how ascertained.

sricrroit Stcrieir
51. Judge may dispense witliadeposit of mou- 63. Sales ot mortgaged premises by whom

ey in court. made.
82. Judge may dispense withadepcstt of mon- 64. Deeds how executed, and the etrects or.
ey in court. 65. The proceeds of sale, how to"be applied. -s
3:. Complainant to give bond to defendant as. surplus when not cause for, to be put out
before injunction issues in certain cases. attnterest. . j
64. Sumcieucy of sureties how ascertained. 6'1. Bill to be dismissed}! defendant pay
I 65. Bond and amides-it to be filed with clerk amount due.
betore injunction issues. 88. Proceedings in suit shall he stayed in cerEO. Judge may direct the delivery of the per- tain cases. ‘

sonreutitied thereto. - 69. Court may direct a reterenceto a master
Qi. when bills may he died for the toreciosure in certain casa. .

of mortgages. 70. When court to make further order {ended
58. Court. may decree a sale of mortgaged on decree. I
premises; may compel the delivery of the '11. When decree shall direct sale or the whole
possession of premises. premises.
50. No proceedings can be had at law during '72. Proceeds in such case, how applied.
pendency of suit. '73. When court me! I-Diloint special master.
60. when other person than the mortgagor 74. Appeals when and by whom taken.
may be made party. '15. Party appealing to give bond.
61. Complainant to state in hill whether pro- 76. Proceedlnxsln supreme court upou appeal.
ceediugs have been had at law. 7'1. when supreme court may award damages
Q. when Judgment has been had at law, no in certain cases.
proceedings tohe had.

Size. 1. The several district courts in this territory, shall have
original jurisdiction in all matters in chancery, in which a plain, adequate, and complete remedy cannot be had at law. _

Sec. 2. No suit can be brought in chancery, when a remedy is
given by civil action; the term civil action, whenever it is used in the
statute, is not intended to include suits in chancery. _

Size. 3. The court shall dismiss every suit in chancery concerning
property, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed the value of live dollars, with costs in favor of the defendant.

Sac. 4. The stated terms of the courts of chancery shall be tln
same as those of the courts sitting as courts of law jlll'i9dl0l3°na and
each of said courts shall have power to appoint as many special terms
as they may deem proper. _

Size. 5. All applications to the chancery side of said court, shall be
b bill, stating the nature and ground of the complainant’s claim, and

11 be filed in the office of the clerk of such court.

Size. 6. 'l‘he complainant may insert in his bill as many'defendant.s
as he may think roper, though they claim under different titles, but if
any of the defendhnts disclaim, the complainant shall pay costs, except
the court shall for special reasons decree otherwise.

Sec. 7. In suits for the payment or recovery of money, set ed!
shall be allowed in the same manner, and with the like etfect, as In
civil actions. _

Size. 8. Whenever an bill, answer, or other proceeding filed In
the court of chancery, s I satisfactorily appear to the judge to have
been made unnecessaril prolix, for the pur e of increasing the 000“:
it shall be the duty of the judge to order lg: solicitor or counsel bY
whom such bill, answer, or other proceeding shall have been drawn: W
pay the costs occasioned by such unnecessary prolixity, to the PWVW
injured thereby.

Sac. 9. A bill of discovery may be filed, and the defendant shall

: be compelled to answer such hill, where the defendant is charged Of

having given to_ another person a warrant of attorney to enter “P ‘
judgment, or with havin confessed or suffered any judgment, purporting to be for a sum or de t due, when in fact nothing, or only a part Of
the sum mentioned in such warrant of attorney or judgment, is 4104-‘:

dictment for the fraud charged in the bill.

Sec. 11. All process issui from the district court in roceedings in chance , shall be.test in the name of the ju of e court
from which it s all issue, or some one of the 'udlge3) o the silipliienl:
court, and shall bear test on the same-day on w ic e same s
issued, and shall be made returnable on a day certain, therein to be
mentioned, either in term time or vacation; and it shall be the duty of
the sheriff, or other odicer, to whom any subpmna, order, attachment,
process of s uestration, writ of execution, or other process in chancery shall beedirected or delivered, to serve and execute the same, and
to make return thereof at the time and place therein mentioned.

Sec. 12. Eve subpoena or process for appearance shall be served
on the person to w om it is directed, at least ten days before the return
day thereof, by 'ving him a co y thereof, or by leaving a copy theretf
at the dwelli ouse or usua place of abode of the defendant, with
some person 0 the age of ten years or upwards, to whom the nature of
such process shall be explained.

Sac. 13. On the return of a snbpcena served by the sheriff or other
proper officer, the complainant may enter an order with the clerk of the ]

roper court, requiring the defendant, if a resident of the county, to file
his plea, answer, or demurrer, by a day certain, to be not less than
 days from the date of such order; and  noti a resildentéh by adday
certain, to be not less than ninet da s from c ate 0 su or er;
and if the defendant shall not filci’ hisy lea, answer, or demurrer within
the time limited by such order, then e complainant may enter an order
with the clerk, that the bill of the complainant may be taken as confessed against the defendant in such order named: Provided, however,
That the court, or judge in vacation, may upon good cause shown by
the affidavit of the defendant or his solicitor, enlarge the time for answeri , to a period not exceeding ninety days from the entry of the
01" ' order. If the defendant shall not file his plea, answer, or demurrer, within the time limited by the court, or judge at his chambers,
then said court or ju e, may, at their discretion, render a decree thereon, or order the comiigiiiant to prove the allegations of his bill, or examine the complainant on oath, touching the allegations of such bill,
and such decree shall then be made as the court or judge shall think

I.

Sec. 14. In case of a bill filed inst any tlel'end}x:n3e:;gainst Wm :
a subpmm or ocegg to a shal issue, and sue endant s
not cause his apjipearance tldplgrentered in such suit, as according to the
rules «if such court, the same ought to be entered in case such probess
had been duly served, and it shall be made to ap ear by a$davit or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that such defendant is out of
the territo ', or cannot, upon inquiry be found therein, or that he conceals himshlf within this territory, every such defendant shall be deemed and taken to be an absent defendant; and thereupon the judge may
by order, direct such absent defendant to appear. Pleads 80'-Wei‘: 0|’
demur to the complainant’s bill at a certain day therein to be 301305»
not less than three nor more than six months from the date of such
order; which order shall, within twenty days thel'3:rt3r1fT  g
Served on such defendant, b a delivery o a copy e_reo _0 1113: _01'
published in one or more of Jtrhe newspapers printed In “"5 l°'’"‘°’Yv

'\

. - Sec. 25. Every cause in a court of chancery, shall be deem

for six weeks successively, at least once in each week, and which said
order shall also he published or served in any other manner that the
judge may see proper in said order to direct ;' and- in case such absent
defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur, within the time
limited, or within some future time to be allowed by the judge, if he shall
think proper, and on proof of personal service, or of the publication of
such order or orders, as aforesaid, and of the perforinance of the di-‘
rections contained in said order or orders, to the satisfaction of the
judge, the judge may order and direct that ‘the complainant’s bill be
taken as confessed against such absent defendant,‘ so failing to plead,
answer, or demur; or the court may proceed as directed in the thirteenth

section of ‘this chapter. . >
Size. 15. When the com lainant conceives the plea of the defendant
to be good, though not true, e may reply to and take issue thereon,

and proceed as in case of an answer. Sec. 16. If s the defendant file a demurrer and answer, the complainant shall not proceed on the answer till the demurrer has been argued
or disposed of. - A

» Sec. 17. If the plea or demurrer‘ be overruled, no other plea or
demurrer shall be thereafter received; but in such case the defendant
shall file his answer tocomplainant"s bill, in such time as the court, or
jiid e at his chambers may direct, and if he failto do so, the said bill
sha l be taken as confessed, and the said court shall thereupon proceed
as directed in thethirteenth section of this chapter.

Sec. 18. If the plea or demurrer of the defendant be allowed, the
eomplainantshall pay costs; and if overruled the defendant shall pay
costs. 1
« Sec. 19. When exceptionsshallbe filed to answer, a rule may be
entered of course with the clerk, either in term time or vacation, to
refer the same to a proper officer of court, who shall decide and report
upon them within thirty days after they are filed; but an appeal from
such report may he allowed to the court, who shall hear and determine
the same at the next term. ' A y ‘ r

' Sec. 20. ‘The complainant, if his except'ons are overruled, shall
pay costs to the defendant; and the defendant, if his answer be adjudged
nsufficient, shall pay costs to the complainant. Sec. 21.‘ If a cross billhe filed by the defendant, he shall answer
to the bill of complaint before the complainant shall be required to put
in his answer to such cross bill. ‘

Sec‘. 22. The defendant may swear to his answer before any person authorized to administer oaths. l ’ .

Sec. 28. «All rules, common or special, by consent of the parttes 91‘
their solicitors, shall he entered of course with the clerk, w ether In
term time, or vacation. s
' Size. '24. All proper amendments shall be made with or without’cosis, and on such equitable terms as the court may direct. ed t be

0

at issue on filing a replication; and it shall not be necessary to issue a

subpoena or enter a rule torejoin. _
Sec. 26. The defendant in cliancery, after he shall have filed his

: answer, may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, which shall

be answered by him upon oath; and if the comp ainant shall not answer such interrogatories within'the time appointed by the court, he
shall be in contempt, and his hill shall be dismissed with costs.

Sec. 27. If there be an’ issue of fact which shall render the intro‘
duction of a jury necessary, the court ma direct an issue for the trial of
the same, and the verdict shall be entere of record, and may be used on
the hearing of the cause. Sec. 28. If the complainant shall not attend at the time appointed
for the heari of the cause, his bill shall be dismissed with costs.
- - Sec. 29. “ff the defendant shall not attend at the time appointed for
the hearing of the cause, the bill, answer, replication, documents and
the witnesses examined, and the court shall therethink equitable and just, or dismiss

; and in case no security shall
iven, no process or execution shall issue to compel the performance
of decree so made against -such absent defendant ; but the property
of such absent defendant may, by order of the court, he s uestered
under the direction of the court, to abide such order as it mayetihink 'ust
and proper respecting the same. In case any such absent defendant
glinst whom a decree shall be made as aforesaid, his heirs, devisees,
executors, administrators, or assigns, as the case may require, shall,
within six months after notice be given to him of such decree, or within three years after such decree shall have been made, if no notice as
aforesaid shall have been given, petition the court touching the matter
of such decree, and pay or secure, or cause to be paid, such costs as the
court may think reasonable to order and direct; then and -in such case,
the person aforesaid so titioni , may be permitted to appear and answer the complainant’s ill, and iilgereupon such proceedings shall be had
as if such absent defendant had appeared in due season, and no decree had
been made; or such absent defendant may, within the times aforesaid,
filehis bill of com laint in the said court for an account and settlement
of thellnount whi was really due, and owing to the complainant at the
time of the decree, and to compel the said complainant to refund and repay what he may have wron fully recovered and received, together with
the interest from the time o the receipt thereof, with costs ‘of suit; the
former decree against such absent defendant notwithstanding, but in
cue no petition shall be resented, or bill filed as before provided 701':
within six months from t
proof thereof bei made, or withinthree years from the decree, the decree shall be adju ged to be confirmed, which confirmation shall have
relation to-the time of making such decree; and the decree shall be excoated and performed, as in cases where the defendant had duly appeared.

Size. 31. A final decree of a court of chancery, shall have the_same
Operation, force, and effect, from the time of signing the same, as a Judgment at law. , _ ,

Sec, 32, 1; .1131] not be necessary to enroll any decree or dismission
in a court of chancery, but immediately after any decree shall have been
pronounced, the bill, answer and all other proceeding in the cause in
which such decree shall be had, shall be attached together by the clerk
of the court, and filed in his oliice, together with a fair and engrossed
copy of such decree or admission, and also the report and decretal_ord3jT. therein, but without any recital of the bill, answer. or pleading,
and after the same is signed by the court, shall annex it to the bill, answear, and pleadings, which shall be of like elfect as it the same had

been enrolled.

Dr:

ie time notice as aforesaid shall be given, due 0

For
dec

care
how

Sec. 33. A court of chancery shall have power to pass the title to
real estate by a decree, without any other act to be done on the part of
the defendant, when in their judgment it shall be the proper mode to
carry their decrees into effect; and such decree being recorded in the
records of the register of deeds of the county where such real estate is
situated, shall, while in force, be as effectual to transfer the same, as the
deed of the defendant.

Sec. 34. No receiver shall ever be appointed in any cause commenced or pending in chanccry, until after notice is given to the adverse
party, nor until after answer filed in any case, except in cases coming
strictly within the rule of chancery proceedings.

Sec. 35. The supreme court aforesaid may, from time totime, make
rules for proceeding in taking a bill as confessed, in every case not otherwise provided for by law ; and also for the proceedings necessary to
entitle either party to a decree or order of such court, against the opposite party by default.

Sec. 36. It shall be lawful for the court, from tirneto time,tomake,
alter, or amend, or revoke any rule or practice, so as to obviate doubts,
advance justice and expedite suits in the said court, so that the some he
not contrary to the provisions of this chapter.

S120. 3'7. It shall be in the power of any judge in vacation, to make
orders of reference to a proper officer, in any cause depending in chain
cery, which is ready for a reference before the final heari of the same:
Provided, That the party applying for such reference, is all give ten
days notice to the opposite party, or his solicitor, of the time and place
and the judge before whom he means to make a motion for such reference.

Sec. 38. Either of the courts aforesaid, sitting as a court of chanccry, shall have power to enforce their decree and orders by attachment, sequestration or by such final process against the , chattels.
lands and tenements, or against the person of any defen ant, as may be
had on a judgment at law ; and such process shall be obeyed, executed
and returned by the sheriff or other officer to whom the same shall be
directed, in like manner and under the same penalties as is provided
in cases of process issuing from a court of law.

“"RI'l‘S 0}‘ NE EXEAT.

Sec. 39. The court aforesaid, or any judge thereof in vacation, may
' grant writs of ne exeat to prevent any person from going out of the territory until he shall give security.
> _ Sec. 40. No writ of no exeat shall be granted but upon bill or petition filed, and affidavit of the.complainant,or some inditferent Witncttls
of the truth thereof; and the court or judge granting such writs “hm
direct to be indorsed thereon the penalty of the bond and security @050
given to the def eudant.

tr’ Sec. 41. If the defendant shall by answer or otherwise, satisfy the
court or judge granting such writ of ne exeat, that there is no reason _

for his restraint, or shall give security for the performance of whatever
decree may be made in the premises, the writ may be dischargedTHE cn.\N'r1Nc: or INJUNCTIONS, STAYING PROCEEDINGS A1‘ LAW, ETC.) Sec. 42. The courts aforesaid, or any judge thereof in vacation,

shall have power to grant writs of injunction to stay waste, or 150 all

proccedin at_law ; but no writ of injunction shall issue but upon bill til ,
and an afhdavit of the truth of the grounds of the application, either by

the party applying for the injunction or some indifferent witness.

is properly returnable, and the court shall
to the course of proceedings in courts of eqiiit

Sec. 44. No injunction shall be issued to
sonal action at issue in ii court of law, '
for, shall execute a bond with one or
Llaintif in such action at law, '

wingnthe injunction shall direct, conditioned for the payment to the
.d P .

Ill ntili; and his 1 1 re reseiitatives, of all mone

ys which may
be recovered by such p 'nti or his representatives, or the collection of which may be stayed by such injunction, in such action at law,

for debt or damages, and for costs therein, and also for the payment of
such costs as may be awarded to them in the court of chancery in the
suit in which the injunction shall issue.

_ Sec. 45. No injunction shall be issued to stay proceedin at law,
' ereupon,

unless a sum of money, equal to the amount for which the verdictwas given, and the costs of suit shall, be first deposited with the court

of chancery, b the part applying for such injunction, or a bond for

thereof she be iven as hereinafter directed.
Sec. 46. No injunction shall issue to stay the proceedings at law,
in any personal action after judgment, unless:

I. A sum of mono equal to the full amount of such judgment, including costs, shall be tiyrst deposited by the party applying for such injunction, or a bond in lieu tliereof,to begiven as hereinafter directed ; and,

2. Unless such party, in addition to such deposit, shall also execute I bond, with one or more sufficient sureties to the plaintifff in the said
j ent, in such sum as the judge or officer allowing the injunction .

direct, conditioned for the payment to the said plaintiff and his leSI re resentatives, of all such damages and costs as may be awarded to
em y the court at the final hearing of the cause.

Sec. 47. Ifstler a verdict or j udgmcnt in a civil action any monies shall i
be deposited in the court of chancery, pursuant to either of the last_two ‘
sections, the same may be 'd on the order of the court, to the plaintifff
in such civil action, uponhlili executing a bond to the United States,
in a penalty double the amount so deposited, with such sureties as the
court shall approve, conditioned that such plaintiti‘ will pay to the clerk
of the court in which such order shall be made, the monies which he
Ihsll so receive, and the interest thereon, or any part thefof‘, according to
any order or decree of the court of chancery that may e made in relation to the same.

Sec. 48. Whenever the mone s so deposited shall be paid to the V.
plsintilf in a civil action, if the inal decision of the cause in chance- :1:
ry be a 'nst the party obtaining the injuiiction, the judge may order
In bongutliat may have been given by such plaintitl', to e cancelled,
Ind Illlll continue the in'unction to stay the collection of the 'udgineiit
at law, or shall com I t e plaintifff therein to cause such ju gment to
be satislied and discliearged of record.

Ste. 49. No injunction shall issue to stay proceedings in any civil 
action for the recovery of lands, or of the possession thereof, alive!‘ 9,.
verdict, unless the party app] ing therefore aha l_exec_ute a bond, with
one or more sureties, to the aintitf in such civil action, in siicli_ sum
as the judge or o$cer allowing the iii'unction shall_ direct, conditioned
for the meat to the plaintill in such action and his legal representatives, o a such damages and costs as may be_ awarded to them In 0880
of a decision inst the party obtaining such injunction. _

Sec. 50. he damages to be paid upon the dissolution of such injunction shall be ascertained by reference to a proper officer, and shall
include not only the reasonable rents and profits of the land recovered

by such verdict, but all waste committed thereon after the granting of
the injunction. A _

Sec. 51. The judge shall have power to dispense with any deposite
of monies, required by either of the preceding sections, and in lieu
thereof, todirect the execution of a bond with sureties, conditioned to
pay the amount so required to be deposited, whenever ordered by the‘
court; or if a bond is already required in addition to such deposite, then
to direct the enlargement of the penalty and condition of such bond as
may be requisite. But whenever such deposite shall be dispensed with,
the bond so substituted or enlarged shall be executed by at least two
sutiicient suretics. ~ ’ A

SEC. 52 Whenever an injunction shall be applied for to stay proceedings, in any civil action after judgment or verdict, on the ground

that such judgment or verdict was obtained by actual fraud, the  _
1 e

shall have power to dispense with the deposite of any monies or

‘execution of any bond.
Sec. 53. Whenever a jud ent in a civil action shall be enjoined,

L before any writ of injunction s all be issued, the complainant shall give
~ a bond to the defendant in a penalty of double the amount of the judgment in a civil action to be enjoined, with good and sufficient security
conditionedas required by law, and particularly to pay the defendant
the amount of such judgment, in case the injunction shall be dissolved;
and in all cases where a judgment in a civil action has been enjoined,
and the injunction shall be dissolved, the court shall award, upon the
dissolution of such injunction, ten per cent damages, to the defendant,
upon the sum enjoined, exclusive of interest and costs. No‘ in'unction
- shall be granted to stay any proceedings in a civil action until t e complainant shall release all errors at law in the proceedin s prayed to be
enjoined, and in all cases a confession of judgment shall amount to a
re ease of errors. ~ "
- Sec. 54. The sutiicieney of the sureties in any bond executed
under the provisions of this chapter, shall be ascertained by the affidavit
of each surety, stating that he is a householder, resident within this
territory, and that he is worth a sum equal to the amount in which the
bond shall have been required, over andabove all debts and demands
against him. Every such affidavit shall be annexed to or indorsed on
the bond.
it See. 55. W-henever a bond shall be required to be executed, pur,,_ suant to the provisions of this chapter, prior to the issuing of an injunction, the same with theaffidavit above required, shall be filed with
the clerk of the court before the scaling and delivery of the in'unetion.
ct Size. 56. The judge shall direct the delivery of any bond executed
he lmdel‘ the provisions of this chapter, to the person entitled to the benefit
thereof, for prosecution, whenever the condition of such bond shall_be
broken, or the circumstances of the case shall require such delivery.

run pownns AND PROCEEDINGS or ‘nu: COURT or CHANCERY TOUCHmc -nu: roiu:cLosUiu: on SATISFACTION or MORTGAGES.

be Size. 57. Bills for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages may

5,- be filed in the district court of the county where the mortgaged prem3888, or some portion thereof are situated, and in case any defendant is
M‘ 3 "°5‘fl9Y_‘t Of the Cqllnty, process may be served on him in any ptllel‘
county within the territory; or if he be absent or concealed, an order
for his appearance may be made, and proceedings thereon be had as are
provided for in the case of absent or concealed defendants.

See. 58. Whenever a hill shall be filed for -the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall have power to decree a sale of the
mortgaged premises, or such part: thereof as may be sudicient to discharge the amount due on the mortgage and the costs of suit; but the

district judge shall not by such decree order any lands to be sold withi-n nine months after the tiling of the bill of foreclosure. .

When a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mort_ shall not only have power to decree and compel the

e ivery of the possession ot the premises to the purchaser thereof, but
on the email in of the report of sale, the court shall have power to
decree and irect the payment by the mortgagor of any balance of
the mortgage debt that may remain unsatisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged premises in the cases in which such balance is recoverable at

W; and for that purpose, may issue the necessary executions as in
other cases against other propert of the mortgagor.

Sec. 69. After such bill she [be filed, while the same is pendin ,
and after a decree is rendered thereon, no proceedings whatever she l
he had at law for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage, or
any part thereof, unless authorized by the court-.

Sec. 80. If the mortgage debt be secured by the obligation, or other
evidence of debt of any person other than the mortgagor, the complainant may make such other person a party to the bill, and the court may
decree payment of the balance of such debt remaining unsatistied, alter
a sale of the mo premises, as well against such other person as
the mortgagor, a may enforce such decree as in other cases.

See. 1. Upon tiling a bill for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a
mortgage, the complainant shall state therein whether any proceedillave been had at law for the recovery
a
co ted or paid.

Sec. 62. If it appear that any judgment has been obtained in a suit
at law, for the monies demanded by such hill, or any part thereof, no
proceedings shall be had in such case, unless to an execution against
the property of the defendant in such judgment, the sheriff, or other
proper officer, shall have returned that the execution is unsatistied, in
whole or in part, and that the defendant has no property whereof to satillg such execution, except the mortgaged premises.

so. 63. All sales of mortgaged premises under a decree of chaneery, shall be made by a master in chancery, or other person appointed
by the court, in the county where the premises or some part of them
are situated.

‘ See. 64. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such master or othtr person appointed as aforesaid, which shall vest in the purchaser the
name estate that would have vested in the mortgagee, if the e uity of
redemption had been foreclosed, and no other or greater ; and sue deeds
Ihall be as valid as if executed by the mortgagor and mortgagee, and
shall be an entire bar against each of them, and against all parties to the
suit in which the decree for such sale was made, and against their heirs
res etively, and all persons claiming under such heirs.

ac. 35. The roceeds of every sale made under a decree in chancery, shall he app icd to the discharge of the debt adjudged by such
court to be due, and of the costs awarded; and if there be any surplus,
it shall be brought into court for the use of the defendant, or of the person entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court.

Sec. 36. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain ‘in the
said court, for the term of three months, without being applied for, the
district judge may direct the same to be put out at interest, subject to

of the debt secured thereb , or 
nyecpart thereof, and whether such debt, or any part thereof has n ‘

3111 A

new

225

So:
call
out

the order of the court for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order‘ of the court. A :
Size. 67. Whenever a bill shall be filed for the satisfaction orforeelosure of any mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest, or
any portion or installment of the principal, and there shall be other portions or installments to become due subsequently, the -bill shall be dis-.
missed upon the defendant’s bringing into court, at any time before the
decree of sale, the principal and interest due, with costs. ' _
Sec. 58. If, after a decreeafor sale entered against a defendant in
such case, he shallpbring into court the principal and interest due, with
costs, the -proceedings in the suit shall he stayed, but the court shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a further order of
the court, upon a subsequent» default in the payment of any portion, or
installment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to grow due.
Size. 69. If the defendant shall not bring into court the amountdue,
with costs, or if, for any other cause, -a decree shall pass for the complainant,,the court may direct a reference to a master, to ascertain and
report the situation of the mortgaged premises, or may determine the
same, on oral or other testimony; and if it shall appear that the same
can be sold in parcels, without injury to the interests of the parties, the
decree shall direct so much of the mortgaged premises to be sold, as will
besufficient to pa the amount then due on such mortgage, with costs;
and such decree shall remain as security for any subsequent default. .
Sec. 70.. If, in the case mentioned in the preceding section, there
shall be any default subsequent to such decree, in the payment of any

portion, or installment of the p1'lIi1-ipul, or at’ any interest due upon
such mortgage, the court may, upnn the ]H_'illlL)ll of the complainant, llz
a further order founded upon Suuli first decree, direct a sale ‘of 80 ml!!!

of the mortgaged premises to be made under such decrwa 39 Wm bf’
sufficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such pet!-r
tion, and the subsequent proceedi thereon; and the same proceedings may be had as often as a defaiigzs shall happen. ~
Sec. 71. If, in any of the foregoing cases it shallappear to the 00111‘?

' llml. the ll1ti1‘lf_;‘:l§_1'l'(l premises are so situated, that a sale of the whole
will he 111:»-1 in-m-fa;-.i;.l In the parties, the decree shall, in the £l'st1n9i8llO9s
l)l.‘- t‘l'll(‘l't‘Il illl‘ llm .-';IlL'. ml‘ the whole premises accordingly.

Sec. 72. In such case, the proceeds of such sale shall be applied as

. well to the interest, portion, or installment of the principal due, as towards the whole or residue of the sum secured by such mortgage, and
not due and pa. able at the time of such sale; and if such l:¢31d‘{° (10 “°‘
bear interest, then the court may direct the same to be paid. Vyllh 3 W"
bate of the .1 al interest for the time during which such residue Shall
not be due an payable; or, the court mav direct the balance of the Pm’
eeetls of such sale, after paying the sumvdue with costs» *0 be Pl“ ‘mt
at interest f or the-benefit of the complainant, to be paid to him as the installmerits or portions of the principal, or the interest, may become due, and
the surplus for the benefit of . the defendant, his representatives: 07 3"
signs, to be paid to them on the order of the court. _ ,
Sec. 73. Whenever it shall be deemed necessary, pending any SW‘
or proceeding, the court may appoint aspecial master in chanfrelji 3“°l‘
master to be sworn, and to give bond, if required, for the faithful Per’
formance of the duties as signed him, to have power to adinimster oath8

in any proceedings before him, and to receive for his services, such reasonable compensation as the court may allow.

OF APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT.

Size. 74. When any person, being complainant or defendant, shall

think himse1l't_Iggrieved byathe heal order or decree of a judge of s district court, sitting as a court of chancery, such person may enteran apHl within two months, to the supreme court, from such decreeor

‘ _or_de_r 5 and when any person, being complainant or defendant shall

think proper, not exceeding twent -five per cent, on the amountezf the
money or other subject matter of such decree. v .

' Sec. 76. On the hearing of any such appeal, the supreme court
Ihsllannul, athrm, modify, or alter, the order or decree a peeled from,
or makeany_ol,her order in the cause as justice under the in p

A proceedi may require; and mayremit the cause to the
dutriet court, wherein the orderor decree a peeled from was made, for
further , or may give any other 'rection in the cause esthe

lay or on any frivolus pretense, to award such damages to the adverse
puI'ty.pu they may under the circumstances deem proper; the criterion
for which damages. shall be prescribed by rule.

 

CHAPTER 95.
OF EVIDENCE.

Ilcrlol sec-tron r .
I. Who Is: lune snbpanu. _ ll. service on one or several persons who are
1. lehpans by whom served. port: to sun, sumo.-tent.
.tar\-uesnsnoeuzossosussduswzueas. as. xouoeno-name. p p s
46 mass; r_e:usIe¢tosuena,howuse1o. 13. rsrtymsywslve rlghttojotlce. _ 
5- tinun to blend, s contempt or court. 14. Deponent bow sworn and exarntncgl. .

‘I. In  augment my Issue. 15. Exnnlnstlon how coIidn'cted'. " ‘

’-3IIIiIas‘e¢wnnsssesrssybstnksn. 1e.Depesmontobswrlttenlvy,hiIloe. ‘ O. Vlelvttnessesdeposltlan maybe taken. 17. Cerunests to be annexed tsdepostttonz
lofbfmyspplysojustlesotthepesog .tornol'cc1-unests.

htyot-‘Juethe. 18. Deposltlou shall be delivered to the court
III. Notice served on sclvcrse psrty by sgent by justice.

CI’ attorney. 1!. Deposition when not to be used‘ 31. Judge shall cause notice to be given.

ECTION _ p y - A i J
as. Printed copies of the statute -or any 
or territory of the U. S. to be evidence, he.
01- Common law of other states, howiprosed.
68. Foreign laws how proved. . M s
69. Judgments injustices’ courts 
‘ 60. Proof of publication of notice, how made,
and when and where filed.

6!. Same of notice of sale of real property. ‘

lzcnoxt
20. objections to competency of witness may
‘ -be taken."
‘Ii. when deposition taken in one suit may be
used in another. _ ‘
22. in case of appeal, deposition in the court
below may be used in appellate court.
23. Oourt may make rules as to the time and

  
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  

I manner of taking depositions. ,
24. When person may be compelled to give 32- Amdavits, filed and copies thereof to In
deposition. .°"“°°°*»- ., ,

83. Affidavit of printer, &.c., to be evidence.
64. new copy or papers, &c.,to be certidod,'to
be evidence. 9 '

- 66. when seal not required. 1 i
00. Certain written Instruments may be acknowledged and read in evidence. _
67. Register and clerk to receive and deposit

papers.
68. How to be indorsed, flied and kept. '
89.   VIthdi'IVll, he
70. Papers, &c., open to examination.
71. When, certificate of oiiicer lobe evk|Bn00
‘of loss of document, so.
‘I2. when witness not to be excused from an-4
swering questions; vrhen shall be. 4
'73. Proof of loss of instrument how rescues.
.74. Party may recover on lost news 3'076. Bond to be executed to adverse Dirt)’25. Deposition: how taken out of the territory.
26. when commission may issue.

27. Deposition how taken.

28. court may make «rules as to issuing commission, asc. ~

28. Certain deposition to be taken or rejected
. at the discretion of the court.

30. Testimony how perpetuated.

82. Deponent how sworn and examined.
33. Deposition, certificate and statement to be
recorded vgith register.
34. Deposition when and by whom used.
35. Any witness may be summoned to testify
in perpetual remembrance, &c.
86. Deposition to perpetuate testimony of witnesszout of the territory, how taken37. Deposition toperpetnate testimony of Wit!
ness out of the territory, h'ow taken.
38- Notice to be given, and how.
89. When court to issue commission.
40. [low depositions to be taken and returned.
ti. Person applying may file statement with
clerk in vacation, kc. '
, 42. Supreme court may make rules respecting
such depositions.
43. Row same may be used.
44. Depositions how taken to be used against

"I8. when leger to be produced.
79. Entries by deceased personeo. Written instrument purporilns to have
been signed, tobe eiddeiiceo , s 
81. J ustlcc’s docket to be evidence before him.
82. Transcript mm" Justice's docket“? ‘>9 9"‘
demo in the coiiria.
83. When clerk’: certificate 11900931784. What proceedings may |>0P|’0“°“’¥°'“‘

all persons.
45. Depositions how taken to be used against 011339“au persons. 86 Possession of, not evidence of indorsement.

46. Dcpositions how taken to be used against
all persons; and publication of notice, sec.
47. Depositions to be recorded and when.
48. when and where same may be used.
49. Witnesses may be compelled to give evidence to be used in another state.
so. Witness deiiiied.
61. who may be witnesses.

91. When witness may it 92. when the court may MOP‘ 091°’ 9”“ “'°

62. who are incompetent to testify. usual mode of swearin853. In what cases persons cannot testify. 98. when the court may 10109‘ 055°‘ “'3” '1"
54. when records of courts of other states, &.c., usual mode of sweariniio

94. Court may examine 1111803: 3“?-a W ”°°"'

tain their capacity.
95- Oaths may be talen in an! 01 3”“ ‘°"n"

evidence.
55. When printed statutes, &.c., of the territory to be evidence.

0}‘ THE ISSUING AND SERVICE OF SUBPENAS, AND THE LIABILITY 0"

wrritnssezs rnnanoit.

SEC. 1. Every clerk of a court of record, and every justioc_ of 1110
genes may issue subptnnas for witnesses in all civil cases
ore the court, or before any magistrates, arbitrators, or 0 er rsoils
authorized to examine witnesses, and the subpoenas shall be ill
heretofore adopted and commonly used. _ _ _

SEC»  _Such subpoenas may be served by any person by exlnbltmg
and reading it to the witness, or by givi him a copy that , 01' ll!
leaving such copy at the place of his ab e.

Sec. 3. No person shall be obl' to attend as witness unless the

fees are paid or tendered to him which are allowed by law for one day’s
attendance as a witness, and for trav '

_ _ eling to and returning from the
place where he is required to attend.

Sec. 4. If any person duly subpoenaed and obliged to attend as a
witness, shall fail so to do, without any reasonable excuse, he shall be

liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure,
to be recovered in a civil action.

Si:c. 5. Such failure to attend as a witness in an
shall also be considered a contempt of the court, and
by a tine not exceeding twenty dollars.

Sec. 6. The court in such case may issue an attachment to bri

such witness before them to answer for the contempt, and also to testify
as a witness in the cause in which he was subpoenaed.

y court of record,
may be punished

OI‘ TAKING THE TESTIMONY OP WITNESSES WITHIN THIS TERRITORY.

Sec. 7. Dcpositions may be taken in the manner and accordi
the regulations provided in this chapter, to be used before any me istrates or other persons authorized to examine witnesses in any ogier
than criminal cases. A

Size. 8. When a witness whose testimony is wanted in any civil
cause pending in this territory, shall live more than thirty miles from
the place of trial, or shall be about to go out of the territory and not to
return in time for trial, or is so sick, infirm or pagled as to make it prob' , his deposition may

rig _to

me after the cause is commenced by the «service 1

of process or otherwise, or after it is submitted to arbitrators or ref- ’

¢
erees, either party may apply to any justice of the peace, who shall issue a notice to the adverse party. to appear before the said justice, or
any other justice of the peace, at the time and place appointed for
taking the deposition, and to put such interrogatories as he may think
fit.

S20. 10. The said notice may be served on the agent or attorney N

of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if served on the f,
party himself.

Size. 11. When there are several persons plaintifffs or defendants, 3'

piuparties on either side in the cause, a notice served on either of them :1
l be sutiicient.

III
See. 12. The notice shall be served by delivering‘

an attested copy N
thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving suc copy athis place

of abode, allowing in all cases not less than twenty-four hours after ‘
such notice before the time appointed for taking the depositions, and
also allowing time for his travel to the place appointed after being notitied, not less than at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every
twenty miles travel. _ _

S20. 13. The written notice before prescribedinay be wholly omit- 5:
ted if the adverse party or his attorney shall in writing waive the right
to it. 1 .

Sec. 14. The deponent shall be sworn to testify the truth, the pg
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating  the cause for which ,,,,_
the deposition is taken, and he shall then be examined by the parties if

they think tit, or by the justice, and his testimony shall be taken in
writing.

Sec. 15. Th rt roducin the deponent shall be allowed first an:
to examine him, giligeryugon verbgl or written interrogatories, on all °°"d
points which he shall deem material, and then the adverse party WY

an

examine the deponent in like manner; after which either party‘ may
propose such further interrogatories as the case may require. ‘

Sec. 16. The deposition shall be written b the justice or by the
deponent, or by some disinterested person, int c presence and under
the direction of the justicegand it shall be carefully read to or by the

deponent and shall then be subscribed by him. Sec. 17. The justice shall annex to the deposition in certilicate substantially as follows:
Territory of Minnesota, g 38

County of '
I, A. B., justice of the peace in and for said county, do hereby certify that the above deposition was taken .before me, at my office in the
in said county, on the day of

18 ,.at ' o’clock, ‘ ; that it was taken at the request
of the plaintifff, (or defendant) upon verbal (or written) interr tories;
that it was reduced to writing by myself, (or by deponent, or y '

, a disinterested rson, in my presence and under my
direction,) that it was taken to e used in the suit of T A. B. vs. C. D.,
now pending in court, and that the reason for taliin it

was (here state the true reason,) that atten at

the taking of said deposition, (or that a notice, of which theannexed is

a copy, was served upon him on the day of '

18 ;) that said deponent before examination was sworn to testify the

truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, relative to the said

cause, and that the said deposition was carefully read to (or by) said

de nent, and then subscribed by him. A -l

ted at the l day of 0110

thousand eight hundred and - A

- ‘ ' ' i A. .,justice ofthe peace.

I See. 18. The deposition shall be delivered b the justice to ‘the
court or arbitrators, er referees, before" whom e cause is pending,
or shall be inclosed and sealed by him, and directed to them, and 3h _l
remain sealed, until opened by said court, or the clerk thereof; 0? 3751'
trators, or referees.

Sec. 19. No. de ositions shall be used if it shall appear that file?”son for taking it, no onger exists ; Proiiided, however, That the partyproducing the deposition, in such case shall show any suflictent 081196
then existing for using such deposition, it may be admitted. _

»- Sec. 20. Every objection to the competency or credibility of the

' deponent, and to the propriety of any question put to him, or ol any asiswer made by him, may be made when the de ition is produced, 1}!
the same manner as if the witness was perso ly examin
al; Provided, That all objections to any interrogatory shat! be made before it is answered, and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn. ‘he 0b‘
jection shall be notedin the deposition, or otherwise the objection shall
not be afterwards allowed. ’

Sec. 21. When the plaintifff in any suit shall discontinue it! 07 “W

:,'_‘ suit shall be dismissed for any ‘cause, and another suit shall afterward

be commenced for the same cause between the same parties: 0? ‘hm’
respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken, for the 3'3‘?
suit may be used in the second, ' in the same manner, and subject to the
same conditions and objections as if originally taken for the second suit 5
Provided, That the deposition shall have been duly filed, in the court
where the first suit is pending, and shall remain in the custody of W0
°°111‘ta from the termination of the first suit, until the commencement
of the second.

at: Sec. 22. When a suit shall have been appealed from one court to
another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court below,

may be used in the a pellate court in the same manner, and subject to
such exception for i ormality or irregularity, and none other, as were
taken to such depositions in writing in the court below.

Ste. 23. The court may from time to time make such rules as they
shall find proper and convenient, as to the time and manner of filing
depositions, and the safe keeping thereof, and any other regulations
concerning the taking and usi of depositions, which may not be inconsistent with the provisions 0 law.

Sec. 24. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled to give his
depositon, at any place within twenty miles of his abode, in like manner, and under the same penalties, as he may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in any court.

9" TAKING THE TESTIMONY OP WITNESSES OUT 0!‘ THIS TERRITORY.

Size. 25. The deposition of any witness withoubthis territory, may
be taken under a commission, issued to one or more competent persons,
in any state.or country, by the court in whichthe cause is pending, and
the deposition may be used in the same manner, and subject to the same
conditions and objections, as if it had been taken in this territory.

Sec. 26. No commission shall be issued, to take testimony out of
this territory, except when the following requisites are complied with:

1. When an issue has been joined in a civil action in a court_of record in this territo

2. When it shallyappear on the application of either party to such
action, that any witness not residing in this territory, is material in the
prosecution or defense of such action, and where it shall also appear
upon such application, that due notice of such a plication, was served
on the adverse party at least ten days before we application is made.

Sec. 27. Every such deposition, shall be taken upon written inter- ,
rcgatories, tobe exhibited to the adverse party, or his attorney, and cross ‘
interrogatories to be filed by him if he shall think fit.

Sec. 28. The court may make rules as to the issuing of commissions, either in vacation or term time, and the filing of interrogatories,
and all other matters relating to depositions taken out of the territory;
Provided, That such rules be not inconsistent with the provisions of
law.

Ste. 29. All depositions and atiidavits taken out of the territory,
in any other manner than is prescribed in the preceding sections, if taken before any notary public, or other person authorized by the laws of
any state or country, to take depositions, may be admitted or rejected in
the discretion of the court : Provided, That no such deposition or affidavit shall be admitted, unless it appear that the adverse party had
suliicient notice of the taking thereof, and opportunity to cross examine
the witness.

or raocnnniisos ro pnarnrvarn rm: TESTIMONY or WITNESSES WITHIN riiis rnnniroav. .

Sec. 30. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the t_estiinon of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting
forth briefly, and substantially, his title claim or interest, in or to the
subject coneerni which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and
the names of all blgier persons interested, or supposed to be interested
therein, and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, and
shall deliver the said statement to the 'udge of a court of record, requesting him to take the deposition of t c said witness. . _

Size. 31. The said judge shall thereupon cause notice to be given

0'-.-uni

'21’

of the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all persons
mentioned in the said statement, as interested in the case, which notice
shall be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chapter, respecting notice upon taking a deposition in this territory, to be used in
an cause here pending.

gnc. 32. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and his deposition shall be written, read, and subscribed in the same manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned, and the judge
shall annex thereto a certificate under his hand, of the time and manner
of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance of the
thing, and he shall also insert in the certificate, the names of the persons at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were notihed
to attend, and of all those who did attend the taking thereof.

Sec. 33. The deposition with the certificate, and also the written
statement of -the party at whose request it was taken, shall, within ninety days after the uking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds in
t e county where the and lies, if the deposition relates to real estate,
otherwise in the county where the parties, or some of them reside.

Sec. 34. If any suit shall, either at the time of taking such deposition,
or at any time afterwards, be pending between the person at whose request it was taken, and the ersons named in the written statement, or
any of them who were noti ed as aforesaid, or any person claiming under either of the said parties respectivel , concerning the title, c aim,
or interest set forth in the statement, the deposition so taken, or a certitied copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in such suit, in
the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if
it had been originally taken for the said suit. .

Sec. 35. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled to give his
de csition in perpetual reiriembrance of the thing, as before prescribed»
in ike manner and under the same penalties as are provided in this chapter, respecting other depositions taken in this territory.

OP PROCEEDINGS T0 1")-ZRPETUATP. THE TESTIMONY OF VVITNBSSES OUT
01'‘ THIS 'l‘P.RRI'I‘0RY.

Sec. 36. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses living without thc territory, may be taken in any state, or in any foreign
country, upon a commission to be issued by any court of record in t e
manner hereinafter provided.

Size. 37. The person who proposes to take the deposition, shall apply to any such court, and file therein a statement like that before prescribed to be delivered to the judge or justice of the peace, upon taking such a deposition within this territory. and if the subject of the
proposed deposition relate to real estate within this territory, the statement shall be filed in the county where the lands, or any part there“
lies; otherwise in the county where the parties, or some of them reside.

SEC. 38. The court shall order notice of such application and statement, to be served on all the persons mentioned therein as adversel
interested in the case, and living within the territory, which notice Sh“ 1
be served fourteen days at least before the time appointed for hearing
the parties.

SE“ 39- If: Upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant
9-l°"¢a_should no adverse part appear, the court shall be satisfied that
there is sufficient cause for taxing the deposition, they shall issuea commission therefore, in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used in
any cause pending in the same court.

Size. 40. The deposition shall be taken upon written interrogatorieh

filed b the applicant, and cross interr tories filed an art adversely’: interested, if he shall think tittigznil it shall lliztakyizii) and returned substantiall in the same manner as if taken to be used in any
cause pending in t e same court.

Sec. 41. The person who proposes to take the deposition, may, at
his election, file his statement in the clerk's oiiice in vacation, and ma
cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein named as a veraely interested, by serving them with an attested copy of the said
statement, fourteen days at least before the next term of the court; and
the court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties, and to issue the
commission as before provided. .

Sec. 42. The supreme court may, from time to time, make rules as
to taking depositions, to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses without
the territory when taken under a commission t'rom any court of record,
and as to the tiling and recording of such deposition: Provided, Such
rules, be not inconsistent with the provisions of law.

Size. 43. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses
taken at any place without this territory, according to the revisions of

~ thisehapter, may be used in like manner as if taken wit in this territory.

YIOCIZEDINGS TO PERPETUATE THE TESTIMONY OP WITNESSES WITHIN
AND WITHOUT THIS TERRITORY, AS AGAINST ALL PERSONS.

Szc. 44. Depositions to perpetuatethe testimon of witnesses within or without this territory, so that the same may e evidence against
all persons, may be taken upon a commission to be issued, after public
notice, by any court of record.

See. 45. The person who desires to have such deposition taken, may
apply to any such court in the manner before prescribed, in the case of
taking a deposition to perpetuate the testimony of a witness living without the territory, and all the proceedings thereon, shall be the same as
are prescribed in the case last mentioned.

Size. 46. The court shall, in addition to the proceedings so before
rescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant, or otherwise, in their

'scretion, as to all persons known or supposed to be interested in the
case, and shall in the commission direct the commissioner or commissioners. to publish in such newspaper or newspapers, within or without
the territory, or both, or in such -other manner as the court shall consider most eifectiial, such notice of the time and lace of taki such
deposition, and of the subject matter thereof as t e court shal think
proper; which notice shall be addressed specially by name to all persons
who are known or supposed to be interested in the ease, and generally
to all others, that they may attend and propose cross interrogatories to
the witness ; and the court may also require personal notice of the time
and place of taking, and of the subject matter of such deposition, to be
given to such persons, and in such manner, as under all the circumstances shall seem proper.

Sec. 47. Such deposition having been taken and returned to the court
by whose order the commission issued, and being found by the court
to have been taken according to law and the directions contained in the
commission, the court shall order it to be recorded within thirty days,
in the regist of deeds for the county in which the land lies, if the
deposition re ate to real estate, otherwise in the county in which the
parties or some of them reside.

Size. 48. Any deposition taken and recorded under the provisions
of the four preceding sections, or a certified copy thereof from the registry may be used by the person at whose request it was taken, or by

any person claiming under him, . against any person whatever- in any
suit or proceeding wherein shall be brought in (ipestion the title claim
or interest set forth in the statement upon whic the commission was
founded, in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and

objections as if it had heen.origi,nal_ly taken for said suit or proceeding.

or nizrosrrioivs rakes in rats TERRITORY To an nsno IN eounrs or
‘ orasn srarss AND.COUN'l‘RlB8..

Sec’. 49. Any witness maybe subpoenaed and compelled in like
manner, and under the same penalties as are prescribed in this chapter,
to give his ‘deposition in any cause riding in a court in any state or
government, which deposition may taken before an justice of the
peace in this territory, or before any commissioners .t iat may be tippointed under the authority of the state or government in. which e
suit is pending; and if the deposition is taken before such commissioners, the witness may be subptenaed and compelled to appear before them

- the law to encourage confidence and to preserve

by process from any justice of the peace in«this territory. . - -.
or run COIIPETENCY or CERTAIN reasons as wrrsizssns.

Sec. 50 A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is
received as evidence for an purpose, whether such declaration be
made on oral examination or by deposition or atiidavit. _

Sec. 51. All persons without exception, otherwise than as specI.£_ed
in the next two sections, who having the power and faculty to perceive
and making known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses.
Therefore neither parties not other persons who have an interest in the
event of an action or proceeding are excluded, nor those who have been
convicted of a crime, nor persons on account of their opinions «on matters of religious belief; although in every case the credibility of the
witness may be drawn in question. _ _

Sec. 52. The following persons are not competent to testify in any
actionorproceedingzy I . ‘i i _

1. Those who are of unsound mind or intoxicated at the time of their
production for examination: ' _ s

2. Children under ten years of age, who ap r incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting w ich they are examined

or of relating them truly.

Sec. 53. There are particular relations in which it is the policy of
it inviolate; thei'ef0l’0

a person cannot be examined as a witness in the following cases:

1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife, without
her consent ; not & wife for or against her husband, without his consent; nor can either during the marriage or afterwards,
consent of the other, examined as to an communication made by 003
to the other during the marriage; but is exception does not epply_ ,
a civil action or proceeding by one against the other; nor to n 0111111113]
action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against the other:

2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, -be examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice
given thereon in the course of professional duty:

3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to the confession made to him
in his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs: 7

4. A regular physician or sur eon cannot, without the consent of
his patient, be examined in a civid action, as to any information acquired

in attcndirgthe patient, which wasnecessarytoanablehiintcprescribe
or net for e patient: '

B. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made
to him in oiicial conhdence, when the public-interest would suffer by

the disclosure.

0!‘ THE PRINTED STATUTE! OI‘ T1118 ‘l'-EEIIITOIY, OI‘ 'l'IE- IECOIDI AND‘

PROCEEDINGS OI‘ COUIITD3 AND THE LAWS OI’ OTBEE STATES, AND OF
FOREIGN LAWS, AS EVIDENCE.

Sac. 54. The records and judicial proceedi of any court of any
state or territory or of the United States, shall admissafile in evidence, in all cases in this territory, when authenticated by the attestation ef the clerk prothonota or other o6cer having charge of the
records of such court, with t e seal of such court annexed.

Sac. 56 The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and resolves of
&is territory, whether of a public or private nature, which shall be
published under the authority of the territory, shall be admitted as sufficient evidence thereof in ali courts of law, and on all occasions whatsoever.

Sec. 58. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state or territory
of the United States, if purporting to be published under the authority
of their respective governments, or if coinmonl-y’ admitted and read as
evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts of law and on all
other occasions in this territory as prime facia evidence of such laws.

Sec. 57. The unwritten or common law of any state or territory
of the United States, may be proved as facts by parole evidence, and
the books of reports of cases, adjudged in their courts, may also be admitted as evidence of such law.

See. 58. The existence and the tenor, or elfect of all foreign laws,
may be proved as facts, by parole evidence, but if it shall appear that
the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the court
may in their discretion, reject any evidence of such law, that is not socompaaied by a copy thereof.

TEE EXIIPLIFICATION OI‘ JUSTICE!’ JUDGIENT8 IN OTHER STATES.

See. 69. An exeinpliication of a judgment rendered by any justice
ofthe peace, in any state. or territory, of the United States, omcially
oertined by such 'ustice as afulland oorrectcopy ofall thepreceedings
in that case from is docket, with a certincate of magisti-scilynthereon,
signed and authenticated by a clerk of a court of record in county,
w ere such judgment was rendered, with the seal thereof attached, shall
be good and legal evidence in any court or legal proceedings in this territory to prove the facts contained in such exemplification.

DOCUIENTAIY EVIDENCE AND THE PRESERVATION TIEEOP ETC.

Sec. 60. When notice of any application to any court, or 
gilicer for any proceeding authorized by law, is required to be published
In one or more newspapers, an affidavit of the printer of such newsP‘P¢l'» or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy
of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published, and
speci ' the time when, and thepaper inwhich such notice VIII
publis may be filed with the proper o$cerofthe‘ court, or with the
 o$cer before when such proceeding shall be pending: 0‘ 313!
timewitlIinsixuoathsafterthelastdeyofthepuhliaticn.ofsnchnotice, unless sooner specially required.

Sec. 61. When any notice-.of-a sale of real property is required by
law, to be published in any newspaper, an aiiidavit of the printer of
such newspaper, or of his foreman or rincipal clerk, annexed to a
printed copy of such notice, taken from t e paper in which itwas pubished, and s ecifying the times when, and the paper in which such notice was pub ished may be filed at any time wit in six months after the
last day of such publication with the register of deeds in. the county in
which the premises sold are situated.

Sec. 62. The original affidavit so filed pursuant to the last two
preceding sections and copies thereof, duly certified by the officer in
whose custody the same shall be, shall be presum tivc evidence in all
cases, and in every court or judicial proceeding, 0 the facts contained
in such aiiidavit. - .

Sec. 63. The affidavit of the printer, or foremanof such rinter, of
any public newspaper published in this territory, of the pub ication of
any notice or advertisement which by any law of this territory shall be
required to be published in such newspaper, shall be entitledto be read
in evidence in all courts of justice in this territory, and- in all proceedings before any oihcer, body, or board, and shall be prima facia evidence
of such publication, and of the facts stated therein. Sec. 64. Whenever a certified copy of an affidavit, record, document or other pa , is allowed by law to be evidence, such copy shall
be certified by t e officer in whose custody the same is r aired by
law to be, to have been compared by him with the original an  be a
correct transcript therefrom; and if suchofficer have avg oiiictal seal
by law, such certificate shall be authenticated by such se . _

Sec. 65. But the preceding section shall.not beconstrued to require
the aliixing of the seal of a court to any certified copy of a mic
or order made by such court, or of any paper filedotherein, when such
copy is used in the same conrtsor before any odicer thereof.

Sec. 66. Every written instrument except promissory notela 33¢‘
hills of exchange, and except the last will: of deceased persons ma _be
proved or aclrnow in the manner now provided by law for
the proof or acknow edgment of conveyances of real estate,  the cartificate of the proper officer indorsed thereon, shall entitle Such
instrument to be read in evidence in. all courts of justice, and all P‘'?'
ceedings before any officer, body or board, with the same effect, and In
the same manner as if such instrument were a conveyance of real estate.

Sac. -67. The register of deeds, and the clerk of any court Of T900"!
in eve county of this territory,.upon being paid the fees allowed therefore by w, shall receive and deposit in their oiiices respectively: 9-3)’
instruments or papers which any person shall offer them for 1113‘ Pm’
pose, and if required, shall give such person a written receipt thel'0f01‘SEC. 68. Such instruments or papers, shall be properly indorsed 00
as to indicate their general nature and the names of the parties l-l|¢1‘°t°r
shall be filed b the officer receiving the same, stating the tune when
received, and slilall be deposited and kept.by him and his suceeslori 10
office, in the same manner as his oiiicia papers, in some place s8P"“l’°
and distinct from such papers. _

- Sec. 69. The instruments or papers so received and deposited: 3113“
not be withdrawn from such office, except on the order of some 00"“
for the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and then to b6
returned to such odice; nor shall they be delivered without such order,
to an person, unless upon the written order of the person who d3P°"

ited a same, or his executors or administrators.
S1:c.. 70. Such instruments or papers so deposited, shall be Open

to the examination of any person desiring the same, upon the payment 0f
the fees allowed by law. *

Sec. 7]. Whenever oicer towhem the 1 ustod of
documents, instrument orngzper shall belong, shall ltgllf; unde’i"-hisaclill:

as if such oihcer had personally testified to the same in the count, or before the o$eer before whom such cause, matter or proceeding may be

or -ran rnrvinxeii or wi-rsnssizs I1!’ ciin-rain cases.

Sac. 72. Any competent witness in a cause, shall not be excused
from answering a question relevant to the matter in issue, on the ground
merely that the answer to such question, may establish or tend to establish that such witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil suit;
but this provision shall not be construed to require a witness to give any
answer which will have a tendency to accuse himself of any crime or
misdemeanor, or to expose him to any penalty or forfeiture, nor in any

respect to very or alter any other rule respecting the examination of
witnesses. 01 THE L088 OI‘ INSTRUHBNTS AND PROCEEDINGS TIIBRION.

Size. 73. Whenever a to any action, shall have been pcrmit- .
ted to prove by his own oath, t e loss of any instrument, in order to ad- ‘,
mit other roof of the contents thereof, the adverse party may also be
examined the court, on oath to disprove such loss, and to account for
such instrument.

Sec. 74. In any suit founded on any negotiable promissory note, or 1
bill of exchange, or in which such note, if produced, might be allowed ‘
as a set off in the defense of any suit, if it appear on the trial that such
note or bill was lost while it belonged to the party claiming the amount
due thereupon, parole or other evidence of the contents thereof may be
'ven on such trial, and notwithstanding such note or bill was negotiagle, such party shall be entitled to receive the amount due thereon, as
if such note or bill had been produced.

S30. 75. But to entitle a party to such recovery, he shall execute a B
bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double the amount of “
such note or bill, with two sureties to be approved by the court in which
the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party, his

' and personal representatives, against all claims by any otlior perlens on account of such note or bill, and against all costs and expenses
by reason of such claim.

0!‘ ACCOUNT BOOKS, INSTIUIIERTS, AND JUSTICES, DOCKET! A3 EVIDENCE.

Sec. 76. Whenever a party in any cause or proceeding, shall pro- 3;
duce at the trial his account books, and swear that the same are his account books kept for that pmpose, that they contain the original entries
of  for goods, or other articles delivered, or work and labor or
other services performed, or materials found, and that such entries are
just to the best of his knowledge and belief, that said entries are in his
own hand writing, and that they were made at or about the time said
goods or other articles were delivered, said work and labor or other services were performed, or said materials were found, the party olfermg
such book or books as evidence, being subject to all the rules of cross

examination by theadverse party, that would be applicable by the rules

to any other witness, givingtestimony relating to said book orbooks, if
it shall appear upon the examination of said party, that all of the interrogatories in this section contained, are satisfactorily established in the
affirmative, then the said book or books shall .be received as prima facia
evidence in proof of the charges therein contained. . Sec. 77. Whenever the original entries mentioned in the-preceding
section, are in the hand writing of an agent, servant, or clerk of the
party, the oath of such agent, servant, or clerk, may in like manner he
admitted to verif the same, and said books shall be testimon in the
same manner as e books mentioned in the precedingsection: Iliovided,
That such books mentioned in this and the preceding section, shall not
be admitted as testimony of any item of money delivered at one time,

exceeding five dollars, or of money paid-to third persons, or of charge!

for rent.

Sec. 78. Where a book has marks which show that the items havebeen transferred to a leger, the book shall not be testimony unless the
lcgcr be produced.

Size. 79. Any entries made in a book by a person authorized to make
the same, he being dead, may be received as evidence in a case proper
for the admission of such book as evidence.

. Sec. 80. Every written instrument purporting to have been signed
or executed by any person, shall be proof that it was so signed or-executed, until the person by whom it purports to have been signed or executed, shall deny the signature or execution of the same by his oath or
affidavit; but this section shall not extend to instruments purporting to
have been signed or executed by any person who shall havedied previous to the re uirement of such proof.

» Sec. 81. henever it shall become necessary in an action before a-justice of the peace, to give evidence of a judgment, or other proceeding had before him, the docket of such jud nt, or other proceeding,
or a transcript thereof certified by him, sh 1 be good evidence thereof
~ before such justice. ’
Sec. 82. A transcript from the docket of any justice of the peace; of any judgment had before him, of the proceeding in the case previous
to such judgment, of the execution issued thereon if any, and of the return to sue execution if any, when certified by such justice: ‘hall 13°
evidence to prove the facts contained in such transcript in any court in
the county where such judgment was rendered. _
- Size. 83. To entitle such transcript to be read in evidence in a
different county than that in which the judgment was rendered, or the
proceedings originated, there shall be attached thereto or indorsed thereon a certificate of the clerk of the district court of the same county in
which such justice resides, under the seal of said court, specifying ‘hit
the person subscribing such transcript was at the date of the judgmenttlierein mentioned, a justice of the peace of such county.
Sec. 84. The proceedings in any cause had before a justice, not re" duced to writing by said justice, nor being the contents of any paper 01'

document produced before said justice, unless such paper or document
be lost or destroyed may be proved by the oath of the justice. In
case of his death or absence they may be proved by producing the original minutes of such proceeding entered in a book kept b such justice:
accompanied by proof of his hand writing; or they may be proved by
j>I'0<_1llclng copies of such minutes sworn to by a competent "witness, 35
Itwlllg been compared by him with the original entries, with proof that
such entries were in the hand writing of the justice. '

XISCBLLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Sac. 85. In all actions brought on promissory notes or bills of exchange by the indorsee, the possession of the note shall be prima facia
evidence that the same was iiidorsed by the persons by whom it purports to be indorsed.

Size. 86. All notices required by this chapter to be given to or by
anidverse party, may be given by or to the agent or attorney of the
sun part .

Sac.  The depositions of persons out of this territory, to be used
in cases before justices of the peace within this territory, may be taken
in the same manner, and under the same regulations as depositions are
now authorized by law, to be taken of persons within this territory,
and shall be subject to the same exceptions: Provided, That in no case
shall more than forty days notice of the taking of such depositions be

uired to be 'ven to the adverse party. ‘no. 88. T e reeeiver’s receipt or certificate of purchase of public
lands, signed by the receiver, and under the otiicial certificate of any
register or receiver, of the entry or purchase of any tract or tracts of
land, or of the location of any tract or tracts by a military land warrant,
shall be prima facie evidence in court in this territory, that the title of

the lands mentioned or described, in said receipt or certificate is in the
person or persons named therein, his, her, or their heirs, or assigns ;

ut the said certificate shall not be construed to apply to cases in which
the land was held, owned, or occupied by any person or persons as
mineral ground at the time of said entry, and on which discoveries of
lead or copper ore had been made: Provided, The same be held by the
original claimant, or his legal or equitable assignee.

so. 89; All deeds, mortgages, or other instruments in writing, 1
relating to real estate situate within this territory, which shall have f
been recorded in the office of any register of deeds before this section
shall take effect, purporting to have been acknowedged or proved without this territory, and having upon them substantial y the ordinary form
of a certificate of acknowledgment or proof, purporting to have been
signed by some officer in another state or country s all be deemed
prima facie in all legal roceedings to have been acknowledged or
proved, (as the case ma lic,) before the proper officer and in conformIly with the laws of sue state or country, where it purports to have
been acknowledged or proved ; and the records of all such deeds, mortgages, and instruments, certificate of acknowledgment or proof may ‘be
read in evidence, in like manner and with the same effect as the originals.

OF ADMINISTERING OATHS.

Sec. 90. Whenever any oath or affidavit is or may be required or BE
authorized by law, Sc-xcept oaths tojurors and witnesses in the trial ot ""
a cause, and such ot ier oaths as are re uired by law to be taken before
particular ot}icers,) the same may be ta en before_any Judge, Judge of
probate, clerk of any court of record, notary pubhc, or Justice 01 the
plaice; and when certified by any such officer to have been taken before

‘In. may be read and used in any court of law or equity: 0_f T_€°_°|'d 0"
not of record, within this territory, and before any othcer, Jlltllclal, executive or administrative. _ _

Sec. 91. Ever person who shall declare that he has conscientious :1;
samples against taxing an oath, or swearing in any form; Shall be Per’
mitted to make his solemn declaration or affirmation.

Sec. 92. Wlienever the court before which any person shall be Wb

ofered as a witness, shall be satisfied that such person has any peculiar mode of swearing, which is more solemn and obligatory in t e opinion of such person, than the usual mode, ‘the court may in its discretion, adopt such mode of swearing such person.
Sac. 93. Every person believi in any other than the christianreligion, shall be sworn according to t e peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such ceremonies.

Ssc. 94. The court before whom an infant, or a person apparently
of weak intellect, shall be produced as a witness, may examine such person to ascertain his capacity, and whether he understands the nature
and obligations of an oath; and any court may inquire of any person,
what are the peculiar ceremonies observed by him in swearing, which

he deems most ebli tory.
Sec. 95. In allgacases in which an oath or affidavit is requiredor

authorized by law, the same may be taken in any of the usual forms,
and every person swearing, ailirmi , or doc ' in any such form,
shall be deemed to have been lawfiigy sworn, a to be  of perjury, for corruptly or falsely swearing, smrming or doc aring in any

such form.

  

CHAPTER 96.

, - OF ARBITRATIONS.

 

SECTION s1~:c'riox

1. Conirovcriy may be submitted to arbitra- 12. Award may be accepted, rejected 01' |'°'
tors. committed.
2. When submission not to be made. 13. On what grounds parts may more OW!" *0
8. Parties to make agreement of submission; set aside awardtorm or agreement. 14. In what eases court may BIN!‘ SW83“4- Agreement to submit, what to contain. 15. Award when to be returned to court.
5. Submission not to be revoked. 18. Judgment how rendered; 005“ 110'" t‘3°d°
e. To appoint a time and place for the hearing. :7. Record or judgment how “W107. Arbitrators to be sworn. 18. Record how filed and docketedi 5w8. Award made utter time used by parties not 19. Arbitrators may make award ooncernlnc
to have effect. costs.
9. Award to be in writing. 20. Court may enforce Judlmenb
10. To be delivered to the clerk. 21. Arbitrators may administer oaths.

‘ ii. Court to have cognizance oi’ award.

o Sec. 1. All controversies which ' t be the subject of a personlll
" action at law, or of a suit in equity, may be submitted tothe ¢le0i830l1 Of
one or more arbitrators in the manner rovided in this chapter» _
Snc. 2. No such submission shall made respectingthe claim_of
any P537300: to any estate in fee, or for life to real estate, but 9-35' 01”“
to an interest for a term of cars, or for one year or less, in real estate» 39‘
controversies respecting e partition of lands between joint tenant!» 01'
tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning the admeasurement of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.

Sec. 3. The parties shall appear in person, or by their lawful agent-‘1

' and f
have agreed to submit the d mand, a ststernerit
whereof is hereto annexed, (and all other demands een them, as
the case may be,) to the determination of and

the award of whom or the greater part of whom, bein

g made and reported within _ from this day, to the district court for the counTerritciy of Mimosa, 2 ”_

County of
Then the above named and sonally appeared,
(or the above named personally, and c said
by the said  attorney, appeared, as the case may be,) and

acknowledged the above instrument by them signed, to be their free
lot.

others, the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement annexed
to the agreement, otherwise it shall not be necessary to annex any statement of a demand, and the words in the agreement relating to such statement may be omitted, and the submission may then be of all demands between the parties, or of all demands which either of them has against the
other, or the submission may be varied in this respect, in any other
‘manner according to the argcement of the parties.

Sec. 5. Neither rty shall have power to revoke a submission
made as herein providhad, without the consent of the other; and if eil n

ther of them she eglect to appear before the arbitrators after due notiee, the arbitrators may, nevertheless, proceed to hear and determine

the cause upon the evidence produced by the other party, as provided
in the agreement of submission.

Sec. 6. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and place -n
for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time to time as may be £1
necessary; and on the a plication of either party, and for good cause,

they may ne such eari to atime n extendi beyond the day
bed in sti:liti’tibmission for rrigidering their award. 08

Sec. 7. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators A1
shall be sworn an o$eer authorized to administer oaths, faithful "‘
. by 3'

examine the matters in controversy, and to make
I just award according to law and evidence, to the best of their underE Pl!

“Sac. 8. The time within which the award shafllthbe made and re r- 3:
bevaricd according‘ tothe eemento e pa:-ties;a no a
awarlduy made after the time so agreedhgnfpon, shall have any legal effect ‘Joe
0|’ operation, unless made upon a re-commitment of the award by the
court to which it is reported. _
. Sec. 9. To entitle any award to be enforced, according to the pro- 3;
visions ofthis chapter, it must be in writing, subscribed bythe arbitrators
 the same, and attested by a subscribing witness.

a'eSzc. 10. The award shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators, ‘to -no

clerk of the court, designated in the agreement, or shall be inclosed “'°

and sealed by them, and transmitted to the clerk, and shall remain

sealed until opened bythe court.
Sec. 11. The court to which the award is returned shall have cognizance thereofin the same manner, and the same proceedings shall be
had thereon, as if it had been made by referees appointed by a rule of

the same court.
Src. 12. The award may be accepted or rejected by the court for

any legal and sufficient reason, or it may be recommitted to the same
arbitrators for a rehearing by».them; and when an award is accepted
and confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon in the

same manner as upon a like award made by’ referees appointed by a

rule of the court, and execution shall issue accordingly. ,
Sec. 13. Any party complaining of such award may move the court

designated in such submission, to vacate the same A upon. either of the

following grounds :
1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means:

2. 'l‘hat there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators,

or either of them:
3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing topostpone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to ‘hear
evidence, pertinent and material to the controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the rights of any arty shall have been prejudiced:

4. That the arbitrators exceed their powers, -or that they so imperfectly executed them, that a mutual, final and definite award on the

subject matter submitted was not made:

' 5. That the award was contrary to law and evidence: *
Sec. 14. Any party to such submission may also move the court

designated therein, to modify or correct such award in the following

cases :
1. Where there is an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident

mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred ‘-0
in such award:

2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not
submitted to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters submitted:
3. Where the awards shall be imperfect in some matter of form not

atfectiug the merits of the controversy, and where,-'f it had been a verdict, such defect could have been amended or disregarded by the 00"“
according to the provisions of law. ,

9 Sec. 15. The award ma be returned at any term or sessionof 91¢

' court, that shall be held wit in thetiine limited in the submission; and
the parties shall attend at every such term or sessions With?” ‘"3’ 9*‘
press notice‘-for that purpose, in like manner ' h
same cause wei-e_pending between them in the same court; but l P
court.~may*requ'ire actual notice to be given to either party, when It
shall appear to them necessary or proper, before they proceed to act

upon the award. A t _
- Sec. 16. Upon such award being confirmed or modified» “"3 °°‘“’t

shall render 'ud ent in favor of the party to whom any sum of money
or damages 9 al have been awarded, that he recover the same, and If
the award shall have ordered any act to be done by either pN'tYi J“d3"
ment shall be entered that such act be done accordi to such order;
the costs of proceedings shall be taxed as in suitsyaililg if no pr0'3'ISi0“
for the fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have been made in 919

award, the court shall make a suitable allowance.

it T Sec. 17. A record of such jud ment shall be made, commenei-“S

with a memorandum reciting the su mission, then stating the hearing


