PRACTICE IN COURTS OF JUSTICE.

AN ACT to reform the Pleadin .s andPractice in Courts of Justice in
issouri.

An'rrcu: 1. 0f the form of Civil Actions.
IL Of the time of commencing Civil Actions.
III. Of the parties to Civil Aetions.
IV. In what counties suits are to be brought.
V. Of the manner of commencing Civil Actions.
VI. Of the Pleadings in Civil Actions. ’
VII. General rules of Pleading.
VIII. Claim and delivery of personal prOperty. .
IX. In'unctions. ' .
X. er provisional remedies. . .
XI. Mistakes in Pleading, and amendments and new trial.
XII. Judgment upon failure to answer.
XIII. Issues and the mode of trial- '
XIV. Trial hy Jury.
XV. Trial by the Court.
 :II‘rial by Refeaefhs. f f .
. u ent, an e manner 0 en orc' it.
XVIII. ThdegIIElxocution. mg
xxx. A pen] in Civil Actiolfl.
XX. Su mitting a controversy without action.
XXI. Proceedings against joint debtors, and against heirs, devisees, legatees. and tenants ho ding under a judgment debtor. . .
XXII. Confession of ' ent without action. .
XXIII. Offer of the del'cn to compromise the whole or part of the action.
XXIV. Admission, ins ection, and production of witnesses, and examination of parties.
XXV. Examination 0 witnesses. '
XXVI. Motions and Orders.
XXV II. Entitling Affidavits.
XXVIII. Computation of time.
XXIX. Notices, and tiling and service of papers.
XXX. General and miscellaneous proviaons.

XXXI. Examples of petitions and answers, replications and demurrersi which may be

used where applicable; and where not strictly applicable, ana agous ones may

be used in analagons cases.
XXXII. When ‘this act shall take effect. '

WHEREAS, it“ is expedient that the present forms, of actions and pleadings
in cases at common law should be abolished; that the distinction be-'
tween legal and equitable remedies should no l‘on er exist; and that
an uniform courseot‘ proceeding in all cases shou d be established;
thereforee, ' " ‘

Be it enacted by the General dissemny qfthe State of Missouri, asfollows:
ARTICLE I.

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. Abolition of distinctions in actions at law {g 2. Parties to an action, how designated.
and equity; one form of action declared. .

§ 1. The distinction between the’difl'erent actions at law, and between
actions at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all. such actions and
suits heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this State,
hereafter, but one form' of action for the enforcement or protection of
private rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which
shall be denominated a civil action. ,

§2. In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant. . , t ’ 

ARTICLE II.

OF THE TIME OF COMMECING CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. Certain sections of act of limitation, of otherwise rovided for; relief on the
1845, repealed; provisions of this arti- ground of read, within five years.
ale substituted; restrictions to this ar- 5. Actions against a sheriff or coroner, for
ticle. ‘ liability; for enalty or forfeiture upon

2. Periods of limitation prescribed. a statute; wit in three years.

3. Actions on writing, sealed or unsealed, 6. Actions for libel, slander, assault, battefor the direct payment of money or ry, false im risonment- statutory penproperty; also, actions on covenants of a ty or for eiture to the State; within
warranty or of seizen; within ten two years.
years. 7. Actions against sheriff, or other officer,

4. Actions on contracts and obligations; lia- , for escape; within one year.
bility, &.c., trespass on real estate; ta- ‘8. In account current; when cause of action
king, detaining, or injurin goods or accrued.
chattels; recovery of spec' c personal 9. Actions for penalties, &c., by any person ‘
property; criminal conversation; inju- who will sue, when accrued.
ries to person or rights of another, not 10. Alctiops by the State subject to the same

' imi ations.

J

§ 1. Sections one, two, three, and four, of article second, and section
second of article third, of an act passed by the General Assembly of this
State, entitled “an aCt prescribing the times of commencing actions,”
ap roved 27th March, 1845, are-repealed, and the provisions of this artic e are substituted in their stead. This article shall not extend to actions already commenced,- or to cases where the right of action has already accrued; but thestatutes now in force shall be applicable to‘ such
‘ fcases, according to the subject of the action and without regard to the

arm.

§ 2. The civil actions embraced within this article can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in the sections which follow after
the causes of action shall have accrued, except where in special ‘cases,
a did'erent limitation is prescribed by statute.

§ 3. Within ten years: First, an action upon any writing, whether sealed or unsealed, for the direct payment of money or property; Second,
actions brought on any covenant of warranty contained in any deed of
conve ance of land, shall be brought within ten years next after there
shall ave been a final decision against the title of the covenantor in
such deed; and actions on any covenant of seizen, contained in any such
deed, shall be brought within ten years after the cause of action shall
accrue; Third, actions for relief, not herein otherwise provided for.

§ 4. Within live years: First, an action upon a contract, obligation, or
liability, express or implied, except those mentioned in the last section,
and exce t upon judgments or decrees of a court of record, and except
where a 'tl‘erent time is limited in this act; Second, an action upon a liability created by a statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture; Third,
an action for trespass on real estate; Fourth, an action for taking, de—
taining, or injuring any goods or chattels, including actions for the recovery
of specific personal property; Fifth, an action for criminal conversation,
or for any other injury to the person or rights of another, not arisin on
contract, and not hereinafter enumerated; Sixth, an action for relie on
the ground of fraud—the cause of action in such case to be deemed not
to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts
constituting the fraud.

 

§ 5. Within three years: First, an action against a sherid'_ or coroner,
upon a liability incurred by the doing ’of an act in his odicia'l capacity,
and in virtue of his allies, or by the omission of an odicial duty, including the non-payment of money collected upon an executionz—but this
section shall not apply to an action for an escape; Second, an action a on a statute for a penalty of forfeiture, where the action is given to t e
party aggrieved, or to such party: and the State, except where the
statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 6. Within two years: First, an action for libel,‘ slander, assault, battery,'or false imprisonment; Second, an action upon a statute for a penal or- forfeiture to the State. a : ' .

277. Within one year: an action against a sheriff or other officer for
the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 8. In an action brou ht to recover a balance due on a mutual, 0 on
and current account, w ere there have been reciprocal demands etween the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued
from the time of the last item in the account on the adverse side. * ‘ ‘

§ 9. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given in
whole or in part to ’any person who will prosecute'for the same, must be
commenced within one year after the commission of the ofence; and if
the action be not commenced within the year, by a private party, it may
be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the State, by
the attorney eneral, or the circuit attorney of the proper’ circuit.  r "

§ 10. The imitations prescribed in this article, shall apply to actions
brought in the name of this State, or for rits benefit, in the same manner
as to actions by private parties. ’ ‘

ARTICLE 111.

or ran Harms 'ro crvu. ACTIONE.

§ 1. Action to he in the name of the real par- 2 8. When different parties to the same inty in interest. ‘ . strument may be sued together.
2. Executors, administrators, 8m, may sue 9. Proceedings u a death, marriage, or
in their own names, Sic. other disabih y, or transfer of interest
3. Assignment of a thing, in action, not to during the pendency of the action. .
_ prejudice a defense. 10. Court may order other parties to. be

4. Set en's allowed to defendant. brought in.
5. Who may be joined as plaintifffs. 1]. Abatement, where cause of action shall
0. Who may be' ined as defendants. not surfive, applicable only to parties
7. Parties unit in interest, when to be adyinga . , joined. l2. Revival of cases, reference to Art. V.
Practicein Chancery.

§ 1. Every civil action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in the next section.

§ 2. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name without
joining with him the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted.

§ 3. In case of an assignment ‘of a thing in action, the actionby the
assignee shall be without prejudice to an offset or other defense existing
at the time of, or before notice of the'assignment; but this section shall
not apply to bills of exehan e, nor to promissory notes for the payment
of money expressed on the face thereof, to be for value received, negoe tiable and payable without defalcation. '

 

§ 4. The defendant or defendants will be allowed set od's'in‘the cases
and under the circumstances now allowed by law, both before and after
judgments and executions. .

§ 5. All ersons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in
obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except as
otherwise provided in this act.

§ 6. Any person may be made a party defendant who has an interest,
in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff. _

§ 7. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintifffs 'or defendants; but if the consent of any one
who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, hemay be
made a. defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the petition. 3§ 8. Persons severally liable,‘including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the same
action, at the option of the plaintifff; and where severally liable, an ,executor or administrator, or other person liable in a representative charapter, irfnay be joined with others originally liable, at the Option of the
p ainti . 7 . «

§ 9. No action shall abate by death, marriage, or other disability of
a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action
survives or continues. In the case of death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the court on motion may allow the action to be continued
by or against his representative or successor in interest. In the case of any
transfer‘of an interest, other than that occasioned by death, marria e or
disability of a party, the actinn shall be continued in the name 0 the
original party, or the court may allow the-person to whom the transfer
is made to be substituted in the action.

§ 10. When a complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, the court may order them to
be brought in by an amendment of‘ the petition, or by a supplemental petition, and a new summons. ,

§ 11. When one or more of the plaintifffs or defendants die, and the
cause of action shall not Survive, the suit shall abate only as to the person or persons so dying, and the surviving parties may proceed without
reviving the suit. .

§ 12. Suits may be revived in the cases,and in' the manner and with
the effect now provided in Article V, of Practice in Chancery, so far as
may be consistent with the provisions of this act. ~

ARTICLE IV.
IN WHAT COUNTY sun's MAYBE BROUGHT.

§ 1. Suits, instituted by summons, ma be one defendant resides. Defendants all
brought in the county in which p ain- non-residents, then in any county.
tiff or defendant resides. Defendants 2. Suits by attachment, to be brought m the
residing-in different counties, suits may county where the prOperty is found;
be brought in any one of them; where where the property is m several counthere are resident and non-resident de- _ ties, separate writs to such' counties

fendants then in any county where any may issue. _
3. Parties may agree to removal of suit.

§ 1. Suits instituted by summons 9; shall be brought: First, when the.

 

 

defendant is a resident of the State, either in the county within which
the defendant resides, or in the county within which the plaintiffiiresidcs
and the defendant may be found; when there are several defendants, and
they reside in different counties, the suit may be brought in any such
county, and a separate writ may be issued to each county against such
of the defendants as reside therein; where there are several defendants,
some residents and others non-residents of the State, suit may be brought
in any county in which any defendant resides; .S'ecoley, if all the defendants are non-residents of the State, and an action will lie against
them, it may be brought in any county.

§'2. Suits brought by attachment against the pr0perty of a person,
shall be brought in the county in which such property may be found;
when a defendant or defendants, in a suit instituted by attachment, have
prOperty in several counties, separate writs may be issued to every such
county.

i} 3. If at any time after the commencement of a suit the parties shall
agree upon any other county to which they desire the same to be removed, it shall, by order of court, he removed accordingly to such
county.

ARTICLE V.

0? THE MANNER 0F COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

5 1. Petition tobe filed in the odice of the clerk I § 9. When part of defendants are residents,
of the circuit court. process to be issued against them.

2. Summons, requisites of. 10. Proceedings, on return, that the defendant

3. In what cases a separate summons may is- cannot be found.
sue. 11. Mode of procedure in cases of unknown

4. Summons, manner of service. parties.

5. Copy of petition to be delivered to, or left 12. Publication in newspapers, of notice to nonat the place , of abode of the defendant resident, absent or unknow'n‘ defendants.
first summoned. l3. Mode of personal service out of the State

6. Cases in which a service of twenty days - on the defendant.
is re uired. 14. In cases where part of the defendants do not

7. Refusal to hear road, or to receive a copy appear, or are not summoned, &c.

of petition and writ. . 15. The leadings and procedure in suits in at8. Proceedings to obtain order of publication , tac ment, to accord as near as may be to
against non-resident defendants. \. the provisions of this act.

\

“\M WNW

A’vw

§ 1. Every person commencing a civil action, shall file in the odice of
the clerk of the circuit court of the proper county, his petition setting
forth the nature of his complaint, and the remedy sought, in the manner
hereinafter required and directed. '

§ 2. Unless the defendant voluntarily appears, the clerk shall issue a '
summons as now required by the practice at law, directed to the sheriff
of the proper county, requiring him to summon the defendant or defendants to a pear and answer the petition on the return day of such summgns. ’Fhe summons, when issued, shall be endorsed upon or annexed

to‘the petition, or a copy thereof; it shall be dated on the day issued,
and made returnable on the first day of the next term thereafter, unless
such term be within fifteen days thereafter; and in that case the sum‘mons shall be returnable on the first day of the second term. Every defendant served with the summons fifteen days before the return day thereof, shall be baund to appear at the return term of the writ; and if such

 

summons be served less than fifteen days, he shall be bound to appear at
the term next after the return term of such writ. §.3. Where there are several defendants residing in different counties,
a separate summons shall be issued to each county, including all the defendants residing therein; and when any defendant or defendants are
non-residents of the State, the pla‘intif may take his writ against him .or
them, or separate writs a ainst each, directed to the sheriff of any coun‘ty in the Statein which t e plaintifff believes such defendant or defendants may betemporarily found. . _ '

§ 4. Every summons shall be accompanied by a separate cepy of the
petition; and the service shall be, either first, by reading .the petition
and writ to the defendant; or secondly, by delivering to the defendant
who shall be first summoned, a copy of the petition and writ; and to such
as shall be subsequently summoned a soy of the writ; or thirdly, by
leaving such cOpy at the usual place of abode of the defendant, with
some white person of his family, above the age of fifteen years. I

§ 5. The copy of the petition accompanying the writ, shall be delivered to, or left at the place of abode of the defendant who shall be first
summoned. . \

§ 6. In all cases where the petition is founded solely upon a bond, bill
or promissory note, for the direct payment of money, and the plaintifff
demands a trial at the first term, as hereinafter provided, each defendant
to authorize such judgment against him, must be personally served at
least twenty days before the return day of such writ, by delivering him
a copy of such petition and writ.

§ 7. In all cases where the defendant shall refuse to hear such petition
and writ read, or to receive a copy thereof, the oEer of the officer to read
the same, or to deliver a copy thereof, and such refusal shall be a sufficient service of such writ. .

§ 8. If ° any plaintid', or other person for him, shall file with his etition an affidavit stating that part or all of the defendants are non-resiclents
of the State, the court, or clerk in vacatibn, shall make an order directed
to the non-residents, notifying them of the commencement of the suit,
and stating briefly the object and general nature of the etition, and re,quiring them to appear on a day to be therein named, al owing sufficient
tune for publication, and answer the petition, or that the petition will be
taken as confessed.

§ 9. If in such case part of the defendants are residents of the State,
proc’eSs shall be issued against them as in other cases.

§ 10. When a summons shall be issued against'any defendant, and the

. sheriff to whom it is directed shall make return that the defendant can.

not be found, the court, being first satisfied that process cannot be served, shall make an order as is required in the preceding sections in case
of non-resident defendants.

, § 11. If any complainant shall allege in his petition that there are, or
that he verily believes there are persons interested in the subject matter
of the petition, whose names he cannot insert therein, because they are
unknown to him, and shall describe the interest of such persons, and
how derived, so far as his knowledge extends, the court, or the judge,
or clerk thereof in vacation, shall make an order, as in case of non-re 

sidents, reciting moreover all allegations in relation to the interest of
such unknown parties. '

§ 12. Every order ' st non-resident, absent or unknown defendants, shall be publishe _ in some newspaper published in this State, which
the court, judge or clerk making the order, may designate as most likely to give notice to the erson to be, notified; the publication shall be for
eight weeks successive y, the last insertion to be at least four weeks
before the commencement of the term at which the‘ defendants are required to appear. a, t ,

§ 13. The plaintiff may cause a copy of the petition, with a notice of
the suit, to be delivered to any known defendant, residing or being without this State, at any place within the United States or their territories,
two months before the commencement of the term at which such defendant is required to appear. Such service may be made by any free white
person above the age of ' twenty-one years, who is a competent and disinterested witness in the cause, and being proved by the affidavit or deposition of such person, shall be equivalent to publication as hereinhefore
directed in case of non-presidents, .

§ 14. When there are several defendants, some of whom do not appear
and are neither notified nor summoned, the plaintiff may proceed against
those, if any, who do pear, or are summoned or'notified, and dismiss
his petition as to the at are, or he may. continue the cause, and proceed
to bring in the other defendants by process or publication, as the case
may require. n ’ ' ~

§ 15. Suits may be brought by attachment in the cases, and conducted in the manner authorized by statute in such cases; provided, that the
pleadings and procedure shall‘be as near as. may be according to the

pronsions of this act. ’

ARTICLE VI.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

1. First leading a petition, to be in ordinary § 6. Objection not a on tition to be
§ and Idemise language; what it must con- taken by answer. nei er demurrer
rain, nor answer, objection waived except as
2. Headings on the part of the defendant de- to jurisdiction and cause of action.
mm and answer, and when they must 7. Answer—what to contain; to be inordinary
be filed. ‘ and concise language.
3. What the demurrer must contain. 8. Answer may set forth all the grounds of
4. Grounds of objection must ‘be distinctly ‘ defense. ' r
s in the demurrer. 9. Proceedings where defendant sets up edicts
5. A er demurrer plaintifff may amend with- in his answer.

in twenty days; also amendment attcr ( 10. Rules governing demurrer to offsets.
decision on demurrer. ' - .

§ 1'. The first tpleadi2g on the' part of the plaintifff is the petition. The
petition shall contain, z'rst, The title of the cause, specifying the name

of the court and county‘in which the action is brought, and the names
of the parties to the action, plaintifffs and defendants. Second, A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, or causes of action, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner
as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. Third, A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff may suppose
himself entitled: If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount

 

thereof shall be stated, or such facts as will enable. the defendant an
the court to ascertain the amount demanded. - ‘
§ 2. The only pleading on the part of the defendant, is either a demurrer or an answer. It must be filed within six days, after the return day '
of the summons, if the term shall so long continue; if not, then within
such time as the court may by rule prescribe. In cases specified in sec.
6, of article V, the demurrer or answer shall be filed within the first two
,days after the return day of the summons, and the cause shall be tried
at the return term of the summons, unless continued for ood cause.
The court may, for good cause shewn, extend the time of 'ng the demurrer or answer, in all cases. ' ‘
§ 3. The defendant may demur to the petitibn when it shall appear
upon the face thereof, either, First, That the court has no jurisdiction
of the person of the defendant or the subject of the action; or, Second,
That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or, Third, That there
is another action pending between the same parties, for the same cause;
or, Fourth, That there is adefect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; 0r,
Fifth, That the petition does not state facts sullicient to constitute a
cause of action.
§ 4. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds. of objection to
the petition; unless ‘it does so, it may be disregarded. § 5. After a demurrer, the plaintiE may amend of course, and with or
without costs, as the court may order. ,Upon the decision of the demur-‘rer, the plaintifff may amend, or the defendant withdraw his demurrer and
answer. The amendment and answer hall be filed within such time as
the court may‘prescribe. .
§ 6. When any of the matters enumerated in section 3, of this article,
do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be taken
by answer. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, except
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter of the action, and the objection that the petition does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
§ 7. The answer of the defendant shall contain, First, In resPect to
each allegation of the petition controverted by the defendant, a specific
denial thereof, or of any knowledge thereof sudicient to form a belief;
Second, "A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in ordi‘
‘nary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as
to enable‘a person of common understanding to know what is intended.
§ 8. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defense as he shall have. They shall be separately stated, and may refer to the. causes of action which they are intended to answer, in any
manner by which they may be intelligibly distin uished. '
§9. If the defendant sets up an offset or ol§sets in his answer, the
plaintifff shall within two days after the filing said answer, demur or reply to said offsets. The reply shall be governed by the rules herein prescribed in relation to answers. The court may, for good cause shewn,
enlarge the time for filing the reply. i ’
‘ § 10. The demurrer to an offset shall be governed by- the rules hereinbefore prescribed, in cases of demurrers to petitions [answers] where

they apply.

 

 
  

ARTICLE VII.

    
    
    
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
     

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.

5 1. No pleading allowed but petition, answer, E «5 7. Judgments of courts, Sac. how pleaded.
demurrer, and where oti'setts, a reply ( 8. Private statutes how pleaded.

‘ thereto. 9. Conditions precedent, bow pleaded.
2. Egg pleading to be subscribed and veri- 10. Libtel and slander, how to be stated on pet
ti ion.
3. Presumptions of law, and matters judicial- ll. Answer in such cases.
ly noticed, need not be pleaded. l2. DiH'erent causes of action may be united in
4. Matters of Account, how stated. 5 petition—grounds of defense united in
5. Pleadings to be liberally construed. answer. ‘
6. Irrelevantor redundant matter to be strick- 13. Original deeds and other writings required
an out. , to be filed.

§ 1. No other pleading shall be allowed than the petition, demurrer,
answer, and in cases of offset, a reply thereto. .

§ 2. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney,
and the petition and answer and reply to offsets, must each be verified
by the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it and the matters therein, as stated, to be true. No pleading,
verified .as herein required, shall be used in any criminal prosecution
against the party, _as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading, and such verification shall not make any‘other or greater proof necessary or! the side of the opposite party. ' .

§ 3. Neither presumptions of law nor matters of which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in pleading.

§ 4. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the
items of an account therein alleged, when they exceed twenty in number; but if they 'be not set forth, he shall deliver to the adverse party, or
file with his pleading, a copy of the account, verified by aiiidavit as
herein required of petitions and answers; and if not so setforth,filed or
delivered, he shall be precluded from giving evidence thereof.

§ 5. In the construction of a pleadin , for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations shall be liberal y construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties. .

§6. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby.§ 7. In pleading a judgment or other‘determination of a court or oilicer of special jurisdiction, it shall- not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction; but such judgment or determination may be
stated to have. been duly given or made. If such allegation be made in
a' petition, and be not controverted in the answer; or be made inan answer in relation to an offset, and be not controverted in the reply, it need
not be roved on trial; in other cases it shall be proved’cn trial.

§ 8. n pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the
day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial‘notice
thereof.

§ 9. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it.shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his art' and if such alleation be not controverted,

 

stated in section 7, of this article in regard to judgments, it shall not be
necessary to prove it on trial; in other cases it shall be necessary.
§ 10. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the petition any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state ‘generally that
’

the same was published or spoken concerning the plainti and if such
allegation be not controverted, as stated in sections 7 and 9, in regard
to judgments and the performance of a condition precedent, it shall not
be necessary to prove it on trial; in other cases it shall be necessary.

§ 11. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may
in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory,
and any mitigating circumstances legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 12. The plaintifff may unite in his petition as many causes of action
as he may have; and in like manner the defendant may unite in his answer as many grounds of defense, including offsets, as he may have, although the same may heretofore have required different actions at law,
or an action or actions at law, and a suit or suits in equity. The plaintifff shall reply to the offsets in like manner as the defendant is required
to answer the matter set forth in the petition; and every material alle-~
gation in the petition not specifically controverted in the answer as
heretofore required, and every material allegation in the ansWer in regard to an offset or offsets, not specifically controverted in the reply, as
above prescribed, shall for the purposes of the action, be taken, as true.
But the allegations in the answer not' relating to an offset, and the allegations in the reply. shall not in any respect conclude the opposite arty, who may on the trial avail himself of any valid objection to their
s'ufliciency, or may controvert them by proof, either in direct denial or
by way of avoidance.

§ 13. If either party shall rely upon any record, deed, or other wri—
ting, he shall file with his pleading an authenticated copy of such record, and the original deed or other writing if in his power. If he cannot produce such deed or other writin , he shall so state in his pleading,
together with the reasons therefore; anigi, if thé reasons he sufficient, he
may file the best evidence of the contents of such deeds or other writings, in his power. Original deeds and other writings filed by either
, party as above provided, shall remain on file for the inspection of the
other party, until allowed by the court to be withdrawn; and in such
case, copies tested by the clerk shall be substituted by the party withdrawing the originals."

ARTICLE VIII.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. ‘

1. Procedure where ossession of ersonal \ ’34. Proceedings where shefiff takes the proproperty is claimed. ‘ perty.

2. Defendant required to deliver the property. 1,. 5. Qualifications of thesnreties. .
3. Bond with surety to be executed by . 6. Cases in which sheriff is enempt from liplaintiti‘. E ability on the taking of said bond.

 

§ 7. Expenses allowed sheriff; ower in execut- erty. ,
ing order for delivery 0 property. $§9. The and taken, to be filed—when forfeit8. Enforcement of order for delivery of prop-z ed, proceedings on it by motion.

. § 1. If the plaintiR', in his petition, claims the possession of any personal property, he may, 'either at the time of filing his petition or at any
time afterwards, file his affidavit or the'affidavit of some erson in his
~ behalf, shewing, First, That the plaintifff is the owner of t e property
claimed, (suiliciently describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the possession,thereof by virtue of a special tplroperty therein; Second, That the
property is wrongfully detained by a defendant; Third, That the same
as not been taken for a tax, assessment or line against the plaintifff, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the .
property of the plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt
from such seizure; Fourth, The actual value of such property; and, Fifth,
That the plaintifff will be in danger of losing his said pr0perty unless it
be taken out of the defendant’s possession or otherwise secured.

‘ § 2. Upon filing such atiidavit, the court, or judge, or clerk in v'a'cation, shall make an order requiring the defendhnt to deliver the preperty
specified in the affidavit to the sheriff, and requiring the sheriff, if the
same be not delivered to him, to take it from the defendant and deliver
it'to the plaintifff. ' .

E? 3. The sheriff shall not receive or take such property until the plainti shall deliver to him a bond, executed by one or more sufficient securities, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound to the
defendant in double the value of the property as stated in‘the affidavit,
for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may, for any cause growing out of the order in the cause,
he recovered against the plaintifff. .

§ 4. Upon such bond being executed as aforesaid, the sherid' shall receive the roperty, or if the same be not delivered, shall take the pro erty and eliver it to the plaintifff; unless, before such delivery to t e
plaintiE, one or more suilicient securities, to be approved by the sheriff,
shall execute a bond to the plaintifff to the efect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery of said preperty to the laintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of suc sum as may, for any cause
growing out 'of the taking and detention of such property by defendant,
be recovered against him.

? 5. Each of the securities must be a resident and householder or freeho der within the State. They must be worth the amount for which the
bond is iven, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and after
paying 1 just debts. '

§ 6. The sheriff may take such” security upon his own responsibility,
or he may, before receiving such bond, require the securities to make
amda'vit to the facts stated in the last section, which shall exonerate him
from liability. _

§ 7. The sheriff shall be allowed his reasonable expenses for taking
and keeping pro era, and may break open doors and enclosures to execute the order or e delivery of the property, if upon public demand

they be not opened.

 

§ 8. The court may enforce the order for delivery of property, as other
- orders of court are enforced.

§ 9. 'Whon a bond is taken, as in this article is provided, it shall be
returned by the sheriff and filed in court; and if any such bond shall be
forfeited, the party aggrieved may proceed thereon, by motion in open
court, at any time within one Year after the determination of the origi—
nal suit, against the obligors in such bond. Notice of such motion shall .
be served on the defendants in such motion, if they be inhabitants of the
county in which the original suit was determined; and if they are not
inhabitants thereof, then a copy of such notice shall be osted up at the
court house door of said county, in each case, ten days icfore the hearing of said motion.

~ ARTICLE IX.

INJUNC’I‘IOII.

. Abolition of injunction and order substi- - § 9. To 0 rate as release of errors.
tuted. “ 10. Bon to be given; condition of the bond.

. When the order is made by the county . 11. Bond, when filed; when entered into becourt, justice thereof, or by a judge of .' fore clerk; when suit may be brought
thecircuit court in vacation. ‘ ' on said bond.

. Injunction in what cases granted. 12. Damages to be awarded on dissolution.

. Application for injunction when there is 13. Judgment in such case; how enforced.
no circuit court in session, nor any judge 14. Certificate to be ranted when application
thereof within the county. is overruled; ect thereof.

. Temporary injunction. l5. Punished for disobedience to injunction

'. Where injunctions may be had in certain after its service.
counties, and where the summons shall 16. After answer filed, motion to dissolve
be directed in such cases. may be filed at any time in the term;

. Notice of application for injunction to K roceedings thereon.
whom given; may be put up in the clerk’s S . - otion may be continued on ahidavit.
office under certain circumstances. ' . Proceedings in cases in which no notice

. Extent of injunction to stay proceedings: has been given, and where defendant
at law. may be restrained.

§ 1. The writ of injunction, as a provisional remedy, is abolished, and
an injunction, by order, is substituted therefore. The order _may be made
‘by the circuit court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, in vacation; or, in cases hereinafter particularly specified, by the
county court, or any two justices thereof, in vacation.
§ 2. When an injunction is made by order of the county court, or justice thereof in vacation, or by a judge of the circuit court in vacation,
such order shall be'returned to and may be enforced as the order of the _
circuit court. ‘
§ 3. When it shall appear by the petition that the plaintifff is entitled
to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of some act of the defendant,
the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would
roduce great or irreparable in'ury to the plaintifff; or when, during the
itigation, it shall appear that t e defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, some act in relation to the plaintifff’s rights-respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineh'ectual, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such act.
§ 4. When an application is made for an injunction to a county court,

 

 

or any two justices thereof, as provided in section one, the applicant shall
produce satisfactory proof that there is not than any circuit court in
session, or any judge thereof within such county; and if such proof is
not produced the application shall not be entertained.

§5. In addition to the cases enumerated in section three,,where a
temporary injunction may be granted, it may also be granted in any case
wherein it is particularly authorized by statute.

§ 6. When a petition is filed for an injunction to stay proceedings at
law commenced, or a judgment .at law had on proceedings commenced
before this act shall take effect, or to stayproceedings in cases to which
the provisions of this act do. not extend, it may be inthe county in which
such proceedings or judgment was had or obtained; and the summons .in
such case shall be directed, in the. first instance, to any county in which
the defendant resides or in which he may be found, or the action may be
commenced as provided in article IV.

§ 7. Before an application is ranted for an injunction to stay proceedings at law, as provided in ttghe last section, unless such application
be made in Open Court after the return day of the summons, reasonable
notice thereof in writing shall be given to the adverse party, if within
this State, or to his known a ent or attorney, if he has any, in the State. f
If he does not reside in the tate, and has no known agent or attorney
therein, notice shall be put up, ten days before the application, in the
office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county where the proceedings at law were had. ‘ . '

§ 8. No injunction shall be granted to stay any judgment or proceed- .
ings at law except so much of the rewvery or cause of action as the
plaintifff shall shew'himself entitled to be relieved against, and. so much
as will cover costs.

§ 9. Every such injunction shall operate as a release of all errors in.
the proceedings at law that are prayed to be enjoined.

 10. N o injunction (unless on final hearing or jud ment) shall issue
in any case until the plaintifff execute a bond, with su cient security, to
the other party, in such sum as the court or judge shall deem suBicient
to secure the amount or other matter to be enjoined, and all damages
that may be occasioned by such injunction, conditioned that the plaintifff
will abide the decision which shall be made therein, and pay all sums of
money, damages and costs that shall be adjudged against him, if the injunction shall be dissolved. - ’ § 11. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk of the circuit court of
the county to which the injunction is returnable, and the bond may be
entered into before said clerk, if the court or} judge granting the injunction shall first approve of the security. Suit may be brought on such .
bond in the manner directed in article VIII, section nine, of this act, in
regard to bonds taken pursuant to that article. .

§ 12. Upon the dissolution of an injunction, in whole or part, damages shall be assessed by a jury, or if neither party require a jury, by the
court: but if money shall have been enjoined, the damages th~ reon shall
not exceed ten per centum on the amount released by the dissolution,
exclusive of legal interest and costs.

§ 13. The court shall enter a judgment according to the circumstances

 

of the case, including the damages so expressed, and may award execution thereon, or otherwise enforce such judgment, according to the rules
. and practice of the court.

§ 14. When any application for an injunction shall be overruled by a
county court, or by any two justices thereof, or by the judge of the cir» ‘
cuit court in vacation, such county court or justices or judge shall grant
to the defendant a certificate thereof, and neither shall afterwards grant
an injunction in such case. '

§ 15. If any person disobey or violate an injunction after it is served
on him, the circuit court to which it is returned, or any judge thereof in
vacation, shall issue an attachment against him for a contempt; and, un- .
less he shall disprove or purge the contempt, if in vacation, the judge
may commit him to jail- until the Sitting of the court in which the injunction is pending, or' take bail for his appearance in said court at the next
term thereof, to answer for the contempt, and abide the order, of the
court, and in the mean time to observe and obey the injunction.

§ 16. After the answer is filed, a motion may be made at any time in
term to dissolve the injunction; and upon such ’motion, the parties may
introduce testimony to support the petition and answer, and the court
shall decide the motion upon the weight of testimony, without being
bound to take the answer as true. ~

§ 17. If, after a motion for a dissolution of the injunction is made,
either party will satisfy the court by his own affidavit, or that of any
other person for him, that any material specified part of the bill or answer to which he objects, is untrue, that he has witnesses whose testimony
he believes he can procure at the next term, or other material testimony
which will diSprove the same, and that he has not been able to procure
such testimony by using due diligence, the court may continue the motion until the next term. '

§ 18. The testimony to be .heard on such motion, shall be taken 'as in
other cases, except the allidavits which may have been filed with such
petition or answer, which may be read on the hearing such motion; and
depositions taken to support, or dissolve an injunction may be read on
the final trial or other proceedin in such cause.

. § 19. When an application sha 1 be made for an injunction, as hereinbefore is provided, and no notice of such application is required by this
act, and no notice is in fact given, and the court, justices or judge to
which the application is made, shall deem it proper that the defen ant,
or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction, he may, by an order, require cause to bee shewn at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted, and‘he may, in the
'mean time, restrain the defendant, or make such other order as the case

may require.
ARTICLE X.

OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

5 1. Powers of court as to receivers, deposit of money, &c., and other provisional remedies.

§ 1. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the court may ap 

point receivers, and direct the deposit of money ,or other thin in court,
‘ and grant the other provisional remedies now existing accor ing to the
present practice, except as otherwise provided in this act.

’ ARTICLE XI.

MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS AND NEW TRIAL.

§ 1. Material variances, how provided for. ‘ § 4. Amendments of course.
2. Immaterial variances, immediately amend- 5. Amendments by the court.

ed. 6. No error or defect to be regarded, unless
3. What to be deemed avariance; on failure affecting substantial rights. v

of proof, new trial, and pleadings to be 7. Supplemental. petition, answer or reply.

amended; also, in cases of fraud, perju-  8. Continuance in cases of amendment.
ry, mistake, ac.

§ 1. N o variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof,
shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse
party to~his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the mer—
its. When it shall be alleged that a party has been so mis ed, that fact
shall be roved to the satisfaction of the court, by aHidavit shewing' in
what res ect he has been misled; and thereupon, the court may order
the plea ings to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just.

§ 2. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the facts to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.

§ 3. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defense
to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or
particulars only, but in its entire soope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
In case of such failure of proof, and a verdict of the jury or finding of
the-court against the party so failing, and the court is satisiied from the
proof given that the party has a good cause of action or defense, as the'
case may be, and such party will apply for a new trial and undertake to
proceed without unnecessary delay, the court‘shall grant such new trial,
and permit the pleadings, if necessary, to be amended, on such‘terms as
may be just and reasonable. And in every case where there has been a
mistake or surprise of a party or his agent or attorney, or a misdirection
of the jury by the court, or a mistake by the jury, or a finding contrary
to the direction of the court‘ in any matter of law, or a fraud or deceit
practiced by one party on the other, or the court is satisfied that perjury
or mistake has been committed by a witness, and is also satisfied that an
impmper verdict or finding was occasioned by any of the matters afore~
said, and that the party has a just cause of action or defense, it shall
grant a new trial, and, if necessary, permit the pleadings to be amended, I
on such terms as may be just and reasonable. § 4. Any pleading may be amended by the party of course, without
costs and without prejudice to the proceeding already had, at any time
before the answer to it shall be' filed.

§ 5. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as mayfbe proper,‘jamend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in

 

the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect material to the
case, or by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

§ 6. The court may, in every stage of the action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and nojudgment shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.

§ 7. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case, or praying for any other or different relief or order,
or judgment;

§ 8. When either party shall amend any pleading or proceeding, and
the court shall be satisfied, by affidavits or otherwise, that the opposite
party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance
may be granted to some day in the same term or to another term of the
court.

ARTICLE XII.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§ 1. Judgment, definition of. § 4. In no case, damages or other relief to be
2. Proceedings in cases where the defendant greater‘than that asked for in the retition
has failed to answer. _ as filed and served.
3. Court may appoint referees, &c. ‘

§ 1. A‘ judgment is the final determination of the right of the parties

in the action.

§ 2. If the action be founded on a bond, bill or note for money, and
there be no answer as hereinbefore required, the clerk may, under the
direction of the court, enter. judgment for the amount which shall appear
to be due. In other cases, where there is no answer as aforesaid, the
plaintifff. may, if he require it, have ajury to assess his damages. If no
jury be required, the court may assess his damages and render judgment
thereon, or give the other relief asked in the petition.

§ 3. If the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court, instead of taking the account or healing the proof, may,
in its‘discretion, order a reference for that purpose to any person free
irom exception. '

§ 4. Where judgment is given under the last two sections, the damages or other relief shall, in no case, be other or greater than that asked
in the petition as originally filed and served on the defendant.

ARTICLE x111.

ISSUES AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

§ 1. Issues, definition of, and kinds. _ 6. ,When issues of fact must be tried by a
2. Cases in which issues of law arise. jury.
3. Cases in which issues of fact arise. 7. Issues, when triable by the court.
4. On issues both oflaw and fact, issues of 8. Separate trials of the several causes of
law to be first determined. action united in the petition allowed;

5. Trial, definition of. ' costs in such cases; judgment on such
separate finding.

 

§ 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They
are of two kinds: First, of law; and, Second, of fact.

§ 2. An issue of law arises: First, upon a demurrer to the petition; 'or,
Second, upon an allegation of fact in a pleading by the one party, the
truth of which is not controverted by the other.

§3. An issue of fact arises: First, upon a material allegation of the
petition, controverted by the answer; or, Second, upon matter of offset
in the answer, controverted by the reply; or, Third, upon other new
matter in the answer; or, Fourth, upon new matter in reply to offsets.

§ 4. Issues both of law and-of fact may arise upon the pleadings in
the same action. In such case the issues of law must be disposed of,
unless the court otherwise direct.

§ 5. A- trial is the judicial examination of _the issues between the parties, whether they be issues 'of law or of ‘ fact.

‘3 6. Whenever in an action for the recovery of money only,“ or of spec' c real or personal property, there shall be an issue of fact, it must be
tried by a 'ury, unless a jury trial be waived as' rovided in section 1, of
Article X , or a reference be ordered as provi ed in Article XVI.

7. Every other issue is triable by the‘ court, which, however, may
or er the whole issue, or any specihc question of fact involved therein,
to be tried by a jury; or may refer it as provided in the last section, and
those to which it refers.

§ 8. Where there are several causes of action united in a petition, or
where there are several issues, and the court shall be of opinion that all'
or any of them should be tried separately, by the court or jury, it may,
on the application of either party, direct such separate tria . And such
separate trials may be had at the same, or at different terms of the court,
as circumstances may require. And in all cases where there are separate causes of action, united as aforesaid, the court shall award separate
costs against the unsuccessful party, unless for 'good cause it shall otherwise order. The judgment upon such separate finding shall await the
trial of all the issues.

7 ARTICLE XIV.

TRIAL BY JURY.

5 1? Either arty may bring issue to trial. special verdict, and when court may
2. Genera and special verdicts of jury; (143- direct s ecial finding.
tinitions of. 4. Special riding, and general verdict in3. When jury may render either general or consistent; the former to control.
5. Jury to assess damages, and when.

§ 1. When the action is called to trial, either party may proceed to
try the issues; and in the absence of the adverse arty, unless the court
for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a
dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, or judgment, asthe case may
require. '

§ 2. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the
issues, either in favor of the plaintid' or defendant. A special verdict

 

is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. -‘

§ 3. In every action forthe recovery of money only,.or specific real or
personal property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find
a special verdict, in writing, upon all or any of the issues; or may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to 6nd upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writin , and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or tin ing shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. .

§ 4. Where a s ecial finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, t e former shall control the latter, and the court shall
give judgment accordingly.
. ' § 6. When a verdict shall be found for the plaintifff in an action for the
recovery of money only, the  shall also assess the amount of the recovery. So also if they find for the defendant in case of off sets or other
demand for money. ARTICLE XV.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

2 § 1. Trial by jury waived; failure to appear, 3. Exce tions, &c.; when and how taken;
or by consent in writing, or oral. app ication tor a review.
2. On trial by court decision in writing; to 4. 0n juedfment on issue of law; mode of
be filed with clerk; facts to be stated; proc ure. '
conclusion of law on them,and judgment.

§ 1. The trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact in the manner following: First, By failing to appear.at the
trial; Second, By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with
the clerk; Third, By oral consent in court, entered on the minutes.

§ 2. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision shall
be given in writin , and filed with the clerk. In' givin the decision,
the facts shall be grst stated, and then the conclusion of aw upon them.
Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.

§ 3. Either party may except to a decision upon a matter of law ari—
sing upon such trial, in the same manner, and with the same effect as
upon a trial by a jury. And either party desiring a review upon the evi‘dence appearing upon the trial, either of question of law or of fact, may
apply to the court for that purpose, and make a case containing so
much of the evidence as may be material to the question to be raised.
The application for a review as aforesaid, shall be made within four days
after the decision of the court is filed, unless longer time is by the court
allowed.

§ 4. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the proceedings shall be in the same manner as upon the failure of the defendant to answer, as prescribed in sections 2 and 3, of Article XII. If
judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law, and the taking .of
an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to '

complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered as is provided in article XVI. '

 

ARTICLE XVI.

TRIAL BY ‘ nnrnnnns.’

_§ 1. Any issue referable by consent. 4. Parties may agree‘upon persons to act as
2. Compulsory reference; in what cases di- referees.
rected. 5. General or special commissioners may be
3. Redport of referees topstand as decision of appointed by the court; their duties
e court upon a trial. prescribed.

§ 1. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of law,
orboth, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties. .'

§ 2. Where the parties do not con‘Sent, the court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following
cases: First, Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account, on either side: in which case the referees may be
directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to re art upon any specific question of fact involved therein; or, Second, here the taking of
an account shall be necessary for the information of the court, before
judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect; or, Third,
Where a question of fact, other than u on the pleadings, shall arise, upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of 6 action.

§ 3. The report of the referees, upon the whole issue, shall stand as
the decision of the court, in the same manner as if the action had been
' tried by the court; and their decision upon the matters referred may be
excepted to and revived in like manner.

§ 4. In all cases of reference, the parties may a ree upon asuitable person or persons, not exceeding three; and upon ti ing such agreement the
reference shall be ordered accordingly . If the parties do notagree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall
be free from all exception.

§5. The court may appoint a general or special commissioner, to
whom any of the matters aforesaid may he referred, when the parties do
not agree on referees, and who shall have the powers, and proceed as
commissioners in chancery, Saccording to the present practice,) are required to proceed, and with ilre effect.

ARTICLE XVII.

‘wnemnnr AND THE manner. 'or ENTERING r-r.

§ 1; Judgment for or against any plaintifff or; 3. Measure of relief granted to plaintiffm

defendant. 4. Rate of damages where damages are re2. Times at which judgments are to be en- 2 coverable.

tered. 5. Entry of judgment on records of court.§ 1. J udgmen‘t may be given for-or against one. or more of the several
plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it
may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between
themselves.

§ 2. In cases provided for in section'6; of Article V, referred to in the last part of section 2, of Article VI, and in cases provided for in Article
XII, and in cases provided for in section 4, of Article XV, the several

 

judgments shall be given at the return term of the summons, unless the
court for good cause shall continue the cases. In other cases, the actions shall be prepared for trial, as far as practicable, at the return term,
and continued until the nextterm, when judgments shall be given therein,
unless the court for good cause shall continue the-same.

‘ § 3. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer, cannot
be other or greater than that which he shall have demanded in his petition, as originally filed and‘served on defendant; but in any other case,
the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complainant and embraced within the issue. '

§ 4'. Whenever damages are recoverablé,the plaintifff may claim and
receive, if he shew himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages which
he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause of action.

§ 5, The judgment shall be entered on therecords of the court, and
shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action.

ARTICLE XVIII.

THE EXECUTION.

§ 1. Judgments may be enforced any time 5. To what counties execution may be iswrthin five years. S sued.

different counties.
7. Certain existing laws applied to executions under this act.

only by leave of the court.
3. Notice, the same as in cases of injunction.
4. Judgments; how enforced. °

2. After five years, execution to be issued; 6. Executions may at same time issue to

§ 1. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now
used, are modified in conformity to this act, and the party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any time, within five years after the entry
of judgment, proceed to enforce the same by execution.

. § 2. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an execution may be issued only by leave of the court, on motion, with notice
to the adverse party. Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment or some
part thereof remains unsatisfied and due. If any part appears to have
been satisfied or paid, it shall be so endorsed on the execution; and the
remainder only collected. ,

§ 3. The notice prescribed in the last section may be given as prescribed in cases of injunction, in Article IX, section 7. '

§. 4. When a judgment requires the performance of any other act than
the payment of money, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom it is given, and his obedience thereto required. If he neglect or refuse, he may be punished by the court as for

a contempt. . '

' § 5. An execution may issue for the delivery of real or personal property; in such case it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated. It shall require the
sheriff to deliver possession of the same, (sufiiciently decribing it,) to
the party entitled thereto.

§ 6. Executions may issue at the same time to different counties.

 

§ 7. Until otherwise provided by the legislature, the existin provisions of law relating-to executions and their incidents, inclufing the
sale of property, the powers and rights of odicers, their duties therein,
and the proceedings to enforce those duties and the liability of their
sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this act.

ARTICLE XIX.

APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. Any egg? vedv party may appeal. ' § 10. Notice of appeal, when not taken at the
2 Parties, 0 desi ated on appeal. circuit court.

3. A peal from w at judgments allowed; 11. Unless bond be given, appeal not to opeow t’ar restricted. rate as asupersedeas.

,4. Intermediate orders ati'ectingjudgment,te- 12. Stay of execution; perishable property to
viewable on appeal. he sold. .

5. On appeal; powers of appellate court. 13. Appeal bonds may be in one or two separ.

6. Exceptions; taken to opinion of circuit ate instruments.
court. 14. Bond, before whom to be executed.

7. Modilication; vacation &c., of orders made . 15. Amount of bond approval and tiling same.
outof court. ~ g 16. Duty of the clerlr on the tiling of the bond.

8. A pea], s cihcation of the modes of .ta- 3 l7. Judgment not to be reversed; unless error

ng, an requisites. . committed materially affects the merits of
9. Order of appeal granted, on an inspection g the action.
of the record. 18. Exemption of executors, &c., as to the giving of appeal bond.

§ 1. Any party ag rieved may appeal to the supreme court, in the
cases authorized by t is article. .

§ 2. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse ,party as the respondent; but the titleof the action shall not be
changed, in consequence of the appeal. - .

g 3. An appeal shall only be taken from a judgment, as defined in Artic e XII, section 1. ~ '

§ 4. Upon an appeal from. a judgment, the court may review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the
judgment, or any order made on a summary application in an action after judgjment. .

§ 5. pon an appeal, the appellate court may reVerse, affirm, or modify th 'udgment; and may, if necessary or proper, order, a new trial.

§6. xceptions may be taken to the opinions of the circuit court,
during the progress ,of any civil action, and bills of exceptions shall be
allowed, signed, and made part of the record, in the manner as heretofore. ‘ § 7. An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse party, '*

may be vacated or modihed, without notice, by the judge .who made it,
or may be vacated, or modified on notice, in the manner in which other
motions are made.
§ 8. Appeals may be taken as follows: First, By applying to the circmt court in which the judgment appealed from was rendered, in open
court, within one year from the rendition of ' the judgment, and filing a
,bond in a sum suiiicient, executed by one or more sureties, to the effect
that the appellant will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him, occasioned by such appeal: or, Second, By making such
application in writing to“ the clerk of said circuit court, and filing such
bond, within the term specified. Third, By- applying to the supreme

 

' court, or any judge thereof in vacation, after the expiration of one year
and within two years from the rendition of judgment, upon reasonable
notice to the adverse party, and exhibiting to said supreme court‘or
judge a copy of the record, and obtaining an order for an appeal; and
filing the same, and the bond aforesaid, with the clerk of the circuit
court in which the judgment Was rendered. § 9. The supreme court or judge shall not grant an order for an appeal, unless he believes from an inspection of the record, that an error
was committed by the circuit court against the appellant, and materially
affecting the merits of the action.

§ 10. Unless the appeal be taken in the circuit court during the term
in which the judgment was rendered, notice in writing of such appeal
shall be given to the respondent, at least fifteen days before the commencement of the term of the supreme court to which such appeal is
to be sent.

§ 11. An appeal shall not be a supersedeas to the proceedings in the '
circuit court, unless the bond shall in addition to the requirements of
section 8, be in a sum sufiicient, and also to the effect, that the appellant
shall prosecute his appeal, and shall perform such judgment, as shall be
given by the supreme court, and such as the supreme court may direct
the circuit court to give; and if the judgment, or any part thereof be
afiirmed, that he will comply with, and perform the same, so far as it
may be affirmed; and will pay alldamages which may be awarded against
the appellant by the supreme court. ,

§ 12. On filing the bond in the last section mentioned, and perfectin ‘
the appeal, there shall be a stay of further proceedings in the.circuit
court, upon the judgment appealed from, except in regard to the sale of
perishable property; which may be sold, and the proceeds paid into
court, if the circuit court shall deem the same necessary and prOper, and
not injurious to the appellant.

§ 13. The bonds mentioned in sections 8 and '11, may be included in
one instrument, or may be in two separate instruments.

§ 14. The bond or bonds may be executed before any judge of the
supreme or circuit courts in this State, or before the circuit court in
which the judgment was rendered, or the clerk thereof in vacation.

§ 15. The court, judge or clerk taking such bond,shall fix the amount
or sum in which it shall be taken, and approve the securities, and take
their acknowledgments and certify the same. The bond shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the court in which the judgment appealed from
was rendered.

§ 16. Upon the bond mentioned in section 8, bein filed in his office,
and the appeal taken, and if oneyear and not exceefing two years from
the rendition of the judgment, an order for an ap eal as provided in the
third subdivision of section 8, be also filed, the c erk shall immediately
make out and send up to the supreme court, a complete copy of the record.

§ 17. The supreme court shall not reverse any judgment of the circuit court, unless it shall believe that error was committed by the circuit
court, against the appellant, and materially affecting the merits of the
action.

§ .18. An executor or administrator, guardian or-curabr,suing or sued

 

as such, may have an appeal and a stay of proceedings in the circuit

court, without giving the bonds required by sections 8 and 11, or either
of them. ‘

ARTICLE XX.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVEBSY WITHOUT ACTION»

§ 1. Parties may submit a controversy Without % 2. In such case, what to constitute the record.
action. ' 3. Enforcing judgment, and appeal therefrom.

§ 1. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of
a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the
facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same, to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had
been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is
real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were dependin . ‘

§ 2. The case, the submission and the judgment, sh constitute the
record in the case. ' ‘

§ 3. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner, as if it had
been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided'in the submission;
and in like manner shall be with costs, and subject to an appeal, unless
otherwise provided in the submission. ~

ARTICLE XXI.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS} AND AGAINST HEIRS, DEVISEES,
LIGATEES, AND TENANTB HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOB.

§ 1. Parties not summoned in an action on joint § 4. Aflidavit required of amount due on jug.
contract, may be summoned after judg— ment. .
mentJ 5. Part summoned may answer and defend.
2. On death of judgment debtor, his represen- 6. Re y and trial as in other actions; the retatives may be summoned. p y and answer to be verified.
3. Contents and service of summons. 3

\

§ 1. When a judgment shall he recovered against one or more of several persons, jointly or (jointly and severally indebted upon a contract,
by proceedings as provi ed in article V, section 14, those who were not
originally summoned to answer the petition, and who did not appear,
may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the
judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.

§2. In case of the death of a (judgment debtor after 'udgment, the
. personal representatives, heirs, evisees or legatees ofl the 'udgment

debtor, or the tenants of real preperty owned by him and ad" cted by
the 'udgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should
not he enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their hands
respectively. ‘

§ 3.“ The summons provided .in the last two sections, shall be issued
on the application of the judgment creditor, or his representatives in

case of his death, and shall so state, and shall describe the judgment,

 

and require the person summoned to shew cause, and shall be returnable and served in like manner as the original summons.

§ 4. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the party
on whose application it was issued, his agent or attorney, that the judgment has not been satisfied to his knowledge or information and belief,
and shall specify the amount due thereon. _

§ 5. The party may appear and answer such summons, as in cases 'of
summons and petition in ordinary cases, except that he shall be allowed
only to deny the judgment, or set up a defense which may have arisen
subsequently; and, in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against according to section 1, of this article, he may make the same defense
which he might have originally made to the action.

§ 6. The party issuing the summons may reply to offsets as in other
cases. Issues may be tried and judgment given in the same manner as
in an action. The answer and reply shall be verified in like manner, .
and be subject to the same rules as the answer and reply in an action.

ARTICLE XXII.

CONFESSION‘OF JUDGMENT W'ITHOUT ACTION.

§ 1. Judgment by confession, on debt, or con- 3. To b ‘ filed, and court, or clerk in vacation,

tingent liability, authorized. to enter 'udgment, if satisfied cf identity

2. Statement in writing, and what it must con- of defen ant.
mu.

§ 1. A judgment by confession may be enthred without action, either
. for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against contin ent liability on behalf of defendant, or both, in the manner prescribe by this article. _
§ 2. A statement in writin must be made, signed by the defendant,
and verified by his affidavit, o the following effect: First, It must state
the amount for which the judgment may be rendered, and authorize the
entry of judgment thereon. Second, If it be for money dug or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and
must show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become '
due. Third, If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the
liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed
the same.
§ 3. The statement may be filed, and the clerk in vacation, or the
court, may endorse thereon a judgment, and enter the same on the records of the court; first‘being satisfied of the identity of the defendant if present, or if not present that he executed the statement in wri' ting, and made the affidavit hereinbefore required.

ARTICLE XXIII.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO comrnomrss THE WHOLE on A PART or
THE ACTION. '

{j 1. Defendant may serve offer to compromise, < conditionallv.

n and the proceedings thereon. 3. If the plaintifff accept or refuse, the effect
.. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages thereof. '

 

§ 1. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may at any time
before trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writin to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum, orto the \ect
therein specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice
thereof, within ten days, he may file the offer, and an affidavit of notice
of acceptance and judgment shall be entered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn,
and shall not be given in evidence, or commented on before a jury; and
if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall reco- ver no costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the
offer. ‘ ,

§ 2. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, at the time
of tiling his answer, serve upon the laintiil', an offer in writing that, if
he fail in his defense, the damages ,e assessed at a specified sum, and
if the plaintifff do notygive notice of acceptance thereof, within five days
after receiving such offer, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and no evidence thereof shall be given, or comments made thereon to a jury; if
the plaintid' give notice in writing of acceptance thereof within five
days as aforesaid, the dama es shall be assessed accordingly. If. the
plaintifff do not accept the 0 er, and the damages recovered by him do'
not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, he shall recover no costs,
but shall pay the defendant’s costs, accrued in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the question of damages.

ARTICLE XXIV.

ADHIISION, INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION-‘0? WRITINGS, AND EXAMINATION
0F PARTIES. '

§ 1. Eitherpar

may be required to admit a
paper to '

§.9. Where answer to interrogatories contains
e genume, or pay the expense

new atter.

of proving it. i

2. Inspection and copy of a paper, how obtuned.

3. Parties how compelled to produce, at or
before trial, backs, papers, ac.

4.- Peualty for neglect or refusal to produce
books or papers.

5. Mode by which either party may examine
the other on interrogatories. ,

6. Requisites of affidavit when the adverse
party is a non-resident; proceedings
thereon. ‘ I ; l

7. Penalty for refusal or neglect to answer
such interrogatories.

8. Answer to the interrogatories may be used ‘

as evidence.

10. Action or discovery abolished, except as
to petition to perpetuate testimony.
11. A party may call is adverse as a witness. His deposition may a so be taken
- and used as that of other witnesses.
l2. Penal on party for refusal to attend and
. testi y. '
l3. Testimony of party may be rebutted.
l4. Testimony by a pgty not res onsive to the
inquiries, ma
the party cal ing him.
15. Persons for whosebenelit action is brought
‘ may be examined by adverse party. 16. Wtieightt of testimony, provision in. relaon o.

rebutted ythe oath of . ‘

§ 1. Either party may exhibit~to the other, or to his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and request an
admission in writin of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give t e admission within two days after the request, and
if the party exhibiting'the paper be afterwards put to expense in order
to prove its genuineness, and the same befinally proved or admitted on the ' '
trial, such expense shall be paid by the party refusingthe admission, un 

less it‘shall appear 'to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal.‘

§ 2. The court before which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may, in his discretion and upon due notice, order either party to give to
the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission
to take a copy, of a paper in his pessession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense therein.
If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both. '

§ 3. The court, or judge thereof, may compel, by order, either party
to a civil action to produce, at or before the trial, any books, papers and
. documents in his possession or power: such order may be made upon
application of either party, and reasonable notice to the adverse party
or his attorney, or upon a rule to show cause at a certain time and place.

§ 4. If the party on whom any such order is made refuse or neglect
to obey the same within such time as the court or judge may direct, he
may be punished by the court or judge as for a contempt, or the court
may nonsuit him, or strike out any answer or motion, or debar him from
any particular defense to which the evidence to be produced was to ‘
3 1y. ,

Pg 5. Either party .may apply to the court or judge, by motion in writing, for an order to examine the adverse party on interrogatories in relation to any fact or facts material in the trial of any issue or on the
hearing of any motion. The motion shall state the factshe expects to
prove by the examination of the party, and 'be accompanied by the interrogatories, and may be made either upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his attorney, or upon a rule to show cause at a certain
time and place, to be served as the notice.

§ 6. If the adverse party be anon-resident of the county in which the
action is "pending, the party applying for such order shall make an affidavit to e effect, First, That e believes the answer of the party will
be material evidence for him on such trial or hearing; Second, That he
believes he cannot prove the same facts, or prove them so satisfactorily, .
by any other person; and, Third, That the order is not asked to procure
delay. The court or judge may thereupon make an order that the party
answer the interrogatories, or such of them as the court or judge may
'specify, on oath, and file such answer in the cause within such time as
the court or judge may direct.

§ 7. If the party neglect or refuse to answer such interrogatories and
\file the same within the time specified in the order, the trial may be stayed until the order is complied with; and, besides being punished himself
as for a contempt. his petition, answer or reply may be rejected, or the
motion, if made by him, refused, or, if made by the adverse party, granted; or the court may, by Order, declare that the facts stated in the motion, which were expected to be proved by the answer, stand admitted,
and may be given in evidence accordingly.

§ 8. If the answer to the interrogatories be filed, it may be used as
as evidence by either party; but the court or jury trying the issue, or
the court hearing the motion, shall not be required to give it any other

 

or greater weight that it it thinks, under all the circumstances, it is entitled to. I _ '

§ 9. If the answer to the interrogatories contains new matter, relevant
to the issue or motion, but not responsive to the interrogatories, such
new matter may be given in evidence by the party making the answer;
but in that case, the other party shall have a right to file his answer to
or explanation of. such new matter, on oath, in his own favor, and it shall
be received in evidence accordingly, subject, however, to the rule in
regard to weight prescribed in the last section. ‘

§ 10. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecation or defense of another action, shall be allowed; but. this section
shall not be applicable to petitions to perpetuate testimony.

§ 11. A party to, an action may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse parties,
and for that purpose may be subpoenaed or otherwise compelled to attend and testify, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of
examination, and "under like circumstanCes, as other witnesses, and his
deposition may be taken and used as that of other witnesses.

§ 12. If a‘party refuses to attend, as in the last section is prescribed,
and testify, either in court or before any person authorized to take‘his
deposition, besides. being punished himself as for a contempt, his etition,
answer or reply may be rejected, or a motion, if made by himse f, overruled, or, if made by the advel'se party, sustained.

13. The testimony of the party may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

g 14. A party examined by an adverse party, as insections ll, 12 and.~
13is provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any
matter pertinent to the issue; but if he testify to any new matter not
responsive to the inquiries put to him by the'adverse party, such adverse
party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in reSpect to the i
new matter, and shall be so received. § 15. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted
or defended, though not a party to the action, may be eramined as a
witness, in the same manner and subject to the same rules of. examination, as if he were named as a party. ' '

§ 16. The evidence taken under the provisions of the five last sections, shall, as to the weight to be given thereto, be subject to the provisions contained in section eight of this article. '

ARTICLE XXV.
examnsnon or wrrnnssss.

§ 1. No witness to be excluded by reason of in-{ §5. Witness not excused from answering questerest. ' \ tions which may establish that he owes a

2. Qualification at the rule. 8’ debt or is subject to a civil action.

3. Admissibilit of verdict or judgment in cer-g 6. Witness not incompetent on account of retain cases or and against persons testify-‘ liwi'ous Opinions: not to be interrogated in
ing. ‘  re ation‘thereto. ‘

5. Endossation by the clerk on petition or doc-Q 7. Existing laws, where not inconsistent with
uments of the names of such witnesses, the provisions ofthis act, retained.

tc.

§ 1. No person offered as a witness shall be. excluded by reason of his,
interest in the event of the action. A  

§ 2. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action, nor to
' any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted, or defendant,
nor to any assignor of a thing in action, assigned for the purpose of making him a witness. . ,

H§ 3. If any person, other than those mentioned in the lastsection, be
0 ered as a witness, and ob'ected to on the ground that the verdict
or judgment in the action in which it is proposed to examine him, would
be admissible in evidence for or against him, such witness shall nevertheless be examined; but, in that case, a verdict or judgment in that action in favor of the party on whose behalf he shall have been examined,
shall not be admissible in evidence for him or any one claiming under
him; nor shall a verdict or judgment against the party on whose behalf
he shall have been examined, be admissible in evidence against him or
any one claiming under him.

§ 4. the name of every witness objected to and examined under the
provisions of the last section, shall be at the trial endorsed by the clerk,
at the request of either party, on the petition or document on which the
trial shall be had, together with the name of the party on whose behalf
he was examined; and a copy of such endorsement, certified by the clerk
under the seal of the court, shall be sufficient evidence that shch witness
was examined, in any subsequent proceeding in which the verdict or
judgment shall be oil'ered in evidence.

. § 5., N o competent witness in a cause shall be excused from answering a question relevant to the matter in issue, on the ground merely that
the answer to such question may establish or tend to establish that such
witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil action.

§ 6. N 0 person, on account of his opinion in relation to the Supreme
Being or a future state of rewards and punishments, shall be incompetent to testify as a witness, nor shall he be interrogated in relation
thereto.

§ 7. The existing laws in regard to depositions and testimony and witnesses, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, remain in force.

4 ARTICLE XXVI.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

x} I. Order, definition of. § § 5. Notice of motion, when necessary, must
2. A motion defined. . . be served live days.
3. Motions, how and where to be made. 6. Time within which proceedings in actions
4. Orders may be made with or without notice is to be had, may e enlarged on adidato show cause. vit. , '

§ 1. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing,
and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 2. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 3. Motions may be made to the court. They may also he made to
a‘judge out of court, except for a new trial on the merits. If made out
o court, they must be made in the county where the action is pending,
except in cases otherwise provided in this act.

§ 4. Orders may be made by the court, or by a judge out of court,

where motions are properly made; and may be made upon or without

 

notice, or u on an order to shew cause, except as otherwise provided in
this act. 0 order to stay proceedings for a longer timethan ten days
shall be granted by a judge out ofzc‘our’t, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party, unless otherwise presided by‘ this act. ,

§ 5. When a notice of motion is neces‘saa‘y,gitr'rrius_t be served five days
before the time appointed for the hearing, unlessiaditfefent time is prescribed by this act, or the court or judge making a rulevto-‘show cause,

' u.

may prescribe a different time for the service of such rulef,‘ ;  3 .

}

. § 6. The time within which any proceeding in an action mristaliefhad
after its commencement and before judgment, may be enlarged, upon an ,
affidavit showing grounds therefore, by- a judge of the court. The afi‘i- .
davit, or a copy t erect, and a copy of the order, must be served on the '
adverse party, ‘or the order may be disregarded.

ARTICLE XXVII.

ENTITLING AFFIDAVITS.

§ 1. Aliidavit defectively entitled, valid.

§ 1. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the action, but
an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall be as
valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it .Were duly entitled, if it
intelliginy refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

COMPUTATION OF TIME.

§ 1. Time how computed.

§ 1. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If
the last day be Sunday, it shall be'exclude'd.

ARTICLE XXIX.

NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.

§ 1. Notices to be in writing, and how to be 3 § 7. Where plaintifff or defendanthave demuré

served. A 'jx. red, and are non-residents, service may

2. Mode of personal and other units. {‘a be on clerk.

3. Service b mail may be made. I) 8. Where service may be made on the party’s

4. When an how served by mail. ‘ attorney.

5. Notice, when party to be served resides  9. Excuses in case of contempt, for disobewithin fifty miles. 8 dieuce to orders of court or judge.

6. Cases where service of notice need not be 3 10. Notices, how and when to be served by

made on a defendant.  sheriffs, coroners, and others.

§ 1. Notices shall be in writing; and notices and other papers inay he
served on the party or his attorney in the maner prescribed in the next
nine sections, unless otherwise provided by this act. § 2. The service may be personally made bydelivering to the party
or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may e as

 

follows: First, If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein or with a person having charge thereof, or, where there is no person in the office, by
leaving it, between the hours. pfzsix‘ in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous 13.0%in £hé- odice, or, if it be not open so as to admit
of such service, than f-Jeavfng it at the attorney’s residence with some
white person Qamiitoh'lefage and discretion. Second, If upon a party,
it may be made,- leaving the paper at his residence, between the hours
of sigtin. Bie'morning and nine in the evening, with some white person
' 0f. 33:951.; age and discretion. . .
 :-§- 3. Service  mail may be made where the person making the ser—
5 ’vice and the person upon whom it is to be made reside in different places
between which there is a regular" communication by mail. '
§ 4. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the
post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his
place of residence, and the postage paid. When a paper is served by
mail, it shall be double the time required in case of personal service.
§ 5. Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a court or judge,
shall be given at least five days before the time appointed therefore, if the
person to be served reside within fifty miles of the place where the hearing isto be had, and for every additional twenty-five miles, one day shall
be added to the time of nptice.
§ 6. When the time required shall have expired and a defendant shall
not have answered or demurred, service of notice or papers need not be

made up‘clm him.

, § 7. hen a plaintifff or defendant, who has demurred oranswered, resides out of the State and .has no- attorney living in the State, the service
may be made on the clerk of the court wherein the action is pending for
the arty. .

 Where a party shall have, anattorney in the action living in- the
town where the action is depending, the service shall be made upon the
attorney instead of the party.

§ 9. When a person is proceeded against for a contempt in disobeying
any order of a court or judge, it shall be sufficient answer to such alleged
contempt, First, That neither notice of the application for such order
or of the order having been made, was served upon him personally, or
otherwise came to his knowledge; and, Second, That he did not avoid
such notice or otherwise prevent or defeat it. ,

§ 10. Sheriffs shall be bound to serve notices equally with summonses
or other writs, and shall be in like manner liable for neglect. When the
sheriff is interested, the coroner shall in like manner be bound, and be
in like manner liable. Notices may also be served, and affidavit made of
such service, by any person not interested, in the action.

ARTICLE XXX.

‘

GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

§ 1. Definition of “real property.’.‘ ‘ ‘. rights, how prosecuted; in certain cases
2. Definition of “per one] property.” ' existing practice to continue.
3. Definition of “property.” 5 5. Rules and practice inconsistent with this
4. Statt'tory provnsions repealed; existing 3‘ actabrogated.

 

G. This act not to affect certain proceedings ' 9. Proceedings on part of defendant to set
mentioned underthe existing laws. . aside Judgment. ‘
7. Service of copy of judgment in certain 10. Plainti may answer; where decision in

cases. favor of defendant; proceedings.
8. Judgment for want of answer, how set '11. Where defendant succeeds; provisionsas

aside or modified. E to sale of property in hands of innocent
r persons.

§ 1. The words “real property,” as used in this act, are co-extensive ,
with lands, tenements, and hereditaments. ‘ '

§ 2. The words“personal property,” asused in this act, include money,
goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

§ 3. The word “property,” as used in this act, includes real and personal prOperty.

§ 4. All statutory provisions, inconsistent with this act, are repealed.
But. this repeal shall not retrive a statute or law which may have been
repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed. All rights of
action given or secured by existing laWs, may be prosecuted in the manner provided by this act. If a case shall arise in which an action for
the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or preventidn'bf
a wrong, cannot be had under this act,’the practice now in use may be
adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

§ 5. The present rules and practice of the courts, in civil actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated, but where consistent with this
act they shall continue in force. .

§6. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this act shall not
affect proceedings upon mandamus, quo warranto, prohibition, information, scire facias, to repeal letters patent, nor to any special statutory
remedy not heretofore obtained by action or. bill in equity; nor any existing statutory provisions relating to actions, not inconsistent with
this act, and in substance applicable to the actions hereby provided, nor
shall this act, except the 25th article, apply to proceedings or actions
before justices of the peace. ‘

§ 7. The plaintifff may at any time after judgment, for want of an answer, serve, in any part of the United States or their territories, upon a
defendant who was not served with a summons, and who did not appear,
a cepy of such judgment; and he shall be allowed one year and no more
thereafter, within which to file his petition, as set forth in the next section. ‘ °

§ 8. When 'udgment, for want of an answer, has been given against a
defendant, w 0 was not summoned as provided in the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th,
6th, and 7th sections of the 6th article; and who did not actually re. ceive notice of the commencement or pendency of the action in any of
the ways pointed out in this. act, in time to avail himself thereof; and
who shall not have appeared to the action, or been made a party, as the
representative of one who shall have been summoned, or who shall have
appeared, and upon whom a Copy of the judgment has not been served
as rovided in the last section, such judgment may be set aside or 'modi—
tied) in the manner followin :

§ 9. The defendant shall file his petition within five years from the
rendition of the judgment complained of, and within one year from a
service of a copy of the judgment,. as provided in section 7 of this article, in the court in which said judgment was given. It shall state the

 

existence of the facts set forth in the last section. An affidavit shall'be
filed with the petition, that the faCts stated in the petition are true, {and
that he believes the petition of plaintifff, upon which the judgment complained of was obtained, is untrue in some material matter,‘(setting it
forth,) or that he has and then had a good defense thereto, (setting such
defense forth,) or both. Notice shall also be given to the plaintifff of
the defendant’s application, whether within or without the State, if within the United States, or its territories, as prescribed in sections 2,
4, and 13 of Article IV, or if plaintifff he dead, then to his executor or
administrator, and if there be none, then to his heirs in the United States
so far as they may be known.

§ 10. The plaintifff may,appear and file his answer, denying all or any
of the material matters set forth in the letition, and the cause shall be
tried as other causes. If the decision he in favor of the defendant, he
shall have leave to file his answer or demurrer to the original petition of
plaintifff, and the cause shall proceed as it would have done had the defendant appeared to the summons and filed his answer or demurrer to
the petition. .

§ 11. If the defendant succeed, he shall have such judgment as will
re-imburse the money made on the execution against him, and legal interest thereon, and which the plaintifff did not finally recover; and the
defendant shall have such further and other judgment and damages, or
reversal in whole or in part, or modification of the plaintifffs original
judgment, as justice shall require. But no sale of property under the
original judgment of plaintifff shall be, by such reversal or modification,

avoided, if the property shall be in the hands of innocent purchasers.

ARTICLE XXXI.

EXAMPLES OF PETITIONS AND ANSWERS, REPLICATIONS AND DEMURREBS,
WHICH MAY BE USED WHERE APPLICABLE; AND WHERE NOT STRICTLY APPLICABLE, ANALAGOUS ONES MAY BE USED IN ANALAGOUB
CASES.

1. Form of petition; action on promissmy note, 3‘ 9. Foran assault and battery.
payee against maker, when there are no 10. Against the owner of a stage coach for carecredits; form of affidavit, caption, cor.clu- é less driving and injury thereby to plaintifff.
sion, &c., to be .observed in each example. 11. Commencement and conclusion of a petition
. Action on promissory note, endorsee against for an injury, either direct or consequential.
maker, when there has been a payment. 12. Trespass in taking goods.
. Action on promissory note, endorsee against U3. Trespass on land.
endorser, when there are no ayments. $14. Against a trustee.
. Action on promissory note w an there are \15. On eviction, or being turned out of possesseveral ayments. i 'sion of land sold by defendant to plaintifff, by
. For goo 3 sold and delivered, work done l a person having a better title.
and materials provided, and money lent; ‘16. Joinder of action on bond for payment of mowith statement of credits. g ney, or bill of exchange, payee against ac. On agreement in writing under seal; speci- 5 ceptor; trespass on land, and on title bond
ficperlormance asked in part; and damages \ to convey land.
for other breaches. (17. Answer to such petition; affidavit thereto.
7. Action for a libel. 5’18. Replication to an offset in the answer.
8. Action for slander. l19. Demurrer to a petition.

No. l.—P1~:rrr10N.—-Action on promissory note; payee against maker;
when there are no credits:

 

John Jones, plaintifff, ‘ In the circuit court,
against
William Davis, defendant, county.

Plaintiff states that defendant, by his promissory note, hereto annexed, dated , promised, for value received, to pay plaintifff the sum
of dollars, ei htmonths after date, which, and the interest, are
yet due plaintifff, am? for which he asks judgment.

J on}: Jones.

John Jones, p‘laintiff, makes oath and says he believes the above petition and the matters therein, as stated, are true.

' Joe}: Jonas.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, &c..

In every example, the names of the parties, the court and county, as
in the above caption, and the affidavit as in conclusion. They will be
omitted, thereforee, in those which follow:

No. ‘2.-—Pn'rrr10N.-—Action on promissory note—endorsee against maker
ewhen there has been a payment:

Plaintiff states that defendant, by his promissory note, hereto annexed, '
dated , promised to pay one James Smith, or order, ' dollars, months after date, for value receivedr Plaintiff says that
said Smith,,on , assigned by endorsement and delivered said note
' to laintiif, who, on said -———-—,"notified defendant thereof. Defen‘ ant, on —— , paid ——--—— dollars to plaintifff, and the remain{

der of said note and interest are due plaintifff, for which he asks judgment.
‘ ~ A. B., by C. D., his attorney.
Amdavit as before. ‘ 7

No. 3.——PE'rI-rmN.—Action on promissory note—endorses against endorser—when there are no payments:

Plaintiff states that C. D., by his promissorynote, hereto annexed, .
dated , promised to pay to defendant, or his order, ‘ dollars,
in one year from date. The defendant assignedhy'endorsement and delivered said note to the plaintifff on ————, that plaintifff, on —-——-,
demanded of C. D. the amount due by said note, who refused to pay the
same, and is and was, when said note became due, insolvent, so that a
suit against him would have been unavailing. That plaintifff, on ,
notified defendant of said demand, refusal and insolvency, and required
him to pay, which he has not done. Plaintid‘ asks judgment for the
amount of said note and interest. A. B.

No. 4.——Pn'r1'r10N.—Action on promissory note when there are several
payments:

Plaintiff states that defendant made his promissory note to plaintifff,
0

hereto annexed, dated , for d lars, payable immediately.
That defendant on --—-——, paid —— dollars on said note, and on
he paid dollars. That the remainder of said note, and

interest are yet due plaintifff, for which he asks judgment. A B

 

I

N o. 5.-—Ps'r1'rron.-Action for goods sold and delivered—work done and
materials provided, and money lent: ' r

Plaintiff states that defendant owes him dollars for goods sold
and delivered by plaintifff to defendant, also that defendant owes plain.
tiff dollars for work done and materials found by laintilf for defendant. Also, that defendant owes plaintifff do lars for money
lent by plaintifff, to him.

The particulars of all which, and also the credits thereon, will appear
by an account hereto annexed and made part of this petition.

Plaintiff asks judgment for ' — dollars, being the balance due him.
. A. B.

1848. C. D. to A. B., Dr.

January
‘6

F eb’y

—-————, &c.
—————, &c.
—————, &c.
Balance due, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$-———
Affidavit as before. A. B.

lst, To
3d, To
lst, By

. No. 6.-—PET1T10N.——Action on an agreement in writing under seal, ‘specific performance asked in part—and damages for other breaches.

Plaintiff states that on , the defendant executed under his hand
and seal, as did also the plaintifff, an agreement, of that date, hereunto
annexed and made part of this petition; that plaintifff duly performed all
the conditions on his part; that the defendant has not performed the conditions on his part, but has failed so to do in this, [here state in what
the defendant has violated his agreement;] plaintifff asks that defendant be
compelled to perform his agreement in this, [here state in what a Specific performance is required;] and plaintifff asks damages to the amount
of dollars, which he has sustained by the other breaches of the
agreement by defendant, above stated. A. B.

No. 7 .-—Pnr1'rlon.—-Action for a Libel.

the proprietor, [printer, or pubshed in , called the
' , concernin

Plaintiff states that defendant, bein
lisher, as may be,] of a newsPaper pubfi
the following libel was published therein, on
plaintifff, that is to say: (here insert it,) and plaintifff says he is damaged

. 3
g the

thereby to the amount of dollars, for which he asks judgment.

A. B.

N o. 8.—PETrrIon.-—,—Action for Slander. .

The plaintifff states that on , at , the defendant spoke x
the following false and slanderous words concerning the plaintifff, that is
to say: (here insert the words,) by which plaintifff says he is damaged to
the amount of dollars, for which he prays judgment.

A. B.

No. 9.~—-PET1TI0N.-—Action for an Assault and Battery.

Plaintiff states that on , at -———-——, defendant assaulted and
beat plaintifff, by which he says he is damaged to the amount of ——-—dollars, and prays judgment therefore. A. B.

 

No. lO.-—Psrrrron.—Action against the owner of a stage coach, for
careless driving, and injury thereby to plaintifff.

Plaintiff states that on , the defendant being the owner of a

stage coach, the plaintiff- took passage therein, at , to be carried
to . . That the stage was upset by the carelessness of the driver,

and the plaintifff thereby had his arm broken, and was otherwise injured.
In consequence of which he had to expend dollars for medical
attendance, and was otherwise damaged. And says he has sustained
damage to the amount of dollars, for which he prays judgment.

A. B.

No. ll.——PErrr10N.-e—Commencement and conclusion of a petition for an
, injury, either direct or consequential.

Plaintiff states that on , at . , the'defendant did injury to
the plaintifff, as follows, that is to say: (here state the injury in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition,) by which plaintifff says
he was damaged to the amount of dollars, for which he asks

judgment. . . . A. B.

No. 12.——PETITION.—-Actio_n for trespass in taking goods.

Plaintiff states that on , at —-—-——, the defendant without
leave, and wron fully, took the following property of the plaintifff, and
has not returne the same, that is to say, (here state the .property,) by
which plaintifff says he is damaged to.the amount of ———-——- dollars, for

which he asks judgment.
A. B.

No. l3—.—Pzrrr10N.-,—Action for trespass on land.

Plaintiff states that on , at , defendant without leave, and
wrongfully, entered on, (describe the land as by quarter sections, &c.,)
of which the plaintifff was then the owner. And the defendant then and
there cut timber to the value of ———-—- dollars, and .earried it away;
by which plaintifff was damaged to the amount of --—--—— dollars, for
which he asks judgment. , A. B.

No. l4.—Pnr1r1_on.——Action against a trustee.

Plaintiff states that on ‘ , defendant by an instrument in writing,
then duly executed by the parties therein named, which is hereto annexed and made part of this petition, took upon himself the execution of
the trusts therein mentioned, and has since committed the following
breaches of said trusts,.to wit: here state wherein the, trusts were broken by defendant,) whereupon t e plaintifff (prays that defendant may be
restrained by injunction from any further iSposition of the trust property, compelled to make plaintifff compensation in damages for said
breaches of trust, which plaintifff says amount to —— dollars, and

removed from the trust, and another trustee appointed in his place.
' ’ A. B.

 

No. 15.—Pari-rros.-—Action for an eviction, or the being turned out of
possession of land sold by defendant to plaintifff, by a person having -'
a better title.

Plaintiff states that on , défendant executed and delivered to
plaintifff a deed of that date, which is hereto annexed and made part of
this petition, for the north-east quarter of section 14, township 44, and
range 11, in ——-—— county. That the purchase money was
dollars, which was paid by plaintifff to defendant on ; “that afterwards one C. D. brought suit against plaintifff for said land, in the circuit court of county; and on had judgment against him.
And by force and effect of said judgment and the execution thereon, (a
copy of the record and proceedings in said suit are annexed and made part
.of this petition,) plaintifff was dispossessed of said landaand said C. D.
put in possession thereof. That plaintifff on , gave notice to defendant of said eviction, and demanded of him said purchase money and
six per cent interest thereon, which defendant has failed to pay, and for
which plaintifff asks judgment.

A. B.

No. lG—PETITION.——Four different causes of action joined. On bond
for the payment of money; on bill‘of exchange payee against acceptor; trespass on land; and on title bond to convey land.

Plaintiff states that defendant on , executed his bond to plaintifff, of that date for _—-——--—— dollars, payable one month after date,
which, and the interest thereon, except the sum of dollars paid
on —————, are yet due the laintiff; for the balance he asks jud ment.
Plaintiff also states that one . D. made to laintiff a bill of exc ange,
in this State, dated on , in which sai C. D. requested defendant
to pay plaintifff dollars at sight of said bill; and said defendant on
same day accepted said bill .by writing thereon; afterwards said bill was
duly presented to defendants, and payment thereof demanded, which he
has failed to make. Plaintiff asks judgment for the amount due, and
interest thereon. Plaintiff also states that on — , at , he
was the owner .of the following tract of land, to wit: --—-———, and that
defendant without leave, and wrongfully, then entered on said land, and cut
timber thereon to the value of ——-—-— dollars, and carried the same
away: plaiptiff asks judgment for that amount. Plaintiff also states that
on —- , defendant made his title bond to plaintifff of that date, and
thereby bound himself to convey to plaintifff a good title in fee simple to
the following tract of land, to wit: , on the payment by plaintifff
to defendant of dollars, which payment about one month thereafter paid to defendant; yet defendant has not conveyed said land to plaintifff. Plaintiff asks that defendant be compelled to convey said land, or that
the court will do it for him, Said bond, bill of exchange, and title bond
are annexed to and made parts of this petition. B

A. .

N o. l7.—Answer to the last petition.

 

against .

C. D., defendant,

Defendant states that on , , he paid’the amount due by said bond
in said petition mentioned, and the interest thereon, to-plrQntiiI. Defendant further states that he did not accept the said bill of exchange in
said petition mentioned: Defendant further states that plaintifff was not
the owner of said tract of land, to wit: -——-——, as stated in said petition. Defendant also states that he did not enter on said last mentioned tract of land, or cut timber thereOn, as alledged by plaintifff in said
petition. Defendant also states that plaintifff did not pay defendant the
said sum of ———- dollars, or any part thereof, as stated in said eti-_A. B., plaintifff, i In the circuit court,

county.

 

tion. C. .
C. D., defendant, makes oath and says that he believes the above answer, and the matters therein, as stated, are true. 0. D. '

(Affidavit) Sworn to and subscribed before me, &c.

N o. l8.—Replication to an offset in the ansWer.

A. B. a ‘ainst C. D. In the circuit court, county.

Plainti says that he did not execute the said promissory note, set up
as an offset in the answer of defendant. A. B.

(AEdavit.) Sworn to and subscribed before me, &c.

 

No. 19.—Demurrer' to a petition.

A. B. against C.  In the circuit court, county.
The defendant demurs to the petition of plaintifff, because it does not

state facts sufiicient to constitute a cause of action, in this (here insert
the objection.) , C. D.

 

ARTICLE .XXX'II.

WHEN “rims ac'r SHALL TAKE armor.
§ 1. Period at which this act shall take effect.
§ 1. This act shall take ed‘ect on‘the fourth day of July next, but shall

not a ply to actions previously brought.
prroved February 24, 1849. p


