I

PRACTICE AT LAW——PETITION IN DEBT.
An act for the speedy recovery of debts due on bonds and notes.

Inc. 1. Holder of bonilgor note may commence suit by petition in debt.
2. Form 09‘ petition. _
3. Petition by nssignee, &:c., petition with instrument filed with clerk, summons to issue; how executed.
4. If served personally with process, trial at tirst term; pleadings regulated.
5. Proceedings under this act, how proceeded in to nnal judgment.

Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of .Missouri, as follows:

§ l.- Any person being the legal owner of any bond or note for the direct payment of money or property, may sue thereon in any circuit court having jurisdiction

-thereof, by‘ petition in debt.

§ 2. The petition may be in the following form: “To the circuit court ——
plaintifff states, that he is the legal owner of a bond, or note, (as the case may be,)
against the defendant, to the following effect, (here insert a copy of the
instrument sued upon,) yet the debt remains unpaid, thereforee, he demands judgment for his debt, and damages for the detention thereof, together with costs.”

§ 3. If the plaintifff be the owner of the instrument sued upon, as assignee
thereof, the fact of assignment shall be stated in the petition, and'the statement
thereof may be in the following form: “On which are the following assignments,
(here insert the assignments,) by virtue of which, the plaintifff has become the owner
thereof.” The petition, together with the instrument sued upon, and the assignments, shall be filed in the clerk’s office, and a writ of summons or capias may be
sued out, executed and returned in the same manner, and with the like efi'ect,ras
upon a declaration in the ordinary form. '

§ 4. if the defendant shall have been personally served with the process, he shall
plead to the merits of the action, on or before the second day of the term at which
he is bound to appear, if the term shall so long continue, if not, then within such
time in the term as the court shall direct; and the suit in such cases shall be determined at the same term, unless continued for good cause.

§ 5. A suit instituted in the form prescribed in this act, shall, except where it is
herein otherwise provided, be proceeded in to final judgment and execution, in the
same manner and with the like effect as if instituted in the ordinary form.

PRACTICE AT LAW.

An act to regulate the practice at law.

ART.’ 1. ' Of the commencement of suits, and the service and return of process and notices.
ART. II. Of proceedings by. and against brill, and infants.

ART. III. Of pleadings. interlocutory judgments, and assessment of damages.

ART. IV. Of trials and their incidents.

ART. V. Of the abatement of suits, and their revival; of consolidating and referring actions.
ART. VI. Of amending pleadings and proceedings. '

ART. VII. Of new trials. arrest of judgment, final judgments, and miscellaneous provisions.

ARTICLE I.

Of the commencement of suits, and the service and return of process and notices.

Sac. 1. How suits at law in courts of record may be instituted.
,2. Original writ not to issue until declaration is filed ; how issued, and to whom delivered,
3. Original writ when to be dated, and when returnable.
4. Suite instituted either by summons or capins, in what cases, and where to be brought.

Suits by attachment, where to be brought. _

Several defendants in different counties. writs how issued; suits on attachment, writ may issue to diderbnt
counties; when.

9".-"

7. Several defendants, capias-may issue against some. and summons against the others. .

8. The original writ in all cases, except otherwise pmvided, shall be a summons; its contents.

9. When capias is granted, amount of bail to be endorsed. A '

10. Not to’ be granted except upon aflidatrit; its contents.

11. Upon liquidated demands, amount to be speciiied in the affidavit; in all other cases, what facts necessary.
12. What the capias shall command the officer to do; amount of bail to be endorsed.

13. How summons may be executed.

14. How capias may be ‘executed.

15. Defendant arrested on capias, may be discharged by giving recognizance; its condition.

16. Odicer charged with the execution of caplns, may be made co-defendant; in what cases.

17. Return of all writs deliveredlto be executed, to be in writing and signed by the officer. 18. How notices may be served in the commencement or progress of suits.

Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

. § 1. Suits at law may be institued in courts of record, except where the statute

law of this state otherwise provides, either, ‘

F21-st, By filing in the office of the clerk, a declaration, setting forth the plaintiiT’s cause of action, and by the voluntary appearance of the adverse
party thereto; or, .

Second, By filing such declaration in such oilice, and suing out thereon a writ
of summons, or of . capias, against the person, or of attachment

. against the property of the defendant.
§ 2. No such original writ shall be issued until the declaration be filed in the

clerk’s office; and the writ, when issued, shall be endorsed upon, or annexed tor

the declaration, or to a copy thereof, and the declaration or copy thereof, together
with the writ, shall he delivered to the officer charged with the execution of the

§:"h*.I\,
9 u. ...-. -._, .)w."..l '*.‘itIlt.li writ Slulll be dated on the day it is issued, and shall be
made returnable on the llI‘Bl day of the next term thereafter; but if the first day of

such term be Within fifteen days thereafter, then such writ shall be made returnable on the first day of the second term.

§ 4. Suits instituted either by summons or capias, shall be brought,

First, 'Where the defendant is a resident of this state, either in the county
within which the defendant resides,_ or in. the county. within which
the plaintifff resides, and defendant may be found; or,

Second, Where the defendant is a non-resident of this state, in any county
within which the defendant may be found; but no person who is a
resident of this state, and who has not absconded from his usual
place of abode, shall be arrested upon a capia_s, in any county other
than that of which he is a resident. i t

. 6, 5. Suits commenced by attachment against the property of a person shall be
brought in [the] county in which such property may be found.

§ 6. When there are several defendants in a suit instituted by summons or capias, and they reside in different counties, the suit may be brought in any such
county, and a separate writ may be issued to each county against such of the de.
fendants as reside therein; and when a defendant in a suit instituted by attachment
has property in several counties, separate writs may be issued to every such county,
and every such writ shall be endorsed upon, or annexed to, a copy of the declarration.

§ 7‘. VV hen there are several defendants in a suit, a capias may be issued against
any one or more of them that are liable thereto, and a summons shall be issued
against the others.

 8. The original writ, in all cases where it is not otherwise provided by law,
shall be a summons, which shall comrnand the officer to be charged with the execution thereof, to summons the defendant to appear in the court on the return-day
of the writ, and at a place to be specified in such writ, to answer the complaint of
the plaintifff. '

§ 9. A capias shall [be endorsed] when it is allowed by the court out of which
it is to issue, or by any judge or clerk thereof, by an order in writing granting such

-writ, specifying the amount in which bail shall be required.

§ 10. No such order shall be granted unless the court ‘or officer be satisfied, by
the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of some other person, that the plaintifff has a subsisting and unsatisfied cause of action against the defendant, and that the defendant
is about to remove out of this state, or that the plaintifff will be in danger of losing
his demand unless a capias be allowed. a A

§ 11. VVhere theamount of the plaintifff’s demand is liquidated, the amount due
shall be specified in the affidavit, and in all other cases the facts and circumstances
of the case shall be stated in the affidavit, so as to enable the court or officer to determine the amount in which bail ought to be given.

§ 12. A capias shall command the officer charged with the execution thereof, to
take and safely keep the defendant, so that he may have him before the court on the
return day of the writ, and at a placeto be specified in such writ, to answer the ~

complaint of the plaintifff, and the officer issuing such writ shall endorse thereon
the amount in which the defendant shall be required to give bail.
§ 13. A summons shall be executed, either, '

First, By reading the declaration and writ to the defendant; or,

Second, By delivering to him a copy of the declaration and writ; or,

Third, By leaving a copy of the declaration and writ at his usual place of
abode,_with some white person of the family over the age of fifteen
years; but in all cases where the defendant shall refuse to hear such
writ and declaration read, or to receive a copy thereof, the offer of
the officer to read the same, or to deliver a copy thereof, and such
refusal, shall be a sudicient service of such writ.

§ 14. The officer charged with the execution of a capias shall execute the same

by arresting the defendant, and reading to him the writ and declaration, or deliver '

ing to him a copy thereof, and committing him to the common jail of the county’
there to remain until discharged according to law.
§ 15. Every defendant so arrested shall be discharged from such arrest,upon his

entering into a recognizance to the plaintifff, before the officer charged with the
execution of the writ, with sufficient securities, in a sum equal to the sum endorsed

upon the writ, conditioned, that if judgment be given against him in the suit, he
will pay the amount of the recovery, or surrender himself in execution, or that
the securities will do it for him; and such recognizance shall bereturned with the
writ.
§ 16." Every officer charged with the execution of a capias, may be made a codefendant in the suit in which such writ issued, may defend the suit, and shall be
liable to the like judgment therein with the original defendant, in either of the following cases: ‘
First, Where he shall return the writ executed, and shall not have taken bail,
nor shall have the defendant according to the command of the writ; or,
Second, Where he shall fail to return the recognizance of bail by him taken; or,
Third, Where the bail taken, or the recognizance thereof, shall be adjudged
insufficient, and the defendant, upon being ruled thereto, shall fail to
perfect the same. i
§ 17. Every officer to whom any writ shall be delivered to be executed, shall
make return thereof in writing, and shall sign his name to such return. § 18. Whenever, in the commencement or progress of any suit, it shall be ‘necessary to serve any notice, such notice may be served, either,
First, By an officer authorized by law to serve any original process of the
court, in which such suit is to_be brought or may be pending; or,
Second, By any person who would be a competent witness upon the trial of
such suit. Every such notice may be served in like manner as a
writ of summons, and the return of such service, when made by an
officer, or when made by a person other than an officer, and verified
by the affidavit of such person, shall be received as evidence of the
facts therein stated, subject to be repelled by contrary proof.

ARTICLE II.

of prgcgadéngs by, and against bail, and infants.

Inc. 1. Who shall not become bail without leave of court.

2. Sudiciency of bail to be excepted to at the return term.

3. Amount of bail may be reduced or recognizance vacated, Sec., when; how to proceed in such cases.
4. Application for relief ‘under the preceding section, when to be heard; notice to be given, and to whom.
5. If recognizance of bail be forfeited, plaintifff may have scirs facias ; to what county. issued; how axe,

cuted, and proceedings.

6. If two writs in succession, return the defendant not found, such second return equivalent to actual service7. Ball may surrender defendant, or defendant may surrender himself in execution.

8. Before what courts or officers such surrender shall be made.

9. The proceedings to effect such surrender.
10. Surrender before final judgment, new bail may be taken; if aaer final judgment, proceedings.
1!. Suit shall not be instituted against bail, until execution against defendant he issued and returned unsatisfied, ac.

12. in action against bail, what they may plead; when entitled to a verdict.

13. If deihndant shall die before return of scirc facias, or second writ returned, &c., bail discharged.

14. Principal surrendered after suit against bail, costs to be paid by the bail. '

15. Bail may have judgment on motion against the principal; when, and its extent.

16. Otlicer made co-defendant may have ju igment against principal, when; and proceed against iusumcient bail,
17. Butts by infants may be commenced and prosecuted; how. '

18. Next friend for infant, by whom appointed.
19- APP°l“"n°“‘ ‘° "41 made on petition of infant and consent of person to be appointed.

20- In What 08503 lT°"d W 5° SW9" N iufantbynext friend; its condition.
21. Bond to be delivered and filed with the clerl{. ”  ~ - ,

22. Petition for next friend to be appointed, and his consent to‘serve’,*ans~sh. gag; uppqinging mm, g
be filed with the clerk, §-c. ’

23. Guardian or next friend, responsible for costs.

24. Suit. against infant and process served, not to proceed until guardian be appointed.

25. By whom appointed; to be done on request of infant and consent of person appointed ; shall he died, &c'
26. Defendant fail to procure the appointment of guardian, court to appoint one.

.27. No guardian appointed to defend suit shall be responsible for costs. unless for misconduct, ac.

§ 1. No attorney, solicitor, or counsellor at law or in equity, sheriff or other
person concerned in the execution of process, shall become bail in any case, civil
or criminal,without leave of the court.

§ 2. All questions concerning the sufficiency of bail, shall be determined during
the term at which the defendant is bound to appear, and if the suiliciency thereof
shall not be excepted to at that term, the bail given shall be deemed to be accepted.
§ 3. The court out of which any capias shall issue, [or] any judge thereof in va.

cation, may reduce the amount for which bail shall have been required; and the
court, at any time during the pendency of the suit, if they be satisfied that bail
ought not to have been required, may vacate the order allowing the capias, or may
direct the recognizance to be cancelled, or the defendant to be discharged from 111:prisonment, and in every such case shall order his appearance to be accepted, and
the suit to proceed, in all things, as if the original writ had been a summons.

§ 4. No application for any relief provided in the last preceding section, shall be
heard, unless reasonable notice in writing of such application shall have been previo usly given to the adverse party, or to his attorney.

4§ 5. If the recognizance of bail be forfeited, the plaintifff may have'a scire facia:
thereon, and such sc2'rcfacias may be directed to the cqunty where the _;-ecognizance was taken, or to any county in which the defendant l1ifly‘b§found_ and shall

be executed in like manner as a writ of summons; andupon any such writ being CX3‘. ,

ecuted, such proceedings shall be had therein to thin’ judgmentas in other civil cases.

§ 6. If two such writs be sued out in succession to the county in which the recognizance shall have been taken, and both be returned that the defendant could
not be found within the county, such return to such second writ shall be equivalent
to an actual service thereof.

§ 7. The bail of any defendant may surrender him, or such defendant may sur—.
render himself in exoneration of his bail, at any time before the return day of process in an original action, on the recognizance returned executed, or before the re-.
turn day of a scire facids thereon returned executed, or before the return day ofa.
second scire facias, thereon so returned, as to be equivalent to an actual service;

§ 8. Such surrender shall be made before the following courts, or officers:

First, If the surrender is made during the pendency of the original suit,-it:
shall be made before the court where such suit is brought, or before
a judge or clerk thereof.

Second, If the surrender is made after final judgment Shall be given in the Oli
g;na1 suit, [it] $1,311 be m,.,i.. Lofurc the court in which such judgment
was given, OI before a judge or clerk thereof.

§ 9. The proceedings to effect such surrender shall be as follows:

First, There shall be produced to the court or officer authorized to accept the
same, two certified copies of the recognizance, upon one of which
such court or officer shall endorse an order, that the defendant be
committed to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which the
suit is pending, or the judgment is rendered, in exoneration of his
bail, which shall be delivered to such sheriff, and shall authorize him
to commit and detain such defendant until he be duly discharged.

Second, Upon producing to such court, or officer, the certiticate of the sheriff‘,
that the defendant has been committed to, and remains in, his custody
by virtue of such order of commitment,acknowledged before such
court, or officer, by the sheriff, or proved by the subscribing witness
thereto, an order shall be made requiring the plaintifff to shew cause
before such court, or officer, why the hail of such defendant should
not be exonerated from their liability.

Third, Upon producing proof of the service of such order on the plaintifff or
his attorney, such court or officer shall hear the allegations and proofs

of the parties, and, if no good cause to the contrary appear, shall
endorse an order on the second certified copy of the recognizance,
declaring that the_ bail of such defendant are discharged from their
liability as such bail in the suit in which such recognizance was
taken.

Fourth, To such certified copy of the recognizance of bail, shall be attached,
the certificate of the sheriff herein-before required, the order to shew
cause, and the proof of the service thereof, and the same shall be
forthwith filed in the office of the clerk of the court, and, until so
filed, the liability of such bail shall continue.

§ 10. If such surrender in exonesation of bail be made before final judgment be
given in the suit in which the bail was'taken, the sheriff may take new bail in the
same "manner, and with like ellect, as in the first instance; and if such surrender
be made after final judgment, and the plaintifff shall not charge the defendant in
execution, within ten days after the filing of the order of discharge in the clerk’s
office, as provided in the last clause of the preceding section, the defendant shall
be discharged from imprisonment; notwithstanding such discharge from imprison‘;
ment, after final judgment, the judgment shall continue in force against the property of the defendant, and new execution against his property may be had in like
manner as if he had not been imprisoned. ,
§ 11. The plaintifff in,the original action shall not_ be entitled to bring any original suit, or scz°re_f.'ru?z'as, upon the recognizance of bail, until an execution against
' the property and body of the defendant shall have been issued to the county in
which the recognizance of bail was taken, and the same shall have been returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in,part, and that the defendant could not be found within
the county.
§ 12. In an action against bail, they may plead,that an execution against the
property and body of the defendant in the original suit was not issued as herein
directed, or that it was notissucd, to execute the same, in sulhcient time to enable
the officer to whom it was directed, or that any fraudulent or collusive means were
used to prevent the service of such writ; andif any such defense be established,
it shall entitle the bail to a verdict. .
§ 13. When the defendant in a suit shall die at any time before the return day
of any process served on the bail, or of a second writ of scire facias so returned
as to be equivalent to an actual service, the court shall relieve such bail on the
same terms as if they had surrendered their principal at the time of his death.
§ -14. When the principal shall be surrendered after the commencement of a.
suit against the bail, such bail shall pay all the costs which shall have been incurred
therein before the surrender. - _.
§ 15. VVhen judgment shall be given against the bail, and they shall pay the
whole or any part of such recovery, they shall be entitled, upon motion, to judgment in the same court against the principal for the amount so paid, and costs; and
on such motion, and in all suits for the recovery of such money, shall recover interest thereon, at ten per centum per annum, from the time of the payment.
§ 16. When any officer shall be made a co-defendant, as herein-before provided,

, and judgment shall be given against him, and heishall pay the amount of the recovery, or 'any°part thereof, such officer shall have the same remedy against the
principal as the bail have in like cases; and when such officer shall have been made

a co-defendant on account of the insufliciency of the bail by him taken, and judgment shall be given against him, he may proceedagainst the bail on the recogni=
zance, in the name of the plaintifff, to his own use.

§ 17. Suits by infants may be commenced and prosecuted, either-,

First, By the guardian of such infant; or,
Second, By a next friend appointed for him in such suit.
§ 18. The appointment of such next friend shall be made by the court in which
the suit is intended to be brought, or by a judge or clerk thereof.

§ 19. It shall be made on the petition, in writing, of such infant, and the written
consent of the person proposed to be next friend to such infant, acknowledged before, or proved to, the court or officer making the appointment. ‘

§ 20. Before any person shall. be appointed next friend for an infant, in any suit
to recover any personal property, debt or damages, he shall, if required by the om.
cer to whom application for such appointment shall be made, execute a bond to
such infant, in double the amount claimed in such suit, with such securities as shall
be approved by such officer, conditioned, that such next friend shall account to
such infant for all monies or property which may be recovered in such suit.

§ 21. Such bond shall be delivered to such officer before the appointment shall
be made, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court in which the suit is
to be brought.

§ 22. The petition for the appointment of a next friend, the written consent of
the person proposed to be the next friend, and the order of the appointment, shall
be filed in the office of the clerk of the court where the suit is proposed to be
brought, before any proceedings shall be had in the cause.

§ 23. The guardian or next friend of any infant who commenced or prosecuted
a suit, shall be responsible for the costs thereof.

§ 24. After the commencement of a suit against an infant defendant,and the service of process upon’ him, the suit shall not be prosecuted any further until a guardian for such infant be appointed.

§ 25. Such appointment shall be made upon the requestof the defendant, and
on the written consent of any competent person proposed as guardian by the
court in which the suit is pending, or by a judge thereof in vacation, and shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the court, before any plea by such infant shall be
filed.

6 26. If ‘such infant defendant neglect, for one day after the first day of the term
at which he is bound to appear to the suit, to procure the appointment of a guardian
to defend the suit, the court shall ‘appoint some competent person to be guardian
for such infant in the defense of such suit. .

§ 27. No person appointed guardian for the purpose of defending a suit against
an infant, shall be liable for the costs of such suit, unless specially charged by the
order of the court for some personal misconduct in such cause.

I

ARTICLE III.

Of pleadings, interlocutory judgments, and assessment of damages.

Eu. 1. When process is served tifteen days before return day, defendant to appear, &.c.; if less than tifteen days,

when to. appear.
2. Several defendants, some served with process fifteen days before return day, others not, proceedings.

3. Suits shall not be_delayed longer thau_second term to bring in other defendants, unless by consent of those
appearing. .
4. No essoin or wager of law allowed, nor suit delayed by the non-age of either of the parties.
5t Suits may be prosecuted or defended in person or by attorney; warrant of attorney to appear, not necessary, except, ace.
6. Pieadings signed by the party or his attorney, time of dung to be endorsed, and if filed in term. minute
to be made. ,
7 Pleas in abatement to be on oath.
8. Pleas when to be filed.
8. Replications and subsequent pleadings, when to be bled.
10. Pleadings filed in vacation, copies to be served ;‘jwhen and on whom.
11. Similiters, and joinders in deniurrer, may he filed at any time without notice.
12. Time for filing any pleading may be extended by the court for good cause.
13. Person not to be prejudiced by ancient terms and forms of pleading, so that the matter fully appear, ks.
14. On demurrer Qed, defect or imperfection in process, pleading, 4-c., if sumcient matter appear, not‘ to be regarded, except specially expresed in the demurrer.
15. Defects, &.c., mentioned in last section to be amended, except they be express in the special demurrer.
18. Demurrers may be joint and several; may be sustained as to part of the pleadings, and overruled as to the
residue. _
17. Pleas in abatement, dilatory pleas and demurrers, when to be determined.
18. Party having cause of action against several, may sue all or part.
is. Suit may be brought on lost instrument of writing; excuse for profent to be alleged, as‘.
20. Profent to be made, and oyer given, of instruments of writing upon which declaration or pleadlngisfouaded.
21. Action of debt to recover money received contrary to any statute, what allegations sumclent in the dealsration.
22. Action of assumpsit to recover money received contrary to any statute, what allegations sufficient in the

declaration.
23. Trover or detinue for property received contrary t6 any statute, what is shliicient to set forth in the doc.

laration.
24. Defendant may plead as many several pleas as he shall think proper, is-c. _
25. Extent of liability of persons sued as executor or administrator, or executor of their own wrong.

26 Payment may be plead in bar of a suit on bond, judgment, or scire fa'cias on judgment.

2']. In suits against a public odicer, or persons acting under such olhcer, may plead the general issue and give
special matter in evidence.

as. In actions against persons for acts done by authority of any statute, what and how the defendant may

plead.
Replication of plaintiff to defendant’! plea, on the issue, the whole matter to be given in evidence.

29
30. When court may allow plaintifff to reply several matters, &c., and defendant to rejoin se£ral matters.
31. Defendant falling to file pleading, give notice of the same when required, judgment by default, he.

32 Plaintitf failing to file replication, is-c., give notice of the same when required, judgment of non pros, ac.

33. When there are several defendants, some appear and plead, and others make default, proceedings.
34. Judgment for the plaintifff by del‘anlt,cont‘cs3ion, or on demurrer. to be final if demand be liquidated.

35. If not, writ of inquiry of damages shall be made, and at what term.

§ 1. Every defendant served with process fifteen days before the return day
thereof, shall appear to the suit at the return term of the writ; and when such process shall be servedless than fifteen days, he shall appearat the term next after the

return term of such writ.
§ 2. When there are several defendants in a suit, and some of them are served

with the process fifteen days before the return day thereof, and others of them are
not served, or not served in due time, the plaintifff may either discontinue as to all
not served,and not served in due time, and proceed against those thatare bound to
appear, or he may continue the suit until the next term, and take new process
against those that are not served.

§ 3. But, at such second term, the suit shall proceed against all who shall have
been served in due time, and no further delay shall be allowed to bring in the
others, unless all that appear shall consent to such delay.

§ 4. No essoin or wager of laws shall be allowed, nor shall any suit be deferred
or delayed by reason of the non-age of any of the parties.

§ 5. Parties may prosecute and defend their own suits in proper person, or by
an attorney or counsellor of the court, and it shall not be necessary to file any war.
rant of attorney to authorize any attorney to appear in any court for either party
to an action brought therein, except in cases where it shall be specially required by

law.
§ 6. Every declaration, and other pleadings, shall be signed by the party or his

attorney, and the clerk shall endorse thereon the day upon which it shall be filed,
and, if filed in term, shall make an entry thereof on the minutes.
§ 7. No plea in abatement, or other dilatory plea, not involving the merits of the
action, shall be received, unless it be verified by the affidavit of the party offering
the same, or some other credible person.
'- § 8. Every plea to the merits of the action shall be filed on or before the sixth

day of the term at which the party pleading the same is bound to appear, if the ~

term shall so long continue, and if not, then before the end of such term.

69. Replication shall be filed within thirty days after the commencement of
the term at which the defendant is bound to appear; and all subsequent pleadings
shall be filed within such time, and in such manner, as shall be prescribed by the
rules of practice of the court.

§ 10. A copy of every replication and subsequent pleading filed in vacation, shall,
within fifteen days after the filing thereof, be served on the adverse party or his
attorney. ' ' _

§ 11. Similiters and joinders in demurrer may be filed at any time, and without
serving a copy thereof upon the adverse party, or his attorney.

§ 12. ‘f he courts, upon good cause shewn, and for the furtherance of justice,
may extend the time prescribed in this act for filing any pleading upon such terms
as shall be just.

§ 13. No person shall be prejudiced by the ancient terms and forms of pleading,
so that the matter full y appear in the process, declaration or other pleading.

§ 14. When any demurrer shall be filed in any action, and issue be joined thereon, the court shall proceed and give judgment according as the very right of the
cause and matter in law shall appear, without regarding any defect, or other imperfection in any process or pleading, so as sufficient matter appear in the pleadings
to enable the court to give judgment according to the very right of the cause,
unless such defect, or other imperfection, be specially expressed in the demurrer.

§ 15. If any demurrer be filed in any action, the court shall amend every such
defect, or other imperfection, in any process or pleading in the last section mentioned, other than those which the party demurrin g shall specially express in his
demurrer.

Q 16. Demurrers may be jointand several, and may be sustained as to partof the
pleadings demurred to, and overruled as to the residue, according to the circumstan.
ces of the case, with like effect, and in all respects as if a separate demurrer had

been filed to each pleading so demurred to.

§ 17. All pleas in abatement, and all other dilatory pleas not involving the mer.
its of the cause, and all demurrers shall be determined during the term at which
they are filed,and when filed in vacation shall be determined at the term next after

the tiling thereof.
§ 18. Every person that shall have a cause of action against several persons, and

be entitled by law to only one satisfaction therefore, may bring suit thereon jointly

. against all, or as many of the persons liable as hermay think proper.

§ 19. An action at law may be maintained on any instrument of writing, notwithstanding it may be lost or destroyed, and in every such action no profert
of such instrument shall be required,but the party shall allege the loss or destruction as an excuse for the want of profert, and every such allegation shall be con’
sidered amaterial averment in the case of such party.

§ 20. When any declaration or other pleading shall be founded upon any instrument of writing charged to have been executed by the other party, or by his testator or intestate, or other person represented by such party, and not alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, profert thereof shall be made, and oye_r given.

§ 21. In an action of debt brought to recover any money received by any person
contrary to the provisions of any statute,it shall be sufficient for the plaintifff, without setting forth the special matter, to allege in his delaratien, that the defendant is,"

or that his testator or intestate was, indebted to the plaintifff according to the provisions of such statute, naming the subject matter thereof, or referring to the
statute in some general terms.

§ 22. If . any action of assumpsit be brought for money received contrary to the
provisions of any statute, it shall be sufficient for the plaintifff, Without setting forth
the special matter, toallege in his declaration that'the same was received contrary
to the provisions of such statute, referring to the same as prescribed in the last
section.

§ 23. If any action of trover or detinue be brought for any property received
contrary to the provisions of any statute, it shall be sufiicient for the plaintifff to set
forth in his declaration that such property was converted, by the defendant, orby his
tes.ator or intestate, or is unlawfully detained by the defendant, contrary to the
provisions of such statute, referring to the same as prescribed in the two preceding

sections.

§ 24. The defendant in any action may plead as many several pleas as he shall
‘hink necessary for his defense, subject to the,power of the court to compel him

to elect. by which plea he will abide in cases where he may plead -inconsistent

pleas.

§ 25. Persons sued as executors or administrators shall not be made personally
liable in any action, nor shall persons sued as executors of their own wrong, be
made liable to a greater extent than they otherwise would be by reason of any
such person having pleaded any false plea.

§ 26. When any action shall be brought upon a bond, or upon a judgment, or
when a scz°refacz'as is brought upon a judgment, the defendant may plead payment
of the amount due on such bond or judgment, in bar of such action or writ. ‘

6 97. In every action brought against any public oilicer of this state, or against
any person specially appointed, according to law, to execute the duties of any such
public officer, for or concerning any act done by such officer or person, by virtue
of his office, and in every action against any other person, who, by the commandment of such officers or persons, or in their aid or assistance, do any thing touching the duties of such office or appointment, the defendant may plead the general
ssue, and give the special matter in evidence. ,

§ 28. In every action brought against any person for any act done by authority
of any statute of this state, the defendant may plead not guilty, or may make
avowry,cognizance or justification of the act done, alleging therein that the same was
done by au_thority of such statute, naming the subject matter thereof, or referring
thereto in some other manner with convenient certainty, without expressing any
matter contained in such statute.

Q 29. To every such plea the plaintifff may reply, that the defendant did the act
complained of without authority of any statute of this state; upon the trial of any
issue so joined, the whole matter may be given in evidence by both parties.

§ 30. Whenever it shall become necessary to the attainment of justice, to allow
a plaintifff to reply several matters to the plea of a defendant, or to allow a defendant to rejoin several matters to the replication of a plaintifff, the court in which the
action shall be pending, on the application of the party desiring so to reply or
rejoin, may allow the same to be done.

§ 31. If the defendant shall fail to file his plea or other pleading, within the time
prescribed by law,or the rules of practice of the court, and serve a copy thereof
upon the adverse party or his attorney, when the same is required, an interlocu‘
tory judgment shall be given against him by default; but such judgment may, for
good cause shewn, be set aside, at any time before the damages shall be assessed,
upon such temis as shall be just,

Q 32. If the plaintifff shall fail to file his replication, or other pleading, within the
time prescribed by law, or the rules; of the practice of the court, and to serve the

adverse party or his attorney with a copy thereof, where the same is required,
judgment of non pros shall be given against him; butsuch judgment may, for good

cause shewn, be set aside, at any time during the term at which it shall be given,

upon such terms as shall be just.
§33. When there are several defendants in a suit, and some of them appear

and plead, and others make default, an’ interlocutory judgment by default may be

entered against such as make default, and the cause may proceed against the others, but only one final judgment shall be given in the action. .

§ 34. Whenever an interlocutory judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff by
default, by confession, or upon demurrer; in any suit founded upon any instrument
of writing, and the demand is ascertained by such instrument, the court shall
assess the damages, and final judgment shall be given thereon.

§ 35. But in all other cases of such interlocutory judgment, the damages shall
be assessed by a jury empannelled in the court for that purpose, and every such
inquiry of damages shall be made at the term next after the term in which such
interlocutory judgment shall be rendered, unless the court direct it to be made at
the same term.

ARTICLE IV.

Of trials and their incidents.

Ila. 1. Several issues of law and fact, issues of law to be first determined.
2. Causes to be continued at the tirst term, to be disposed of at the second term.
3. Court may continue causes; when, and upon what terms.
4. Application for a continuance to be accompanied by affidavit. _
5. Courts have power to compel party to a suit, to produce books, papers, &e., relating to the merits of such
suit. '
6. Proceeding to entitle a party to the order of court for the production of such books, papers, Are.
7. For what reasons such order may be vacated.
8. Party neglecting to obey such order, power of the court in such cases.
9. Limitation or extent of the power of the court in such cases.
10. Discovery, as in a court of equity, may be had by either party.
1]. Discovery, how applied for.
12. Order for discovery, when to be made; party to answer, or show cause, Q-c.; trial to he stayed till order
complied with.
13. Petition for discovery and an swer to be filed with the clerk; copy to be served on the other party; court to
proceed as on bill for discovery in equity. 0
14. The answer to be evidence, its extent; refusing to answer facts in petition, taken as confessed and to be evl.

dence &.c.
15. All issues bi‘ fact joined, shall be tried either by the court, a jury, or by referees; when, Q-c,

I6. W'itness, or any person who has formed or expressed an opinion, not to be sworn as a juror.

17. Imperfect counts in a declaration may be struck out on motion; where, due.

18. Instrument of writing, &c., upon which suit is founded, to be received in evidence, unless denied on oath_

19. Preceding section not to apply to executors, administrators, or other persons in a representative capacity.

20. Bills of exception how taken; court refusing to sign the bill, to certify cause of refusal.

21. Court refusing to sign, bill may be signed by three by-standers and filed ; bills filed, to be part of the record.

22. If the judges refuse to permit bill signed by by-stauders to be filed, proceedings in such case.

23. Court, on appeal or writ of error, to admit as part of the record the bill of exception thus taken; when
and under what circumstances. '

24. Non-suit not allowed after the cause is submitted to a jury or the court.

25. When party proves, by his own oath, the loss of instrument, in order to prove in contents, adverse party
may, on oath, disprove such loss, due.

26. Bill of exchange or negotiable promissory note lost, when and how party to get the benedtof the same is
though it had been produced.

27. Party to get the benefit of such recovery, bond and security to be given, to. g

§ 1. When there are several issues of law and of fact in any suit, the issues of
law shall be first determined.

§ 2. Every suit that shall not be otherwise disposed of according to law, shall
be continued at the term at which the defendant is bound to appear, until the next
term thereafter, and, at such second term, every such suit shall be determined.

§ 3. Every court of record in which any suit is pending, may, at any term, for
good cause, continue such suit until the next, or any subsequent term, and every
continuance granted upon the application of either party, shall be at the cost of
such party, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

§ 4. Every application by a party for the continuance of a cause, shall be accompanied by his affidavit, or the affidavit of some other credible person, setting
forth the facts upon which the application is founded.

§_ 5. Every court of record shall have power to compel any party to a suit pend.
ing therein, to produce any books, papers and documents in his possession or power,
relating to the merits of any such suit or of any defense therein.

Q 6. To entitle a party to the production of any such books, papers and documents, he shall present a petition, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of some

' other credible person, to the court, or to a judge thereof in vacation, upon which

an order may be granted by such court, or officer, for the production of such books,
papers and documents, or that the party show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be gran ted. '
§ 7. Every such order may be vacated by the court or officer granting the same,
First, Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been granted.
Second, Upon the party required to produce the books, papers and documents,
denying on oath the possession or control thereof.
b 8. If the party neglect to obey such order for the production of books, papers

. and documents within such time as the court or judge shall prescribe for that purpose, the court may non-suit him, or strike out any plea or notice of set-off, or
debar him from any particular defense in relation to which such books, papers and
documents, were required to be produced. ’

§ 9. The power of the codrt to compel such production of books, papers and
documents, shall be confined to the remedies herein provided, and shall not authorize any other proceedings against the person or property of the party refusing to
comply with the order of the court or judge.

Q 10. Either party to a suit in any court of record shall be entitled to a discovery
from the other party, of all matters material to the issue in such suit, in all cases
where the same party would, by the rules of equity, be entitled to the same discovery in a court of equity, in aid of such suit.

9 11. To entitle a party to such discovery, he shall present a petition, verified
by the affidavit of himself or of some other credible person, to the court, or to a
judge thereof in'vacation, setting forth the matter upon which his claim to the discovery is founded, the facts sought to be discovered, and such interrogatories in re-lation thereto, as he shall think necessary to exhibit, in order to attain a full

I discovery.

I’

§ 18. The court, or any judge thereof in vacation, may, upon such petition, grant
an order requiring the party from whom the discovery is sought, to answer the
interrogatories exhibited in the petition, or such of them as it shall appear to the
court or officer ought to be answered, or that he shew good cause in court why he
should not answer the same, and may further order the trial of the suit to be stayed
until the order be complied with or vacated. '

§ 13. The petition and order to answer, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of
the court, and a copy thereof served on the other party or his attorney, and the
same proceedings shall be had on the petition, and the court may exercise the same
powers therein, as would be had, or might be exercised, in a court of equity on a bill
for a discovery in aid of a suit at law.

§ 14. The answer of the party to the interrogatories shall be evidence on the
trial of the suit, in the same manner and with the like effect, as an answer to a bill

in equity for a discovery; and if the party shall neglect or refuse to answer the
interrogatories, and the petition shall, according to the course of proceeding in

equity, be finally taken for confessed, the facts stated in the petition, and therein

sought to be discovered, may be given in evidencempon the trial, as facts admitted
by the party from whom the discovery is sought.

§ 15. All issues of fact joined in any suit, in any court of record, shall be tried
either by the court, by a jury, or by referees:
First, The trial shall be by the court, when neither party shall demanda trial
by jury, and the cause is not referred.

Second, It shall be by jury, when either party shall demand such trial and the
cause is not referred.

Third, It shall be by referees, when the court ‘is authorized to refer the trial,
and shall have referred it accordingly.
§ 16. No witness, or person summoned as a witness, in any civil cause, and no
person who has formed or expressed an opinion concerning the matter in contro‘
versy, in any such cause, which may influence the judgment of such person, shall
be sworn as a juror in the same cause. _
§ 17. When there are several counts in a declaration, and one or more of them
are imperfect, the plaintifff, at any time before the jury is sworn, or the trial submitted to the court, may move the court, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party,
to strike out such imperfect counts, and, upon such motion, no objection shall be
valid, that would not be ‘valid after a finding of the issue for the plaintifff.
§ 18. When any declaration or other pleading shall be founded upon any instrument of writing charged to have been executed by the other party, and not
alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, such instrument shall be received in evidence, unless the party charged to have executed the same, deny the execution
thereof, by plea, verified by affidavit.
§ 19. But the preceding section shall not be construed to authorize any instrument of writing to be received in evidence in any suit against an executor}! administrator, or any other person representing the person charged to have executed
such instrument.

§ 20. Whenever, in the progress of any trial, in any civil suit depending '11 any
court of record, either party shall except to the opinion of the court, and shall
write his exception, and pray the court to allow and sign the same, the person or
persons composing the court, or the major part of them, shall (if such bill be true,)
sign the same; and if they refuse to sign such bill on account that it is untrue, they
shall certify thereon, under their hands, the cause of such refusal.
§ 21. If thejudges refuse to sign any bill of exceptions, such bill may be signed
by three by-standers, who are respectable inhabitants of the state, and the court
shall permit every such bill (if the same be true) to be filed in the court, and every
bill signed by the judges, or by the by-standers, and filed in the court; shall form a
part of the record of the cause in which it is filed.

§ 22. When the judges shall refuse to permit any bill of exceptions, signed by
by-standers, to be filed, and shall have certified that it is untrue, either party in the
suit may take affidavits, not exceeding five in number, in relation to its truth; and
such affidavits shall be taken and deposited in the clerk’s office, within five days after
the trial of the cause, and, on appeal or writ of error, copies of such affidavits shall
be annexed to, and form a part of, the record of the cause.

§ 23. Every court, to which ‘an appeal or writ of error shall be taken, shall admit, as a part of the record of the cause, every bill of exceptions taken therein,
upon its appearing satis'factorily to such court, that the truth of the case is fairly
stated in such bill, that the same was taken according to law, and that the‘ court
refused to permit such bill to be filed; and the truth of every such bill shall be
tried by the aiiidavits required by this act to be taken and filed in the clerk’s
office.

§ 24. No plaintifff shall suffer a non—'suit, after the cause, upon a hearing of the
parties, shall have been finally submitted to a jury, or to the court setting to try the
issue, for their decision. i .

§ 25. Whenever a party to any suit shall have been permitted to prove, by his
own oath, the loss of any instrument, in order to admit other proof of the contents

thereof, the adverse party may also be examined by the court, on oath, to disprove
such loss, and to account for such instrument.

§ 26. In any suit founded upon any negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, or in which such note or bill, if produced, might be allowed as a set-off in
the defense of any suit, if it appear on the trial that such note or bill was lost while
it.be1onged to the party claiming the amount due thereon’, parol or other evidence‘
of the contents thereof, may be given on such trial,and such party shall be entitled to recover the amount due thereon, as if such note or bill had been produced.

§ 27. But to entitle a party to such recovery, he, or some other responsible person for him, shall execute a bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double
the amount of such note or bill, with two sureties, to be approved by the court in
which the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party against all
clakys by any other person, on account of- such note or bill, and against all costs
and expenses by reason of such claim.

-' A R TIC LE V .
Of the abatement of suits, and their revival, of consolidating and referring actions.

Sec. 1. If there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one of them die, suit not to abate, but to pro» ceed for or against the survivor.

2. If plaintifff shall die, action not to abate; when, and proceedings. ‘ '
3. If but one defendant, and he shall die, suit not to abate; when, and proceedings.

I

-I. If party dies after verdict or plea of confession, but before judgment, how it shall be rendered. as

5. Construction of the preceding section.
6. Executor or administrator, plaiutif dying, &c., action not to abate.
7 Executor or administrator, defendant dying, &c., action not to abate.

8. If female plaintiti‘ marry before final judgment, husband to be made co-plalntif.
9. If female defendant marry before final judgment, husband may be made co-defendant.

10. Action by public otlieer. death or resignation not to abate the suit, if the cause of action survive, kc.

11. Orders of court under this article for substituting new person, or introducing them as co-plaintllfs or co-tlelhh
dants, how made. *

>12. Scire faciae for the purpose of introducing new party, how sued out, executed and returned.
13. Limitation of time to sue out scire fades in such cases.

14. Person substituted or made co-plaintin‘ or co-defendant, entitled to continuance, cause to proceed as between
original parties.

15. Suite. when to be consolidated.

16. Several suits for causes of action that may be joined, costs llfgch cases how paid.
17- Causes at iuue may be referred to referees fwhen.

§ 1. If in any action there be two or more plaintifffs, and one or more ‘of them
die before final judgment, the action shall not thereby be abated, if the cause ofsuch action survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintiffis; and when there are tip
or more defendants, and one or more of therri shall die before final judgment, such
action shall not be thereby abated, but in either of the said cases such death shall
be stated upon the record, and the action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving
plaintifff, or against the surviving defendant, as the case may require.

§ 2. When there is but one plaintifff in an action, and he shall die before final
judgment, such action shall not be thereby abated, if it might be originally prosecuted by the heirs, devisees, executors or administrators of such plaintifff, but such of.
them as might prosecute the same cause of action originally, may continue such
suit upon the order of the court substituting them as plaintifffs therein.

§ 3. When there is but one defendant in an action, and he shall die before final
judgment, such action shall not be thereby abated, if it might be originally prosecuted against the heirs, devisees, executors or administrators of such defendant,
but such of them as might be originally prosecuted for the same cause of action,
shall, on the application of ‘the plaintifff, be made defendants in such suit by anorder
of the court substituting them as defendants therein. "" ‘A ' __

§ 4. _After a verdict shall be rendered in any action, and after a plea _of confession in any suit brought, if either party die before judgment be actually entered
thereon, the court may, within one term after such verdict or plea, enter final judgment in the names of the original parties.

§ 5. Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed to authorize the
of a judgment against any party who shall have died before a verdict actually ren'
dared against him, notwithstanding he may have died on the first or _any other

day of the term at which such verdict shall have been rendered, but such verdict
shall be void. ''

§ 6. When an executor or administrator shall be plaintifff in any suit, and,before
final judgment, shall die, or cease to be such executor or administrator, the suit
shall not thereby be abated, but the same may be continued by the person succeeding him in the administration of the same estate, upon an order of the court substituting the person so succeeding as plaintifff in such suit. '
§ 7. When an executor or administrator shall be defendant in any suit, and, before final judgment, shall die, or cease to be such executor or administrator, the
suit shall not be thereby abated, but the same may be continued against the person
succeeding him in the administration of the same estate, upon an order of the court

substituting the person so succeedingas defendant thereon.
§ '8. If a female plaintifff marry before final judgment, her husband, on his own

application, may, by the order of the court, be made a co-plaintifff with her in the
suit. W
§ 9. If afemale defendant marry before final judgment, her husband, either on
his own application, or the apwcation of the plaintifff, may, by the order of the
court, be made a co-defendant with her in thcisuit.
§ 10. 'When an action is directed or authorized by law to be brought by, or in
the name of, a public officer, his death or removal from office shall not abate the
' suit, if, the cause of such suit survive to his successor, but the same may be continued by his successor, upon the order of the court substituting him as plaintifff

therein. _
§ 11. All orders authorized in this article to be made for the purpose of introducing into a suit, a new person as co-plaintifff or co-defendant with the original
party, shall be made either upon the voluntary appearance of both the original
parties in such suit, or after the service upon them of a scirefacias, and all such orders made for the purpose of substituting any person as plaintifff or defendant, in
. the place of the original plaintifff or defendant, shall be made either upon the voluntary appearance of the adverse original party, or after the service upon such
party of a scire facias.
§ 12. All such writs of scire facias may be sued out in term or vacation, may be
directed to any county in the state, shall correspond, as near as practicable, with
Writs of summons, and be executed and retumed in the same manner.‘
§ 13. No scire facias, for the purpose of substituting a person as plaintiffffor defendant in any suit, in the place of the original plaintifff or defendant, shall be sued
out after the expigafion of the third day of the second term next after the term
in which the death or disability of the original party shall be stated upon the

record.
§ 14. When any person is made a co-plaintifff or co-defendant, or is substituted as plaintifff or defendant in the place of the original party, in any of
the'f‘cases provided for in this article, such new party shall be entitled toa
continuance of the cause dntil the next term; and in all such cases, where
a person is made a co-plaintifff or co-defendant, or is substituted as plaintifff or

defendant in the place of the original party, the cause shall proceed in all respects
as if such person had been an original party in the suit.

‘ § 15. Whenever several suits shall be pending in the same court, by the same
plaintifff against the same defendant, for causes of action which may be joined, or
whenever several suits are pending in the same court, by the same plaintiiiagainst
several defendants, that may [be] joined, the court in which the same shall be prosecuted, may, in its discretion, if it appear expedient, order such suits to be so con-“

solidated into one action.

6 16. When any plaintifff shall bring in the same court’ several suits against the
same defendant, for causes of action that may be joined, and when any plaintifff
shall bring in the same court several suits against several defendants that may be
joined, the plaintifff shall recover only the costs of one action, and thecosts. of the
other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient reason appear to the
court for bringing several actions. .

Q 17. Whenever an action shall be at issue in any court of record, such court
may, with the consent of the parties thereto, in its discretion, order such cause to
be referred to one or three impartial and competent men; and when it shall appear
to the court‘, that the trial of such dction will require the examination of a long
account on either side, such court may, without such consent, make the same order
of reference.

ARTICLE VI. Of amending pleadings and proceedings.

Inc. 1. Process, pleading‘, or proceeding, either in form or substance, may be amended bylthé court.
2. Pleading: amended in matter of substance, adverse party allowed time to answer the same.
3. Process on which defendant has been arrested, not to be amended on the return day thereof.
4. After judgment, what proceedings may be amended in atfirmancc of the judgment ; not to be reversed or an,

nullcd.
.5. Return of officers, or by any court, mall be amended as to matter of form as well before as after judgment.

.6. Omissions or defects in the award of any venire. may be amended or supplied.
7. Judgment on verdict not to he stayed, nor upon confession, default, nilail dicit, or no: sure infoructus, to be

reversed for certain reasons.
3 The omissions, defects, &c., in the preceding section, may be supplied or amended; when.
9. Process, pleading, &:c., not to be amended, except upon the order of the court. ,
10. To what actions, write, &.c., this article shall extend; shall not extend to indictments or lnforinations.

I

§ '1.‘ The court in which any action shall be pending shall have power to
amend any process, pleading or proceeding in such action, either in form or substance, for the furtherance of justice, on such terms as shall be just, at any time

before final judgment rendered therein.
0 2. If such amendment be made to any pleading in matter of substance, the

adverse party shall be allowed an opportunity, according to the course and practice

of the court, to answer the pleading so amended.
Q 3. Process by which any action shall have been commenced, and on which

any ‘defendant shall havebeen arrested, shall not be amended on the return day
t.here9_f- ’

§ 4. After judgment rendered_in any cause, any defects, imperfections in matter
of form, contained in the record, pleadings, process, entries, returns, or other proceedings in such cause, may be amended and rectified by the court in afiirmance
of the judgment, [and] shall not be reversed or annulled; and any variance in the
record‘frorn any process, pleading or proceeding, had in such cause, shall be reformed and amended according to such original process, pleading or proceeding.

§ 5. All returns made by any sheriff or other officer, or by any court or subordinate tribunal to any court, may be amended in matter of form by the court to
which such returns shall be made, in their discretion, as well before as after judgment.

§ 6. Any imperfection or defect in the award of any venire, or any omission to

award such venire on the record, may be amended or supplied by the court in which
such record is.

§ 7. When a verdict shall have been rendered in any cause, the judgment thereon

shall not be stayed,nor shall the judgment upon such verdict, or any judgment upon
confession, default, nihil dicit, or non sum informatus, be reversed, impaired, or in
any way affected by reason of the following irrmerfections, omissions, defects, mat.
ters or things, or any of them, in the pleadings, process, proceedings, or record,
namely:
First, For want of any writ, original or judicial.

_ Second, For any default or defect of process, or for misconceiving any process
or awarding the same to a wrong officer, or for the want of any suggestion for awarding process, or for any insufficient suggestion.

Third, For any imperfect or insufficient return of any sheriff or other officer,
or that the name of such officer is not set to any return actually made
by him. ’

Fourth, For any variance between the original writ, plaint and declaration, or
either of them.

Fifth, For any mispleading, miscontinuance, or discontinuance, insutiicient
pleading, jeofail or misjoining of issue.

Sixth, For the want of any warrant of attorney by either party, except in
. cases of judgment by confession, where such warrant is expressly
required by law.
Seventh, For any party under twenty-one years of age, having appeared by
attorney, if the verdict or judgment be for him.

Eighth, For the want of any allegation or averment, on account of which

omission a special demurrer could have been maintained.

Ninth, For omitting any allegation or averment without providing which,

thetriers of the issue ought not to have given such verdict.

Tenth, For any mistakejn the name of any party or person, or in any sum of

money, or in the description of any property, or in reciting or stating
any day, month_or year, when the correct name, time, sum or description shall have been once rightly alleged, in any of the pleadings
or proceedings.

Elevenllz, For a mistake in the name of any juror or officer. A

Twelfth, For the want of a right venue, if the cause was tried by a jury of
the proper county. _

Thirteenth, For any informali-ty in entering a judgment, or making up the
record thereof, or in any continuance or other entry upon such
record.

Fourteenth, For any other default, or negligence of any clerk or officer of the
' l court, or of the parties or their counsellors or attorneys, by which
neither party shall have been prejudiced.

§ 8. The omissions or imperfections, defects and variances, in the preceding
section enumerated, and all others of the like nature, not being against the right
and justice of the matter of the suit, and not altering the issue between the parties or the trial, shall be supplied and amended by_the court where the judgment
shall be given, or by the court into which such judgment shall be removed by
writ of error or appeal.

§ 9. No process, pleading or record, shall be amended or impaired by the clerk
or other officer of the court, or by any other person, without the order of such
court, or of some court of competent authority.

§ 10. The provisions of this article shall extend to all actions in courts of law,
and to all suits for the recovery of any debt due to this state, .or for any debt, duty
or revenue belonging to this state, and also to all actions for penalties, to all writs
of mandamus and prohibition, to all informations in the nature of a quo warranto, to
writs of scire facias, and to the proceedings thereon, but shall not extend to indictments or informations for any criminal matter, or to the proceedings thereon.

ARTICLE VII.

Of new trials, arrest of judgment, final judgments, and miscellaneous provisions.

Bac. 1. Motion: for new trial, or arrest of judgment, when to be made; reasons for, to accompany motion.

2. Only one new trial to be allowed either party, except in eatain cases.

3. If judgment be arrested, court may amend the proceedings if it could have been done before trial; cause to proceed, due.

4. If there are several counts, and entire damages be given, verdict good, though some counts are defective.

5. Judgment not to be set aside for irregularity on motion, nnleea-it be made within live year: after judgment.

6. Write of wire fade: to revive Judgment or recovery, at and after this act takes elfect, when to be brought.
7. Persona aggrieved by any anal judgment in civil suit, may appeal to the supreme court. A

8. On what conditions appeal to he allowed.

9. Court to make order allowing appeal, and when allowed aball stay execution in certain cute.

10. Before the commencement of each term of the court, docket to be made out by the clerk; its contents.

11. List of causes docketed, to be posted up by the clerk in his office; when and how.

12. Clerk to issue subpmnae for witnesses, when; penalty for failing to make out docket, net up list of causes, or

to issue aubpaanae.

Q 1. All motions for new trials, and in arrest of judgment, shall be made within
four days after the trial, if the term shall so long continue, and if not, then before the end of the term; and.every such motion shall be accompanied by a written
specification of the reasons upon which it is founded.
6 2. Only one new trial shall be allowed to either party, except,. _
a. First, When the triers of the fact shall have erred in a matter of law; or,
Second, When the jury shall be guilty of misbehavior. *
The costs of all new trials shall either abide the event of the suit, or be paid by

the party to whom such trial is granted, according to the order of court to be made
at the time of granting such new trial.

§ 3. When a judgment shall be arrested, the court shall allow the proceeding in
which the error was to be amended in all cases where the same amendment might
have been made before trial, and the cause shall again be proceeded in according
to the practice of the court; but the party in whose proceeding the first error
was, shall pay all the costs incurred thereby.

§ 4. When there are several counts in a declaration, and entire damages are given,
the verdict shall be good, notwithstanding one or more of such counts may be
defective.

§ 5. Judgmentin any court of record shall not be setaside forirregularity on motion, unless such motion be made within five years after the time such judgment
was rendered.

§6. Writs of scire facias, to revive any judgment or recovery which may have
been rendered at the time this act takes effect, must be brought within ‘ten years
thereafter, and such writs, when brought to revive any such judgment or recovery
rendered after the time this statute takes effect, shall be brought Within ten years
thereafter. §7. Every person aggrieved by any final judgment, or decision of any circuit
court, in any civil case, may make his appeal to the supreme court.

§ 8. But no such appeal shall be allowed, unless,

First, It be made during the term at which the judgment or decision appealed
from was given; and, _

Second, The appellant, or his agent, shall, during the same term, file in the court
his affidavit, stating that such appeal is not made of vexation or delay,
but because the afliant believes that the appellant is aggrieved by the
judgment or decision of the court.

§9. Upon the appeal being made according to the foregoing provisions, the circuit court shall make an order allowing the appeal, and such allowances thereof
shall stay the execution in the following cases, and no other:

First, When the appellant shall be an executor or administrator, and the
action by or against him as such.

Second, When the appellant, or some responsible person for him, togetherwith
two sufiicient sureties, to be approved_by the court, shall, during the
term at which the judgment appealed from was rendered, enter into
a recognizance to the adverse party in a penalty sufiicient to secure
whatever of debt, damages and costs, have been rlcovered by such
judgment, together with the interest that may grow due thereon,

and the costs and damages that may be recovered in the supreme
court upon the appeal, conditioned that the appellant will prosecute
his appeal, with due‘-‘diligence, to a decision in the supreme court, and
"that, if the judgment appealed from is affirmed, or his appeal dismissed, he will pay whatever of debt, damages and costs have been
recovered against him by the judgment of the circuit court, together
with the interest that shall grow due thereon, or that he will otherwise perform the judgment of the circuit court, and that he will also
pay the costs and damages that may be adjudged against him in the
supreme court upon his appeal.
§ 10. Every clerk of acourt of record shall, before the commencement of each
term of such court, make out a docket of all causes in which an issue of fact is to
be tried, and inquiry of damages to be made, a special verdict, agreed case, demurrer, or other matter of law to be argued at such term, and shall arrange such causes
upon the docketin the same order in which they stand -in the course of proceeding,
setting a proper proportion for each day.
§ 11. Every such clerk shall put up in some convenient place in his office, at
least sixty days before the commencement of each term, a list of all the causes
specified in the preceding section,distinguishing therein the day on which each
cause is to be tried, and shall keep such list so affixed, until the end of such term,
for the inspection of parties and their attorneys.
§ 12. Every such clerk,‘ upon the demand of any party or his attorney, and
upon the payment of the legal fee therefore, shall issue subpaznas for witnesses,

returnable upon the day the cause, in which the subpoenas are demanded, is set
for trial, and every clerk who shall neglect or refuse to make out such docket, or
to set and keep up such list of causes, or to issue such subpoenas, according to the

provisions of this act, shall be fined by the court any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars for every such offense.

‘ -PnAcT1cE IN CHANC_ERY:‘

An act to regulate the practice in courts of chancery

‘Ana-. r. or the cominencement or suite, the service and ‘return or process. *
AB'I‘._ II. 0! the pleadings and exhibits, and proceedings thereon.
ART. III. or the issues, trial, and the incidents thereto. _
ART. IV. Of the commissioner, his duty. report and proceedings thereon.
A31‘. ‘V. 0! the abatement of suits by death, marriage, or otherwise; and the revival thereof.

31'. VI.‘ or the decree, and subsequent proceedings thereon.’ ARTICLE 1.

‘ Of the  t of suits, tite‘sei°vicé andrcturzz of process. '

ass. 1. Jurisdiction o( courts of chancery; how to proceed.

Suits, in what county to be brought. , A
In commencing suit, bill setting forth the complaint, to he died in the clerk's oflco.

Clerk to has summons; to whom't!’irected, when rotumable, are.
several defendants residing in diferent counties, summons. how issued. .
Summons accompanied by separate copy of the bill, how executed.

Part, or all of defendants non-residents, order notifying them of commencement of suit, when. and how made.

Part of defendants residents, process how issued against them.

. When sheriff returns, that defendant cannot be found, court to make an order as in case of non-residents.
10 Defendants names unknown, how made parties. A _ _
1]. Order against non-resident, absent, or unknown defendants, when, and how published.

' 12. Several defendants, some summoned or notified, others not, how complainant may proceed.

13. Copy of bill, with notice of suit, may be served on a known defendant without this state; when.

14. Such scrv‘ico my be made by whom; how proved to be effectual, ac.

°9°?"."?"P?’!'

Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. In all cases where adequate relief cannot be had in the ordinary coufse of
proceeding at law, the ‘several courts of this state-, having chancery jurisdiction;
shall have power to proceed therein according to the rules, usage and practice of
courts of equity, and to enforce their decrees by execution, or in any other manner

proper for a court of chancery. .
6 2. Suits in equity concerningreal estate, or whereby the same may be affected,

shall be brought in the county within which such real estate, or'a greater part there- _

of, is situate; and in other cases,_in the county within which the defendants, or a,
majority of them,if inhabitants of the state, reside; or if all the defendants are not
residents, then in any county. .
’ Q 3. Every person commencing a suit in equity,shall file, in the office of,the clerk
of the, proper court, a bill, setting forth the nature of hiscomplaint. I
§ 4. The ‘clerk shall thereupon issue a suminons returnable to the next term,
and directed to the sheriff of the county in which the defendants reside, if resident
in this state, requiring him to summon the defendants to appear and answer to the
bill on the return day thereof. _
§ 5. When there are several defendants residing in different counties, :1 separate
Si1mm0Dl Shall b0 issued to 9v':1Ch.C0l1I1ty, including all the defendants residing therein.

§ 6. Every summons shall be accompanied by "a separate copy of the bill, and
the service shall be by reading the bill and writ to the defendant, or delivering him
a copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at his usual place of abo e, with some white
person of his family above the age of fifteen years. Thecopy accompanying‘ the
summons, shall be delivered to, or left at the place of abode of, the defendant, who
shall be first summoned. T "

§ 7. If any complainant, or any person for him,'shall file with his bill an affidavit,
stating that part or all of the defendants are non-residents of the state, the court, or
clerk in vacation, shall make an order directed to the non-resident defendants, noti,
fying them of the commencement of the suit, and stating fully the substance of’
the allegations and prayer of thebill, and requiring them to appear on a day tobe
therein named, allowing sufficient time for publication, and answer the bill, or that
the bill will be taken as confessed. A s

§ 8. If in such case, part of“ the defendants are residents of ‘the state, process
shall be issued against them as in other cases. ' '

-§ 9. When a summons shall be issued against any defendant, and the sheriff to
whomit is directed shall make return that the defendant cannot be found, the court
being first satisfied that process cannot be served, shall make an order as is required
in the preceding section in case of non-resident defendants.

§ 10. If any complainant shall allege in his bill, that there are, or that he verily
believes there are,{persons interested in the subject matter of the bill, whose names
he cannot inserttherein, because they are unknown to him, and shall'describe the
interest of such persons and how derived, so far as his knowledge ‘extends, and
shall verify such allegations by affidavit to his bill annexed, the court oi‘ the judge,
or clerk thereof in vacation, shall make an order as in case of residents, reciting,
moreover, all allegations in relation to the’ interestfof such unknown parties.

”§ 11.. Every order against non-residents, absent or unknown defendants, shall be
published in some newspaper printed in this‘ state, for eight weeks successively, the
last insertion to be at least four weeks before the commencement of the term at

which the defendants are required to appear. ' A
§ 12. When there are several defendants, some of whom do not appear, and are

neither summoned not notified, the complainant may proceed against those, if any,
who do appear, or are summoned or notified, and dismiss his bill as to the others; or

~ he may continue the cause and proceed to bringin the other defendants, by process

or publication, as the case may require.

§ 13. The complainant may cause a copy of the bill, with a notice of the suit, to
be delivered to any known defendant residing or being without this state, at any
place within the _United States or their territories, two months before the commencement of the term at which such defendant is reqtilred to appear. _

§14. Such service may be made by any free white‘ person above the age of
twenty-one years, who is a competent witness,‘_in_th_e'cause, and being proved by
the affidavit or deposition of such person, shall be as effectual as the ‘service of a .
copy of the bill and summons within this state, under the provisions of this act.

ARTICLE 11.

in

Of (Ire pleadings and exltibits, and proceedings thereon,
~ I '.   ‘  
Etc. 1. Exception. plea, demurrer, or answer, when to be filed; on failure, bill to be taken as confessed.

2. No exceptions or plea, after interlocutory decree, decree may be set aside, when, and answer or delpgj-3,; ma
3. Exceptions, when to be afgued. and proceedings thereon. '
4. Several matters may be plead to the same bill; when, how, Q-c. - .

5. Costs, by whom to be paid, if plea be found for defendant, or plea found against defendant; answer to be filed

or bill taken for confessed. _'
- 6. Demurrers, when to be argued, and proceedings thereon.
..'~ 7. Answers, how made, and to be on oath.

3. Defendant may exhibit interrogatories to complainant, which shall be answered, &c.; proceeding um-.V¢n_

' 9. Allidavits required to verify bill or answer, how, and by whom taken and certified. ‘ l
10. Exceptions to answer, and interrogatories or defendant, when to be filed, and how dhpossd of. 1

11. Answeradjudged insufficient, further answer to be filed; proceedings.

12. If such answer be adjudged insufficient, deferidant to pay double costs, and file answer instanter.

13. Third answer filed, adjudged insuillcient, no further answer ellopved; bill taken asconfgessed, kc.

14. Bill not to be dismissed after cross bill filed. 15. Complainant compelled to file answer to interrogatories; when.

16. Pleas and demurrers, when to be disposed of‘.

11. Replications to be general; when to be filed.

18. When replication is filed, cause to be at issue; gland for hearing at next term.

19. Replication not filed, cause set for hearing on bill and answer; effect of‘ answer as evidence.

hnswer not conclusive, if’ replication died. ;
If either party rely on any record, deed, or other writing, substance to be stated, &c.; proceeding in such case.
Where deed‘ or writing relied oncannot be produced, how to proceed. Power or court to make order to compel production of books, papers, &c., material in a cause.
Either paity failing to comply with such order, proceedings. ’ '
Pieadiags to he signed, and time of gllng endor_ssd. ,
Time ofdllls pleas. answers, acc., may be extended; amendments to bills, &c.. may be made.
Exhibits to be marked, numbered, and filed.

Orlslntl d.°°dI- 1:6» 0194 no exhibit-.s9 remain on file; how long, and how mag...

§':’3i3$l3l3:'3..3

i 1. Every defendant, who shall be summoned or notified according to the prof
visions of this act, shall file his exceptions, plead, demur or answer to the bill, within
the first six days of the term at which he is required to appear, if the term shall so
long continue, and if not, then before the end of the term, unless further time be
given by the court; and’ if he fail so to do, the bill may be taken as confessed, and
an interlocutory decree entered accordingly. A

i 2. Noexceptions or plea shall be filed after an interlocutory decree, but if the
defendant appear within the first six days of the next term after such decree" is
entered, and shew good cause for not before appearing, the decree may be set aside,
and the defendant allowed to file his answer or demur to the bill._

i 3. Exceptions to a bill, when filed, shall be argued and determined without delay;
if any are allowed, the complainant shall pay costs, and the defendant shall plead,
demur or answer the residue_ of the bill; but if allpare overruled, the defendant shall
pay costs, and plead, answer or demur to the whole bill immediately.

§ 4_. Defendants may plead as many several matters to a bill, or any part thereof
as they shall think proper, so that they donot plead and demur, or plead and an:

‘WW9!’ to the same part of a bill, except, that where by the rules and, practice in

chancery, an answer is necessary to support a plea, suchanswer, may.b§,f1led with"
, he plea. ' .

Q 5. If a plea be found for the defendant, or such plea be allowed, the complainant shall pay costs; but if the matter of a plea be found against the defendant, or
the plea be overruled, ‘he shall pay costs, and no other plea shall be filed,
and he shall answer the bill, or, in default, the part unanswered shall be taken as
confessed. ' ‘

§ 6. Demurrers shall be considered and determined without delay, and if sustained in whole or in part, the complainant shall pay costs; if overruled, the defendant
shall pay costs, and shall file his answeriinstanter, or, in default thereof, so much of
the bill as remains unanswered shall be taken as confessed. 0 _

§ 7. Every defendant shall answer fully all allegations and inteirogatories of the
complainant, except such as are not required to be answered by reason of exceptions, plea or demurrer thereto allowed, and the answer shall be verified by oath of
affirmationf '

§ 8. Any defendant, afterfiling his answer, may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, which shall be answered by him specially, on oath or allirmation, unless excepted to, and the exceptions allowed; and the complainant’s answer shall be evidence in the cause, in the same manner as the defendant’s answer. In default of
answering such interrogatories, the bill may be dismissed. '

§ 9. Aflidavits, when required to verify a bill or answer, may be taken before,and
certified by the clerk of, the court in which the suit is pending, or some judge or
justice of the peace, the official character of such officer (if not of this state) being
attested by the seal of the state, territory, kingdom or ‘empire, of which he is an
officer, or the seal of some court of record within the same.

§ 10. Exceptions to the answer and interrogatories of the defendant may be
filed within four days after the filing the answer or the interrogatories, and not
thereafter, and when filed shall be considered and determined, without delay; if
overruled, the complainant, if allowed, the defendant, shall pay the costs.

§ 11. When an answer shall be adjudged insullicient, the defendant shall file a
further answer, within such time as the court shall direct, and in default thereof the
bill shall be taken as confessed.

§ 12. If such answer be filed and adjudged insufficient, the defendant shall pay
double costs, and answer fully instanter, or, in default thereof, the bill shall be taken
as confessed. T '

§ 13. If a third answer be filed and adjudged insullicient, the defendant shall pay
treble costs, and no further answer shall be filed, but the bill shall be taken as
confessed. T § 14. No complainant shall be allowed to dismiss his. bill, after a cross bill, with.
out the consent of the defendant.

§l15. The complainant shall not be compelled to file his answer to any cross

bill,or interrogatories exhibited by the defendant, until the defendant_shall have
filed a sufficient answer to the complainant’s bill.

§16. All pleas and demurrers shall. be disposed of before proceeding on the
defendant’s answer. ' A ~ *

§ 17. Replicatioris shall be general, with the like advantages to all parties as if
special, and shall be filed within four days after answer, or at any time before the
cause is set fo‘t' hearing on bill and answer. ' ‘

§ 18. VV hen a replication is filed, the cause shall be deemed at‘ issue, and stand
for hearing at the next term.   ‘ V

1 19. If the replication be not filed within four days afteranswer, the cause may
-be set for hearing on bill and answer, in which case the answer shall be taken as
true, and no evidence shall be received, unless it be matter of record referred to
in ‘the answer.

§ 20. When a complainant shall seek a discovery respecting the matters charged

' in the bill, the disclosure made in the answer shall not be conclusive, but, if replication be filed, may be contradicted or disproved as other testimony, according to
the practice of courts of. equity. ' ,

Q 21. If either party shall rely on any record, deed or other writing, the substance
thereof shall be stated in his bill, answer or plea, in the same manner as is required
in pleading at law, and he shallfile with the bill, answer or plea, as exhibits, an
authentic copy of such record, and the original deed and writing so set forth, if in
his power. _ ,

§ ‘.22. If either party cannot producea "deed or writing relied on by him, he shall
so state in his bill, answer or plea, together with the reasons why he cannot produce the same, and if such reasons be sullicient, he may file the best evidence in his
power, of the contents of such deed or writing. i V _ ' ’

§ 523. The court shall have, power, upon sullicient cause shewn by affidavit, due
notice of the application being given, torequire the parties, or either of them, to
produce books, deeds, or writings in their power, which are-alleged to contain evi_
dence, pertinent to the matter in controversy. ' ‘

§ 24. If either party shall fail to comply with such order, and shall not satisfy
the court that it is notin his power to produce the books, deeds or writing, the
court may take the allegations in relation to the books, deeds and writing not produced, as confessed, or may proceed against the party in default by attachment.

Q ‘.25. All bills, petitions, answers, exceptions, pleas, demurrers, replications and
other pleadings, shall be signed by the party filing them, or his solicitor, and the
clerk shall endorse thereon the date of the filing, and, if in term, note the same on

the- minutes.

§ 26. The courts may extend the time for anwering, replying, pleading or demurring, upon good cause shewn, and may allow parties to amend their bills, petitions, answers, pleas and replications, on the payment of costs, and on such other —
terms as the court may think proper, so that the other party be not surprized or unreasonably delayed thereby.

§ 27. The parties shall carefully mark and number all papers and documents, relied on in any cause, and file the same as exhibits,and such papers and documents

shall not be deemed or madea partof. the pleadings orrecord in the cause, but
may be used as evidence at the hearing, if proved ‘or admitted, .

§ 28. ‘Original deeds and other_ writings,relied on‘ by either party and filed as
exhibits, -shall remain on file for the inspection of the other part], unt.il the cause
is at issue or set for hearing,when they may be withdrawn, copies being sdbstithted
by the party who filed the same. . *- ' '

' Of the'iss2ies, trial, agzd the mczfdénzs zhemzo.’ ' 1 - *

Before hearing of a cnpse at issue, each party to set down, distinctlyrallegatlons made, &.c.; proceedings.
Cause when to be tried; testimony to be confined to the issues made under the precedingmcctiqn. * -'

Eu. 1.
2.
3. Docket of causes to be made out and kept by the clerk. ,
4. List of causes, time for trial, &c., to be. set up in clerk’e oliice.
5. All issues and matters of fact. how tried; when, and how disposed of.
6. New trial may be ordered; when. ' _
7. Testimony, now taken. _ ‘ i .
8. Rules of evidence. '
9. Bill: of, exceptions allowed, ‘ac.

§ 1. Within such time as the court shall by rule require, before the hearing of a
cause at issue, each party shall set down, distinctly, the allegations made by him
and denied by the other party, or which, by the ‘course of proceeding in chancery,
he is required to support by his testimony, and issues shall be made thereon accor§ 2. All causes. shall be tried, heard _and determined, at the term next after they
are set for hearing, or put at issue by replication, unless good cause be shewn for a
continuance, and at the hearing, the testimony shall beuconfined  the issues made
up,as required by the preceding section. ‘ . g _

- § 3. The clerk of each court of chancery shall, before the commencement‘ of
each term,make out a docket of all causes pending, in the order in which they
stand in the course of proceeding, noting, briefly, the previous steps taken, each
. cause and the state of the pleadings, and shall, if necessary, set the causes for trial,
hearing or argument, on several days, assigning a due proportion to each day.

§ 4. The clerk shall also make out a list of all causes pending at each term, specifying the day on which they are set for trial,hearing or argument, and shall keep
such list set up, c0nspicubusly,in his office, for thirtydays before, and during the
term, for the information of parties and their solicitors, and shall, from timetto time,
issuesubpaznas for witnesses, and commissions to take depositions, when required.

A1;'r1'oLE_1_11. T s ~ ~ .

§ 5. The trial of all issues and matters of fact shall be by jury, or if neither par- ty require a jury, by the court, and the allegations put in issue shall be disposed of
‘by a general or special verdict, before a final decree shall be made, except such as
‘shall be expressly decided -by the court to be immaterial or irrelevant to the merits
of the cause..

§ 6. The court may award a new trial of anyiss_ue,upon good cause shewn,but
not more than one new trial of the same issue.sh_all be granted to any one party.

§ 7. The parties, respectively, may examine witnesses in open court, or take‘

depositions, where they are -'1-ioixig Jpermitteduby ‘law, ‘or the court may direct the
whole of the testimony to be ‘taken in Writing, ifwhich case the parties shall proceed as required by law in taHng depositionis. _

§.8. 'I:he rule; of evidence shdl‘ be the same in chancery as at law.

Q 9. Exceptions m‘ay_be talgén‘ to the opinions of ‘the court, during the progress
of any cause mrtrial of«- an issue in chalicery, and bills of exception shall be allowed, signed, sealed, and made a part of thenrecord, in the same manner, and with-the
like en'ect,as at law. ' , 3' ‘_ '* " . .

. . u . . ,- * ». f . 9
9 , ARTICLE Iv. . s '
C7" the commissioner’, his’ duty, report and proceedings thermm

be. I. Oolnéoaer who appointed; his duties. - i" .
3. epoch! commissioner may be appointed; when. .

Commissioner ‘touts oath before entering on his duties.‘

Proceedings before eominieeionenhow conducted:

Power of commissioner to adjourn sittings, common: and compel attendance of witnesses, and administer oauw
Depoeittonl may be i read before commissioner. Testimony taken, emf exoeptions'to'tertimony to be reported.

Boport,when and how made. ,

Exceptions to report, when to be med; how. proceeded yon. '
10, t 11. Notice: required to be given by commissioner, and eubpcenas, how and by whom served.

999????

§ 1. Each court of chancery may appoint a commissioner, Whose duty it shali .
be to audit and adjust all accounts referred to him-, and to take testimony when there«
to required, and make report thereon-' according to the order of the court.

§ 2. When the commissioner is of kin to either party,or is interested in any’
cause, or where it may be necessary or proper, a special commissioner may be, appointed. . ' _

9 3. Every commissioner,‘before entering upon the duties of his appointment,
shall take an oath, that he will faithfully and impartially perform his duties as com-r
missidner. . ~

§ 4. When any matter shall be referred to a commissioner, or he is requireél to
take testimony in a cause, he shall appoint a time and place for proceeding therein-,
and give" notice thereof, in writing, to both parties, or their solicitors, and if either
party, being notified, shall fail to appear, he shall proceed eaparte. ' ‘

6 5. The commissioner may adjourn his sittings from time to time, issue subpae-_«
nas for witnesses, and attachments to compel the attendance of such as, being sum-5

‘moned, fail or refuse to appear. He shall have .poWer<to. administer oaths, exam-'

ine witnesses, and commit such as refuse to testify. ‘

'§ 6. Dr-positions regularly taken in the cause, may be read in evidence before
the commissioner. When accounts are referred to him, which, together with the _
other testimiony,.being heard, he shallstate the account truly, according. to his opinion, and, if the parties required it, also according to the views of each of them;

§ 7. All testimony taken before acommissioner, shall be reduced to writing, and
if either party shall except to the competency of a‘ witness, or the admission or exclusioii of evidence, the commissioner, il"re‘quired; shall state the particulars of the‘
exception in his report. ' i '. ‘ _

§ 8. The commissioner shall in a.lLci1sQs report as‘speedily as possible, reciting
the order of the court‘, and shewing the notice to the‘ parties, the time and place of
stating the account or taking the testimony, and all other ‘proceedings had, and re‘
turn the same, together witlrthe testimony taken, to the ccfurt. ”

6 9. All exceptions to the report of the. commissioner shall be in writing, and
filed within four days, in term,‘al'ter the report is filed, and shall be argued without
delay. If exceptibns are allowed, the matter may ‘again be'referged, with instruc‘
tions, if necessary, but if the repcirt is affirmed, thereourt shall proceed thereon accordingly. ’ . . - - _ ' _ ' '

§ 10. All notices required to be given by the commissioner, or others, in the progress of a cause, shall be served ‘by rieading the same, or delivering a copy to the
person to be notified, and may be served by the sheriff, or other officer authorized

to serve process, whose return shall be evidence of the facts therein stated.

§ 11. Such notices, and all subpoenas for witnesses in any cause,may also be served by any free white person, being a competent witness in the cause, and the affidavit of such person shall be received as evidence of the facts stated, relating to

the service.

ARTICLE V.

Of the al2alc-me-nt of suits by death, 7n(zr1'icIge"02' oz/:0/‘wise, and the revival thereof.

330- 1- Sui‘! “Oi t0 05030 by death of complainant or defendant, but to proceed against surviving partial; when.
2. Not to abate by death of one or more complainants or defendants, but to proceed against survivor; when.
3. If all plaintifffs or defendants die, suit may be revived by or against legal representatives.
4 to 9. Proceedings to bring in representatives of deceased defendant.
‘I0. Representatives of deceased plaintifff, bow made a party; may, if necessary, amend the bill.
1]. Amended bill to be answered; cause to proceed as in other cases.
12. Representatives not appearing, how surviving complainant may proceed.
13. If there be no surviving complainant, and the representatives do not appear, t1ow.¢0 P|‘°°°°d- ,14. \Vhen court may order suit to be revived in the name of such representatives. Of diSmi33 ‘'10 bl" ‘13 "3 ‘hem]5. \\'hen court may order suit to stand revived against representatives of-leceascd dcfttllliilllto
16- How surviving defendant may proceed against such representatives; proceedings. '
17. In what cases and when suit to abate on account of representatives of deceased plaintili‘ or defendant not

made parties.
18. Husband to be made plainthl‘ or defendant with his wife to a suit, on his application; how and when.

19. Husband to be made party with his wife on the application of any other parties to the suit; how and when, Q-c.
Q0. Suit against public officer, trustee, &.c., not to abate, but may be revived against his successor‘, how, when, he.

21. Construction ofthis act in relation to bringing in representatives of deceased parties.
22. Representatives and others not bound by decree, wheretlzey are not parties.

§ 1. When the cause of action shall survive, no suit in chancery shall abate by
the death of one or more complainants or defendants, but such death being suggested and shewn to the satisfaction of the court, the suit shall proceed in favor of,
or against the surviving parties.

§ 2. VVlie11 one or more of the complainants or defendants die, and the cause of
action shall not survive, the suit shall abate only as to the person ore-persons so
dying, and the surviving parties may proceed without reviving the suit. '

§ 3. If all the plaintifffs or defendants in‘ a suit in chnncery die, the suit shall not

thereby be abated, but may be revived in the name of the legal representatives of
the deceased party. i

-w

5 é§ 4. No bill of revivor shall be necessany torevive a suit against the representatives of a deceased defendant, but the death being suggested as herein-before provided, the cou_rt,'or clerl~:‘in vacation,shall, on the petition of the complainant, issue
a summons in the nature of a scire faciasg againstall. persons residing in the state
so to be made parties, and also make the order of publication as to all such as are
non-residents, 0r_—whos'e names are unknown, in the same manner as is provided in
the case of- original defendants» - '

6 5. The summons shall be se°rv_ed and returned, and.the order published, in the
same manner and with the like effect, to all intents and purposes, as is required in
cases of summoning or notifying original deféndzmts.

§ 6. If any person so summoned or notified shall not, within such time after service or notice of publication as is allowed in the case of original defendants, appear and put in an answer or disclaimer, the court may cause his appearance to be
entered.

§ 7. In such cases the answer of the deceased party shall be deemed the answer
of such representatives, and if there be no answer, proceeding may be had in all
respects against such person as if he had been originally a defendant, and the court
may, in its discretion, order the bill to be taken as confessed, or compel such representatives to answer, by attachment or otherwise.

Q 8. If the deceased party shall have answered, and the surviving party shall
deem it necessary to obtain a further answer from his representatives, the petition
for a revival shall state the matters as to which such further answer is required, and
a copy of such petition shall be annexed to the summons, or the substance stated
in the order of publication against such representatives. .

§ 9. In such case, if the representatives shall not appear and put in such further
answer 01‘ disclaimer, the petition may be taken as confessed, or the court may
compel an answer by attachment or otherwise.

§ 10. Where a complainant shall die, and the cause of action does not survive,
his representatives, on affidavit of such death, and on motion in open court, may be

made complainants in the suit, and be permitted, if necessary, to amend the bill.

§ 11. The defendants may be compelled to answer such amended bill, and the
cause shall proceed to issue and hearing as in other cases.

Q 12. Vhen the representatives shall not cause themselves to be made complainants, on or before the first day of the second term after the death is suggested, the
surviving complainant may proceed to make them defendants, as in cases where
the representatives of a deceased defendant are made parties.

§ 13. If there be no surviving complainant, or he shall neglect or refuse to proceed against the representatives of a deceased complainant as defendants, the
court, upon the petition of the original defendant, may order such representatives
to s_hew cauoe, at a certain day, to be named in the order, why the suit should not

stand revived in their names, or the bill be dismissed, as far as the interest of such
representatives is concerned. _

Q 14. If no such cause be then shetvn, the court, upon proof of reasonable service, or publication of such order, may order the suit to be revived in the name of_
such representatives,or dismiss the bill, as to them, with costs or otherwise.

§ 15. If a defendant shall die, and the cause of action shall not survive, and the
complainant shall neglect or refuse to procure an order for the revival of the suit,
the court may order it to stand revived, upon the petition of the surviving defendant, against the representatives of the deceased party.

§ 16. In such cause, the surviving defendants may proceed against such representatives, in the same manner as a complainant, to compel them to appear, abide
the answer of the deceased party, or answer, if an answer be required, or have
the bill or petition taken as confessed against them, and the court may, in its
discretion, stay the suit as againsthim until such proceedings shall have been had.

§ 17. In all cases where the representatives of a deceased complainant or defendant shall not be made parties, according to the provisions of this act, on or
before the third term after the suggestion of the death, the suit shall abate as to
such deceased party, and the interest of his representatives therein, and the cause
shall proceed in favor of, and against the survivors; but if in such case, there be no
surviving complainant or defendant, the suit shall be dismissed.

§ 18. If afemale party to a suit marry at any time before a final decree, her
husband may,on his application, be made a complainant or defendant with her, on
the order of the court in which the suit is pending, or the judge thereof, to be

granted on due proof of the marriage, and after notice to such female party, and
the other parties to the suit.

§ 19. Such husband may also be made a party with his wife, on the application
of any other parties to the suit by petition, upon proof of the marriage, and notice
to such husband and wife, and the other parties to the suit; but in such case, the
husband may contest all facts in the same manner as if he had originally been made
a party.

§ 20. When any public officer, trustee, guardian, cur€“30Ta executor-‘)1’ administrator, as such, shall be a party to any suit, and Sllillfdlea resign» 01' be 1‘9m0V€(l l'1'0m
hisoffice or trust, before a final decree, the Km» Shall not thereby abate: but his
successor may, on his own application, or't)n the application Of any other party to
the suit, be made a party, by the outer of the court, in the same manner as the
representatives of a deceased party as herein-before provided.

§ 21. The provisions of this act in relation to the bringing in the representatives

of a deceased party, shall be construed to apply to all persons who may have '

become interested in the cause of action by the death of a party.

§ 22. No such representatives of a deceased partv, or other person interested

in the cause of action, shall be bound by any order or decree, in any cause to which
they do not become, and are not made, parties. ‘

ARTICLE VI.

Of the dccrcc and subscqucrzt proceedings thereon.

E

Ste. 1, 5- 2. In what cases, and when final decree may be set aside by bill of review.

3. When. and in what time, such final decree shall stand absolute, whether notice be given or not.

4. “What shall lie shown by the hill of review, and on what conditions such decree shall be set aside.

If the answer be not filed, as in last section, decree made absolute.

Sale or conveyance on foreclosure of mortgage not affected by setting aside decree; orders of the court ituuch

case.

Decree passing title to real estate, or personal property, maybe made, and writ of possession awarded; when.
Decrees for conveyance, release. are... their effect.

Courts, how to proceed to enforce obedience to orders or decrees; may punish offenders as for contempt.

10. In what rases,and how inquiry of damages and decrco thereon to be made. in lieu of performance of decree.
1]. Appeals allowed to the supreme court, how applied for.

12. When, and within what time,supremc court or judge thereof, may grant an appeal.

13. W'hen, and in what cases, appeals to operate as a supersedcas.

14. Recognizance, how and by whom entered into; its condition.

99°?‘ 95"‘

§1. VVhen any interlocutory decree, taking a bill as confessed, shall be made,
and a final decree entered thereon against any defendant who shall not have been
summoned as required by this act, and who shall not have appeared to the suit, or
have been made a party as the representative of one who shall have been summoned or appeared, such final decrcc may he set aside, if the defendant shall,
within the time hereinafter limited, appear, and by bill of review, verified by affrdavit, show good cause for setting aside such decree as against equity.

§ 2. If the complainant shall, at any time after such final decree, serve the defendant, within any of the United States or the territories thereof, with not.ice of
the suit and the decree thereon, and such defendant shall not, within one year after
such service, bring his bill of review, the court, on proof of the service of such
notice. shall make an order that the decree stand absolute.

§ 3. If such bill of review be not filed within five years after such final decree
is rendered, the same shall stand a‘l)solute, whether notice thereof be given or no§ 4. No such decree shall be setasidc, unless the bill of review either show,that
there is no equity in the original bill, or contain such denials or allegations as
am011ntt0 8 defense 10 the merits, and then only on condition that the defendant
answer the bill Within :1 1“€«'lSOfli1isle time, to he ordered by the court.

§ 5- If the ?U1SVl-"91’ is med ‘V1111!!! the time so limited, the cause shall proceed as
In other cases, if not, the decree shall be made ;1l)s()]utc,

§ 6. No sale or conveyance upon a bill for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a
mortgage, regularly made by a court of chancery, shall be affected or prejudiced
by the setting aside any decree on the appearance of a defendant, as herein-before
provided: but the court may, in such case, decree an account for all monies received by the complainant, by virtue of such decree, over and above the amount
justly due him, with costs, if the equity of the cause require it.

§ 7. In all cases where the court may decree the conveyance of real estate, or
the delivery of personal property, they may, by decree, pass the title of such
property, Without any act to be done on the part of the defendants, when in their

judgment it shall be proper; and may issue a writ of possession, if necessary, to

put the party entitled into possession of such real or personal property, or may

proceed by attachment or sequestration.

§ 8. VVl1ere an unconditional decree shall be_ made for a conveyance, release or
acquittance, and the party required to execute the same shall not comply therewith,
the decree shall be considered and taken to have the same operation and effect,
and be as available, as if the conveyance, release or acquittance had been executed
conformably to the decree. '

§ 9. Courts of chancery may proceed by attachment against all persons who
refuse obedience to any lawful order or decree, and may punish the offender by
fine and imprisonment, as for a contempt, and, if necessary, proceed by sequestra.
tion for disobedience of any decree.

§ 10. When complete justice cannot otherwise be done, such courts may, on
the petition of the party entitled to the benefit of a final decree, cause an inquiry
to be made by a jury of the amount of damages which ought to be paid in lieu of

the performance of the decree, and may render a decree for the damages so assessed, and award execution thereon.

§ 11. If any person shall deem himself aggrieved by any final decision, order or
decree of any circuit court of chancery, and such person pray an appeal to the
supreme court, during the term at which the decision, order or decree is made,
such appeal shall be granted by the circuit court.

§ 12. The supreme court, or any judge thereof, upon inspection of the record,

may grant an appeal by special order for that purpose, at any time Within two
years after the making the final decision, order or decree in‘ the cause.

13. The appeal, when the appellant is not an executor or administrator, guardian or curator, suing or sued as such, shall not operate as a stay of proceedings,
unless a recognizance be entered into before the supreme or circuit court, or a
judge or clerk thereof, and filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court.

§ 14. Such recognizance shall be entered into by the appellant, or some responsible person for him, with one or more sufficient securities, to be approved by the
court or judge granting the appeal, in a sum sufficient to secure the performance of
the decree, and all costs and damages, if affirmed, conditioned that the appellant
shall prosecute his appeal, andshall perform such decree as shall be made by the

supreme court therein, and pay all damages and costs which may be adjudged
against him.

PRACTICE IN THE SUPREME COURT.

An act to regulate the practice in‘!/re .s-upremc court in appeals and writs of error

D

. i A in ci-oil cases.

Ste. 1. tvrits of error are writs of right; when to issue out of supreme court.
2. tvrits of error, when and in what cases to issue from the circuit to the county court.
3. All writs of error, when and in what time to be brought.
4. Several defendants, and one or more of them die, writ may be brought by the survivor.
5. All living ,sha|l join in the writ of error, except otherwise allowed by supreme court.
6. 8: 7. One of several parties may prosecute a writ of error, without joining others; when.
8. Persons refusing to join, order to be made on the record to appear, .;'c., proceedings in such case.
9. Copy of such order to he served on the party refusing; when and how.
10. On the application of person named in such order. he'_may be permitted to join in the writ; when;
11. Person named in such order, and served with the same,not appearing, proceedings.
12. Persons out of the state, not joining in such writ. their rights not impaired.
13. Persons who ought to join in a writ of error, may be permitted to do so; when, and proceedings.
14. In what cases, and when execution to he stayed by writ of error.

15. In what cases. and when order to be made by court or judge to stay execution on writ of error.
16. Order to stay execution to be endorsed on the writ; when, are. _

17. If no execution has issuedror, if issued, not fully executed, how to proceed to stay execution.
18. Notice of writ of error to be served on the adverse party; cifect of failure.

19. W'rits of error and return thereto, how made,

Penalty on clerk for failing to make return of writ.

20
21 Appeals, when and to what court returnable; transcript, when to be filed; on failure, proceedings.
22. Assignment of errors, when to be filed; on failure, proceedings.

23 Joinder in error, when to be filed.

24. Proceedings, when one or more of plaintifffs or defendants die before joinder in error.

25. Proceedings, when one or more of plaintifffs or defendantsJdie after joinder in error.

26. If all the plaintifffs die after appeal or writ of error, and before judgment, proceedings.

‘27. If all the defendants die after appeal or writ of error, and before judgment, proceedings.

28. Husband may he joined with his wife as plaintifffafter appeal or writ of error; when and how.
29. Husband may be made co-defendant with his wife before judgment; how.

30. Statement of case and points to he made out and delivered to the judges.

31. Exceptions not to be taken on points not decided by circuit court.

32. Proceedings of the court on appeal or writ of error, or upon a special verdict.

33. Upon ailirmance of judgment, damages may be awarded.

34. Court divided in opinion. judgment of circuit court affirmed.
35. Judgments of the court, how carried into effect.

36. Foregoing provisions to extend to appeals from decrees and decisions in chancery.

Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of Jlfissouri, as follows‘§ 1. Writs of error upon any final judgment or decision of any circuit court, in
all cases are writs of right, and shall issue of course out of the supreme court in
vacation,as well as in term, subject to the regulations prescribed by law.

§ 2. Writs of error shall issue on demand, as a matter of right, on the final decigion or judgment of the county court from the circuit court, in term time or in vacation, except in relation to probate matters, Within__ninety days from such decision
or judgment.

§ 3. All writs of error upon any judgment or decision of any court, in any

case, whether civil or criminal, shall be brought within live years__after the render‘
mg of such judgment or decision, and not after.

§ 4. If a judgment shall be rendered against several persons; ami one or mofe of
them die, a writ of error may be brought thereon by the survivors.

§5. If there be several persons against whom any judgment shall have been
recovered, and entitled to bringa writ of error thereon, living at the time of brings.
ing such writ, they shall all join in such writ, except where it is otherwise provided
by law; and if any are omitted, the writ shall be quashed on motion of the defendant in error, made at any time before joinder in error, upon due proof of the facts
by affidavit, unless one or more of such persons be allowed to proceed by the
supreme court.

'9 6. To the‘ allegations of there being other persons living who ought to join in
such writ of error, if it be established or admitted, the party prosecuting such writ
may answer by due proof on affidavit, that any of such‘ persons not joined, are
either incapable of consenting to join in such writ, by reason of insanity‘ or imbecility of mind, or that their consent could not be obtained by reason of their being
absent out of this state; and if the court shall be satisfied of the truth of such an‘

swer, such party shall be allowed to prosecute such writ, without joining such

person, in the same manner assif they were joined.

§ 7. To such allegation, the party prosecuting the writ may also answer, by due
proof on affidavit, that application has been made to any of the persons, not named
in such writ, to join therein, and that they have refused, in such case the court shall
stay further proceedings on such writ, and on the motion to quash the same, until
an order shall have been duly served upon the person so refusing, as hereinafter
provided.

§ 8. The court shall thereupon cause an order to be entered onits record,directing the persons so refusing, to join in such writ, and to appeai'_in such court within
such time as shall be prescribed therein, and there join in such writ of error and
in the proceedings thereon, or tobe forever precluded from bringing another writ
of error on the same judgment.

§ 9. A copy of such order shall be served on the parties named therein,at least
ten days previous to the time of appearance therein specified, in like manner as an
original writ of summons.

§ 10. Upon the application of any person named in such order, he may be permitted to join in such writ of error, and in the proceedings thereon, upon the payment of the costs of the proceedings to bring him into court, including the motion

to quash the writ of error, if it shall appear that he refused to join in such writ on
application and without just cause, and the writ and proceedings shall be amended

by inserting the name of such person. _
§ 11. If any person named in such order do not appear by the time therein

specified, and join in such writ of error, upon due proof of the service of such
order,'the default of such person shall be entered, and he shall thereby be forever
precluded from bringing any writ of error on the same judgment, and the cause
shall proceed in the same manner as if such person had been named in such writ,

and in the proceedings thereon.

Q 12. When the name of any person out of this state, or incapable of giving
consent to the bringing of awrit of error, shall be omitted in such writ, and the
cause shall proceed without such names, the rights of such persons shall not be impaired by the judgment on such writ, but he may. bring his writ of error in the
same manner, separately, as if no such former writ had been brought.

§ 13. Any person who ought to join in a writ of error, may be permitted to do
so on his application, on such terms as the court shall -impose, and the writ and
proceedings shall be amended by inserting his name, and shall proceed as in other
cases. .
§ 14. N o writ of error shall stay the execution,unless the supreme court, or some
judge thereof in vacation, be satisfied, upon an inspection of a copy of the record,
that there is error therein, and shall make an order allowing such writ of error to
stay the execution; and no such order shall be made by a judge in vacation, after
the expiration of ninety days from the rendering of the judgment or decision
complained of. § 15. No order allowing a writ of error to stay the execution shall be made by
the supreme court, or by any judge thereof in vacaiion, except in the following
cases:

First, where the plaintifff in error was executoror administrator in the original
action, and such action was by or ag Linst him as such; or,

Second, VVhere the plaintill’ in error, or some responsible person for him, together with two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court or judge,
shall enter into a recognizance, before such court, or judge to the
adverse party, in a penalty sufficient to secure whatever debt, damages and costs have been recovered by thejudgment complained of, to‘ gether with the costs and damages that may be recovered in the

supreme court, conditioned that the plaintiff in error will prosecute
such writ with effect, and pay the money that shall therein be
adjudged against him by the supreme court, or otherwise abide the
judgment of such court therein.

§ 16. The court or officer allowing a writ of error to stay the execution, shall
cause an order to that effect to be endorsed upon the writ, under the hand of the
judge, when the same is made in vacation, and under the hand of the clerk of the
court, when the same is made in term.

§ 17. If no execution be issued, the exhibition of such writ of error, so endorsed
toithe adverse party or his attorney of record, or the clerk of the circuit court,
where the judgment or decision complained of was rendered, shall stay the issuing
of any writ of execution. If any execution shall have been issued and not fully
executed, upon the exhibition of such writ of error to the officer charged with the
execution of such_writ of execution, such officer shall proceed no further in the
execution thereof, but shall return the writ, t()ge‘Ll1c1' with_ the reason of his not
proceeding therein to the final execution thereof.

§ 18. Every person suing outa writ of error, shall cause a notice thereof in
Writing to be served on the adverse party, or his attorney of record, ten days be.

fore the return day of such writ. If such notice be not served, the judgment of
the circuit court" shall be allirmed, unless good cause for such failure be shewn.

§ 19. Writs of error shall be returned, signed by the clerk of the court to which
such writs shall be’ addressed, under the seal thereof. . §' 20. Any clerk failing to make return of any writto the supreme’ court, shall be

liable to be punished by such court, on attachmonty ‘Grids’ 000“-’mPls in the Sam“
manner as oliicers of other courts for disobeying the processor orders of such

courts. ' ’ ~

§ 21. All appeals taken thirty days before the first day of the next term of the
supreme court, to be holden in the district where the judgment or decision appealed
from was given, shall be returnable in such next term; and all appeals taken less
than thirty days before the‘ first day of such next term, shall be returnable in the
second term thereafter. The appellant shall cause to be‘ filed in the o$ce of the
clerk of the supreme court, atleast ten days before the first  of the term of
such court to which the appeal is return-able, a perfect transcript of the record and
proceedings in the cause; if he fail so to do,an'd the appellee produce in court-such
transcript, and it appear thereby that an appeal has been allowed in the cause‘, the
court shall affirm the judgment, unless good cause to the contrary be shewn.

§ ‘22. On appeals and writs of error, the appellant and plaintifff in error shall
assign errors on or before the first day of the term at which such appeal and writ
of error is returnable. In default of such assignment of errors, the appeal, or writ ‘
of error, may be dismissed, or the judgment‘affirmed,~ unless good cause for such
failure be shewn. '

§ 23. J oinders in error shall be filed within four days after the §lin‘g‘ of the as<
signment of error.

§94. If there be several appellants or plaintifffs in error, and one or more‘ of
them die before errors are assigned, such death shall be suggested by the surviving
plaintifffs, and the errors shall be assigned by them; and if one or more of several
defendants‘ die before joinder in error, such death shall, in‘ like manner, he suggest.
ed by the survivors, and they shall plead to-the assignment of errors.

§ 25. If there‘ be two or more appellants or plaintifffs‘ in=error',-and one or'more
of them die after errors assigned, or if there be several appellees or defendants in
such error, the appeal or writ of error shall not thereby abate‘, but in either of such
cases such death shall notbe suggested on the record, and the cause shallproceed
at the suit of the surviving appellant or plaintifff in’ error, or against the surviving
appellee or defendant in error, as the case may be.

§ 26. If all the appellants or plaintifffs in error die, after the appeal taken, or
writ of error brought, and before judgment rendered thereon, the executors or"
administrators of the last surviving plaintifff or appellant, or the heirs and devisees
of the plaintiffs and appellant, in cases where they would be entitled to bring writs
of error, may be substituted for such plaintifffs, and the cause shall proceed at their’
suit.

§ 27. If all the appellees, or a sole appellee, or if all the defendants, or a’ sole‘ do-»
fondant, in a writ of error die, after the appeal taken, or writ of error brought,

and before‘ judgment therein, the executors and administrators of such appellants
or defendants, may be compelled to become parties, and join in error, in lilte manner
as in an original suit. ,

-§ 28. If a female appellant or plaint.i£l' in error marry after the appeal taken or
writ brought, h_erg-husband may be joined with her on his_application, and his
name shall thereupon lJc‘cu~tro-raLl__i1;L1_h_Q__R1'QcQcdi11gs,

§ 99. Ifa female {l})})GllCC.‘, 01' (lCi.C11(li1Ilt in L-p;"oy, [nappy after the appeal taken or
writ brought, and before judgment, her husband may be made_ :1 co.defend;mt on
his application, or the application of the adverse party._ . H '

§ 30. On appeals and writs of error, each party shall, before the argumentofthe
cause, make out and furnish each jud;._;e with a clear and concise statement of the
case, and-the points intended to he insisted upon in argument.
~ § 31. No exception shall be taken in an appeal or writ of error to any proceedings in the circuit court, except such as shall have been expressly decided by such
court. , _ , _ _

§ 32. The supreme court, in appeals or writs of error, shall examine the record,
and award a new trial; reverse or aliirm the judgxnent or decision of the circuit
court, or give such judgment as such court ought to have given, as to them shall
seem agreeable to law. Vflien the facts in a special verdict are insufficiently
found, they may remand the cause,and order another trial to ascertain the facts.

§ 33. Upon the allirmance of any judgme_nt or decision, the supreme court may
award to the appellee, or defendant in error, such tl::z1:ages, not exceeding ten per
centum on the amount of the jutlgment complained of, as may be just.

§ 34. When the supremeicourt shall be divided in opinion, the judgment or decision of the circuit court shall be allirmed. i ,

§ 35. The supreme court,,upon the determination of any cause in appeal or
error, may award execution to carry the same into e1l'ect, or may remit the record,
with their decision thereon, to the circuit court from whence. the cause came; and
such determination shall be carried into execution by such circuit court.

§ 36. The foregoing provisions, relative to appeals and the parties thereto, shall
be construed to extend to appeals from, the decrees and decisions in chancery
causes, in all respects, the same as to appeals from judgments and decrees in suits

at law.


