CHAPTER CXXVIII.

PRACTICE IN CIVIL CASES.

AN ACT T0 BEGULATB PRACTICE IN COURTS OF JUSTICE,

Anncu I.—Or 'rnn ronu or own. Acrrons.
“ II.—Or 'rnE rAn-riEs To own. Ac'rroNs.
“ III.—Or PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST mums.
“ IV.—IN WHAT COUNTY SUITS HAY nE BROUGHT.
“ V.—Or 'rnE NANNEB or coanNmNo crvu. Acnoxs, AND
THE sEnva or No'rlcn.
VL—Or 'rnn PLEADINGB AND news or rmmNo IN cum.
ACTIONS.
VII—Or run our: AND DELIVERY or PIRSORAL rnorEn'n.
VIII. — INJUNCTIONs.
IX.—0r AMENDING PLEADINGS AND Pnocnbmos.

X.--Or Isscss, CONTINUANCES, nuALs, AND rnEm INCIDEN'rs.
XL—Or rnE AnArEMEN'r or SI‘ITS BY DEATH, NAnniAoE, on
OTHERWISE, AND THE nvaAL THEREOF.

KIL—Joncnnx'rs, AND scnanvnnr PROCEEDINGS rnEnEON.

“ XIII.—an TRIALS, AnnEsr or JUDGMENT, APPEALS, DUTIES
or cnnnxs, AND ExAnINA'rION or PARTIES ON INrEnnooA'romEs.

“ XIV.—PBACTICI IN THE scpnnxn covnr.

u
H
H
H
H

H

ARTICLE I.

01“ THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

i 2. Parties to action, how desig§ 1. One form of action declared in
nated.

this State.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Mic.

sourz', as follows :—
SECTION 1.—-’There shall be in this State but one form

of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights,
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall

be denominated a civil action.
SEC. 2.—In such action, the party complaining shall be

known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

ARTICLE II.

or THE PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 1. Action to be in the name of the Q 6. Persons liable to action maybe

real party in interest. sued jointly or severally;
2. Executors, trustees, 850., may persons liable in a represue intheir own names, with— sentative character may be
out joining the person for joined with others originally
whose benefit the suit is pro- liable.
scouted. The term “trustee 7. When a married woman is a
of an express trust” defined. party, the husband must be
3. Who may be joined as plain- joined, except in the cases
titfs. specified. Where the hus4. Who may be defendants. band is not joined, she must
5. Parties united in interest tobe sue or defend by her next
plaintifffs or defendants; a friend.
party who should be plaintifff 8. Suits by infants must be commay be made a defendant, menoed and prosecuted, by
when. whom.

SECTION 1.—Every action must be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in the next succeeding section; but this action shall
not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in

action not arising out of contract. (a)
SEC. 2.—An executor or administrator, a trustee of an

express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue in his own name, without joining with him the person ‘
for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. A trustee of an
express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be
construed to include a person with whom, or in whose name,
a contract is made for the benefit of another. (6)

SEC. 3.~All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiii's, except as otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 4.—Any person may be a defendant who has, or
claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff,
or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or
settlement of the question involved therein ((1)

SEC. 5.—Parties who are united in interest must be joined
as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one who
should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he
may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the petition. (b) '

SEC. 6.—Every person who shall have a cause of action
against several persons, including parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, and be entitled by law to one satisfaction therefore, may bring suit thereon jointly against all, or as
many of the persons liable as he may think proper; and an
executor or administrator, or other person liable in a representative character, may be joined with others, originally
liable, at the option of such person. 

SEC. 7.—When a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that: First, When the action
concerns her separate prOperty, she may sue and be sued
alone; Second, When an action is between herself and her
husband, she may sue and be sued alone. But when her
husband cannot be joined with her, as herein provided, she
shall prosecute or defend by her next friend.

SEC. 8.—Suits by infants may be commenced and prosecuted, either: First, By the guardian of such infant; or,
Second, By a next friend appointed for him in such suit.

ARTICLE III.

01" PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST INFANTS.
{ 1. Next friend, by whomtobe ap- g 6. Petition for next friend, his

pointed. consent and order of appoint2. To be made on petition of in- ment to be filed, where.

fant, if of the age of four- 7. Guardian, or next friend, reteen years, and written con- sponsible for costs.

sent of person appointed. 8. Suits against infants not to
8. If under fourteen, appointment proceed till guardian be apto be made, how. pointed.

4. Next friend to give bond, if re- 9. How, and by whom appointed.
quired by officer; its con- 10. Defendant failing to procure

dition. appointment of guardian,
5. Bond to be delivered to officer, court shall appoint one.

and filed with the clerk, 11. Guardian not liable for costs,

before appointment of next unless specially charged by

friend shall be made. order of court.

SECTION.1.—The appointment of a next friend for an
infant shall be made by the court in which the suit is intended to be brought, or by a judge or clerk thereof.

SEC. 2.—Such appointment shall be made on the petition,
in writing, of such infant, if Of the age of fourteen years,
and the written consent of ,the person proposed to be next
friend to such infant, acknowledged before, or proved to, the
[court] or officer making the appointment:

SEC. 3.—If such infant be under the age of fourteen
years, the appointment of a next friend may be made upon
like petition of a relative or friend of the infant; in which
case, a notice thereof must first be given to the person with
whom such'infant resides. ‘

SEC. 4. —Before any person shall be appointed next friend
for an infant, in any suit to recover any personal property,
debt or damages, he shall, if required by the court or oilicer
to whom application for such appointment shall be made,
execute a bond to such infant, in double the amount claimed
in such suit, with such securities as shall be approved by the
court or oiiicer, conditioned that such next friend shall account
to such infant for all money or property which may be recovered in such suit.

SEC. 5.—Such bond shall be delivered to such officer before the appointment shall be made, and shall be filed in the
oiiice of the clerk of the court in which the suit is to be
brought.

SEC. 6.—The petition for the appointment of next friend,
the written consent of the person proposed to be next friend,

and the order of appointment, shall be filed in the odice of
the clerk of the court where the suit is proposed to be
brought, before any proceedings shall be had in the cause.

SEC. 7.—The guardian or next friend of any infant, who
commenced or prosecuted a suit, shall be responsible for the
costs thereof.

SEC. 8.—After the commencement of a suit against an
infant defendant, and the service of process upon him, the
suit shall not be prosecuted any further until a guardian for
such infant be appointed.

SEO. 9.—Such appointment shall be made upon the request of the defendant, and on the written consent of any
competent person proposed as guardian by the court in which
the suit is pending, or by the judge thereof in vacation, and
shall be filed in the odice of the clerk of the court, before
any answer by such infant shall be filed.

SEC. 10.—If such infant defendant neglect, for one day
after the first day of the term at which he is bound to appear
to the suit, to procure the appointment of a guardian to
defend the suit, the court shall appoint some competent person to be guardian for such infant in the defense of such suit.

SEC. 11.—No person appointed guardian for such infant,
for the purpose of defending a suit against an infant, shall
be liable for the costs of such suit, unless specially charged
by the order of the court for some personal misconduct in
such cause.

ARTICLE IV.

IN WHAT COUNTY SUITS MAY BE BROUGHT.

Q 1. Suits instituted by summons to Q 3. Suits concerning real estate to

be brought, in what county. be brought in county where

2. Suits commenced by attach- it, or some part, is situate.
ment to be brought in the 4. Parties may agree to removal
county where the property of suit; such removal, how
may be found. effected.

SECTION 1.—Suits instituted by summons shall, except as
otherwise provided by law, be brought: First, When the
defendant is a resident of the State, either in the county
Within which the defendant resides, or in the county within
which the plaintifff resides and the defendant may be found;
Second, When there are several defendants, and they reside
in different counties, the suit may be brought in any such

county; Third, When there are several defendants, some
residents and others non-residents of the State, suit may be
brought in any county in which any defendant resides;
Fourth, When all the defendants are non-residents of the
State, suit may be brought in any county.

SEC. 2.—Suits commenced by attachment against the
property of a person, shall be brought in the county in which
such property may be found.

SEC. 3.—Suits concerning real estate, or whereby the
same may be affected, shall be brought in the county within
which such real estate, or some part thereof, is situate. (a)

. SEO. 4.—If, at any time after the commencement of a

suit, the parties shall agree, in writing, duly filed, upon any
other county, or court of competent jurisdiction, to which
they desire the same to be removed, it shall, by order of
court, be removed accordingly to such county, or court of
competent jurisdiction; and the same proceedings shall be
had in all respects for the removal of such cause, as are provided, by law, in changes of venue in civil cases.

ARTICLE V.

OF THE MANNEB OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS, AND THE
SERVICE OF NOTICES.

§ 1. How suits may be instituted. Q 12. When a separate summons may

2. Petition to be filed before writ issue.
issues. 13. Order of publication may be
3. Writ to be annexed to petition made against non-resident
or copy thereof, and delivered defendants, when; what it
to otlioer. shall contain.
4. Date .of writ; when returnable 14. When part of defendants are
to first, whentosecond term. residents, process to be is5. When defendant shall appear sued against them.
to the suit. 15. Proceedings, where sheriff shall
6. Original writ shall be a sum- make return that defendant
mons, and how directed. cannot be found.
7. Summons, how executed. 16. Mode of procedure in case of
8. Summons to be accompanied unknown parties.
by a separate copy of the 17. Orders of publication to be
petition. published, in what newspa9. Acknowledgment of service of pers, and how long.
writ to be valid, when. 18. Mode of personal service on a
10. Refusal ‘to hear or receive a . defendant out of the State.
copy deemed a suiiicient 19. Proceedings, where some of the
service. defendants appear, or are
11. Oiiicer tomake return of writs, notified or summoned, and

how. others not.

 

§ 20. Suit shall not be delayed longer Q 25. How long notice must be given

than one term to bring in the before time appointed for
others, unless all appearing hearing the motion, pleading
shall consent. or other proceeding.
21. No suit to be delayed by rea- 26. Who may serve notices; oilison of nonage of a party. cers failing to serve notices
22. Notices to be in writing, and become liable for neglect of
served on the party or his duty.
attorney. 2?. Acknowledgment of service of
23. To be served, how. notice, by endorsement there24. If the party or attorney be on, by party, or his attornon-resident, it shall be put ney, deemed sudicient serup in the office of the clerk. vice.

SECTION 1.—Suits may be instituted in courts of record,
except when the statute law of this land [State] otherwise
provides, either: First, By filing in the office of the clerk of
the proper court a petition, setting forth the plaintifff’s cause
or causes of action, and the remedy sought, and by the
voluntary appearance of the adverse party thereto; (a) or,
Second, By filing such petition in such ofIice, and suing out
thereon a writ of summons against the person, or of attachgment against the property, of the defendant.

-SEC. 2.—No such original writ shall be issued until the
petition be filed in the clerk’s othce.

SEC. 3.—The writ, when issued, shall be endorsed upon,
or annexed to, the petition, or a copy thereof; and the peti‘tion, or a copy thereof, together with the writ, shall be delivered to the oiiicer charged with the execution of the same.

SEC. 4.—Every such original writ shall be dated on the
day it is issued, and made returnable on the first day of the
next term thereafter; but if the first day of such term be
within fifteen days thereafter, then such writ shall be made
returnable on the first day of the second term.

SEC. 5.—Every defendant served with the summons fifteen
days before the return day thereof, shall be bound to appear
at the return term of the writ; and if such summons be
served less than fifteen days, he shall be bound to appear at
the term next after the return term of such writ.

SEC. 6.—The original writ, in all cases where it is not
otherwise provided by law, shall be a summons, which shall
be directed to the officer to be charged with the execution
thereof, and shall command him to summon the defendant to

appear ’n court, on the return day of the writ, and at a place
to be specified in such writ, to answer the petition of the
plaintifff. (a)

SEC. 7.—A summons shall be executed, except as otherwise provided by law, either: First, By reading the writ to
the defendant, and delivering to him a copy of the petition;
or, Second, By delivering to him a copy of the petition and
writ; or, Third, By leaving a copy of the petition and writ
at his usual place of abode. with some white person of the
family over the age of fifteen years; or, Fourth, Where
there are several defendants, by delivering to the defendant
who shall be first summoned a copy of the petition and writ,
and to such as shall be subsequently summoned a copy of
the writ; or by leaving such copy at the usual place of abode
of the defendant, with some white person of his family over
the age of fifteen years. (1))

SEC. 8. — Every summons shall be accompanied by a separate copy of the petition, for the use of the officer in serving
the summons.

SEC. 9.—Wben a defendant shall acknowledge, in writing,
endorsed on the writ, signed by his own proper signature, the
service of such writ, and waive the necessity of the service
thereof by an officer, such acknowledgment shall be deemed
as valid as if served in the manner provided by law.

SEC. 10.—In all cases when the defendant shall refuse to

 

 

 

 

hear the writ read, or to receive a copy of the writ or petition, the offer of the officer to read the same, or to deliver a
copy thereof, and such refusal, shall be a sufficient service of
such writ.

SEC. 11.—Every officer to whom any writ shall be delivered to be executed shall make return thereof, in writing,
of the time, place and manner, of service of such writ, and
shall sign his name to such return.

SEC. 12.—thre there are several defendants residing in
different counties, a separate summons shall be issued to each
county, including all the defendants residing therein; and
when any defendant or defendants are non-residents of the
State, the plaintiil' may take his writ against him or them, or
separate writs against each, directed to the sheriff of any
county in the State in which the plaintilT believes such defendant or defendants may be temporarily found.

SEC. 13.—If any plaintifff, or other person for him, shall
allege in his petition, or file an affidavit stating. that part or
all of the defendants are non-residents of this State, the
court, or clerk in vacation, shall make an order directed to
the non-residents, notifying them of the commencement of
the suit, and stating briefly the object and general nature of
the petition, and requiring them to appear on a day to be
therein named, (allowing sullicient time for publication,) and
answer the petition, or that the petition will be taken as
confessed.

SEC. 14.—-If, in such case, part of the defendants are
residents of the State, process shall be issued against them
as in other cases.

SEC. 15,—When a summons shall be issued against any
defendant, and the sheriff to whom it is directed shall make
return that the defendant cannot be found, the court, being
first satisfied that process cannot be served, shall make an
order, as is'required in the preceding sections in case of nonresident defendants.

SEC. 16.—If any plaintifff shall allege in his petition that
there are, or that he verily believes there are, persons interested in the subject matter of the petition, whose names he
cannot insert therein because they are unknown to him, and
shall describe the interest of such persons, and how derived,
so far as his knowledge extends, the court, or the judge or

clerk thereof in vacation, shall make an order as in case of
non-residents, reciting, moreover, all allegations in relation to
the interest of such unknown parties.

SEC. 17. —Every order against non-resident, absent or unknown, defendants, shall. be published in some newspaper published in this State, which the court, judge or clerk, making
the order, may designate as most likely to give notice to the
person to be notified. The publication shall be for four weeks
successively, the last insertion to be at least four weeks before
the commencement of the term at which the defendants are
required to appear.

SEC. 18.—The plaintifff may cause a copy of the petition,
with a notice of the suit, to be delivered to any known defendant, residing or being without this State, at any place
within the United States or their Territories, one month before the commencement of the term at which such defendant
is required to appear. Such service may be made by any free
white person above the age of twenty-one years, who is a
competent and disinterested witness in the cause; and, being
proved by the affidavit or deposition of such person, shall be
as effectual as if served by the proper oiliccr, in the usual
manner provided, by law, upon a resident defendant.

SEC. 19.—When there are several defendants, some of
whom do not appear, and are neither notified nor summoned,
the plaintifff may proceed against these, (if any,) who do appear, or are summoned or notified, and dismiss his petition as
to the others; or he may continue the cause until the next
term, and proceed‘ to bring in the other defendants, by process
or publication, as the case may require.

SEC. 20.—But at such second term the suit shall proceed
against all who, shall have been served in due time, and no
further delay shall be allowed to bring in the others, unless
all that appear shall consent to such delay.

SEC. 21.—No suit shall be deferred or delayed by reason
of the nonage of any of the parties.

SERVICE OF NOTICES.

SEO. 22.—Notices shall be in writing, and shall be served
on the party, or his attorney, in the manner prescribed in
this article, unless otherwise provided by law.

SEC. 23.—The service may be made by delivering to the

party, or his attorney, a copy of such notice, or by leaving a
copy at the usual place of abode of the party, or his attoiney,
with some free white person over the age of fifteen years, or
with the clerk of the party, or his attorney.

SEC. 2L—If neither the adverse party nor his attorney
reside in this State, such notice may he put up in the oilice of
the cletk of the court wherein the suit is pending, or the proceedings are intended to be had.

Size. 25.-—Notiees shall, unless a different time is prescribed by law or the practice of the court, be given at least
five days before the time appointed for the hearing of the motion, pleading or other proceeding, if the person to he served
reside within fifty miles of the place where the hearing is to
he had, and one day for every additional twenty-five miles
for the first three hundred miles, and beyond that, one additional day for each hundred miles of distance, from the place
of serving or setting up such notice to the place of residence
of such party. or his attorney.

SEC. Elli—The service of any notice required by this act
may he made by any sheriff, marshal or constable, or by any
person who would be a competent witness, who shall make
allidavit to sneh service; and any such oilicer shall be bound
to serve notices equally with summons or other writs, and
shall be in like manner liable for neglect.

SEC. 27.—If the adverse party, or his attorney, shall endorse on the notice his at knowledgment of the s -rvice
thereof, and subscribe the same, it shall be deemed a. sutlicicnt
service.

ARTICLE VI.

OF THE PLEADINGS AND RULES OF PLEADING IN CIVIL

ACTIONS.
§ 1. Forms of pleading in civil ae- 2 7. They must be distinctly specitions. except, ((0., prescribed tied: it' not, demurrer may
by this act. ht‘tlir‘l’t'llfll'lltd.

2. What Causes of action may b: 8. Defendant ma} demur to, or
united in the. saint- petition; answer dill'erent parts of, petn he. stated sep u-ateiy. &c. tition at same time

3. Petition is the flth pletding. 9. What pleadings llliUWld after
and shall contain. what facts. demurrer: amended petition,

4. l’leadittgs on part of defendant. llllt-WL‘I' or reply, to he filed.

5. l’cfumlauit shall detnur to or 10. Where causes of demurrer do
answer the petition, when. not a} par in the petition,

6. Defendant may demui, tor what the o|~j ction may be taken

causes. by answer.

§ ll. Demnrrers to be determined, €36. Courts may extend time prewhen.

12. Answer, what to Contain.

13. Counter-claim defined. and
must arise out of one of the
muses of' action specified.

14. Defendants shall answer jointly. when Wliatdef-nces may
be separately stated in same
answer.

15. Plaintiff may reply to a counterclaim, or demur, when
and how.

16. Upon failure. defendant to have
jn lgment: and it‘case require
it, a writ of inquiry of dama'res to issue.

17. Defendant may «femur to reply.

18. Replies and demurrers shall be
gore-rue l, by what rules.

19. When a can-e shall he deemed
at issue a'td for trial.

20. Petition, answer and reply, to
be verified by affidavit; exception.

21. No such Verification shall be
usel as proof, when.

2'3. Afii-lavits defectiver entitled,
vali l.

23. Afiil-wits to pleadings may be
taken before, and certified
by, what officers, and how.

24. When the defendant shall dcmur or answer. where there
has been person-d service.
and the petition is founded on
a bond 01' note.

25. Plaintiff shall (lemut' or reply
to answer. when.

26. Suits on such bonds and notes
to be determined. when

27. Motions shall specify reasons
upon which they are founded.

28. To be fi'e l. when.

29. What allegations shall not be
made in a plea'liug.

80. A frivolous pleading may be
stricken out.

31. Matter. irrelevant or redundant, may he stricken out;
court may require the. pleading to be made definite and
certain. when.

32. Duplieity a substantial objection to the pleading

83. Court may ttx five dollars, as
Costs. a2ain~t any one violating; rules of pleading. profiled in last three sections.

84. A party not required to state
evidence in his pleading.

85. D-murrers and motions shall
be determined without delay;
costs, how paid.

scribed for tiling any plead!
mg or motion.

37. Facts which have occurred
since institution of suit may
be alleged.

88. Ple'tdinus to be signed: the
day of filing to be endorsed
thereon, and, in term. on the
minutes.

39. Name. of county to he stated in
margin of the petition, and
to be taken to he the Venue;
need not be stated, .820.

40. Pleading insutiicieut, proceed

ings.

41. S;cond pleading insufficient,
proceedings.

42. Third pleadinginsufiicicnt,proceedtnus.

43. Plaintiff in actions on contract.
not to he "unrulth l'nt' lizil~
ing to prom: that all he defendants are parties.

44. Suit may he dismissed, or nonsuit taken. before cause is
finally submitted to a jury or
the court.

4-3. What deemed responsive to the
adverse pleading

46. Any fact. or title may be alleged
alternatiVely.

47. Party not deprived of benefit
or a legal bar set up in defense. when.

48. What all-gations to be taken
as true. and what deemed
Controverted.

49. Pleadings to be liberally construed.

50. Items of an acCount need not
be stated in a pleading; if'
not stated, coin of account,
verified by uliiduvit, to be
filed.

51. Presumptions of' law. and matters judicially noticed, need
not he pleaded.

52. Private statutes, how pleaded.

523. Statutes. public or private. or
special matter thereof, how
pleaded.

54. Conditions precedent. and jndg
meats. how pleaded.

55. Libel and Slander. how to be
stated in the petition

56. What may be. alnegtd in the
answer of defendant in such
actions.

57. Payment may be plead in bar
of‘ an action upon a bond or
judgment.

58. Notice to be given of the filing
of a pleading in vacation.

 

Q59. An action or defense may be 562. Proceedings, where a party

maintained on an instrument, makes claim to real property,
lost or destroyed; same not in possession of a person
to be filed, but excuse for claiming an estate of freehold
want of tiling to be alleged. therein. or an unexpired term
60. Instrument to be filed with pe- of not less than ten years.
tition orother pleadingwhen 63. What judgments and orders
61. Deeds and writings filed as may be rendered, upon ap~
exhibits, to remain on file till pearance of defendant.
withdrawn by order of court: 64. Parties may prosecute and decopies to be substituted when fend, how; Warrant of attorwithdrawn. ney not necessary, Ste.

SECTION 1.—The forms of pleading in civil actions in
courts of record, and the rules by which the sutheiency of the
pleadings are to be determined, are, except as otherwise

specially provided by law, prescribed by this act.

PETITION.

SEC. 2.—-The plaintifff may unite in the same petition
several causes of action, whether they be such as have been
heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where
they shall [all] arise out of: First, The same transaction or
transactions connected with the same subject of action; or,
Second, Contract, express or implied; or, Third, Injuries,
with or without force, to person and property, or either; or,
Fourth, Injuries to character; or, Fifth, Claims to recover
real property, with or Without damages, for the Withholding
thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or, Sixth,
Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof; or, Seventh, Claims by or against
a party in some representative or fiduciary capacity, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law. But the causes of
action so united must all belong to one of these classes, and
must affect all the parties to the action and not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated, with the
relief sought for each cause of action, in such manner that
they may be intelliginy distinguished. (a)

SEC. 6.—The defendant may demur to the petition when
it shall appear upon the face thereof, either: First, That the
court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or
the subject of the action; or, Second, That the plaintifff has
not legal capacity to sue; or, Third, That there is another
action pending between the same parties, for the same cause,
in this State; or, Fourth, That there is a defect of parties,
plaintifff or defendant; (a) or, Fafth, That several causes of
action have been improperly united; or, Sixth, That the petition does not state facts squicient to constitute a cause of
action; (1)) or, 'event/t, That a party, plaintifff or defendant,
is not a necessary party to a complete determination of the
action. (0)

SEC. 7. — The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
grounds of objection to the pleadings; unless it does so, it
may be disregarded.

SEC. 8.—The defendant may demur to the whole petition, or to any one or more of the alleged causes of action
stated therein, and answer the residue. '

SEC. 9.—After a demurrer, the plaintifff may amend, of
course, and with or without costs, as the court may order.
Upon the decision of the demurrer, the plaintifff may amend,‘
or the defendant withdraw his demurrer and answer. The
amended petition, answer or reply, shall be filed within such
time as the court may prescribe.

SEC. 10.—When any of the matters enumerated in section six of this article do not appear upon the face of the
petition, the objection may be taken by answer. If no such
objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the dcfendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the

SEC. 13.—The counterclaim mentioned in the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against
a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had
in the action, and arising out of one of the. following causes
of action: First, A cause of action arising out of the centract or transaction set forth in the petition as the foundation
of the plaintifff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the
action; Second, In an action arising on contract, any Other
cause of action arising, also, on contract, and existing at the
commencement of the action. The defendant may set forth
by answer as many defenses and counterclaims as he may
have, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. They must each be separately stated, in such manner that they may be intelligibly
distinguished, and refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer. . ‘

SEC. 14. —Two or more defendants making the same defense shall answer jointly. Diii'erent consistent defenses
may be separately stated in the same answer. (a)

THE REPLY.
SEC. 15.—When the answer contains new matter, constituting a counterclaim, the plaintih‘, except as hereinafter
provided, may, within twenty days after the answer is filed,
reply to such new matter, denying generally or specifically
each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or
information thereof suiiicient to form a belief; and he may
allege in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
any new matternot inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; or he may,
in three days after the expiration of the time for filing the
answer, demur to the same for insuiliciency, stating in his
demurrer the grounds thereof; and the plaintifff may demur
to one or more of several counterclaims set up in the answer, and reply to the residue. (5) '

SEC. 16.—If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a counterclaim, and the plaintiii' fail to reply ‘
or demur thereto within the time prescribed by law, the de 

 

t

 

fendant, shall have such judgment as he is entitled to upon
such statement; and, if the case require it, a writ of inquiry
of damages may be issued.

SEC. 17.—If a reply of the plaintid’ to any counterclaim
set up by the answer of the defendant be insufiieient, the defendant, except. as hereinafter provided, may, within three
days after the reply is filed, demur thereto, and shall state
the grounds thereof.

SEC. I8.—The reply shall be governed by the rules prescribed in relation to answers, and demurrers to the answer
or reply shall be governed by those prescribed in relation to
demurrers to petitions, where they apply.

SEC. 19.—-When a replication is filed, the cause shall be
deemed at issue, and stand for trial at the next term.

AFFIDAVITS.

SEC. ‘20.—The petition, answer and reply, must each be
verified by the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney,

to the effect that he believes it, and the matters therein as

stated, to be true; but no verification shall be required to
the answer of a person appointed as guardian ad [item to
defend an infant or person of unsound mind. ((1)

SEC. 2L—No pleading, verified as herein required, shall

‘be used in any criminal prosecution against the party,as

proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading, and
such verification shall not make any other or greater proof
necessary on the side of the opposite party.

SEC. 21— It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit
in the aetion; but an affidavit made without a title, or with a

idefective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the

action or proceeding in which it is made.

SEC. Z3.—Allidavits, when required to verify a petition,
answer or reply, may be taken before, and certified by, any
officer authoriZed by law to administer oaths, the official

character of such officer (if not of this State) being attested
by his seal of office, or by the seal of the State, Territory,
kingdom or empire, of which he is an officer, or the seal of
some court of record within the same, certifying that such
Olllcer was authorized, by the laws of his country, to administer oaths, at the time the same was taken.

SUITS 0N BONDS, BILLS AND NOTES.

SEC. 24.—When the petition is founded solely upon a
bond, bill or note, for the direct payment of money or property, and the defendant shall have been personally served
with process, he shallgdemur to or answer the petition on
or before the second day of the term at which he is hound to
appear, if the term shall so long continue; if not, then
Within such time in the term as the court shall direct. (a)

SEC. 25.—Plaintiff shall demur or reply to the answer on
or before the fourth day of the term, if the term shall Sn
long continue; if not, then Within such time in the term as
the court shall direct.

SEC. 26. —Suits, in cases founded upon such bonds, bills
and notes, shall be determined at the term at which the defendant is bound to appear, unless continued for good cause.

MISCELLAN SOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 27.— All motions shall be accompanied by a written
specification of the reasons upon which they are founded; and
no reason, not so specified, shall be urged in support of the
motion. ((2)

SEC. 28. -- Motions in a cause filed in term, shall be filed
at least one day before they may he argued or determined.

SEC. 9.9. — No allegation shall be made in a. pleading which
the law does not require to he proved; and only the substantive facts necessary to constitute the cause of action, or
defense, shall be stated.
SEC. 30.—A frivolous demurrer, answer or reply, may be

. stricken out, on motion of the adverse party. (a)

SEC. 31.—If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted

in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of the adverse

party; and when the allegations or denials of a pleading are

' so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge

; or denial is-not apparent, and when they fail in any other

" respect to conform to the requirements of the law, the court

may require the pleading to be made definite and certain, and
otherwise to conform to the law, by amendment. ((2)
SEC. 32,—Duplicity is a substantial objection to the petition or other pleading, and shall, on motion, be stricken out.
SEC. 33.—The court shall have power to tax against the

: party offending, for every violation of the rules of pleading,

‘--——_

W‘U‘

as provided in the three last preceding sections, the sum of
five dollars, as costs, in favor of the adverse party.

SEC. 34. —No party shall be required to state evidence in
his pleading, or to disclose therein the means by which he
intends to prove his case.

SEC. 35. —Demurrers and motions shall be considered
and determined without delay; and if sustained in whole or
in part, the adverse party shall pay costs; if overruled, the
party filing the pleading shall pay costs.

SEC. 36.—The courts, upon good cause shown, and for
the furtherance of justice, may extend the time prescribed in
this act for filing any pleading or motion, upon such terms
as shall be just.

SEC. 3T.—An answer or replication may allege'facts
which have occurred since the institution of the suit. (a)

SEC. 38.——Every petition or other pleading, and motion,
shall be signed by the party, or his attorney and the clerk
shall endorse thereon the day upon which it shall be filed;
and, if filed in term, shall make an entry thereof upon the
minutes.

SEC. 39.—The name of the county may, in all cases, be
stated in the margin of a petition, and shall be taken to be
the venue intended by the plaintifff; and it shall not be necessary to state a venue in the body of the petition, or in
any subsequent pleading. (b) ‘

SEC. 40.—thn a petition, answer or reply, shall be
adjudged insufhcient, in whole or in part, upon demurrer, or
the whole or some part thereof stricken out, on motion, the
proper party may file a further like pleading, within such
time as the court shall direct; and, in default thereof, the
court shall proceed with the cause in the same manner as if
no such original pleading had been filed. ’

SEC. 41.-—If such second petition, answer or reply, be
filed, and in like manner be adjudged insuilicient, or the whole
or some part thereof in like manner stricken out, the party
filing such second pleading shall pay double costs, and file a
like pleading instanter; or, in default thereof, the court °shall
proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no second
pleading had been filed.

SEC. 42.—If a third petition, answer or reply, be filed
and adjudged insuiiicient, as above, or the whole. or some
part thereof be stricken out, the party filing such pleading
shall pay treble costs, and no further petition, answer or
reply, shall be filed, but judgment shall be rendered. '

SEC. 43.—In all actions founded on contract, and instituted against several defendants, the plaintifff shall not be
nonsuitcd by reason of his failure to prove that all the defendants are parties to the contract, but may have judgment against such of 'them as he shall prove to be parties
thereto.

__———_SEC. 44.—The plaintifff shall be allowed to dismiss his
suit, or take a nonsuit, at any time before the same is finally
submitted to the jury, or to the court sitting as a jury, or to
the court. (4)

SEC. 45.—A pleading of any kind, or a motion to strike
out, shall be deemed responsive to the adverse pleading, or
so much thereof as the pleading or motion is intended to
apply to, until otherwise determined by the court; nor can
several pleadings be applied to the same part of a pleadipg
at the same time.

SEC. 46.—Either party may allege any fact or title
alternatively, declaring his belief of one alternative or the
other, and his ignorance whether it be the one or the other.

SEC. 47.—When the pleading shall set up the statute of
limitations, or the statute of frauds, or any other legal bar,
the party shall not be deprived of the benefit of such defense by reason of his not denying the facts set forth in the
adverse pleading.

SEC. 48.—Every material allegation in the petition not
specifically controverth in the answer, and every material
allegation in the answer of new matter, constituting a counterclaim, not specifically controverted in the reply, shall, for
the purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allegations in the answer not relating to a counterclaim, and all
the allegations in the reply, are to be deemed controverted by
the adverse party as upon a. direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require. ((2)

SEC. 49. — In the construction of a pleading, for the pur- 1
pose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally .
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties. (a) '

SEC. 50.—It shall not be necessary for a party to set
forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged;
but if they be not set forth, he shall file with his pleading,
referring to it therein, a copy of the account, verified by affidavit, as herein required of petitions, which shall be deemed to
be part of the record, and shall be answered or replied to as
such; and if not set forth or filed, he shall be precluded from
giving evidence thereof. ((2)

SEC. 51.—Neither presumptions of law nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken need be stated in pleading.

SEC. 52.—In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be suHicient to refer to such statute
by its title, and the day of its passage, and ‘the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof. (0)

SEC. 53.—It shall not be necessary, in any pleading, to
set forth any statute, public or private, or any special matter
thereof; but it shall be sufiicient for the party to allege
therein that the act was done by the authority of such
statute, or contrary to the provisions thereof, naming the
subject-matter of such statute, or referring thereto, in some
general terms, with convenient certainty. (d)

SEC. 54.—In pleading the performance of a condition
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part; and in pleading a judgment or other determination
of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be

necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction; but such
judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegations be controverted, the
party pleading shall be bound to establish, on trial, the facts
showing such performance, or conferring such jurisdiction, as
the case may require.

SEC. 55.——In an action for libel or slander, it shall not i
be necessary to state in the petition any extrinsic facts, for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose,
but it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the same was
published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be not controverted in the answer, it shall not be
necessary to prove it on the trial; in other cases it shall be
necessary. (a)

SEC. 56.—In the actions mentioned in the last preceding
section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances admissible in evidence, to reduce the
amount of damages; and, whether he prove the justification
or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 57.—When an action shall be brought upon a bond
or upon a judgment, or when a scire facias is brought upon
a judgment, the defendant may plead payment of the
amount due upon such bond or judgment, in bar of such
action or writ.

SEC. 58.—The party filing any replication, answer, or
amended or supplemental pleading, in vacation, shall give
written notice of the time of filing the same to the adverse
party, or his attorney; and until such notice is duly served,
such adverse party shall not be deemed to have had notice
thereof, for the purpose of pleading. (6)

SEC. 59.——An action or defense may be maintained on
any instrument of writing, notwithstanding it may be lost or
destroyed; and, in every such action or defense, such instrument shall not be required to be filed, but the party shall

allege the loss or destruction, as an excuse for the want of
such filing. .

SEC. 60.—When any petition, or other pleading, shall be
founded upon any instrument of writing charged to have been
executed by the other party, or his testator or intestate, or
other person represented by such party, and not therein
alleged to be lost or destroyed, the same shall be filed with
such petition or other pleading. (a) '

SEC. 61. —Original deeds and other writings, relied on by
either party, and filed as exhibits, shall remain on file for the
inspection of the other party, until allowed by the court to
be withdrawn; and, in such case, copies tested by the clerk
shall be substituted by the party withdrawing the originals.

SEC. 62.—Any person in possession of real property,
claiming an estate of freehold, or an unexpired term of not
less than ten years, may file a petition in the circuit court,
setting forth his estate, whether of inheritance, for life or
years, and describing the premises, and averring that he is
credibly informed and believes that the defendant makes
some claim adverse to the estate of the petitioner, and praying that he may be summoned to show cause why he should
not bring an action to try the alleged title, (if any,) and
thereupon'the court shall order notice to be given to the
defendant; and upon return of such order of notice duly executed, if the defendant so summoned shall make default, or,‘
having appeared, shall disobey the lawful order of the court
to bring an action and try the title, the court shall enter a
judgment, that he be forever debarred and estopped from
having or claiming any right or title, adverse to the petitioner, and those claiming by or through him, to the premises
described.

SEC. 63.—If the defendant shall appear and disclaim all
right and title adverse to the petitioner, he shall recover his
costs; if he shall claim title, he shall, by answer, show cause
why he should not be required to bring an action and try
such title; and the court shall make such judgment or order
respecting the bringing and prosecuting of such action as
may seem equitable and just.

SEC. (Sh—Parties may prosecute and defend their own
suits in proper person, or by attorney. It shall not be necessary to file any warrant of attorney, to authorize any attorney to appear in any court for either party to an action
brought therein, except in cases where it shall be specially
required by law.

ARTICLE VII.

OF THE CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§ 1. Procedure, where possession of‘ 5 12. What judgment shall be renpersonal property is claimed. ' dered.

2. An order shall be made requir-l 13. If plaintifff have not the proing delivery of property to! perty in possession, proceedplaintifff. ings.

3. Sheritf shall not receive or take I 14. Proceedings, where defendant
such property till plaintifff fails in his defense.
givebmd; Condition thereof. 15. Party not required to make

4. Dr feudant may retain property elect'nu, until property is deby giving bond; Condition. livered to the sheriff, and

5. Qualitications of securities. party have notice.

6. Defendant shall not be entitled 16. Duty of otliccr, if property be
to retain property, when. not delivered.

7. Bonds to be filed with clerk of 17. Right of property not impairCourt. 1 ed, when; eh'ect of an elec8. If bond be not sufficient, plain- tion to take value of property.
tiff to give new bond; pro- 18. Orders for delivery of property
ceedings upon his failure to I may be enforced, how.
comply. 19. Remedy on bonds given in vir 

9. If bond of defendant be not tue of this article.
sutlieient, like proceedings, 20. Parties barred of right of acmay be had as in case of tion against sheriff, when.

plaintifff. 21. Reasonable charges to be al10. When such an order shall be, lowed olhcer.

made, clerk shall deliver 22. Sheriff failing to return bond,

same to sheriff. or returning an insuliicient
11. If plaintifff have property in one. liable for damages.

posseSsion, and fail in his' 23. Execution may issue for the

action, proceedings. l delivery of personal property.

 

 

SECTION 1.—If the plaintifff claim in his petition the possession of specific personal property, he may, at the time of
filing his petition, or at any other time afterwards, before the
rendition of judgment in the cause, file his allidavit, or the
affidavit of some other person in his behalf, showing: First,
That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (sufficiently describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof; Second, That it is wrongfully detained by the defendant; Third, The actual value thereof; Fourth, That
the same has not been seized under any process, execution or
attachment, against the property of the plaintih‘; and, thth,

That plaintifff will be in danger of losing his said property,

unless it be taken out of the possession of the defendant, or
otherwise secured. (a)

SEC. 2.—Upon tiling such affidavit, the court, or judge
or clerk in vacation, shall make an order requiring the
defendant to deliver the property specified in the atiidavit to
the sherid‘, and requiring the sherid‘, if the same be not delivered to him, to take it from the defendant and deliver it to
the plaintifff.

SEC. 3.—The sheriff shall not receive or take such property until the plaintifff shall deliver to him a bond, executed
by two or more sufficient securities, approved by the sheriff,
to the effect that they are bound to the defendant in double
the value ‘of the property stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action with effect and without delay, for the
return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and, in default of .such delivery, for the payment of
the assessed value of such property, and for the payment of
all damages for the taking and detention thereof, and for all
costs which may accrue in the action.

SEC. 4. —Upon such bond being executed as aforesaid, the

sheriff shall receive the property, or, if the same be not i
delivered, shall take the property and deliver it to the plain- ‘

tiff, unless before such delivery to the plaintifff, the defendant
shall, with two or more sufficient securities, to be approved
by the sheriff, execute a bond to the plaintifff, to the eifect that
they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated
in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery of said property to the plaintili‘, if such delivery be adjudged, and, in
default of such delivery, for the payment of the assessed value
of such property, and for the payment of all damages for
injuries to the property, and for the taking and detention, or
detention thereof, and all costs which may accrue in the
action.

SEC. 5.-Each of the securities in such bonds must be a

l

resident and householder or freeholder, within the State; 1

they must be worth the amount for which the bond is given,
exclusive of property exempt from execution, and after paying
all debts.

SEC. 6.—If the plaintiil' shall state in the aiiidavit made
by him, as provided by the first section of this article, that
the property was wrongfully taken, and that his right of action accrued within one year, the defendant shall not be entitled to retain such property by giving bond, as provided by
the fourth section of this article, but the same shall be delivered to the plaintifff upon his giving the bond required.

SEC. 7.—All bonds taken by the oilicer in virtue of this
article shall be filed with the clerk, on or before the first day
of the term of court next after the same are taken.

SEC. 8.—If the court should, at any time before trial, be
satisfied that the bond of the plaintifff shall not be good and
sufficient, an order shall be made that the plaintifff give a new
bond, with good and sufficient securities, within such time as
the court in such order shall direct; and, upon his failing to
comply with such order, the court shall make a further order
that the sheriil' or other proper officer retake the property

land deliver it to the defendant, and that the plaintill' deliver

the same to the oliicer therefore, and that the cause be dismissed at the costs of the plaintifff and his securities in the
bond.

SEC. 9. —If the court should, in like time, be satisfied that
the bond of the defendant shall not be good and sufficient, a
like order shall be made that the defendant give a new bond,
with good and sudicient securities, within such time as the
court in such order shall direct; and, upon his failing to comply With such order, the court shall make a further order
that the proper officer retake the property and deliver it to
the plaintifff, and that the defendant deliver the same to the
officer therefore, and that the answer or other pleadings (if
any) of defendant be stricken out, and render such judgment for the plaintifff as the court may, by law, render
against the defendant and his securities.

SEC. 10.—When any such order shall be made as provided for in the two last preceding sections, the clerk shall,
without delay, deliver to the proper officer an order for the
retaking and delivery of such property to the proper party,
and for the delivery thereof to him therefore, by the party

having it; which shall be directed and-executed in like manner as an order for the taking and delivery of property to
the plaintifff in the first instance, and shall be served on the
party having the property as other orders.

SEC. 11.—If the plaintiii‘ fail to prosecute his action with
effect and without delay, and have the property in possession,
the court, or a jury, shall assess the value of the-property
taken, and'the damages for the taking and detention of the
same, from the time such property was taken from the defendant until the trial. (a) '

SEC. 12.—In such case, the judgment shall be against
the plaintili' and his securities, that he return the property
taken, or pay the value so assessed, at the election of the defendant, and, also, pay the damages assessed for the taking
and detention of the property, and costs of suit.

SEC. 13.—If the plaintifff have not the property in possession, damages shall be assessed as directed in the last preceding section [eleven of this article,] for the taking or detention, or both, (as the case may be,) of the property; and
judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff and his securities for the damages, (if any,) and for costs of suit.

SEC. 14.—If the defendant fail in his defense and have
the property in possession, the court or jury shall assess the
value of the property, and the damages for all injuries to the
property, and for the taking and detention, or detention, of
i the same; and the judgment shall be against the defendant
and his securities, that he return the property or pay the
-value so assessed, at the election of the plaintifff, and, also,
pay the damages so assessed, and costs of suit. If the defendant have not the property in possession, the court or jury
shall assess the damages, and the judgment shall be against
the defendant and his securities for the damages so assessed,
and costs of suit; and in all cases the property shall be presumed to be with the party who should have it, until the
contrary be shown.

SEC. 15.—A party shall not be required to make such

election until the property is delivered to the sheriff on the
proper process, and the party have notice thereof.

SEC. 16.—If such property be not delivered to the officer
within ten days after process issued, he shall levy and make
the assessed value thereof, the damages and costs, of the property of the parties against whom the process issued.

SEC. 17.—In such case, the party’s right to the property
shall not be impaired by levying the assessed value thereof
on the preperty of the other party and his securities, or either
' of them; but if the property be delivered to the sheriff, and
the party elect to take the value assessed, such election shall
operate to vest all his right to the property in the other
party.

SEC. 18.—The court may enforce all orders for the delivery of property as other orders of court are enforced.

SEC. 19. —If, in any case, it shall become necessary to sue

upon any bond given in virtue of this article, the same may be
‘ done by civil action against the obligers, jointly or severally,
in the name of the party to whom the bond was given.
, SEC. 20.—After the due execution of any bond taken in
; virtue of this article, the parties to the action shall be barred
of any right of action against the sheriff, or other officer, for
the seizure and delivery of such property.

SEC. 21.—The court shall allow the proper officer reason. able charges for the taking and delivery of property, as provided by this article.

SEC. 22.—If the sheriff, or other officer, fail to take or
. return a bond, as required by this article, or if the bond taken
' is adjudged insufficient at the term next after the same was
L taken, and be not made sufficient as herein before provided,
he and his securities shall be liable to the party injured, for
all damages by him sustained, to be recovered by civil action,
or by civil action on the officer’s official bond.

. SEC. 23. —An execution may issue for the delivery of personal property, to the sheriff of the county where the pro' perty is situate, and shall require him to deliver possession of
the same (sufficiently describing it) to the party entitled
thereto; and shall, in all respects, be governed by the rules
governing executions in ordinary cases, so far as the same

may be applicable.

ARTICLE VIII.

INJUNCTIONS.

' l. Injunctions may be granted, by g 13. Damages to be awarded upon
what courts and officers. dissolution.

2. When granted by county court, 14. Judgments, &c., how enforced.

' or officers in vacation, the 15. Notice of application not reinjunction to be returned to quired in certain cases.
circuit court. 16. Application overruled, certih-p
8. What proof to be adduced, when cate to be granted, 820.
application is made to county 17. To disobey injunction after ser- ‘
court, or two justices there- vice, how punished; proceed- l
of in vacation. ings thereon.
4. A temporary injunction may 18. After answer filed, motion for
be granted in certain cases. dissolution always in order.
5. Proceedings to stay suit or Proceedings.
judgment, where to be had; 19. Continuance of motion granted
' summons, how directed and on aiiidavit.
served. 20. Testimony on such motion to
6. Notice of application to be be taken as in other cases,
given, to whom. except, &c.
7. How served, when adverse par- 21. Proceedings in cases in which
ty is anon-resident. no notice has been given, and
8. What the notice shall contain; where the defendant may be
service, how proved. restrained.
9. Extent of injunctions to stay 22. Husband may be enjoined from
proceedings. disposing of the property of
10. To operate as a release of er- wife; manner of proceeding
rors. specified, and where had.
11. Bond to be given; condition of 23. Special proceedings allowed in
the bond. 8t Louis county, where the
12. Bond, where filed: when it may relief prayed for would be
be entered into before clerk, endangered unless immedi&c. ately granted.

SECTION 1.—Injunctions may be granted by the circuit
court, or any judge thereof in vacation; or, in cases hereinafter particularly specified, by the county court, or any two
justices thereof in vacation. (a)

 

I SEC. 2.—When an injunction is granted by the county
. court, or two justices thereof in vacation, or by a judge of
' the circuit court in vacation, such injunction shall be returned
to, and may be enforced as an injunction of, the circuit court.

SEC. 3.—When an application is made for an injunction
' to a county court, or any two justices thereof, the applicant
shall produce satisfactory proof that there is not then any
a circuit court in session, or any judge thereof within such
. county; and if such proof is not produced, the application
shall not be entertained.

SEC. 4.—When it shall appear by the petition that the
7 plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
' any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act of the defendant, the commission or
continuance of which during the litigation would produce
injury to the plaintifff, or when during the litigation it shall
appear that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about
to do, some act in relation to the plaintifff ’3 rights respecting
the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act.

SEC. 5.—Proceedings on an injunction to stay a suit or
judgment shall be. had in the county where the judgment
was rendered, or the suit is pending, and the summons may
be directed and served as summons in ordinary cases.

SEC. 6.—Before an injunction shall be granted to stay
any proceedings, the applicant shall give reasonable notice,
in writing, to the adverse party, if within the State, or to
his known agent or attorney, if he has any in the State.

SEC. 7.—If he does not reside in the State, and has no
known agent or attorney therein, notice shall be put up ten
days before the application for the injunction, in the office of

the clerk of the circuit court of the county where the proceedings were had.

SEC. 8.—The notice shall state the time and place of applying for the injunction, and shall be proved by the return
of an officer, the evidence of a witness,'or the acknowledgment of the adverse party, his agent_or attorney, endorsed
thereon.

SEC. 9. — No injunction shall be granted to stay any ‘
judgment or proceeding, except so much of the recovery ;
or cause of action as the plaintifff shall show himself equi- '

tany entitled to be relieved against, and so much as will
cover costs.

SEC. 10.—Every such injunction shall operate as a release of all errors in the proceedings that are prayed to be 1
enjoined.

SEC. 11.—No injunction (unless on final hearing or judgment) shall issue in any case until the plaintifff execute a
bond, with sufficient security, to the other party, in such sum
as the court or judge shall deem sufficient to secure the
amount or other matter to be enjoined, and all damages that
may be occasioned by such injunction, conditioned that the
plaintifff will abide the decision which shall be made thereon,
and pay all sums of money, damages and costs, that shall be
adjudged against him, if the injunction shall be dissolved.

SEC. 12.—Such bond shall be filed with the clerk of the
circuit court of the county to which the injunction is returnable, and the bond may be entered into before said clerk, if

the court or judge granting the injunction shall first approve
of the security.

SEC. 13.—-Upon the dissolution of an injunction, in whole.
or in part, damages shall be assessed by a jury, or, if neither
party require a jury, by the court; but if money, or any proceedings for the collection of any money or demand, shall
have been enjoined, the damages thereon shall not exceed

ten per centum on the amount released by the dissolution,
exclusive of legal interest and costs.

SEC. 14.—The court shall enter judgment against the
obligors in the bond, according to the circumstances of the
case, including the damages so assessed, and may award exe 

cution thereon, or otherwise enforce such judgment, according
to the rules and practice of the court. (a)

SEC. 15.—When an injunction to stay proceedings is
prayed in the same court where the proceedings were bad, no
notice of the application shall be necessary unless prescribed
by rules of court.

SEC. 16.—When any application for an injunction shall
be overruled by a county court, or by any two justices thereof, or by the judge of the circuit court, in vacation, such
county court, or justices, or judge, shall grant to the defend‘
ant a certificate thereof, and neither shall afterwards grant
an injunction in such case. SEC. 17. — If any person disobey or violate an injunction
after it is served on him, the circuit court to which it is returned, or any judge thereof in vacation, shall issue an attachment against him for a contempt; and unless he shall
disprove or purge the contempt, if in vacation, the judge may
commit him to jail until the sitting of the court in which the
injunction is pending, or take bail for his appearance in said
court at the next term thereof, to answer for the contempt,
and abide the order of the court, and in the mean time to
observe and obey the injunction.

SEC 18. — After the answer is filed, a motion may be made
at any time in term to dissolve the injunction; and, upon such
motion, the parties may introduce testimony to support the
petition and answer, and the court shall decide the motion
upon the weight of testimony, without being bound to take
the answer as true.

SEC. 19.—If, after a motion for a dissolution of the injunction is made, either party will satisfy the court by his
_ own affidavit, or that of any other person for him, that any
material specified part of the bill or answer to which be objects is untrue, that he has witnesses whose testimony he believes he can procure at the next term, or other material testimony, which will disprove the same, and that he has not
been able to procure such testimony by using due diligence,
the court may continue the motion until the next term.

SEC. 20.—The testimony to be heard on such motion
shall be taken as in other cases, except the affidavits which
may have been filed with such petition or answer, which may
be read on the hearing of such motion; and depositions taken
to support or dissolve an injunction may be read on the final V
trial or other proceedings in such cause.

SEC. 21. —When an application shall be made for an injunction, as herein before provided, and no notice of such
application is required by this article, and no notice is in fact
given, and the court, justices or judge, to which the application is made, shall deem it proper that the defendant, or any
of several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, such court, justices or judge, may, by an order,
require cause to be shown, at a specified time and place, why
the injunction should not be granted, and he may in the
mean time restrain the defendant, or make such other order
as the case may require.

SEC. '22.—-Any married woman may file her petition in
the circuit court, setting forth that her husband, from habitual
intemperance, or any other cause, is about to squander and
waste the property, money, credits and choses in action, to
which she is entitled in her own right, or any part thereof,
or is proceeding fraudulently to convert the same, or any
part thereof, to his own use, for the purpose of placing the
same beyond her reach, and depriving her of the benefit
thereof; and the court, upon the hearing of the case, may
enjoin the husband from disposing of, or otherwise interfering with, such property, monies, credits and choses in action,
and may appoint a receiver to control and manage the same,
for the benefit of the wife; and may, also, make such other
order in the premises as they may deem just and proper; and,
upon 'the filing of such petition, an injunction may be allowed as in other cases, and such petition shall be filed in
the county where said petitioner resides, and the husband of
said petitioner shall be made a party defendant to said
petition.

SEC. 23. —- If the applicant for an injunction, in the

county of St. Louis, except to stay legal proceedings, shall
accompany his application with an affidavit, that he has good
reason to believe, and does believe, that the relief he prays
for would be eminently endangered unless immediately
granted, his application shall be heard without notice and
unreasonable delay. If the injunction be granted, the defendant may, within five days after being enjoined, and upon
reasonable notice to the other party, he heard in opposition
to it by the court, judge or justice, granting it, or the court
to which it is returnable, or the judge thereof in vacation;
and, upon such hearing, the injunction may be dissolved.
Such hearing shall be governed by the same rules as a hearing upon notice in other cases; and in said county the answer may be filed in the case at any time after granting the
injunction, and thereupon shall be had the same proceedings
provided for in section eighteen of this article, in open court,
to which the writ was returnable, if term time, but before the
judge thereof, if in vacation, upon reasonable notice to the
opposite party.

ARTICLE IX.
01‘ AMENDING PLEADINGS AND PROCEEDINGS.

g l. Variance, when deemed mate- Q13. One entire pleading, whether

rial; in such case, pleading to original or supplemental,shall
be amended. embrace all matters neces2. Variancesnotmaterial,how pro- sary to the determination of
vided for. the action or defense.

3. Before final judgment, any re- 14. Last section, how construed.
cord, pleading, process, 810., 15. Pleading amended, party allowmay be amended. . ed time to answer or reply.

4. New parties may be brought in, 16. Variance in record, amended,
how. how.

5. No error or defect to be regard- 17. Returns by officers or any court
ed, unless affecting the sub- may be amended, how and by
stantial rights of adverse whom, as well before as after
party. judgment.

6. After final judgment, any re- 18. Imperfections or defects in
cord, pleading, &c., may be award of vcm'rc may be
amended in affirmance of the amended or supplied.
judgment. 19. Imperfections enumerated for

7. When petition or answer may whicheertainjudgments shall
be amended without costs. not he stayed or reversed.
8:0. 20. The omissions, defects, &c., in

8. When reply may be amended, preceding section may be
and how. supplied or amended, when.

9. After demurrer allowed, party 21. Process, pleading or record, not
may amend his pleading. to be amended without the

10. Supplemental petition, answer order of court.
or reply allowed. 22. To what actions, writs, &c.,
11. Plaintiff may, on motion, strike this article shall extend; shall
out any part of his petition. not extend to indictments, Ste.

12. What objections to this shall 23. Duty of courts in construing
not be valid. certain provisions of this act.

SECTION 1.—No variance between the allegation in the
pleading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it
has actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in
maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. When it
shall be alleged that 'a party has been so misled, that fact
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, by aiiidavit,
showing in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon
the court may order thepleading to be amended upon such
terms as shall be just. (a)

SEC. 2. — When the variance between the allegation in the
pleading and the proof is not material, the court may direct
the facts to be found according to the evidence, or may order
an immediate amendment without costs.

SEC. 3.—The court may, at any time before final judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, amend any record, pleading, process, entry, return,
or other proceedings, by adding 0r striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting
other allegations material to the case, or when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. (5)

SEC. 4.—When a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties,
the court may order them to be brought in by an amendment
of the petition, or by a supplemental petition, and a new
summons. (0)

SEC. 5.—-The court shall, in every stage of the action,
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or aE'ected
by reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 6.—After final judgment rendered in any cause, the
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as
may be just, amend, in affirmance of such judgment, any record‘, pleading, process, entries, returns, or other proceedings
in such cause, by adding or striking out the name of a party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake inoany other respect, or by rectifying defects or imperfections in matters of form; and such judgment shall not be
reversed or annulled therefore. (a)

SEC. 7.—A petition or answer may be amended by the
proper party, of course, without costs and without prejudice
to the proceeding already had, at any time before the answer or reply thereto shall be filed. (1))

SEC. 8.—A reply may be amended, upon such terms as
may be just, at any time before the jury is sworn, or trial

submitted to the court.
SEC. 9.—If a demurrer be allowed for the cause that

several causes of action have been improperly united in the
petition, or that several causes of defense have been improperly united in the answer, or for any other cause of demurrer to any pleading, the court may, upon such terms as
may be just, allow the proper party to amend his pleading.

SEC. 10.—A party may be allowed, on motion, to make a
supplemental petition, answer, or reply, alleging facts ma—
torial to the case, or praying for any other or a different
relief, order, or judgment.

SEC. 11.—The plaintifff, at any time before the jury is
sworn, or the trial submitted to the court, may, on motion,

 

upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, strike out any
part of his petition.

SEC. 12.—Upon such motion, no objection shall be valid
that would not be valid after a finding of the issue for the
plaintiE.

SEC. 13. —In every petition, answer or reply, amendatory
or supplemental, the party shall set forth, in one entire pleading, all matters which, by the rules of pleading, may be set
forth in such pleading, and which may be necessary to the
proper determination of the action or defense. (a)

SEC. 14.-—The last section shall not be construed to require an amendatory or supplemental pleading to be made,
where the amendment desired may be made by striking from
the pleading portions thereof, or by adding or striking out
the name of a party or dates, or adding an affidavit, or by
correcting the name of a party, or obvious errors.

SEC. 15.—If any amendment be made to any pleading,
the adverse party shall be allowed an opportunity, according
to the course and practice of the court, to answer or reply to
the pleading so amended. (6)

SEC. 16. -Any variance in the record from any process,
pleading or proceeding, had in such cause, shall be amended
and certified according to such original process, pleading or
proceeding. '

SEC. 17.—All returns made by any sherid‘, or other
oHicer, or by any court or subordinate tribunal, to any court,
may be amended in matters of form, by the court to which
such return shall be made, in their discretion, as well before
as after judgment. (c) .

SEC. 18. —Any imperfection or defect in the award of any
- mire, or any omission to award such vem're on the record,
may be amended or supplied by the court in which such
record is.

SEC. 19. — When a verdict shall have been rendered in any
cause, the judgment thereon shall not be stayed, nor shall
the judgment upon such verdict, or any judgment upon confession, nihil dicit, or upon failure to answer, nor any judgment upon a writ of inquiry of damages, executed thereon,
be reversed, impaired, or in any way ad'ected, by reason of
the following imperfections, omissions, defects, matters or
things, or any of them, in the pleadings, process, proceedings
or record, namely: First, For want of any writ, original or
judicial; Second, For any default, or defect of process, or
for misconceiving any process, or awarding the same to a
wrong emcer, or for the want of any suggestion for awarding
process, or for any insuHicient suggestion; Third, For any
imperfect or insuHicient return of any sheriff or other officer,
or that the name of such officer is not set to any return
actually made by him; Fourth, For any variance between
the original writ or petition, or either of them; Fifth, For
any mispleading, miscontinuance or discontinuance, insumcient pleading, jeofail or misjoining of issue; Sixth, For
want of any warrant of attorney by either party, except in
cases of judgment by confession, when such warrant is expressly required by law; Seventh, For any party under
twenty-one years of age, having appeared by attorney, if the
verdict or judgment be for him; Eighth, For the want of any
allegation or averment, on account of which omission a
demurrer could have been maintained; Ninth, For omitting
any allegation or averment, without proving which the
triers of the issue ought not to have given such a verdict;
Tenth, For any mistake in the name of any party or person,
or in any sum of money, or in any description of any property, or in reciting or stating any day, month or year, when
the correct name, term, sum or description, shall have been
once rightly alleged, in any of the pleadings or proceedings;
Eleventh, For a mistake in the name of any juror or officer;
Twelfth, For the want of any venue if the cause was tried
in the proper county; Thirteenth, For any informality in
entering a judgment, or making up the record thereof, or in
any continuance or other entry upon the record; Fourwenth,
For any other default or negligence of any clerk or officer
of the court, or of the parties, or of their attorneys, by which
neither party shall have been prejudiced. (a)

SEC. 20.— The omissions, imperfections, defects and variances, in the preceding section enumerated, and all others of
a like nature, not being against the right and justice of the
matter of the suit, and not altering the issue between the
parties on the trial, shall be supplied and amended by the
court where the judgment shall be given, or by the court
into which such judgment shall be removed by writ of error
or appeal.

SEC. 21.—No process, pleading or record, shall be
amended or impaired by the clerk or other oiiicer of the
court, or by any person, without the order of such court, or
of some court of competent authority.

SEC. 22. ——The provisions of this article shall extend to
all actions and to all suits for the recovery of any debt due
to this State, or for any debt, duty or revenue, belonging to
this State; and, also, to all actions for penalties, to all writs
of mandamus and prohibition, to informations in the nature
of a quo warranto, to writs of scire facias, and to the proceedings thereon; but shall not extend to indictments or
information for any criminal matter, or to the proceedings
thereon.

SEC. 23.—It shall be the duty of the courts to so construe the provisions of this act, relating to pleading and
amending the same, and to so adapt the practice thereunder,
as to discourage, as far as possible, negligence and deceit, to
prevent delay, to secure parties from being misled, to place
the party not in fault as nearly as possible in the same condition he would have been in if no mistake had been made,
to distinguish between form and substance, and to afford
known, fixed and certain requisitions, in place of the discretion of the court or the judge thereof.

 

JA—‘AA—n

A-H-H—‘AA‘

ARTICLE X.

OF ISSUES, CONTINUANCES, TRIALS, AND THEIR INCIDENTS.

-!

P9P?

71:»

99°

14.

15.

16.
17.
18.
19.

20.

21.

23.
24.

tried by a jury.
. Other issues to be tried by the

Issues, detinition of; .and kinds.

Cases in which issues of law
arise.

Cases in which issues of fact
arise.

Issues of law and fact may
arise upon different parts of i
a pleading; the former to be
first determined, unless, &c.

Causes to be continued at first
term; to be determined at:
second term.

Court may continue causes,
when and upon what terms.

Application for continuance to
be accompanied by atiidavit.

On second application. affidavit must state the facts, &c.

If afiiant refuse to set forth
facts, or opposite party to
admit them, no continuance
allowed.

Continuance in case of amendment.

 

 

. Trial, definition of.

When issues of fact must be

court; opinion of ajury may
be taken, when, or reference
may be ordered.

Trial by jury waived by parties
upon failure to appear, or by
consent, orally or in writing.

Separate trials of several
causes of action united in
same petition allowed, when;
costs, how adjudged; judg—

. ment on each finding.

Either party may bting issue
to trial. ‘

Any issue referable by consent.

Court may direct a reference,
within and in what cases.

Parties, exn“pt, &c., may
agree on referees; if they do
not as: ea, court may appoint.

Verdicts, general or special,
definition of.

General verdict to be rendered. when.

. Court may ditect issues to be

tried by jury, wh- n.

No issue, except as directed
by court.

Trial of such issues to be by
jury, ac.

 

g 25.
26.

27.
28.

29.
30.
31.
32.

33.
34.

35.

36.

37.

38.
39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.
45.

Court may award new trial,
when.

Jury to assess damages, and
when.

Bills of exception, how taken.

May be filed, when; what
they shall embrace.

Court retusing to sign, to certit‘y cause of refusal.

May be signed by three bystanders, if judge refuse.
Bills of exception shall form

a part of the record.

If court refuse to permit bill
signed by bystanders to be
filed, ahidavits to be taken.

Atiidavits to be deposited with
the clerk.

Court, on appeal or writ of
error, to admit as part of the
record the bill of exceptions,
thus taken.

Truth of such bill to be tried
by the affidavits required by
this act.

Power of courts to compel the
production of books, papers
and documents.

Proceedings to entitle a party
to an order for such production.

For what reasons, such order
may be vacated.

Party neglecting to obey such
order may be nonsuited, his
plea and notice of set-of be
stricken out, and barred of
his defense relating to such
bOOkr, papers, &c.

Inspection and copy of a pa»
per, how obtained

Either party may be required
to admit a paper to be genuine, or pay the expense of
proving it.

Where a party is permittedto
prove loss of instrument, by
his own oath, &c., adverse
party may be examined.

If negotiable note or bill of
exchange be lost, panel or
other evidtnce of the contents then of maybe given,
and party may recm't r.

Bond to be given toeutitle party
to such i-tcovety; condition.

ln.~trnnient of Wlililig received
in evxdence, unless, the.

‘46. Last section not to apply to Q52. Defendant may offer to liquipersous acting in a liduciary date damages, conditionally;
character. eti'ect of an acceptance or

47. Written instructions may be refusal.
given on points of law arising 53. Court may appoint a receiver;
in a cause. his duties.

48. No plaintiff shall sntfer anon- 54. He shall give bond, have the
suit or dismissal after snb- powers, and be subject to
mission to the court orjury. saute laws, as a receiver in

49. Suits, when to be consolidated. attachment causes.

50. Several suits for causes of ae- 55. His compensation.
tion that may be joined;costs 56. Depositions taken in foreign

in such case, how paid. countries to be taken in the

51. Defendant may serVe on plain- language of‘ the witness. An

tiff an otter to compromise, English translation of same

and the proceedings thereon, must be filed for information.
Issuss.

SECTION 1. —Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds: First, Of
law; and, Second, Of fact. ‘

SEC. 2.—An issue of law‘ari‘ses: First, Upon a demurrer
to the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof; or,
Second, Upon an allegation of fact in a pleading by the one
party, the truth of which is not controverted by the other.

SEC. 3.—An issue of fact arises: First, Upon a material
allegation in the petition controverted by the answer; or,
Second, Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the
reply; or, Third, Upon new matter in the reply, except an
issue of law is joined thereon.

SEC. 4.——Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon
different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such

cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless the court
otherwise direct. (a)

CONTINUANOES.

SEC. 5.—Evcry suit that shall not be otherwise disposed
of according to law, shall be continued at the term at which
the defendant is bound to appear, until the next term thereafter, and at such second term every such suit shall be
determined.

SEC. 6. —Every court of record in which any suit is pending may, at any term, for good cause shown, continue such

suit until the next term, or any subsequent term; and every
continuance granted upon the application of either party
shall be at the cost of such party, unless otherwise ordered
by the court. (a)

SEC. 7.—Every application by a party for the continuance of a cause shall be accompanied by his affidavit, or the
affidavit of some other credible person, setting forth the facts
upon which the application is founded, unless the adverse
party consent that it may be made orally, on oath, in Open
court. (6)

SEC. 8.—Whenever either party to an action shall make
a second application for a continuance thereof, on account of
the absence of a material witness, the affidavit shall set forth
the name of the witness, and the facts he is expected to
prove, if the court require it.

SEC. 9. —If the adiant shall fail or refuse to set forth such
facts when thereto required, or if the opposite party shall
admit the truth of the facts when disclosed, and agree that
they be received in evidence, the court shall refuse to continue the cause.

SEC. 10.—When a party shall amend any pleading or
proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by aHidavits or
otherwise, that the opposite party could not be ready for trial
in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted to some
day in the same term, or to another term of the court. (c)

SEC. 15. —Where there are several causes of action united
- in a petition, or where there are several issues, and the court

shall be of .opinion that all or any of them should be tried
‘ separately by the court or jury, it may, on the application of
either~party, direct separate trials, which may be had at the
same or at different terms of the court, as circumstances may
require. In all cases where there are separate causes of action united as aforesaid, the court shall award separate costs
against the unsuccessful party, unless for good cause it shall
otherwise order. The judgment upon such [each] separate
finding shall await the trial of all the issues. (a)

SEC. 16. —When the action is called for trial, either party
 may proceed to try the issues, and, in the absence of the adverse [party,] unless the court for good cause otherwise
direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the
suit, or a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.

TRIAL BY REFEREIS.

SEC. 17.—All or any of the issues of fact in the action
may be referred upon the written consent of the parties.

SEC. 18. —Where the parties do not so consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference in the following cases: First, Where the
trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a
long account on either side, in which case the referees may
be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report
upon any specific question of fact involved therein; or,
Second, Where the taking of an account shall be necessary
for the information of the court, before judgment, or for
carrying a judgment or order into effect; or, Third, Where
a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

SEC. 19.—In all cases of reference, the parties, except
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable
person or persons, not exceeding three; and, upon filing such
’ agreement, the reference shall be ordered accordingly. If

 

the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from all (Xception.

VERDIOTS.

SEC. 20. —The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury finds the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. (a) ,

SEC. 21. — In every issue for the recovery of money only,
or specific, real or personal property, the jury‘shall render a
general verdict.

SEC. 22.—In all other cases, if, at any time during the
progress of any cause, it shall,. in the opinion of the court,
become necessary to determine any fact in controversy by
the verdict of a jury, the court may direct an issue, or issues,
to be made. (6)

SEC. 23.—No issue shall be made, except such as shall
be directed by the court.

SEC. 24.—The trial of such issues shall be by jury, and
the issues shall be disposed of by a general or special verdict,
before a final judgment shall be made therein.

SEC. 25. — The court may award a new trial of any issue,
upon good cause shown; but not more than one new trial of
the same issue shall be granted to any one party.

SEC. 26. —When a verdict shall be found for the plaintili'
in an action for the recovery of money only, the jury shall,
also, assess the amount of the recovery; so, also, if they
find for the defendant in case of offsets, or other demand for
money.

cause or issue before the same jury, shall be embraced in the
same bill of exceptions. (a)

SEC. 29.—If the judge refuse to sign such bill, on the
account that it is untrue, he shall certify thereon, under his
hand, the cause of such refusal.

SEC. 30.—If the judge refuse to sign any bill of exceptions, such bill may be signed by three bystanders, who are
respectable inhabitants of the State, and the court shall permit every, such bill (if the same be true) to be filed in court.

SEO. 31.-—Every bill signed by the judge or by the bystanders, and filed in court, shall form a part of the record
of the cause in which it is filed. (6)

SEO. 32.—When the judge shall refuse to permit any
bill of exceptions, signed by the bystanders, to be filed, and
shall have certified that it is untrue, either party in the suit
may take affidavits, not exceeding five in number, in relation
to its truth. V

SEC. 83.—Such affidavits shall be taken and deposited in
the clerk’s ohice, within five days after the trial of the
cause, and on appeal or writ of error, c0pies of such affidavits shall be annexed to, and form a part of, the record of
the cause.

SEC. 34.—Every court to which an appeal or writ of
error shall be taken, shall admit, as part of the record of the
cause, every bill of exceptions taken therein, upon its appearing satisfactorily to such court that the truth of the
case is fairly stated in such bill, that the same was taken according to law, and that the court refused to permit such bill
to be filed.

SEO. 85.—The truth of every such bill shall be tried by
the ahidavits required by this act to be taken and filed in the
clerk’s office.

PRODUCTION OF BOOKS AND PAPERS.

SEC. 36.—Every court, or judge thereof, shall have

power to compel any party to a suit pending therein, to produce any books, papers and documents, in his possession or
power, relating to the merits of any such suit, or of any
defense therein. (a)

SEC. 37.—To entitle a party to the production of such
books, papers and documents, he shall present a petition,
verified by the allidavit of himself, or some other credible
person, to the court, or to the judge thereof in vacation,
upon which an order may be granted by such court or oHicer,
for the production of such books, papers and documents, or
that the party show cause why the prayer of the petition
should not be granted.

SEC. 38.—Every such order may be vacated by the court
or odicer granting the same: First, Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been granted; Second, Upon
the party required to produce the books, papers and documents, denying, on oath, the possession or control thereof.

SEC. 39. —If the party neglect to obey such order for the
production of books, papers and documents, within such time
as the court or judge shall prescribe for that purpose, the
court may nonsuit him, or strike out any answer, or debar
him from any particular defense in relation to which such
books, papers and documents, were required to be produced,
or may punish him, as for a contempt.

SEC. 40.—The court before which an action is pending,
or a judge thereof, may, in his discretion, and upon due
notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a
copy, of a paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or
defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused,
the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from being given
in evidence, or punish the party refusing, as for a contempt,
or both.

SEC. 41. —Either. party may exhibit to the other, at any
time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and
request an admission, in writing, of its genuineness. If the
adverse party fail to give the admission within two days after

the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be afterward put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and
the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such expense shall be paid by the party refusing the admission,
unless it shall appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that
there were good reasons for the refusal.

MI 80 ELLANEOUB PROVISIONS.

SEC. 42.—Whenever a party to a suit shall have been
permitted to prove, by his own oath, the loss of any instrument, in order to admit other proof of the contents thereof,
the adverse party may, also, be examined by the court, on
oath, to disprove such loss, and to account for such instrument.

SEC. 43.—If [in] any suit, founded upon any negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, or in which such bill or
note, if produced, might be allowed in the defense of any
suit, if it appear on the trialthat such note or bill was lost,
while it belonged to the party claiming the amount due thereon,
parol or other evidence of the contents thereof may be given
on such trial, and such party shall be entitled to recover the
amount due thereon, as if such note or bill had been
produced.

SEC. 44. —To entitle a party to such recovery, he, or some
responsible person for him, shall execute a bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double the amount of such
note or bill, with two sufficient securities, to be approved by
the court in which the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party against all claims, by any other
person, on account of such note or bill, and against all costs
and expenses, by reason of such claims.

SEC. 45.—thn any petition or other pleading shall be
founded upon any instrument of writing, charged to have
been executed by the other party, and not alleged therein to
be lost or destroyed, such instrument shall be received in
evidence, unless the party charged to have executed the same
deny the execution thereof by answer or replication, verified
by affidavit.

SEC. 46. —The preceding section shall not be construed to
authorize any instrument of writing to be received in evidence in any suit against an executor or administrator, or I

 

SEC. 49.—Whenever several suits, founded alone upon
liquidated demands, shall be pending in the same court, by
the same plaintifff against the same defendant, or whenever
several such suits are pending in the same court, by the same
plaintiff against several defendants, the court in which the
same shall be prosecuted, may, in its discretion, if it appear
expedient, order such suits to be consolidated into one
action. (a)

SEC. 50.—thn any plaintifff shall bring in the-same
court several suits against the same defendant, that may be
joined, and when any plaintifff shall bring in the same court
several suits against several defendants, that may be joined,
the plaintifff shall recover only the costs of one action, and
the costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against him,
unless sufficient reason appear to the court, for bringing
several actions.

SEC. 51. —The defendant in any action may, at any time
before trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer, in
writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the
sum, or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept
the 05er, and give notice thereof, within ten days, he may file
the oli'er, and an affidavit of notice of acceptance and judgment shall be entered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and
shall not be given in evidence, or commented on, before a

 

 

jury; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the
offer. _

SEC. 52. —In an action arising on contract, the defendant
may, at the time of filing his answer, serve upon the plaintifff
an offer, in writing, that, if he fail in his defense, the damages
be assessed at a specified sum; and if the plaintifff do not
give notice of acceptance thereof within five days after receiving such offer, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and no evidence thereof shall be given, or comments made thereon, to a
jury. If the plaintifff give notice, in writing, of acceptance
thereof within five days, as aforesaid, the damages shall be
assessed accordingly. If the plaintifff do not accept the offer,
and the damages recovered by him do not exceed the sum
mentioned in the offer, he shall pay the defendant’s costs, accrued in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense
in respect to the question of damages.

SEO. 53.—The court shall have power to appoint a receiver, whenever such appointment shall be deemed necessary,
whose duty it shall be to keep and preserve any money or
other thing deposited in court, or, that may be the subject of
a tender, subject to the order of court.

SEC. 54.—Such receiver shall give bond, and have the
same powers, and be subject to all the provisions, as far as
they may be applicable, enjoined upon a receiver appointed
in virtue of the law, providing for suits by attachment.

SEC. 55.—The court shall allow such receiver such compensation for his services and expenses as may be reasonable
and just, and cause the same to be taxed as costs, and paid
as other costs in the cause.

SEC. 56.—When depositions are taken, in foreign countries, of a language other than the English language, they
shall be taken in the language spoken by the witness, and in
such language be reduced to writing by the officer taking the
same. When any such deposition shall be filed in any case,
in any court in this State, the party filing the same shall,
Without unreasonable delay thereafter, cause the same to be
truly translated into the English language, and such translation to be filed with its original, but only for information to
the adverse party.‘

i
l
1

ARTICLE XI.

OF THE ABATEMENT 0F SUITS BY DEATH, MARRIAGE OR
OTHERWISE, AND THE REVIVAL THEREOF.

a 1. If cause of action survive. suit Q 17.

10.
11.

12.
13.
14.

15.

16.

not to abate by death of one
or more plaintifffs or defendants, but may proceed.

In case of death, if cause of
action do not survive, suit
only to abate as to those who
are dead.

. If all of either party die, suit

not to abate, but may be revived.

On suggestion of death and petition of plaintiti‘, summons
or order of publication may
be had to make them parties.

Manner of serving summons
and making publication.

. Court may cause defendant’s

appearance to be entered,
when.

. Effect of answer of deceased

party; if there be no answer.
proceedings.

Court may cause an interlocutory judgment to be entered,
or compel answer.

What petition for revival shall
state, to obtain further answer from representative.

A copy of petition to be annexed to summons.

An interlocutory judgment may
be entered against representatives, when.

Representatives may be made
plaintifffs, when; if necessary, may amend the petition.

Defendants to answer amended
petition; and the cause to
proceed, how.

Representatives failing to make
themselves plaintifffs, may be
made defendants.

If no surviving plaintifff, or he
fail to proceed against representatives of deceased plaintifff, proceedings; order of
court.

Petition may be dismissed if no
cause of reviver be shown by
representatives.

18.

19.

20.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.
27.

28.

33.

34.

35.

If defendant die, and cause of
action survive,- proceedings.

Proceedings of surviving defendants against representatives of co-defendants.

If representatives of deceased
parties are not made parties
by the third term, cause shall
proceed between survivors.

Suit shall be dismissed, when.

If a female party marry, her
husband may be made a party
on his application.

Husband may be made a party
on application of any party
to the suit.

To proceed as if originally made
a party.

In case of the transfer of an
interest, the transferree may
be substituted as a party to
the action.

Suit not'to abate by death of
party acting in a fiduciary
capacity.

His successor may be made a
party.

This act construed to give court
power to make any person interested a party.

No such person to be afected
in any suit to which he is not
a party.

If party die after verdict, but
beforejudgmenhproceedings.

Construction of the preceding
section.

. Death shall be stated upon the

record, and the action proceed.

. Orders for introducing co-plaintiff or eo-defendant, how
made.

Orders for the purpose of substituting parties in place of
the original parties,how made.

Person substituted, or made coplaintiff or co-defendant, entitled to continuance.

Cause in such case to proceed
as between original parties.

SECTION 1.—When the cause of action shall survive, no
suit shall abate by the death of one or more plaintiti's or defendant; but such death being suggested, and shown to the

satisfaction of the court, the suit shall proceed in favor of, or
against, the surviving parties.

SEC. 2.—When one or more of the plaintid's or defendants die, and the cause of action shall not survive, the suit
shall abate only as to the person or persons so dying, and
the surviving parties may proceed without reviving the suit
or defense.

SEC. 3.—If all the plaintid's or defendants in a suit die,
the suit shall not thereby abate, but may be revived in the
name of the legal representatives of the deceased party. (a)

SEC. 4. —Upon suggestion of the death of a deceased defendant, the court or clerk in vacation shall, on the petition
of the plaintifff, issue a summons against all persons residing
in the State to be made parties; and, also, make an order of
publication, as to all such as are non-residents, or whose
names are unknown, in the same manner as is provided in the
case of original defendants. (6)

SEC. 5. — The summons may be directed to any county in
the State, and shall be served and returned, and the order
published, in the same manner and with the like effect, to all
intents and purposes, as is required in cases of summoning or
notifying original defendants.

SEC. 6.—If any person, so summoned or notified, shall
not, within such time after the service or notice of publication as is allowed in the case of original defendants, appear
and put in an answer, the court may cause his appearance to
be entered.

SEC. 7. -,—-In such cases the answer of the deceased party
shall be deemed the answer of such representatives; and if
there be no answer, proceedings may be had, in all respects,
against such person as if he had been originally a defendant.

SEC. 8. —The court may, in its discretion, cause an interlocutory judgment to be entered, or compel such representatives to answer by attachment or otherwise.

SEC. 9.—If the deceased party shall have answered, and
the surviving party shall deem it necessary to obtain further
answer from his representatives, the petition for a revival

shall state the matters as to which such further answer is
required. (a)

. SEC. 10.—A copy of such petition shall be annexed to the
summons, or the substance stated in the order of publication,
against such representatives.

SEC. 11.—In such case, if the representatives shall not
appear, and put in such further answer, an interlocutory judgment may be entered, or the court may compel an answer by
attachment or otherwise.

SEC. 12.—Where a plaintid' shall die, and the cause of
action survive, his representatives, on aiiidavit of such death,
and on motion in open court, may be made plaintifff in the
suit, and be permitted, if necessary, to amend the petition. (6)

SEC. 13.—The defendants may be compelled to answer
such amended petition, and the cause shall proceed to issue
and hearing as in other cases.

SEC. 14. — When the representatives shall not cause themselves to be made plaintifffs, on or before the first day of the
second term after the death is suggested, the surviving
plaintid' may proceed to make them defendants, as in cases
where the representatives of a deceased defendant are made
parties.

SEC. 15.—If there be no surviving plaintiE, or he shall
neglect or refuse to proceed against the representatives of a
deceased plaintifff, as defendants, the court, upon the petition
of the original defendants, may order such representatives to
show cause at a certain day, to be named in the order, why
the suit should not stand revived in their names, or the petition be dismissed, as far as the interest of such representatives is concerned.

SEC. 16. — If no such cause be then shown, the court,
upon proof of service or publication of such order, may order the suit to be revived in the name of such representatives,
or dismiss the petition as to them, with costs or otherwise.

SEC. 17.—If a defendant shall (lie, and the cause of action shall survive, and the plaintifff shall neglect or refuse to
procure an order for the revival of the suit, the court may

order it to stand revived, upon the petition of the surviving
defendant, against the representatives of the deceased party.

SEC. 18. —In such case, the surviving defendant may
proceed against such representatives, in the same manner as
a plaintid', to compel them to appear, abide the answer of
the deceased party, or answer, if an answer be required, or
have an interlocutory judgment entered against them _; and
the court may, in its discretion, stay the suit as against him,
until such proceedings shall have been had.

SEC. 19. —In all cases where the representatives of a deceased plaintiii' or defendant shall not be made parties, according to the provisions of this act, on or before the third
term after the suggestion of the death, the suit shall abate as
to such deceased party, and the interest of his representatives therein, and the cause shall proceed in favor of, and
against, the survivors.

SEC. 20.—If, in such case, there be no surviving plaintifff
or defendant, the suit shall be dismissed. .

SEO. 21. —If a female party to a suit marry at any time
before a final judgment, her husband may, on his application,
be made a plaintifff or defendant with her, on the order of
the court in which the suit is pending, or the judge thereof,
to be granted on due proof of the marriage, and after notice
to such female party and the other parties to the suit.

SEC. 22.—Such husband may, also, be made a party with
his wife, on the application of any other parties to the suit,
by petition, upon proof of the marriage, and notice to such
husband and wife and the other parties to the suit.

SEC. 23.— In such case, the husband may contest all facts,
in the same manner as if he had originally been made a
party.

SEC. 24.—In case of any transfer of an interest other
than that occasioned by the death, marriage or other disability, of a party, the action shall be continued in the name
of the original party, or the court may allow the person to
whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action. (a)

SEC. 25.—When a public oiiicer, trustee, guardian, curator, executor or administrator, as such, shall be a party to

any suit, and shall die, resign, or be removed from his oHice
or trust, before final judgment, the suit shall not thereby
abate, if the cause of suit survive, but the same may be continued by or against the successor.

SEC. '26.—In such case, his successor may, on his own
application, or on the application of any other party to the
cause, he made a party by the order of the court, in the same
manner as the representatives of a deceased party, as herein
before provided.

SEC. 27.—The provisions of this act, in relation to the
bringing in the representatives of a deceased party, shall be
construed to apply to all persons who may have'become interested in the cause of action by the death of a party. .

SEC. 28.—No such representatives of a deceased party, or
other person interested in the cause of action, shall be bound
by any order or judgment in any cause to which they do not
i become, and are not made, parties.

SEC. 29.—After a verdict shall be rendered in any action, and after an answer of confession in any suit brought,
' if either party die before judgment be actually entered
thereon, the court may, within one term after such verdict
or answer, enter final judgment, in the name of the original
parties.

SEC. 30.—Nothing in the preceding section shall be con. strued to authorize the entry of a judgment against any
party who shall have died before a verdict [is] actually rendered against him, notwithstanding he may have died on the
first, or any other, day of the term at which such verdict shall
have been rendered, but such verdict shall be void.

SEC. 31.—When the death of a party shall be suggested,
, such death shall be stated upon the record, and the action or.
defense shall proceed in the name of the surviving parties,
as the case may require.

SEC. 32.—All orders made for the purpose of introducing
i into a suit a new person, as a co-plaintifff or co-defendant
with the original party, shall be made either upon the voluntary appearance of both the original parties in such suit, or
after the service upon them of a summons, as herein before
directed. (a)

 

SEC. 33. -—All orders made for the purpose of substituting
any person as plaintifff or defendant, in place of the original 
defendant or plaintifff, shallbe made, either upon the volun- j
tary appearance of the adverse original party, or after the 3

service upon such party of a summons, as herein before
described. '

SEC. 34. —When any person is made a co-plaintifff or codefendant, or is substituted as plaintifff or defendant in the 
place of the original party, in any of the cases provided for T

in this article, such new party shall be entitled to a continuance of the cause until the next term.
SEO. 35.—In all such cases where a person is made a co.

plaintifff or co-defendant, or is substituted as plaintiii‘ or de- ,

fendant in the place of the original party, the cause shall 1
proceed, in all respects, as if such person had been an original i

party to the suit.

ARTICLE XII.

JUDGMENTS, AND SUBSEQUENT PROCEEDINGS THEREON.

Q 1. Judgment, definition of.

2. It may be for or against any
plaintifff or defendant.

8. Order, definition of.

4. Failing to file pleadings within
the legal time, interlocutory
judgment by default, to be
given.

6. Such judgment may be set
aside for good cause.

6. Plaintiff failing to reply, &c.,
judgment of non pros. to be

§ 12. Damages or other relief shall
not, where an interlocutory
judgment is rendered for
plaintifff, be other or greater
than demanded in original
petition.

What final judgments may be
set aside, and when.

Judgment to stand absolute, if
petition for review be not
brought within a year after
service of notice.

13.
14.

given. 15. Limitation for filing petition
7. Such judgment may be set for review.
aside. 16. What petition must show in

8. Several defendants, and some
appear and plead, and others
make default, proceedings.

9. Interlocutory judgment by default, m2 dz'cit, 520., shall be
made final if demand be liquidated.

10. In other cases of interlocutory
judgments, writ of inquiry of
damages shall be awarded,
at what term.

11. If action be founded on bond
or note, final judgment shall
be rendered at the term at
which the interlocutory judgment is rendered; in other
cases, at the term next following.

order to set aside judgment.

Petition of defendant to be
served on plaintifff, or given
by publication.

If answer or demurrer is filed,
cause to proceed.

If judgment be for defendant,
he shall have costs and damages, to what extent.

Sale or conveyance of property
shall not be affected by setting
aside judgment.

Judgment by confession on
debt, or contingent liability,
authorized.

Confession must be in writing,
and must contain certain
facts.

17.

18.
19.

20.

21.

22.

g 28. Court shall render judgment
for amount confessed, if satisded of identity of defendant.

24. Judgment may be rendered for
a debt against a party upon
his power of attorney; plaintiE to make aiiidavit that the
debt is for a fair and valuable consideration, &c.

25. Parties may submit a controversy without action; proceedings thereon.

26. Judgment may be enforced,
and appeal taken, or writ of
error granted.

§ 27. Court may, by judgment, pass
the title of property without
any act to be done by defendants.

28. Court may, when necessary,
issue writ of possession, or
proceed by attachment or sequestration.

29. Operation of a judgment in
case a party refuse to make
a conveyance, release or aoquittal, as is therein required.

30. When damages may be assessed
in lieu of performance of a
judgment.

SECTION 1.—A judgment is the final determination of the
right of the parties in the action. (0:)

SEC. 2.—Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintiil‘s, and for or against one or more of
several defendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights
of the parties on each side, as between themselves; and it
may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he
may be entitled. (6)

SEC. 3.—Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order, and an application for an order is a
motion. (0)

JUDG MENTB, INTEBLOCUTORY.

. SEC. 4.—If the defendant shall fail to file his answer or
i other pleading within the time prescribed by law, or the rules
‘of practice of the court, and serve a copy thereof upon the
adverse party, or his attorney, when the same is required, an
interlocutory judgment shall be given against him by default.

SEC. 5.—Such judgment may, for good cause shown, be
set aside, at any time before the damages are assessed,  or

rendered for the plaintifff, by default, by m'l dz'cz't, by confession, or upon an issue of law, in any suit founded upon any
instrument of writing, and the demand is ascertained by such
instrument, the court shall assess the damages, and final
judgment shall be given thereon. ((1)

SEC. 10.—But in all other cases of such interlocutory
judgment, the plaintiE may, if he demand it, have a jury to
assess his damages; and every such inquiry of damages shall
be made at the term next after the term in which such interlocutory judgment shall be rendered. If no jury be dejmanded, the court shall, at the proper term, assess the
damages, or give the other relief asked in the petition, and
\ final judgment shall be given thereon. (6)

SEC. 11.—If the action be founded on a bond, bill or
note, for the direct payment of money or property, such interlocutory judgment shall he proceeded on to final judgment,
at the term in which such interlocutory judgment shall be
given; butall other interlocutory judgments shall be proceeded on to final judgment at the term next after the term
in which such interlocutory judgment shall be rendered.

SEC. 12.—Whenever such interlocutory judgment shall
be rendered for the plaintifff, the damages or other relief shall
not be other or greater than that which he shall have demanded in the petition, as originally filed and served on
defendant; but in any other case, the court may grant him
any relief consistent with the case made by the plaintifff and
embraced within the issue.

SEC. 13.—When such interlocutory judgment shall be
made, and a final judgment entered thereon against any defendant who shall not have been summoned, as required by
this act, or who shall not have appeared to the suit, or have
been made a party as the representative of one who shall
have been summoned or appeared, such final judgment may
be set aside, if the defendant shall, within the time hereinafter limited, appear, and, by petition for review, show good
cause for setting aside such judgment.

SEO. 14.—If the plaintiE shall, at any time after such
final judgment, servethe defendant, within any of the United
States, or the Territories thereof, with notice of the suit, and
a copy of the judgment thereon, and such defendant shall
not, within one year. after such service, bring his petition for
review, the court, on proof of the service of such notice,
shall make an order that the judgment stand absolute.

SEC. 15.—If such petition for review be not filed within
three years after such final judgment is rendered, the same i
shall stand absolute, whether notice thereof be given or not.

SEC. 16.—No such judgment shall be set aside, unless the
petition for review shall state the existence of the facts set
forth in section thirteen of this article, and that the petition
of plaintifff, upon which the judgment complained of was obtained, is untrue in some material matter, (setting it forth,)
or that he has, and then had, a good' defense thereto, (setting1
such defense forth,) or both, and then only on condition that1
the defendant answer or demur to the petition of plaintid' on
which the judgment was rendered, within a reasonable time,
to be ordered by the court. Such petition for review shall
be verified by affidavit, as required in case of an original
petition. '

SEC. 17.—The petition of defendant shall be served“ on
the plaintifff in the judgment, or notice given by publication
to him, or, if the plaintifff be dead, then on or to his legal
representatives, in like time and manner as provided for the
service or giving of notice in case of an original petition upon
a defendant. (a)

SEC. 18.—If the answer or demurrer is filed within the
time so limited, the cause shall proceed as it would have done
had the defendant; appeared to the summons and filed his
answer or demurrer to the petition; if not, the judgment shall
be made absolute.

SEC. 19.—If, upon the trial of the cause, judgment shall
be for the defendant, or if the judgment be for the plaintifff,
but for less than the original judgment, the defendant shall,
also, have judgment, with costs, against the plaintifff, for such
damages as justice shall require, as .will reimburse him for
monies applied to the satisfaction of the original judgment,

and legal interest thereon, and which the plaintiff did not

finally recover.

, SEC. 20.—-No sale or conveyance of property for the
satisfaction of any judgment, regularly made, shall be

affected or prejudiced by the setting aside any judgment

on the appearance of a defendant, as herein before provided,

if the property shall be in the hands of innocent purchasers.

0031388103 0! JUDGIEKT.

SEC. 21. —A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either for money due, or to become due, or to
secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of
defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this
article. (a)

SEC. 22.—A statement in writing must be made, signed
by the defendant, and verified by like affidavit, as in case of
an answer to the following effect: First, It must state the
amount for which the judgment may be rendered, and authorize
the entry of judgment thereon; Second, If it be for money
due, or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of
which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed therefore
is justly due, or to become due; Third, If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability,
it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and
must show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed

the same.
SEO. 23. —Such statement and affidavit shall be filed, and

the court shall render judgment for the amount confessed,
and cause the same to be entered upon the records, f1rst
being satisfied of the identity of the defendant, if present;
or, if not present, that he executed the statement in writin
and made the affidavit herein before required. ‘
SEC. 24.—A judgment by confession may, also, be rendered against any person for a debt owing upon a note, bond
or bill of exchange, under his power of attorney therefore, acknowledged as required of deeds of land for their record,
and filed in the court rendering the judgment, at the time of
its rendition, together with the note, bond or bill of exchange,
and the aiiidavit of the plaintih‘ that the debt is bond fide, for

a fair and valuable consideration, and owing, after allowing all
just credits and set-oil's.

SUBMITTING A CONTBOVEBSY, WITHOUT ACTION.

SEO. 25. —Parties to a question in difference, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree
upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending. (a)

SEC. 26. —The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission; and, in like manner, shall be
with costs, and subject to an appeal or writ of error, unless
otherwise provided in the submission.

HIBOBLLANEOUB PROVISIONS.

SEC. 27.—In all cases where judgment is given for the
conveyance of real estate, or the delivery of personal property, the court may, by such judgment, pass the title of
such’property without any act to be done on the part of the
defendants. ,

SEC. 28.—The court may issue a writ of possession, if
necessary, to the sheriff of the proper county, to put the
party entitled into possession of such real or personal property, or may proceed by attachment or sequestration.

SEC. 29. —When an unconditional judgment shall be made
for a conveyance, release or acquittance, and the party required to execute the same shall not comply therewith, such
judgment shall be considered and taken to have the same
operation and effect, and be as available, as if the conveyance,
release or acquittance, had been executed conformany to the
judgment.

SEC. 30.—When complete justice cannot otherwise be'
done, the court may, on the petition of the party entitled to
the benefit of a final judgment, cause an inquiry to be made,

by a jury, of the amount of damages which ought to be paid
in lieu of the performance of the judgment, and may render

a judgment for the damages so assessed, and award execution
thereon.

ARTICLE XIII.

NEW TRIALS, ARREST OF JUDGMENT, APPEALS, DUTIES OF

CLERKS, AND EXAMINATION OF PARTIES ON INTERROGATORIES.

Q 1. What not deemed a case of va13.

14.

15.

16.

18.
19.

. On tiling recognizance, proriance, but failure of proof.

In case of failure of proof,
new trial may be granted
and pleadings amended.

. In what other specified cases

new trials may be granted.
Only one new trial allowed to
either party; exceptions.
Costs of new trials, by whom
paid.
Motions for new trials, and in
arrest, when to be made.

. After arrest of judgment, proceedings may be amended.

. Costs to be paid by the one

who made the first error.

. Persons may appeal to Supreme

Court, when.

Parties, how designated on appeal.

. On what conditions appeal to

be allowed.

. Court to make an order allowing an appeal; in what cases
the allowance shall stay execution.

Supreme Court, or any judge
thereof, may grant an appeal, by special order, when.

N 0 such order shall be granted,
unless error was committed
materially affecting the merits of the action.

Notice of appeal, when not
taken during the term of circuit court. I

Appeals granted by Supreme«
Court, or judge thereof, shall {
not, unless appellant be an‘
executor, &c., operate as al
stay of proceedings, unless:
recognizance be given. I
ceedings stayed on judgment '
appealed from, except, &c. !

Amount of bond, approval, and
filing same.

When an appeal is granted,
clerk to make out and send

up a complete copy of record. l

 

£20. Clerk to make out docket of

21.

22.
23.
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.
32.

33.

34.

35.

cases before the commencement of each term of the
court; contents of docket.

Dockets, how known and how
arranged; cases, how docketed.

Penalty for failing to make out
dockets.

Plaintiff may dismiss his suit
in vacation by paying costs.

The want or failure of consideration, in whole or in part,
of a specialty, or other written contract, may be proven.

Nothing in last section to atfect a bond jide endorsee.

Limitation of motion to set
aside judgment.

Judgments requiring the performance of any other act
than the payment of money,
how enforced.

Either party may, on motion,
obtain an order to examine
the other on interrogatories.

Motion must state the facts,
and be accompanied by the
interrogatories; notice to be
given.

Motion must be verified by affidavit to the effect speciiied.

What the order of court shall
require.

Party neglecting or refusing to
answer interrogatories, to be
punished as for a contempt;
or the court may order that
the facts stated in motion be
used as evidence.

Answer to interrogatories may
be used as evidence by either
party.

If answer contain new matter,
it shall be used as evidence;
in such case, the answer of
adverse party to such new
matter to be evidence.

Proceedings, where document,
book, &c., contain matter
not relevant.

 

Q36. The party interrogated not 140. Answer may be read as eviobliged to criminate himself, dence by the interrogating
disclose his title to property party; if no part be read by
not in controversy, or the him, the effect.

names of witnesses, Ste. 41. Interrogatories may be filed

37. Court may order an imperfect and answered at the trial, if
answer to be made full and due diligence has been used.
clear, and irrelevant matter 42. Commission to take the examistricken out, &c. nation of non-residents.

88. What orders may be made in 43. This act shall not extend to
such cases concerning the proceedings in county and
costs. probate courts, except, &c.

39. Party neglecting or refusing 44. This act shall not apply to acto answer, &c., court may tions and proceedings pendenter a nonsuit or default. ing when it takes efect.

NEW mans.

SECTION 1.—Where the allegation of the cause of action
or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance, but
a failure of proof. (a) _

SEO. 2.—In case of such failure of proof, and a verdict
of a jury or finding of the court against the party so failing,
and the court is satisfied from the proof given that the party
has a good cause of action or defense, the court may, on motion of such party, set aside the verdict or finding, and grant
a new trial, and permit the pleadings to be amended, on such
terms as may be just. i .

SEC. 3.—In every case where there has been a mistake
or surprise of a party, his agent or attorney, or a misdirection of the jury by the court, or a mistake by the jury, or a
finding contrary to the direction of the court, or a fraud or
deceit practiced by one party on the other, or the court is
satisfied that perjury or mistake has been committed by a
witness, and is, also, satisfied that an improper verdict or
finding was occasioned by any such matters, and that the
party has a just cause of action or of defense, it shall, on
motion of the proper party, grant a new trial, and, if necessary, permit the pleadings to be amended, on such terms as
may be just. (6)

SEC. 8.—In such case, the party in whose proceeding the
first error was, shall pay all costs incurred thereby.

APPEALS.

SEC. 9.—Every person aggrieved by any final judgment
or decision of any circuit court, in any civil case, may make
his appeal to the Supreme Court. (a)

SEC. 10.—The party appealing shall be known as the
appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent; but the
title of the action shall not be changed, in consequence of
the appeal.

SEC. 11.—No such appeal shall be allowed, unless: First,
It be made during the term at which the judgment or decision appealed from was given; and, Second, The appellant or
his agent shall, during the same term, file in the court his
affidavit, stating that such appeal is not made for vexation or
delay, but because the afliant believes that the appellant is
aggrieved by the judgment or decision of the court.

SEC. 12.—Upon the appeal being made, the circuit court
shall make an order allowing the appeal; and such allowance
thereof shall stay the execution in the following cases, and
no other: First, When the appellant shall be an executor or
administrator, guardian or curator, and the action by or
against him as such; Second, When the appellant, or Some
responsible person for him, together with two sufficient securities, to be approved by the court, shall, during the term at
which the judgment appealed from was rendered, enter'into a

Ann-Annhl

recognizance to the adverse party, in a penalty in double the i

amount of whatever debt, damages and costs, or damages
and costs, have been recovered by such judgment, together
with the interest that may accrue thereon, and the costs and
damages that may be recovered in the Supreme Court upon
the appeal, conditioned that the appellant will prosecute his
appeal with due diligence to a decision in the Supreme Court,
and shall perform such judgment as shall be given by the
Supreme Court, or such as the Supreme Court may direct
the circuit court to give, and if the judgment of such court,
or any part thereof, be affirmed, that he will comply with and
perform the same, so far as it may be affirmed, and will pay
all damages and costs which may be awarded against the appellant by the Supreme Court. ((2)

SEC. 13.—The Supreme Court, or any judge thereof,
upon the inspection of a copy of the record, may grant an
appeal, by special order for that purpose, at any time within
one year next after the rendition of the final judgment or
decision in the cause.

SEC. 14.—No such order shall be granted by such court
or judge, unless it appear, from an inspection of a copy of
the record, that error was committed by the circuit court
against the party applying for the order, and materially affecting the merits of the action. .

SEC. 15.—Unless the appeal be taken in the circuit court
during the term in which [the] judgment was rendered, notice
in writing of such appeal shall be given to the respondent,
at least twenty days before the commencement of the term
of the Supreme Court to which such appeal is to be sent.

SEC. 16.—An appeal granted by the Supreme Court, or
any judge thereof, when the appellant is not an executor or
administrator, guardian or curator, suing or sued as such,
shall not operate as a stay of proceedings, unless a like recognizance, as in case of other appeals in civil cases, be entered into before the Supreme or circuit court, or a judge or
clerli thereof, and filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court in which the judgment appealed from was rendered.

SEC. 17.—On filing such recognizance, there shall be a
stay of all further proceedings upon the judgment appealed

from, except that perishable property may be sold, if the
circuit court, or judge thereof, shall deem the same necessary
and proper, and not injurious to the appellant; and, if sold,
the proceeds thereof shall be retained, subject to the order
of such court.

SEC. 18.—The court, judge or clerk, taking such recognizance, shall fix the amount or sum in which it shall be
taken, approve the same, and enter the approval thereon.

SEC. 19. — When an appeal is granted by the circuit
court, or when an order made by the Supreme Court, or any 
judge thereof, for an appeal, is filed, the clerk of the court in I
which the judgment or decision from which the appeal is ta- ‘
ken was rendered, shall, without delay, make out and send to ‘

the clerk of the Supreme Court a complete c0py of the record. ((2)

DUTIES OF CLERKS.

SEO. 20.-¢Every clerk of a court of record shall, before
the commencement of each term of such court, make out
two dockets of all causes in which an issue of fact is to be
tried, and inquiry of damages to be made, a special verdict,
agreed case, demurrer, motion or other matter of law, to be
argued at such term; and shall arrange such causes upon the
docket in the same order in which they stand in the course of
proceeding, setting a pr0per pr0portion for each day.

SEC. 21.—One of such dockets shall be known as the
“ Court Docket,” the other as the “Bar Docket,” and shall
be arranged appropriately, with spaces for the names of attorneys, and brief statements of the orders and judgments
of the court in the respective cases. Such cases shall be
docketed as follows: First, All criminal cases; Second, All
civil cases for trial; Third, The return cases, showing
whether process has been served or not.

' SEO. 22. —Every clerk who shall neglect or refuse to make
out such dockets, according to law, shall be fined by the court
any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, for every such
offense. '

SEC. 23.—The plaintifff in any suit in any court of record may dismiss such suit in the vacation of ,the court,
upon the payment of all costs that may have accrued therein.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 24.—Whenever a specialty or other written contract for the payment of money, or the delivery of property,
or for the performance of a duty, shall be the foundation of
an action or defense, in whole or in part, or shall be given in
evidence in any court without being pleaded, the proper
party may prove the want or failure of the consideration, in
whole or in part, of such specialty or other written contract.(a)

SEC. 25.—Nothing contained in the last preceding section
shall affect or impair the right of any band jide endorsee of
any contract in writing, made negotiable by the laws of this
State, when such instrument shall be negotiated before it
becomes due.

SEC. 26.—Judgments, in any court of record, shall not be
set aside for irregularity, on motion, unless such motion be
made within three years after the term such judgment was
rendered.

SEC. 27.—When a judgment requires the performance of
any other act than the payment of money, a certified copy of
the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it
is given, and his obedience thereto required. If he neglect
or refuse, he may be punished by the court as for a contempt,
by fine or imprisonment, or both, and, if necessary, by

sequestration of property.
0? THE EXAMINATION OF PARTIES ON INTEBROGATOBIBS.
SEC. 28.—Either party may apply to the court or judge,

by motion, in writing, for an order to examine the adverse
party on interrogatories, in relation to any fact or facts material in the trial of any issue, or on the hearing of any motion,
then pending. '

SEC. 29.—The motion shall state the facts he expects to
prove by the examination of the party, and be accompanied
by the interrogatories, and may be made either upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, or upon a
rule to show cause at a certain time and place, to be served
as the notice.

SEC. 30.—The motion shall be verified by an aiiidavit to
the effect: First, That he believes the answer of the party
will be material evidence for him on such trial or hearing;
Second, That he believes he cannot prove the same facts, or
prove them so satisfactorily, by any other person; and,
Third, That the order is not asked to procure delay.

SEC. 31.—The court or judge may thereupon make an
order that the party answer the interrogatories, or such of
them as the court or judge may specify, on oath, and file such
answer in the cause within such time as the court or judge
may direct.

SEC. 32. —If the party neglect or refuse to answer such
interrogatories, and file the same within the time specified in
the order, he shall be punished as for a contempt, and the
trial may he stayed until the order is complied with ; or the
court may, by order, declare that the facts stated in the motion, which were expected to be proved by the answer, stand
admitted, and may be given in evidence accordingly.

SEC. 33.—If the answer to the interrogatories be filed, it
may be used as evidence by either party; but the court or
jury trying the issue, or the court hearing the motion, shall
not be required to give it any other or greater weight than
they think, under all the circumstances, it is entitled to.

SEC. 34.—If the answer to the interrogatories contain
new matter relevant to the issue or motion, but not responsive to the interrogatories, such new matter may be given in‘
evidence by the party making the answer; but in that case,
the other party shall have a right to file his answer to, or in
explanation of, such new matter, on oath, in his own favor,
and it shall be received in evidence accordingly, subject, however, to the rule in regard to weight prescribed in the last
section.

SEC. 35.—When any document, book, voucher or other

writing, called for by any interrogatory, contains any matters not pertinent to the subject matter of the action, the answer may so state, and that such part has been sealed up, or
otherwise protected from examination, and thereupon such
part shall not be inspected by the party interrogating; but
such party may apply to the court, and obtain an order to
have liberty to inspect the part so protected from examination, or so much thereof as the court shall find, on hearing
the parties, (or, if necessary, by inspecting the part so pro‘ tected,) was improperly withheld and concealed.

SEC. 36. —The party interrogated shall not be obliged to
answer any question, or produce any document, the answering or producing of which would tend to criminate himself,
or disclose his title to any property, the title whereof is not
material to the trial of the action in which he is interrogated,
or to disclose the names of the witnesses by whom, or the
manner in which, he proposes to prove his own case.

SEC. 37.—If any answer shall contain irrelevant matter,
or shall not be full and clear, or if any interrogatory shall
not be answered, and the party interrogated shall refuse to
strike out or amend, or to answer a particular interrogatory,
the court, on motion, may order such irrelevant matter to be
stricken out, or such imperfect answer to be made full and
clear, or such interrogatory to be answered within such time
as may seem reasonable.

SEC. 38.—-When an answer shall be adjudged irrelevant
or insuiiicient, or when a party shall be ordered to answer any
interrogatory, the court may make such order respecting costs,
either in the action or otherwise, as may be deemed just.

SEC. 39. —If a party shall neglect or refuse to strike out,
amend or answer, according to the provisions of this article,
the court may enter a [judgment of] nonsuit or [by] default,
as the case may require, and proceed thereon according to law.

SEC. 40. — The answer may be read at the trial, by the interrogating party, as evidence, and the party interrogated
shall be entitled to require the reading of the entire answer,
if any part thereof is read ; but the court or jury trying the
issue, or the court hearing the motion, shall not be required
to give it any other or greater weight than, under all the circumstances, it may be entitled to; but if no part of such answer be read by the interrogating party, the party interrogated shall not read, nor in any manner avail himself of, his
examination, or of the fact that he has been examined.

SEC. 41.—During the trial of any action, the court may
allow interrogatories to be filed and answered, with as little ‘
delay as practicable, and may suspend the trial for the purpose of having the same answered; but such interrogatories
must be accompanied by an affidavit, stating the reasons why
they were not filed earlier; and, unless the court upon the
whole matter, shall find that due diligence has been used, the
interrogatories shall not be filed.

SEC. 42. —When the [an] order to examine a party residing out of the State shall be made, a commission may issue,
having the interrogatories annexed, and authorizing any person or oilicer named in the commission to take the signature
and oath to the answer. ,

SEC. 43.—The provisions of this act shall not extend to
proceedings in county and probate courts, except so much of j
the same as may be applicable to proceedings within their S
respective jurisdictions, and necessary to perfect and give 
suiliciency to such proceedings. .. i

SEC. 44.—The provisions of this act shall not apply to
actions and proceedings pending when it takes eil‘ect, but they 
shall be conducted to final judgment, in all respects, as now 1
provided by law. ‘

ARTICLE XIV.
PRACTICE IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1 1. When writs of error to issue § 8. Persons refusing to join, order

out of Supreme Court. to be made on the record to

2. Writs of error, when and in appear, &c.; proceedings in
what cases to issue from cir- such case.
cuit to county court. 9. Copy of such order to be served

3. All writs of error, when and in on the party refusing, when
what time to be brought. and how.

4. Several defendants, and one or 10. On the application of person
more of them die, writ may named in such order, he may
be brought by the survivor. be permitted to join in the

5. All living shall join in the writ, writ, when.
of error, except when other- 11. Person named in such order,
wise allowed by the Supreme and served with the same,
Court. not appearing, proceedings.

6. What plaintifff in error may an- 12. Persons out of the State, not
swertoallegations, that there joining in such writ, their
are other persons living who rights not impaired.
ought to join. 13. Persons who ought to join in a

7. Further answer to such allega- writ of error, may be permittions, by proof on affidavit; ted to do so, when; and proproceediugs thereon. ceedings.

2 14. In what cases, and when, exe- § 28. If all the defendants die after

cation to be stayed by writ
of error.

15. In what cases, and when, order
to be made by court or judge
to stay execution on' writ of
error.

16. Order to stay execution to be
endorsed on the writ, when.

17. If no execution has issued, or,
if issued, not fully executed,
how to proceed to stay execution.

18. Notice of writ of error to be
served on adverse party; effect
of failure.

19. Writs of error and return thereto, how made.

20. Penalty on clerk for failing to
make return of writ.

21. Appeals, when and to what
court returnable; transcript,
when to be filed; on failure,
proceedings.

22. In what manner the clerk is to
docket all cases, and give notice in a newspaper.

23. When errors to be assigned: on
failure, judgment affirmed.

24. Joinder in error, when to be
filed.

25. Proceedings when one or more
of plaintifffs or defendants die
before joinder in error.

26. Proceedings when one or more
of plaintifffs or defendants die
after joinder in error.

27. If all the plaintifffs die after ap~
peal or writ of error, and before judgment, proceedings.

appeal or writ of error, and
before judgmentproceedings.

29. Husband may be joined with
his wife as plaintifff after appeal or writ of error, when
and how.

80. Husband may be made co-defendant with his wife before
judgment, how.

81. How persons may be substituted or become parties in cases
pending in Supreme Court.

32. Statement of case and points to
be made out and delivered to
the judges.

33. Exceptions not to be taken on
points not decided by circuit
court

34. No judgment tobe reversed except for error committed
against appellant or plaintifffs
in error, and materially affecting the merits of the action.

35. Proceedings of the court on
appeal or writ of error, or
upon a special verdict.

36. Upon afiirmance of judgment,
damages may be awarded.

37. Court divided in opinion, judgment of circuit court affirmed.

38. Judgments of the Supreme
Court may be carried into effect, by execution, or the record may be remitted, with
their decision, to the circuit
court.

39. Duty of Supreme Court toframe
and promulgate certain rules.

SECTION 1.—Writs of error upon any final judgment or
decision of any circuit court, in all cases, are writs of right,
and shall issue, of course, out of the Supreme Court, in vacation as well as in term, subject to the regulations prescribed by law. (a)

SEC. 2.—Writs of error shall issue on demand, as a matter of right, on the final decision or judgment of the county
court, from the circuit court, in term time or vacation, except
in relation to probate matters, within ninety days from such
judgment or decision.

SEC. 3.—All writs of error upon any judgment or decision of any court, in any case, whether civil or criminal, shall
be brought within three years after the rendering of such judgment or decision, and not thereafter. But persons within the
age of twenty-one years shall be allowed to bring their writs

of error in civil cases within three years after such disability
is removed.

SEC. 4.— If a judgment shall be rendered against several
persons, and one or more of them die, a writ of error may be
brought thereon by the survivors.

SEC. 5.—If there be several persons, against whom any
judgment shall have been recovered, and entitled to bring a

AA‘HIH

writ of error thereon, living at the time of bringing such T
writ, they shall all join in such writ, except where it is other- i
- wise provided by law; and if any are omitted, the writ shall 3

be quashed, on motion of the defendant in error, made at any
time before joinder in error, upon due proof of the facts, by
aiiidavits, unless one or more of such persons be allowed to
proceed by the Supreme Court. ’

SEC. 6.—To the allegations of there being other persons
living who ought to join in such writ of error, if it be established or admitted, the party prosecuting such writ may answer, by due proof, on affidavit, that any of such persons not
joined are either incapable of consenting to join in such writ,
by reason of insanity or imbecility of mind, or that their consent could not be obtained, by reason of their being absent
out of this State; and if the court shall be satisfied of the
truth of such answer, such party shall be allowed to prosecute such writ, without joining such person, in the same
manner as if they were joined.

SEC. 7.—To such allegation, the party prosecuting the
writ may, also, answer, by due proof, on affidavit, that application has been made to any of the persons, not named in
such writ, to join therein, and that they have refused; in such

case, the court shall stay further proceedings on such writ,
and on the motion to quash the same, until an order shall
have been duly served upon the person so refusing, as hereinafter provided. ‘

SEO. 8.—The court shall thereupon cause an order to be
entered on its record, directing the persons so refusing to
join in such writ to appear in such court, within such time as
shall be prescribed therein, and there join in such writ of
error, and in the proceedings thereon, or to be forever
precluded from bringing another writ of error on the same
judgment.

SEC. 9.—A copy of such order shall be served on the
parties named therein, at least ten days previous to the time
of appearance therein specified, in like manner as an original
writ of summons.

SEC. 10.— Upon the application of any person named in
such order, he may be permitted to join in such writ of error,
and in the proceedings thereon, upon the payment of the
costs of the proceedings to bring him into court, including
the motion to quash the writ of error, if it shall appear that
he refused to join in such writ on application, and without
just cause; and the writ and proceedings shall be amended by
inserting the name of such person.

SEC. 11.—If any person named in such order do not appear by the time therein specified, and join in such writ of

error, upon due proof of the service of such order, the de' fault of such person shall be entered, and he shall thereby
be forever precluded from bringing any writ of error on the
same judgment, and the cause shall proceed in the same manner as if such person had been named in such writ, and in
the proceedings thereon.

SEC. 12.— When the name of any person out of this State,
or incapable of giving consent to the bringing of a writ of“
error, shall be omitted in such writ, and the cause shall pro—
ceed without such name, the rights of such person shall not
be impaired by the judgment on such writ, but he may bring
his writ of error in the same manner, separately, as if no
such former writ had been brought.

SEC. 13.—Any person who ought to join in a writ of
error may be permited to do so, on his application, on such

terms as the court shall impose; and the writ and proceedings
shall be amended by inserting his name, and shall proceed as
in other cases. ‘ ‘

SEC. 14.—No writ of error shall stay execution, unless
the Supreme Court, or some judge thereof in vacatiOn, be
satisfied, upon an inspection of a copy of the record, that
there is error therein, and shall make an order allowing such
writ of error to stay the execution; and no such order shall
be made by a judge in vacation, after the expiration of ninety
days from the rendering of the judgment or decision complained of.

SEC. 15.—No order, allowing a writ of error to stay the
execution, shall be made by the Supreme Court, or by any
judge thereof in vacation, except in the following cases:
First, Where the plaintifff in error was executor or administrator in the original action, and such action was by or
against him as such; or, Second, Where the plaintifff in
error, or some responsible person for him, together with two
sufiicient sureties, to be approved by the court or judge, or
by the judge of the circuit court, in which the judgment was
rendered, shall enter into a recognizance, before such court
or judge, to the adverse party, in a penalty sufiicient to secure
whatever debt, damages and costs, or damages and costs, have
been recovered by the judgment complained of, together with
the costs and damages that may be recovered in the Supreme
Court, conditioned that the plaintifff in error will prosecute
such writ with en‘ect, and pay the money that shall therein
be adjudged against him by the Supreme Court, or otherwise
abide the judgment of such court therein.

SEC. 16.—The, court or oiiicer allowing a writ of error
to stay the execution shall cause an order to that effect to be
endorsed upon the writ, under the hand of the judge when
the same is made in vacation, and under the hand of the
clerk of the court when the same is made in term.

SEC. 17.—-If no execution be issued, the exhibition of
such writ of error, so endorsed, to the adverse party or his
attorney of record, or the clerk of the circuit court where the
judgment or decision complained of was rendered, shall stay
the issuing of any writ of execution. If any execution shall
have been issued and not fully executed, upon the exhibition
of such writ of error to the oilicer charged with the execution of the writ of execution, such oHicer shall proceed no
further in the execution thereof, but shall return the writ,
together with the reason of his not proceeding to the final
execution thereof.

SEC. 18.—Every person suing out a writ of error shall
cause a notice thereof, in writing, to be served on the adverse
party, or his attorney of record, twenty days before the return
day of such writ. If such notice be not served, the writ shall
be dismissed, unless good cause for such failure be shown.

SEC. 19.—Writs of error shall be returned, signed by the
clerk of the court to which such writ shall be addressed,
under the seal thereof.

SEC. 20.—Any clerk failing to make return of any writ
to the Supreme Court shall be liable to be punished by such
court, on attachment, for his contempt, in the same manner
as oilicers of other courts for disobeying the process or orders
of such courts.

SEC. 21.—All appeals taken thirty days before the first
day of the next term of the Supreme Court, shall be returnable in such next term; and all appeals taken in less than
thirty days before the first day of such next term, shall be
returnable in the second term thereafter. The appellant
shall cause to be filed in the oilice of the clerk of the Supreme Court, at least fifteen days before the term of such
court to which the appeal is returnable, a perfect transcript
of the record and proceedings in the cause: if he fail so to
do, -and the appellee produce in court such transcript, and it
appear thereby that an appeal has been allowed in the cause,
the court shall affirm the judgment, unless good cause to the
contrary be shown.

SEC. 22.—It shall be the duty of the clerk to docket all
causes from the same judicial circuit, in succession, in the
order of the circuits, setting not more than five causes for each
day, and a copy of the docket shall be printed in some newspaper, at least ten days before the commencement of the term.

SEC. 23.—On appeals and writs of error, the appellant
and plaintiil' in error shall assign errors on or before the first
day on which causes from the same circuit are set for hearing; in default of such assignment of errors, the appeal or
writ of error may be dismissed, or the judgment affirmed,
unless good cause for such failure be shown.

SEC. 24. —Joinders in error shall be filed within four days
after the filing of the assignment of error.

SEC. 25.—If there be several appellants or plaintifffs in
error, and one or more of them die before errors are assigned, such death shall be suggested by the surviving plaintiffs, and the errors shall be assigned by them; and if one or
more of several defendants die before joinder in error, such
death shall, in like manner, he suggested by the survivor,
and they shall plead to the assignment of errors.

SEC. 26.—If there be several appellants or plaintifffs in
error, and one or more of them die after errors assigned, or
if there be several appellees or defendants in error, one or
more of whom shall die after errors assigned, the appeal or
writ of error shall not thereby abate, but in either of such
cases such death shall be suggested on the record, and the
cause shall proceed at the suit of the surviving appellant or
plaintifff in error, or against the surviving appellee or defendant in error, as the case may be.

SEC. 27.—If all the appellants or plaintifffs in error die
after the appeal taken, or writ of error brought, and before
judgment rendered thereon, the executors or administrators
of the last surviving plaintifff or appellant, or the heirs and
devisees of the plaintifff andoappellant, in cases where they
would be entitled to bring writs of error, may be substituted
for such plaintifffs, and the cause shall proceed at their suit.

SEC. 28.—If all the appellees or a sole appellee, or if all
the defendants or a sole defendant, in a writ of error, die,
after the appeal taken, or writ of error brought, and before
judgment therein, the executors and administrators, or heirs
and devisees, of such appellees or defendants, may be compelled to become parties, and join in error, in like manner
as in an original suit.

SEC. 29.—If a female appellant, or plaintifff in error,
marry after the appeal taken, or writ of error brought, her
husband may be joined with her, on his application, and his
name shall thereupon be entered in the proceedings.

SEC. 30.—If a female appellee, or defendant in error,
marry after the appeal taken, or writ brought, and before
judgment, her husband may be made a co-defendant, on his
application, or the application of the adverse party. 7 ‘

SEC. 31.—Persons may be substituted as parties, or com-1

on the amount of the judgment complained of, as may be
just.

SEC. 37.—When the Supreme Court shall be divided in
opinion, the judgment or decision of the circuit court shall
be amrmed.

SEC. 38. — The Supreme Court, upon the determination of
any cause in appeal or error, may award execution to carry
the same into eii‘ect, or may remit the record, with their
decision thereon, to the court from whence the cause came,
and such determination shall be carried into execution by
such court.

SEC. 39.—It shall be the duty of the Supreme Court to
frame and promulgate, and, from time to time, as may be
needful, change rules, prescribing what parts or portions of
depositions, papers, records, entries, returns, process and
other proceedings, belonging to a cause, as may not be necessary to the proper adjudication of any question arising upon
appeal or writ of error, may be omitted from the record to
be prepared and forwarded by the clerk of the proper court
below to the Supreme Court, in cases taken or brought to
such court, by appeal or writ of error.

Approved December 12, 1855.


