.A.a Act to •tabUah Clroalt Courtw, to define their Jamc11ot:1on, an4 to rep·
Ja.te the practioe therein. 
1. Or Juorcu.L DtsTarCTs.
.AaT. 
1. J"udicial Districts established. 
BBCT. 2. EST.HLtRWIENT ABD Tnxs or 
COURT. 
2. Terms or the Circuit Courts.
. 3. Process ~turnable, when terms 
changed.
-'· Special terms, how ordered 
6. Proceeding, if Judge unable to at­
tend. 
6. Ir Judge absent, Court kept open
four days. 
S&CT. 3. Or T1l1I JuooL 
., ; Election and qualification.
tl. Judges may alternate.
9. Writs grant.able by. 
10. May take Ca&EI under advisement.
11. To cause jails to be inspected.
12. Proceeding, when Judge disquali- 
fied.
13. Further provision.
14. Snbpcena d,~u tecu111 in vacation. 
15. Judges to be conae"ators of the
peace. 
81:CT. 4 .. OJ.BllltS. 
16. Election and qualification. 
17. May appoint Deputies.
18. To deliver office to auccesaor, 
l 9. Seal provided and kept.
20. Issue dockets made out.
21. Separate State docket made out.
22. Appearance and subpoena dockets.
23. Minutes kept, read and signed.
24.. Final records made up.
25. Papera in a cause kept together.
26. Court to control proceedings in 
Clerk's oftlee.
27. Allowance to suppl1 the ollce.
28. Report of fines, &c. 
8SOT. 6. JuRI&DIOTIOlf. 
29. General jurisdiction.
30. Motions for money collected.
31. Judgments given, and executions 
awarded.
32. In what county suits brought.
33. When le81 than $50 is recovered.
34. Where suit brought, when J udge a 
party. ·
35. When no discontinuance.
36. Infant to sue by next friend. 
CHAPTER LXI . 
37. Power to fine and impriaon • 
38. Jail and·Jailer. 
39. Sheriff' to attend the Oourt.
40. Rules of practice. 
41. Cha,ige of names, and adoption or
heirs. 
6. p ABTIU TO ACTIONS • 
42. ABlignee of chose in action. 
43. N on-joinder or misjoinder of plain­
tiff's. 
44. N on-joioder or misjoinder of de­ 
fendan ts.
45. Attorney to state the abode or 
. plaintifff'.
46. Actions of trespass shall survive.
4 7. Such actions survive against exectr 
tors, &c. 
48. Action for injuries resulting in death,
49. Revival of suit, on death of party.
50. Deo.th of nominal plaintifff' not to 
abate suit.
51. Death of one or several parties.
52. defendant af'ter judg- 
ment.
53. Revival in suits by or against hus­ 
band aod wire. 
7. S80UBITY roa CosTS, BTO. 
M. Security required before 1nit
brought. 
55. Motion for seeurit1 after nit
brought. 
66. Security, how given, and eft'ect.
57. Usee, when to give eecarity.
58. Dismiaaal for want of proaecution. 
S11CT. 8. Or PROOD&.
59. Imprisonment for debt abolished. 
60. Style and issuance of process.
61. First process to be a summons. 
62. When served and returnable.
63. Sheriff' to mark, and return proeeas,
64. Manner of service •.
65. Reto rn may be disproved.
66. Duplicate writs to other counties.
67. Alias or testatum writ, or attach­ 
ment.
68. Name or usee, when endorsed on 
process.
69. Process good, though not directed.
70. Amendment of process.
71. When Sheriff' kept oft' by force.
72. Return of second proeess, when first 
executed.
· 73. Service of sci. fa. and publication. 
74. In penal actions, title of Act en­
dorsed. 
75. When Justice of Peace to serve
process. 
76. Wlien third person may be ap­
pointed. 
77. Proof 6f delivery to Sheriff'. 
SBOT, 9. PLKADIMG. 
78. Declaration, what to contain. 
79. In suits on penal bonds. 
80. Ctoae to be de11Cribed in trespaas, 
81. Performance of conditions precedent. 
82. Judgment of special jurisdiction.
83. Private statute, how pleaded. 
84. Right of private way, pleaded.
85. Declaration for libel or slander. 
86. Distinction between trespass and
case abolished. 
87. Statement of venue.
88. Place of date of written instrument.
89. Names or parties, how stated.
90. Copy of writing or account, filed.
91. Copy filed of writing of which pro­ 
fert is required.
92. J oinder of causes or action by hus- 
band and wife. 
93. Form of pleas and other pleadings.
94. Several pleas in abatement. 
95. bar. 
96. Evidence in mitigation in slander, 
etc.
97. Notice of special matter under 
general issue. 
98. Set-off' under plea of payment:
99. On mutual dealings, the ha.lance to 
be the debt.
100. Paymeni at or after the day.
101. Items of set-off to be flied.
102. Consideration of eealed instrument 
impeached.
103. General iaaue and notice in penal 
· actions.
104. Disclaimer and tender of amends. 
105. Several replications, &c.
106. Similiter not required.
107. Costs on interlocutory judgments.
108. Causes of demurrer to be assigned.
109. Judgment for plaintifff on demurrer 
to narr. 
110. Judgment on demurrer to plea.
111. Frivolous clemorrer struck out.
112. No joinder required. 
113. Proceeding in action of account.
114. Express color, and special traverse 
abolished. 
115. Pleading8 to be signed.
116. Defects on special demurrer cured
117. Pleadlnga to be made certain. 
118. Irrelevant matter struck out.
119. Allegations not traversable, 
omitted. 
AaT.
120. Formal defense, and leave of 
Court, not necessary.
121. Formal commencement and con­ 
clusion unnecessary.
10. CBANGB or VzmrE. 
122. Change of venue obtained.
123. Papers, bow transmitted. 
124. Received, examined and filed.
125. Venue changed but once. 
11. OF J UBORS. 
126. Penooa competetlt as Jurors.
127. --- exempt from JuryserTice.
128. Grand Jurors, how appointed.
129. How summoned.
130. Impannelled and sworn.
131. No exception to Grand Juror after 
sworn.
132. Defect or absence of Grand l urors, 
supplied.
133. Grand J urers fined for misconduct. 
134. Foreman to swear witnesses.
136. Assessor to make annual list · of 
Jurors.
136. List recorded,aod names deposited.
137. Jurors, how drawn in open Court.
138. How drawn in vacation. 
139. Names kept until all have been
drawn. 
140. J urors summoned and returned.
141. Defect or absence of Jury, supplied, 
142. No challenge to array, nor venire 
quashed. ·
143. Petit Jurors, bow sworn. 
144. Compensation of Jurors. 
145. Petit Jurors, how paid.
146. Grand Jurors, Balift's,&c., bow paid.
147. Jury tax imposed.
148. Clerk to report to the Treasurer. 
149. Jury certificates not received with­
12. TRIAL. 
150. Causes, when triable.
151. Affidavit for conuouaoce.
152. Oballenges.
153. To.lesmen summoned. 
154. Jury d, mediatate lingua.
155. Jurors sworn as wit.nesaee. 
156. Officer not to converse with Juror~
157. Papen carried out by Jury.
158. Interpreters. 
159. Non-suit before Jory retire.
160. Non-suit or dismissal in vacation.
161. Charge or Judge to Jury.
162 Bills of exception.
163. -- in criminal cases.
164. When signed by counsel.
165. New trials. 
166. Granting or refusing, assigned for 
error. 
A.aT. 
167. Trial before the Court.
168. Decision, how to be stated.
169. New trials, writs or error, etc, 
liO. Cause referred to referees.
171. -- involTing matter of account. 
172. Exceptions to report of Referees.
173. Powers of Refereea. 
3. bTSRPLliDD A.T LA.W. 
17t. When subject of action, claimed 
by third party.
175. Sheriff's entitled to this remedy.
176. Plaintiff' in execution admitted de­ 
fendant.
177. Service on attorney of uon-resi­ 
dent. 
SzcT. U. Ona or 8A.TISHOTION. 
178. Defendant may off'er amend1. 
SBCT. 16. BJDODIA.L 0BDSB8. 
1 'Z9. Property in controversy protected.
Sscr. 16. AKBNDKDT .AND Jsoun.s. 
lRO. Amendments allowed.
181. Certain defecta cured.
182. Y ariance, when material. 
183. When one of several counts is
faulty. 
184. Omission of value in detinae.
185. Judgment by confession, a release 
of error.
186. Errors in records, bow corrected.
187. Excesa, when remitted.
188. Release made in Appellate Court.
189. This section to appfy to all Oo11rts. 
SBCT. 17. Or EvmucL
190. Parties and persons interested, 
competent witnesses. ·
191. Conviction, except for perjury, no 
disqualification.
)92. Competency of Indians and ne- 
groes.
193. Husband and wife.
194. Subpmoa, how issued. · 
195. W itnelSea before Commi&sioller&,
Referees, &c. 
196. Sabpmna, bow served.
197. Attachment for non-appearance.
198. Fine for non-attendance.
199~ 8ubpamu in criminal cases.
200. Compensation or witnesses.
201. In criminal cases.
202. Row paid \Jy the State.
203. Io case of escape of prisoner.
204. When certitlcate to be obtained.
205. Witnesses before the Legislature. 
206. .Affirmation, and form t~ereof. 
ART·.
207. Persons refuling to testify, to be 
committed.
208. Examination as to interest or 
crime.
209. Depositions. in what cases.
210 • .A ffldavit filed, before commi88ion. 
211. Notice to be given. ·
212. Interrogatories to non-resident 
witnesses.
213. Service if party a non-resident. 
214. Commission, to whom directed.
21~. Deposition, how taken and re-- 
turned.
216. , how tar evidence.
217. Bubpcenas for witnesses.
218. Examination continaed.
219. Sheriff', &c., to se"e notice, &c.
220. Female not to attend as witness.
221. Objections to depositions, how 
taken.
222. Who may administer oaths.
223. A ffldavit by agent or attorney.
224. Private acts of Legislature.
225. Statute laws of other States. 
226. Courts to take notice of State laws. 
227. Foreign deeds, records, &c.
228. Recorded deeds, and other writings.
229. Land certificates.
230. Copies or land office records and 
files.
231. Copies of entries, and patents.
232. Field notes and maps of land.
233. Copies of bonds of officers.
234. -- of writings filed in other 
Courts.
235. Officers authorized to certify copies.
236. Copies or writings furnished to - 
party.
237. Signature, &c., when need not be 
proved.
238. Partnership, when need not be· 
proved.
239. Io suits by corporations for calls on 
stock.
240. Dishonor of bills and notes, Low 
proved•
241. Publication~ how proved. 
242. How such proof obtained.
243. Fees allowed therefore.
244. Commissioners of other States.
246. Such Commissioner to be sworn.
246. Fee or Secretary for commi88ion.
247. Discovery in aetions at law.
248. Proceedings to obtain tiiscovery.
249. Proceeding reviewed on error.
260. Penalty tor false petition or answer.
251. Answer. bow far evidence.
252. Presumption or death. 
18. Or J UDGDNTB. 
253. J adgment. b7 defaalt, and write or
inquiry. 
254. Judgment on bonds for money.
255. Succeasf ul party lo recover costs. 
A.RT. 
256. Certain eases excepted.
257. Office confession of judgment.
258. Docketed, and made final. 
259. Fees in such cases.
260. Judgment.a to be enrolled. 
261. Lien of judgment.a enrolled.
262. Abstracts recorded and enrolled 
out or the county.
263. Abstracts of judgments or other 
than Circuit Ooarts, how re­
corded and enrolled. 
26'. Copy from judgment roll evidence. 
8.SOT. 19. 01' Enovno ...
265. Clerk to iaaue neeuti.ona. 
266. Within what time iaaued.
267. How iseued and returned.
268. Execution docket.
269. Several executiona. Death of one 
defendant.
270 .. Lien or esecutions.
271. Land not levied on, if personalty 
found.
272. When 1lavea not levied on.
273. Name of slave to be returned.
274. Slaves and stock supported.
275. Bond of indemnity required.
276. Remedy on such bond.
277. Sales, how advertised and made.
278. Sale ad)oumed, or continued. 
2i9. Veoditaoni exponaa.
280. Personal property exempt. 
281. Homestead exempted.
282. How set. otr. 
283. Surplus ohaluation paid b1 debtor. 
284. No exemption as to certain debts. 
285. Money and stock, how subjected.
286. -- restored on injunction. 
287. Property fraudulently conveyed,
bow reached. 
288. Rent paid before remonl of gooos. 
289. Distringae in detinue, superseded.
290. Sheriff's deed ior land aold. 
291. Undivided interest, how sold.
292. Vend. exp. after death of officer. 
293. Property seized thereon. 
29'- Distress for rent not afl'ected by
this act. 
295. Claim of property, afflda'rit and
bond. 
296. Execution stayed for value of pro- 
Of J adicial Distriets. 
. perty. 
297. Default in making up issue.
298. Proceedings on triaf.
299. Ju~ment and execution.
300. Revival on death of party.
301. J.udgment, when claimant has no 
representative.
302. Proceedin~ on death of aarety.
303. New secanty, when required. 
304,. Execuuons, and return of &nes, &e. 
305. Remedy against sheriff's and others.
306. Clerk to report and pay over fioee. 
307. Certificate of Auditor, &c., evi­
dence. 
308. Proceedings aga.inlt officen. 
309. Duty or District Attorney in respect to fines. 
310. Discharge of prisoner as insolvent.
311. Property disposed or.
312. Penalty for false schedule.
314. Uarniahment after judgment.
314. Property bound by serviee. 
SECTION L 
SEC. 1. For the purpose of establishing circuit courts, the Stau,
shall be divided into ten judicial dumi.ct.s, as follows, to wit: 
1. The first district shall be composed of the counties of Adams,
Amite, Claiborne, Franklin, Jefferson, and Wilkinson. 
2. The second district shall be composed of the counties of Copiah, 
Covington, Lawrence, Marion, Pike, and Simpson. ·
8. The third district shall be composed of the counties of Bolivar, 
Coahoma, Issaquena, Tunica, Warren, and Washington. 
4. The fourth district shall be composed of the counties of Hinds, 
Jasper, Newton, Rankin, Scott, and Smith.
5. The fifth district shall be composed of the counties of Attala, 
Holmes, Leake, Madison, and Yazoo.
6. The sixth district shall be composed of the counties of Kemper, 
Lowndes, Neshoba, Noxubee, Octibbeha, and Winston.
7. The seventh district shall be composed of the oounties of De Soto, 
Lafayette, Marshall, Panola, and Tippah.
8. The eighth district shall be composed of the counties of Clark, 
Green, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Jones, Lauderdale, Perry, and 
Wayne. 
9. The ninth district shall be composed of the counties of Chickasaw, Ittawamba, Monroe, Pontotoc, and Tishomingo. . 
10. The tenth district shall be composed of the counties of Calhoun,
Carroll, Choctaw, Sunflower, Tallahatchie, and Yalobusha. 
SEC. 2. A Court to be styled "The Circuit Court of the County of
---," shall be held in each county of this State, twice in every 
year, and shall commence at the times, and continue for the number
of judicial days hereinafter specified, if business shall so long require, 
to wit: 
Establishment and Terms of the Court. 
lat. For fk First Judicial District. 
In the county of Franklin, on the third Monday of March and Sep.
iember, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Claiborne, on the first Monday after the fourth
ltonday of March and September, and continue eighteen daye. 
In the county of Jefferson, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Adams, on the sixth Monday aft.er the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Amite, on the ninth Monday after the fourth Mon­
day of March and September, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Wilkinson, on the eleventh Monday after the
fourth Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Pike, on ihe first Monday of llarch and Septem- 
ber, and continue twelve days. · 
In the county of Marion, on ihe third Monday of March and Sep­
tember, and continue six days. · 
In the county of Covington, on the fourth Monday of Maroh and
September, and continue six days. . 
In the county of Simpson, on ~e second Monday of April and 
October, and continue six days. .
In the county of Copiah, on the third Monday of April and Octo­ 
ber, and continue twenty-four days.
In the county of Lawrence, on the third Monday of May and 
November, and continue twelve days. 
8. For IAe Third lNtrid.
In the county of Tunica, on the second Monday of April and Octo­ 
ber, and continue six days. 
In the county of Coahoma, on ,he third Monday of April and Octo­ 
ber, and continue twelve days. 
In the count1 of Bolivar, on the first Monday of May and November,
and continue six days. 
In the county of Washington, on the second Monday of May and
November, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Issaquena, on the fourth Monday of May and
November, and continue six days. · 
In the county of Warren, on the first Monday of June and Decem­
ber, ~d continue forty days. 
4. For tk F()U,rth JJutrict. 
In the county of Smith, on the fourth Monday of February and
August, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Jasper, on the second Monday of March and Sep­
tember, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Newton, on the fourth Monday of March and Sep­
tember, and continue six days. 
In the count,Y of Scott, on the second Monday of April and October,
and continue SIX days. 
In the county of Rankin, on the· third Monday of April and October,
and continue eighteen days. · · 
In the county of Hinds, on the second Monday of May and N ovem­
ber, and continue thirty-six days; and in case an epidemic shall
prevail at the place of holding said court, the judges shall have power
to adjourn from week to week, until the disappearance of the disease, 
and the court shall then be held thirty-six days, as aforesaid. 
5. For the Fifth District; 
In the county of Madison, on the third Monday of January and
July, and continue t~enty-four days. 
In. the county of Leake, on the third Monday of February and
August, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Attala, on the first Monday of Maroh and Septem­
ber, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Holmes, on the fourth Monday of April and
October, and continue twenty-four days. 
In the county of Yazoo, on the fourth Monday of May and N ovem­
ber, and continue thirty-six days. 
6. For the Si:rJJ,, District. 
In the county of Kemper, on the last Monday of February and
August, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Neshoba, on the seoond Monday of March and
September, and continue six days. 
In the oountj' of Winston, on the third Monday of Maroh and Sep
tember, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Noxubee, on the first Monday after the fourth
Monday in March and· September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Lowndes, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday o,f March and September, and continue twenty-four days. 
In the county of Octibbeha, on the eighth Monday after the fourth
Monday in March and September, and continue twelve days. 
7. For the Seventh Diatrict. 
In the county of Tippah, on the first Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. . 
In the county of Marshall, on the fourth Monday of March and
September, and continue twenty-four days. . 
In the county of Lafayette, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Panola, on the seventh Monday after the fourth
Monday in March and Septem her, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county ·of De Soto, on the tenth Monday .after the fourth Mon­
day of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
8. For tM Eighth Diatrid..
In the county of Greene, on the first Monday of March and Septem­ 
ber, and continue six days. 
In the county of Perry, on the second Monday of March and Sep­
tember, and continue six days. 
In the county of Jones, on the third Monday of March and Septem­
ber, and continue six days. 
In the county of Wayne, on the fourth Monday of March and
. September, and continue six days. 
In the county of Clarke, on the second Monday of April and
October, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Lauderdale, on the fourth Monday of April and
October, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Jackson, on the third Mqnday of May and November, and continue six days. . 
In the county of Harrison, on the fourth Monday of May and
November, and continue twelve days. ' 
In the county of Hancock, on the second Monday aft.er the fourth
Monday of May and November, and continue twelve days. . 
9. FM the Ninth Di'strict.
In the county of Itawamba, on the first Monday of March and 
· September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Tishomingo, on the fourth Monday of March and
· September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Pontotoc, on the third Monday after the fourth 
Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Chickasaw, on the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Monroe, on the ninth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue forty-two days. 
10. For the Tenth .Distnct. 
In the county of Calhoun, on the second Monday of March and
September, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Choctaw, on the fourth Monday of March and
September, and continue twelve days. 
In the county of Carroll, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue eighteen days. 
In the county of Yalobusha on the fifth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and oontinue eighteen days. 
In the county of Tallahatchie, on the eighth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September and continue six days. 
In the county of Sunflower, on the ninth Monday after the.fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue six days. 
SEC. 3. When the time or place ,r holding any circuit or other
court, shall be changed by law, all writs and t~~ issued before the 
act making such change shall take effect, s be, and are hereby
declared to be, returnable at the time and place to which the holding 
of said court shall be changed. And all bonds, recognizances and
other obligations for the appearance of any person, or the performance
of any thing before such court, shall have the same force and effect,
as if the same required the appearance of such person,or the perform­
ance of such thing at the time and place to which the term of such
court shall be changed by such act. 
SEC. 4. When the business of any circuit court may require, the
judge, in term time or vacation, may order a special term to be held,
and such order shall be entered on the minutes, or if made in vacation,
on the minutes of such special term. No special term shall be held 
in a shorter time than thirty days from the dare of the order, and the
clerk shall give twenty days notice of the time of holding the same,
in some newspaper published in the county, or if there be no such
paper, then by advertisement for the like time put up at the court­
house door, and at three other public places in the county.; but no
failure or irregularity in givin~ such notice, shall affect the validit.y of
any judgment or proceeding given or had at such special term. 
On receiving such order, the clerk and sheriff shall meet at the
court-house, and publicly draw the number of jurors required for a
regular term of said court, and a venire f acia, shall issue, and the
sheriff shall summon the jurors so drawn to appear at such special
term, and shall also summon a grand jury in the manner directed by
law. The court shall empannel a grand jury, and shall have full juris­
diction to hear and determine all civil and criminal business, in the
same manner 88 at a regular term. Parties and witnesses shall be 
bound to attend, and witnesses duly subpoenaed, or bound by recogni­
zance, shall be subject to the same penalties for failure to attend, as if 
such failure had occurred at a regular term. ·
SEC. 5. If the judge of the district, having ordered such special 
Jenn, shall be unable to hold the same, he shall notify the judge of
some other district, who shall thereupon attend and hold such term,
unless it shall conflict with some term in his own district. 
SEC. 6. If the judge shall be absent ~t the time appointed for hold­ 
ing any regular or special term, the sheriff may adjourn the court
from day to day for four days, and if the judge shall not appear by
twelve o'clock at noon on the fifth day, the court shall stand adjourned. 
for the term. 
Of the Judge. 
SEC. 7 The judges of the circuit courts shall be chosen by the
qualified el~rs of their respective districts, in the manner prescribed 
bylaw.
They shall be commissioned by the governor, and shall hold their 
office& for the term of four years, and until their successors shall be
qualified. 
SEC. 8. The judges may alternate, and make temporary changes
of their circuits, whenever the public interest may require. 
SEC. 9. The said judges shall have power, in term time or vacation,
to allow writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, certiorari, error, super­
sedeas, and attachment, returnable to any circuit, or other court in
the State, and to grant writs of injunction and ne exeat, and all other
remedial writs or process, whenever the same may be properly granted,
whether the suit be pending within the district of said judge or not;
and the fiat of said judge shall authorize the issuance of any such
writ, or process, returnable to the court where the same may be cog­
nizable. They may also grant writs of error and supersedeas in cases
of misdemeanor and felony, under the restrictions provided by law. 
SEC. 10. The judge of any circuit court may take a case under
advisement until the next term. If an issue of fact be involved, the
judge before taking it under advisement, shall on notice to each
party, cause the. testimony on both sides to be reduced to writing,
and signed by- him. At the next term the judge shall deliver his
opinion in wnting, and the testimony so reduced to writing, and the
said opinion, shall be a part of the record without a bill of exceptions,
and either party prosecuting a writ of error, may avail himself of all 
questions arising upon the record. 
SECTION III. 
SEC. 11. The said judges shall from time to time, cause the jails in
lheir districts to be inspected by the grand jury, and a report to be
made of the condition thereof; and if it shall appear that the sheriff
or jailer has neglected or violated his duty, in the manner of keeping
the jail, or of keeping or furnishing any prisoner therein, or otherwise,
the court may fine him as for a contempt, not exceeding fifty dollars,
for the use of the county. 
SEC. 12. When the judge by reason of interest, or other cause,
shall be incompetent to sit in any case before him, the same shall be
heard and determined, as well upon interlocutory proceedings as at
the trial or final hearing, in the following manner, to wit : 
The parties shall select some member of the bar, or in default 
thereof, the judge shall name four disinterested members of the bar, 
from whom he shall cause one to be chosen by lot, and thereupon the
judge shall retire from the bench for the time, and the member of the
bar so selected shall take bis place, and hear and determine the cause. 
The proceedings shall be entered as if the same were had before the
circuit judge, who shall sign the decrees and orders, if necessary to be
signed, and the records, minutes and proceedings shall be and appear
in all respects as if the cause had been heard and determined before
the said circuit judge. . 
SEC. 13. Or the judge in such case may give notice thereof to the
judge of another district, and require him to attend and hold a term 
of the court where such suit may be depending, or such part thereof
as may be necessary; and the judge so notified shall attend and hold
such term, provided the same does not conflict with any term to be
held in the district to which he belongs. · 
SEC. 14. The judges of the circuit courts may, in vacation, order
writs of subpoena duce» tecum, in the same manner as if allowed in
open court. 
SEC. 15. The judges of the circuit courts shall be conservators of
the peace within their respective districts, with full power to take
informations against persons charged with offenses, to issue process
against them, to . take the examination of parties accused, and of the
witnesses against' them, to commit offenders for trial, to take sureties
for their appearance in bailable cases, to take sureties for the peace, 
and to, do all other acts which conservators of the peace may law­
fully do. 

SEC. 16. The clerks of the circuit courts shall be chosen by the
qualified electors of their respective counties, in the manner prescribed
by law, Every such clerk, before he enters upon the duties of his
office, shall take the oath of office, and enter into bond in the sum of
ten thousand dollars, with two or more good sureties, conditioned according to law. . 
And the clerk may be required to give an additional bond, from
time to time, for the faithful application of all monies coming into his
hands by law, or order of the court; and the clerk shall be allowed
one half of one per cent. commissions, on all such sums so deposited,
and for the faithful application of which, he may be required to give
an additional bond, to be retained by him out of such sums of money. 
SEC. 17. The said clerks shall have power, with the approbation of
the court, or of the judge in vacation, to appoint deputies, who shall 
take the oath of office, and who thereupon shall have power to do and
perform all the acts and duties which their principals may lawfully do;
such approval, when given by the judge in vacation, shall be in writ­
ing, and shall be entered on the minutes of the court at the next term, 
SEC. 18. When the office of clerk of any court shall expire, or
become vacant, the said clerk, or any person having the records,
papers, books, and stationery, or any thing belonging to said office,
shall deliver the same to the successor in the office, whoseduty it is 
hereby declared to be, to demand and receive the same; and in case ot 
a refusal, or detention of the same, or of any part thereof, after demand
made, the court may compel the delivery thereof by fine. and impris­
onment, at dieoretion, for contempt of court, and the court, 'or judge 
in vacation, may brder process to be issued for the seizure' of such
records, papers, books, stationery, and other things, and for the de· 
livery thereof to the sucoeseof in the said office. 
SEC. 19. The clerk of every circuit court shall procure and keep,
at the expense of the county, a . seal, with the style of the court
around the margin, and an 'eagle in the centre. 
SEC. 20. Before every term of the circuit court, the clerk shall
make out two dockets, one for the court and one for the bar, in which
he shall enter all causes at issue, .upon matter of law or fact, and all 
cases in-which a judgment by default shall have been entered, in the 
order they stand in the. course of proceeding, and he shall, under the
control of the court, apportion such causes for each day of the term,
commencing with the first day, and proceeding so far in the term as
the number of suits may require. Subpcenaa shall be made re­
turnable on the day for which the cause may be set, and no cause
shall be taken up for trial. before that day, except by consent. The 
court shall take up the causes in the order in which they stand on the
docket, and each cause shall be tried or continued, or set for trial on
a future day, before proceeding to the trial of any other cause, except 
by consent. · · . 
SEC. 21. The clerk shall also make out at each term, a separate
docket -of all cases in which the State, .or any county shall be a party,
~nd of all indictments, presentments, informations or other proceed- 
ings, in the name, or on ·behalf of the State: 
SEC. 22. Said clerk shall also keep an ap~rance docket, in which
he shall enter all suits in the order in which they are commenced,
with the date of such eommencement. He shall also keep a sub­
poena docket, in which he shall keep an account of all witnesses
who may be absent when the cause in which they may have been
subpoenaed, is called for trial, and no such absentee shall be entitled to 
receive any compensation for his a"'ttendance at that term of the court;
and if any witness shall disqualify himself from ~ving testimony,
by being intoxicated when such cause is to be tried, he shall no, 
be entitled to compensation at such term, and in neither case shall the
clerk issue any certificate. to such witness. 
SEC. 28. The minutes of the proceedings of the court on each day,
shall be drawn up by the clerk m the minute book, against the next
sitting of the court, when the same shall be read in open court, and
when corrected, if necessary, they shall be signed by the judge. The
proceedings of the last day shall be drawn up, read, and signed before
the adjournment of the court, 
SEC. 24. Within three months after the final determination· of any
suit, or if an appeal, or writ of error shall have been taken, then
within three months after receiving a certificate of the affirmance of
the .judgment, the clerk shall enter in well bound booksto be kept 
for the purp<>!l6, a full and complete record of all the proceedings 111 
such amt, and on failure so to do, such clerk, on such failure being
notified to the court, may be fined twenty dollars for each case in 
which he shall have miled to make such record, to be paid into the 
county treasury ; and he shall also be liable in damages to any party
injured. Parties to suits shall at all times have a right to inspect the
books and records, in presence of the clerk, to see if such records have
been duly made up; and the clerk shall show the said books and
records accordingly, under the penalty of fifty dollars, to be recovered
by and for the use of the person so applying, and refused. But no
final record shall be made of any suit dismissed by the parties, or by
the court, without a judgment on the merits, or abated or non-suited, 
SEC. 25. All the pleadings, writs, proofs, and other papera relating
to any cause in court, shall be filed together by the clerk, and care- 
full y preserved in his office. · 
SEC. 26. The court shall have control over all j.rooeedings in the
clerk's office during the preceding vacation, an ·may_ correct any
errors or mistakes therein, and may set aside any of said proceedings, 
and make such order therein as may be just and proper,' and may for
good cause shown, reinstate any cause discontinued during such
vacation. 
SEC. 27. The circuit courts shall make, allowance to the clerks
thereof of all needful sums for supplying the officeCJ and court rooms, 
with necessary furniture, books, presses, seals and o~er things neces­
sary for the same, and for the safe keeping of the books, records sad
papers belonging thereto, and on such allowance being certified to the
county treasurer, he shall pay the same out of 1my money·· in the
treasury. not otherwise appropriated. 
SEC. 28. Every clerk of a court within this- State, shall, within one
month after the adjournment of such court, make out and certify to
the auditor of public aecounts, or county treasurer, as the case may
require, a statement of all fines, amercements and :penalties, which
shall have been imposedassessed, or recovered in his court, at such
term, specifying therein the names of the persons,. the amount of the
fines, amercements and penalties, and the offenses for which the same
were assessed.
SEC. 29. The circuit courts of the several counties in this State,
shall have original jurisdiction of all suits and actions for the recovery
of money, founded on any bond, covenant, bill, promimK>ry note,
agreement, or other contract, or on any open account, when the prin­
cipal of the sum in controversy exceeds fifty dollars, and of all other
civil suits and actions, real, personal and mixed, and of all causes,
matters and things arising under the constitution and laws of this
State, which are not expressly cognizable in some other court esta­ 
blished by law; and also such appellate jurisdiction as may by law be
vested in such courts ; and such courts shall also have power to hear
and determine all prosecutions in the name · of the Stat.e, and all
indictments for treason, felonies, crimes and misdemeanors, oommitted
within their respective jurisdictions, except such as may be exclusively
cognizable before a justice of the peace, or in some other court of this
State, or of theUnited States; and also to hear and determine all such 
prcseeutions by information as may be authorized by law; and said
courts shall have all the powers belonging to a court of oyer and
terminer and general jail delivery, and may do and perform all other
acts properly pertaining to a circuit court of law. 
SEC. 30. The said courts shall have power to hear and determine
all motions against attorneys at law, sheriffs, coroners, and other
officers, for money collected or received as such, and not paid' over
on demand, to the party entitled to the same, and may give judgment
and a ward execution thereon. 
SEC. 31. The said courts may grant judgments according to the ·
principles and usages of law, in all cases cognizable before them, and
award executions, directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of any
county in the State; which shall be executed and returned according
to the command thereof: and said courts shall try all offenders in­
dicted or presented by the grand jury, and upon legal conviction of
the accused, by the verdict of a petit jury, or on confession of guilt in
open court, shall proceed to judgment, and award execution thereon
as the law directs. 
SEC. 32. All civil actions shall be commenced in the circuit court of 
the county in which the defendants, or any of them, may be found,
except where otherwise provided, and except actions of ejectment, and
actions of trespass quare elaueum freg·it, which shall be brought in the
county where the property is situated; and in such cases precess may 
be issued against the defendant to any other county; but if a free­
holder, resident in this State, shall be sued in any action, not local,
out of the county of his freehold and residence, the venue shall be
changed, on his application, to the county of his freehold and residence. 
SEC. 33. If a suit shall be brought in any circuit court for a less
sum than the court can take cognizance of, or if a greater sum than
is due shall be demanded, on purpose to evade this net, the plaintifff
shall be non-suited and shall pny costs; and if the plaintifff in any
other case, shall not recover more than fifty dollars, he shall not re·
cover any costs of the defendant, unless the judge shall be of opinion,
and so enter of record; that the plaintifff had reasonable ground to
expect to recover more than fifty dollars, or unless the court shall
have jurisdiction of the cause without respect to the amount in con·
troversy; but this article shall not apply to penal bonds, where the
penalty shall exceed fifty dollars. 
SEC. 84. If the judge of the court be a party to, or interested in 
any suit about to be commenced, such suit may be instituted in an
adjacent district, and the process may be issued to, and served in any
county where the defendants may be found. 
SEC. 85. If the court shall not be held at any term, or shall not con­
tinue to sit the whole term, or during the term shall not have heard.and
determined all matters standing for trial, then all suits and proceed·
ings remaining undecided, shall stand continued, of course, until the
next term; and if the .court shall not sit on. any day in the term, after 
itshall have commenced, there shall be no discontinuance, but the court
may proceed to business on any subsequent day, until the end of the 
rerm. ~ 
SEC. 86. In any case where such persons as be within age, may 
have cause of action, their next friend shall be admitted to sue for 
them, and such next friend shall be liable for the costs. 
SEC. 87. The circuit courts shall have power to fine and imprison
any person guilty of a contempt of the court while sitting, but such
fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars for each offense, nor shall
such imprisonment continue longer than the term of the court, and
ten days after the adjournment of the same. If any witness shall
refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or if any person shall refuse
to obey or perform any rule, order, or judgment of the court, such
court shall have power to fine at discretion, and to imprison such
person until he shall give evidence, or until the rule, order, or judgment shall be complied with. . 
SEC. 38. The jail of the county shall be the jail of the circuit court,
and the sheriff or keeper thereof, shall act as jailer for said court, and
shall attend its sessions, and be amenable to its authority, and obedient
to its lawful orders. 
Said sheriff or jailor shall take and keep in custody all persons
committed by the order or process of the circuit court, and all persons
committed by whatever lawful authority, for trial in such courts. . 
SEC. 89. The sheriff of the county in which the court shall sit,
shall be the sheriff of the circuit court, and ~11 attend the same with
a competent number of deputies orbailiffs, as the court may require,
and he shall execute all judgments rendered by such court, in any
criminal case, which are to be executed in the said county. 
SEC. 40. The circuit court shall have power to make and adopt
rules for the regulation of the practice, pleadings and proceedings
therein, not contrary to law. 
SEC. 41. The circuit courts shall have power upon the petition of any
person within their respective jurisdictions, to alter the name of such
person, to make legitimate any of his offspring not born in wedlock,
and to decree said offspring to be the heir, or joint heir, of the petitioner;
and any person who may desire to adopt any infant, and to change the
name of such infant, may present his petition for tliat purpose, to the
circuit court of the county in which he resides, or in which the infant may
reside, and shall state in said petition the name and age of such infant,
and the names of the parents or guardians, and their residence, if they be
living, the name proposed to be given to such infant, and that he has
obtained the consent of the parents, if living, or of the guardians,
if any there be, and of the infant if over fourteen years of age, to th.e
adoption and change of name as prayed for; and shall also stat.e in
said petition, what gifts, grants, bequests, or benefits he proposes to 
make or confer upon such infant; and the court shall hear the proofs,
and if satisfied that the allegations of the petition are true, and t.bat
the interest and welfare of such infant will be promoted by such
adoption, may decree that such child be adopted by the petitioner, and
that the name be changed to the name proposed, and that said infant
shall thereafter be called by that name; and that such infant, so adopted,
shall be entitled to all the benefits proposed by the petitioner \0 be
granted and conferred; and thereafter the said petitioner shall have
and exercise over such infant, all such power and control as parents
have over their own children. The infant . by next friend, and the
parents or guardians, may join in said petition, or they may volun­
tarily appear, and become parties thereto, otherwise the said infant
and the parents, or guardians, if living, and resident. in this State, shall
be summoned as required in personal actions. If the prayer of the 
petitioner be granted, in whole· or in part, the proceedings and decree
shall be recorded in the final record of judgments ; and the costs of the
proceedings shall in all cases be paid by the petitioner. 

SEC. 42. The assignee of any·chose in action may sue for and re· 
cover the same, in his own name, if the assignment be in writing. In· 
case of a transfer of interest after suit brought, the action shall be
continued in the name of the original party, or the court may al]o\v
the person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in the
action. No set-off or other defense existing at the· time of, or before
notice of the assignment, shall be prejudiced thereby. 
SEC. 43. The non-joinder or mis-joinder of a plaintifff shall not be
objected to by the defendant at the trial, unless he give written notice
thereof with his plea, or demurrer, stating the name of the person
alleged to have been omitted, or improperly joined; and the court
or judge at any time before the trial of the issue, whether of law or
fact, may allow the declaration and writ to be amended, by joining
the party so omitted, or striking out the party so improperly joined:
Provided, The party BO to be joined, or struck out, shall consent
thereto, and the court or judge may impose such terms, as may be 
thought proper. ·
SEC. 44. The n.on-joinder or- 'mis-joinder of a defendant in any 
action upon contract, shall not "be objected to on the trial of the
cause, without like notice being given of the intended objection ; and
upon such notice being given, the court, or judge, at any time before
the trial of the cause, may order, on such terms as may be thought
proper, that the name of one or more of the defendants, be added, or
struck out, if it shall appear that injustice will not be done by such
amendment. 
SEC. 45. Any attorney whose name is subscribed to, or endorsed
on any declaration, shall, on demand in writing, made by, or on behalf
of the defendant, declare forthwith in writing, whether the suit has
been brought by him, or with his authority, or privity, and also the
place of abode of the plaintifff; and if such attorney shall state that the
suit was not brought by him, or with his authority, or privity, or shall
refuse to declare the place of abode of the plaintifff; then no further
proceedings shall be taken in the action, without leave of the court. 
SEC. 46. Executors and administrators shall and may have an
action for any trespass done to the person or property, real or per­
sonal, of their testator, or intestate, against the trespasser, and recover
damages, in like manner, as their testator or intestate would have had
it Jiving ; and the money so recovered shall be assets, and accounted 
for "88 such. ·
SEC. 47. When any testator or intestate shall, in his lifetime, have 
committed any trespass to the person, or property, real or personal, of 
any person, such person, or his executor or administrator, shall have 
and maintain the same action against the executor or administrator of 
such testator or intestate, as he might have had or maintained against 
such testator or intestate, and shall have the like remedy and process
for the damages recovered in such actions, as sre had and allowed in 
other actions against executors and administrators.
SEC. 48. Whenevei: the death of an_y :person shall b~ caused by any 
- such wrongful or negligent act, or omission, as would if death had not
ensued, have entitled the party injured or damaged thereby, to main· 
tain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, and such
deceased person shall have left a widow or children, or both, or hus­
band, or father, the person or corporation, or both, that would have
been liable if death had not ensued, and the representatives of such
person, shall be liable for the damages, notwithstanding the death;
and the action may be brought in the name of the widow for the death
of her husband, or by the husband for the death of his wife, or by the
parent for the death of a child, or in the name of II child for the death
of an only P.arent; the damages to be for the use of such widow, hus­
band, or child, except that in case a widow should have children, the
damages shall be distributed as personal property of the husband.
And in like manner an owner may recover for the death of his slave. 
In every such action the jury inay give such damages as shall be fair
and just, with reference to the injury resulting from such death to the
person suing ; but every such action shall be commenced within one
year after the death of such deceased person. 
SEC. 49. When either of the parties to any suit shall die, before
final judgment, the executor or administrator of such deceased party,
either plaintifff or defendant, shall have full power, in case the cause
of action by law survive, to prosecute or defend such suit or action to
final judgment. And the court shall render judgment, for or against
such executor or administrator, in the same manner as if the original
party to the suit- or action were in existence ; and if such executor or
administrator, having been duly served with a ,ci,re facias, or citation,
five days before the meeting of the oourt, shall neglect or refuse to 
become a party to the suit, the court may proceed to render judgment
against him, in the same manner as if such executor or administrator 
had voluntarily made himself a party to the suit; and the executor or
administrator who shall become a party as aforesaid, shall be entitled 
to a continuance of the cause until the next term of the court; and
for the purpose of revival under any article of this act, the suit shall
be considered to have been commenced, and depending, from the time
of the filing of the declaration, whether the writ was- executed. before 
the death of the deceased party or not. ·
SEC. 50. If any suit shall be commenced in the name of any per· 
son, for the use and benefit of another, the same shall not abate by the
death of the nominal plaintifff, but shall progress to final judgment
and execution, in like manner as if brought in the name of the person
for whose use and benefit such suit was instituted, who shall be liable
for the costs of suit, as in other cases; and in case the party for whose
use and benefit a suit shall be brought, shall die before final judgment,
it shall be lawful for the party representing such deceased person, as
executor or administrator, to be entered oa the records and papers of
such suit, in the place of such deceased person. - 
SEC. 51. If there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants in any
suit, and one or more of them should die, if the oause of action should
survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the surviving 
defendant or defendants, the suit shall proceed in the name of the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving. defendant or
defendants; and where either party shall die between verdict and judg­
ment, such death shall not be suggested in abatement, but judgment
shall be entered as if both parties were living; and if on the death of
any plaintifff,.in -actions which survive, before verdict, the heir, legatee,
or devisee, executor, administrator, or other legal representave of such
deceased party, shall not appear, and become a party to such action,
on or before the second term of t.he court next aft.er the death of such 
~rty shall have been suggested on the record, such action shall be
ontinued, unless good cause be shown to the contrary. 
SEC. 52. When judgment shall have been rendered against two or
more persons, and any one or more of them shall die, such judgment!
shall survive as well against the representatives of the deceased parties. 
as against the survivor, and a scire faciai may issue against the survi­
vors, jointly with the representatives of the deceased parties, and
such judgment may be thereupon revived, and execution issued in 
like manner. 
SEC. 58. In all suits or actions by husband and wife, touching the
separate. property of the wife, or where the cause of action survives 
to the wij.e, if the husband shall die pending the suit, ·his death shall 
be suggested on the record, and the suit or action shall proceed 1n 
judgment in the name of the wife. . In case the wife shall die pending 
the suit, if the cause of action survives to the· husband, her death shall 
be suggested on the· record, and the cause shall proceed in the name
of the husband; and if the cause of action shall not survive to the
husband, but to the representatives of the wife, then on suggestion of
the death of the wife, the suit shall abate as to the husband, and may 
be revived and prosecuted in the name of the proper representatives
of the wife. And the like prooeedings shall be had in suits against
husband and wife; so far as the1 may be applicable. 
In like manner judgments m favor of husband and wife, may be 
revived in favor of the survivor, or the representatives of the party to
whom the cause of action would survive; and in case the husband or
wife shall die after judgment against them jointly, such judgment shall
survive as well against the representatives of the deceased, as against 
the survivor, and may be revived aooordingly. 

SEC. 54. The clerk of any court of record in this State may refuse
to file any bill or declaration, or to issue any original process, in cases 
where the plaintifff or complainant is a non-resident of the State, or
insolvent, unless security be first given for the payment of all costs
that may accrue in.such action; or unless the affidavit of the plaintifff;
if a citizen of this State, be filed, that he believes there is just cause
for the action, and that he is not able to pay the costs, or give security
for the same. 
SEC. 55. When any suit shall be commenced in any court of law
or equity in this State, the plaintifff or complainant may be required, 
on motion of the clerk, or any party interested, to give security for
all costs accrued or to accrue in such suit, within sixty days after an 
order of court made for that purpose: Provided; the party making
such motion shall make and file an affidavit, that such plaintifff or
complainant is a non-resident of the State, and has not sufficient pro­ 
perty in the State, out of which the costs can be made, if adjudged
against him ; or if the plaintifff or complainant be a resident of the
State, that he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that such
plaintifff or complainant w1ll not be able to pay the costs of such -suit, 
m case the same shall be adjudged against him; and if the security be 
not given the suit shall be dismissed, and execution issued for the
costs that have accrued, or the court may on cause shown, extend the 
time for giving such security. r . 
SEC. 56. Security for costs may be given by recognizance entered 
into in open court, or by a written undertaking endorsed on, or :filed
with the papers in the cause; and if the costs shall not be paid when
due, judgment shall be rendered by the court against said surety as
well as against the plaintifff or complainant, and execution issue as in
other case&. • 
SEC. 57. In suits brought in the name of the State, or of any officer
thereof, for the use and benefit of another person, such. usee may be 
required to give security for costs, in the same manner as plaintifffs in
other cases. 
SEC. 58. It. shall be lawful.for the clerk of any courtin the State,
to move the court to dismiss any cause pending therei~, in which no
step has been taken for the two terms next preceding the term at
which the motion is made; and the court shall, unless good cause be 
shown, dismiss the same, at the costs of the plaintifff or complainant. 

SEC. 59. No arrest or imprisonment for. debt shall be allowed ha 
any civil action in this State. 

SEC. 60. The style of all process shall be, "The State of Missm­ 
sippi," and it shall not be necessary that any process bear teste in
the name of e.ny judge, or ot any term of the court, but all process
shall be issued and signed by the clerk of the court, with the seal of
his office affixed, and shall bear date on the day on which the same
shall be issued, and· the date shall be prima f acie evidence of the time 
of' issuance; but may be disproved whenever the same shall come in
question ; and if any person shall antedate any original process, he
shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, to be 
recovered by action of debt, and shall also be liable to him for all
damages which he may sustain thereby, to be recovered in an action
of trespass on the case, with costs. 
SEC. 61. The first process in a civil action except where otherwise
provided, shall be a summons, directed to the sheriff of the county in.
which the action is instituted, commanding him to summon the de­
fendant to appear and answer the action, on the proper return day • 
SEC. 62. The summons shall be made returnable on the first day 
of the term, and shall be executed five days before the return day
thereof; and any such prooees issued within·five days before the return 
day, shall be made returnable to the next succeeding term of the
court, after that to be held within five days as aforesaid. 
SEC. 63. The sheriff shall mark on all process the day of the receipt
thereof by him, and he shall return the same on the return day, with
a written statement of his prooeedings thereon, and of his fees for
serving the same, and for failing to note the time of the receipt of
process, or to return the same in manner aforesaid, the sheriff shall
forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and
shall be liable for all damages, and the said court may enforce the
return of such process by fine and imprisonment for contempt: Pro­ 
vided, That whenever a sheriff of any county. shall receive from
another county, any writ or other process directed to him, he shall not 
be liable for a failure to return the same to the county from which the
same was issued, if he shall show by the certificate of any postmaster
of the county to which the said process is directed, or other competent
t.estimony to the satisfaction of the court, that he mailed the same in
the post-office, directed to the clerk of the circuit court, by whom the
same was issued, at least two days before the sitting of the court to
which the same was made returnable. 
SEC. 64. Original pr~ shall be served personally on the defend·
ant, if to be found, and a true copy thereof delivered to him ; if the
defendant cannot be found, such process may be served by leaving
such copy at his usual place of abode, with his wife, or some free white
person above the age of sixteen years, then and there being one of his 
family, or by leaving such copy at some public place, at. the dwelling­
house, or place of residence of the defendant, he being not found, and 
no such free white person being there willing to receive the same.
And if the defendant be & corporation, the process may be executed 
on the president, or other head of the corporation,· cashier, secretary,
or treasurer; assistant-secretary, or assistant-treasurer, agent, or any one
of the directors thereof or on such other person, or in such other
manner,~ the oourtmay direct. 
If he be an infant, under the age of twenty-one years, on the infant
personally, and on his father, mother, or guardian, if any he have in
this State. 
If be be judicially declared of unsound mind, on such defendant,
and on his committee or guardian, j..f any he have in this State. 
If he be imprisoned by the sentence or judgment of any court, then
by serving him with a copy, which service may be _made by the jailer,
or keeper of the prison, and shall be as good as if made by the sheriff: 
SEC. 65. The return of the officer serving any process, may in the
same action be shown to be untrue by either of the parties, but the
officer himself shall not be permitted to question its truth. 
SEC. 66. If any of the defendants reside in different counties from
that in which the suit is brought, original process may issue at the
same time to each county in which any of the defendants·reside, and
&he clerk shall endorse on each writ issued to another county than that 
in which the suit is brought, the names of the defendant.a upon whom
it is to be served, and that it is a duplicate of a writ issued to the other
county, for the same cause of action: and the sheriff shall execute 
and return such pr00088 as in other cases, and under the same penalties. 
SEC. 67. When the defendant shall not be found, the plaintifff may 
sue out an alias, or pluries summons until the defendant shall be
served; or he may have a testatum writ to another county, where the
defendant after the commencement of the suit shall have gone into
another county; or he may have an attachment against the estate of
the defendant, and if upon such attachment the sheriff shall seize or
attach any property of the defendant, the same proceedings shall there­
after be had, as if the suit had been originally commenoed by attach­
ment. 
SEC. 68. In suits on the bond· of any executor, administrator,
guardian, or collector; or on any bond payable to the State, or to the
governor, or otherwise, and conditioned for the faithful performance
of any trust, duty, or office, the clerk shall endorse on the process, the
name of the person for whose use the action is brought, and if costs
are given against the plaintifff in such action, such usee shall a.lone be
answerable therefore, and execution may issue against him, as in other 
cases against the plaintifff:
SEC. 69. Any process appearing to be in other respects duly served, 
·shall be deemed good, though not directed to any sheriff:
SEC. 70. If any matter required to be inserted in, or endorsed on 
any process, shall be omitted, such process shall not on that account
be held void, but it may be set aside as irregular, or amended on such
terms as the court shall think proper; and such amendment may be 
made upon any application to set aside or quash the writ.
SEC. 71. When the sheriff shall return that he has been kept off by 
force, the plaintifff may issue an ali.aa or pluriu, as the case may be, or
he may proceed in the action against such defendant, as if the process
had been returned executed. 
SEC. 72. If any process shall be executed, and for want of a return 
~reof, other process shall be issued, the sheriff shall not execute such
subsequent proooss, but shall return the first process by him executed,
if it be in his possession, and if it be not in his possession, he shall
return the subsequent process, with an endorsement of the execution 
. of such first process, on which there shall be the same proceedings aa
if the said first :{>rocess had been duly returned. • 
SEC. 78. Writs of BCtre facias for the renewal of judgments, and for
reviving suits may be issued to any county in the State, and shall be
executed and returned in the same manner as a summons. If the 
defendant is a non-resident of the State, or cannot be found to be
served with prooeee, the court may order publication to be made for
one month, in eome newspaper, requiring the appearanoe of the defend­
ant, and on proof of such publication, may proceed as if the writ of 
aci.re Jacia, had been returned executed.
SEC. 74. In actions upon penal statu1ies, by an informer, the title 
of the statute upon which the aotion is founded shall be endorsed upon
the process; and no recovery by verdict or otherwise, obtained by 
eovin, or collusion, in a popular action, shall be a bar to any other
action prosecuted with good faith. 
SEC. 75. If there shall be no sheriff; or coroner in any county, or if
good cause of exoeption shall exist against them, by reason of their
being parties to, or interested in the suit, or otherwise, the process 
may be directed to an:r j~ioe of t:abeace of the county, and may be
delivered to any such justice, who be bound to execute the same, 
and to do all things by virtue thereof, which the sheriff would be 
bound to do in like cases, when no exception exists against him. And
in case of any neglect or breach of such duty, such justice shall be 
liable to the same penalties, and to the same actions and remedies, as
sheriffs are subject to in like cases. 
SEC. 76. When the sheriff and coroner are disqualified, or vacan­
cies exist in said offices, or for other good cause shown, the court, or
the judge in vacation, may order process to be directed to any disin­
terested and proper person, who shall thereby be authorized to execute
and return such process in the same manner, and with the same effect
in law, as if such person were the lawful sheriff of the county. Such
application and order, if made in vacation, shall be in writing, and 
filed, with the clerk.
SEC. 77. In any prooeeding against a sheriff er other officer fOT 
failing to return any process, mesne or final, proof that such process
was put in the post office, duly addressed to him, and that the postage
was paid thereon, shall be sufficient prima facie evidence of the receipt
thereof by such sheriff, or other officer, unless he shall · make oath that
he did not himself receive it, and that he- verily believes it was not
received by any of his deputies. 
SEC. 78. The declaration shall contain a statement of the facts con­
stituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and if it contain sufficient matter of subetance for the court 
to proceed upon the merits of the cause, it shall be sufficient. 
SEC. 79. In all actions upon bonds with a condition, the plaintifff
shall state the condition, and assign breaches thereof in his declaration ;
and no evidence shall be given of &DJ' breach not so assigned. The
jury shall assess damages for sueh of the breaches so assigned, as may
be proved, and execution shall issue for so much, and the judgment
shall stand as a security to the plaintifff for any other breaches that 
mar aft,erwards happen; and he may have a, scirefm:iaa thereon, and
assign any other breach, and thereupon dam.ages shall be UBe88ed, 
and execution issued as aforesaid. 
SECTION IX. 
or Pleadings. 
1. Of the Declaration, 
SEC. 80. In actions of trespasa quare cla,ufttffl, fr8{/i,t, the close or
place of the alleged trespass, shall be designated in the declaration, by
name, or abuttals, or other proper description. 
SEC. 81. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent, the
plaintifff or defendant may aver generally that he duly performed all 
the conditions on his part, and the opposite party shall not deny such
avennent generally, but shall specify in his pleading. the condition
precedent, the performance of which he intends to contest. 
SEC. 82. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may 
. . 
be stated to have been duly given or made; but the facts conferring
jurisdiction shall be shown at the trial. 
SEC. 83. If a private statute be pleaded, it shall be sufficient to refer 
to it by its title, and the date of it.s passage. ' 
SEC. 84. A right by virtue of a private way, may be pleaded
generally, in the same manner as in pleading a public way. 
SEC. 85. In actions for libel or slander, the plaintifff may aver thai
the words or matter complained of, were used in a defamatory sense,
specifying such defamatory sense, without any prefatory averment, to 
show how such words or matter were used in that sense; and such
averment shall be put in issue by the denial of the alleged libel or
slander; and where the words or matter set forth, with or without the
alleged meaning, show a cause of action, the declaration shall be sufficient. 
SEC. 86. In all actions on the case, it shall be no objection to main­
taining such actions, that but for this article, the form thereof should
have been trespass; and in all actions of trespass, it shall be no objection 
to maintaining such actions, that but for this article, the form thereof
should have been case. 
SEC. 87. The name of. the county shall be stated in the margin o:.f. 
the declaration, and it shall not be necessary to state any Tenue in
the body of the declaration, or in any subsequent pleading, nor to set
forth in any manner the place in which an act is alleged to have been
done, unless when, from the nature of the case, the place may be
material or traversable. 
SEC. 88. When any written instrument bears date at any place, it
may be alleged to have been made at that place, without any averment
or suggestion, that it was within the county where the action is brought. 
SEC. 89. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated by any name, and when
his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly. . 
In actions on written instruments, the defendant may be sued by
the initial letters, or contraction of the christian name used by him in 
his signature to such writing. 
In actions against one or more of several partners, it shall be
IUfficient to declare that he or they made the contract, or executed
the writing sued on, by the eopartnership name, or other name or
signature affixed to such writing. 
SEC. 90. There shall be annexed to or filed with the declaration in
every case founded on an open account, a copy of the account or bill
of particulars of the demand; and in actions founded on any writing,
a Qopy of such writing with the names of the subscribing witnesses, 
if any, shall be annexed to, or filed with the declaration ; and no
evidence thereof shall be given on the trial, unless · so annexed, or
filed ; and the same shall be copied in the final record of the cause. 
SEC. 91. A. copy of an_y writing of which profert is made, or ought
to be made, in any pleading, shall be annexed to, or filed with said
pleading, with the names of the subscribing witnesses if any, and no
evidence thereof shall be given at the trial, unless so annexed or filed. 
SEC. 92. In any action by a man and his wife, for an injury done 
to the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined as a party, it 
shall be lawful for the-husband to add thereto, claims in his own right,
for injuries of a similar character; and in case of the death of either
plainti~ such suit shall abate only so far as relates to the cause or
causes of actiop which do not survive to the survivor. 

SEC. 98. All the provisions hereinbefore contained in reference to
the form and sufficiency of the declaration, shall extend and apply 
to the pleas of the defendant, and to all subsequent· pleadings in the
cause, so far as the same may be applicable. 
SEC. 94. The defendant may plead at the same time, 88 many mat­
ters as he may have, to the jurisdiction of the court, to/ the disability 
of the plaintifff and in abatement of the writ or declaration ; and he
shall set forth the said matters. in separate pleas, and in plain, intelli­
gible, and concise language, without regard to. technical form; and
where the matter pleaded does not appear on the record, he shall
verify such plea by the oath or affirmation of himself, or some other 
credible person. 
SEC. 95. The following pleas in bar, or any two or more of them,
may be pleaded together as of course, when appropriate to the action, 
without leave of the court or judge, to wit: The general issue, denial
of the debt or contract sued on, tender in whole or in· part, statute of
limitations, set o~ plene administravit, infancy, coverture, payment;'
aocord and sa~action, release, not guilty, a denial of plaintifff's- pro­
perty in the thing injured, leave and license, duress, eon 8888.ult demesne,
performance, justification in libel, slander and other actions, and anl
other pleas which by law are allowed to be pleaded together; and if 
any defendant or other party shall, without Ieave of the court, plead
several pleas, replications, or other pleadings together, except in cases
where the same is allowed by law, the opposite party shall be entitled 
to judgment, as for want of the proper pleading; but such judgment
may be set aside, on affidavit of merits, and payment of costs, and
such other terms 88 the oourt may think fit. 
SEC. 96. In actions for libel or slander, assault and battery, and
false imprisonment, the defendant under the plea of not guilty, may
give in evidence any mitigating circumstances to reduce the damages,
notwithstanding he may also have pleaded a justification. 
SEC. 97. If the defendant shall desire to prove under the general
i.aeue, in any action, any affirmafive matter in avoidance, which by
law may be proved under such plea, he shall give notice thereof in
wri~ng, annexed to or filed with the plea, otherwise such matter shall
not be allowed to be proved at the trial; and the defendant may in
all cases plead the general issue, and give written notice therewith of
any special matter which he intends to give in evidence in bar of the
action, and which he would be otherwise obliged to plead specially; and
when notice shall be given to the defendant 88 aforesaid, the plaintifff 
sh.all, before the trial of the cause, file a written notice to the defendant
of any special matter which he intends to give in evidence, in denial or 
avoidance of such special matter so given notice of by the defendans, 
and which it would have been necessary to reply specially, had the
defendant's defense been specially pleaded; and if notice be not given 
as required by ibis article, no proof of such matters shall be received
on the trial. 
SEC. 98. Where a mutual indebtedness shall exist between the 
plaintifff and defendant, the defendant may _plead payment, and may 
prove and set oft' against the demand of the plaimitl; any debt or 
demand which he may have against the plaintifff; and if it shall appear
that the demand of the defendant equals the demand of the plaintifff;
the jury shall find for the defendant, and judgment shall be entered
that the plaintifff take nothing by his writ, and shall pay the costs.
And if it appear that any part of the sum demanded has been paid,
but that the plaintifff's demand exceeds that of the defendant, the
amount paid shall be deducted, and the plaintifff shall have judgment
for the residue of his demand only, with costs of suit. 
But if it appear to the jury that the plaintifff is overpaid, and is
indebted to the defendant, they shall give in their verdict for the
defendant, for the amount due to him, and thereupon judgment shall
be entered up against the plaintifff in favor of the defendant, for the
amount so found, with costs, and execution issue therefore. 
SEC. 99. Where there shall have been mutual dealings between
two or more persons, and one or more of them shall die, before an 
adjustment of such dealings, ·the lawful. demands of such parties
against each other, shall be a good payment, or set oif, to the amount 
thereof, notwithstanding the estate of one or more of such deceased
persons shall be insolvent, and only the balance due shall be the
debt. 
SEC. 100. In all actions for the recovery of any debt or demand,
alleged to be due by the defendant to the plaintifff; it shall be lawful
for the defendant to plead payment of the money demanded, at or
after the time when the same became due, or at any time before action
brought, and under such flea, to prove any payments that have been 
made, in part, or in full o the sum demanded.
SEC. 101. If the defendant shall plead, or give notice of any set oft; 
or shall desire to prove any payment or set off under his plea 'of pay­
ment, he shall file with his plea an account, stating distinctly the
nature of the payment or set off, and the several items thereof, and a
copy of any writmg intended to be set off; and on failure to do so, he
shall not be entitled to prove, on the trial, such payment or set oft: 
SEC. 102. In actions founded on any sealed instrument, the defend­
ant may, by a ~ial plea,. i!llpeach the consideration thereof, in the 
same manner as if such wntmg had not been sealed. ·
SEC. 103. In actions upon penal statutes, the. defendant may plead 
the general issue, and give any e~ial matter in evidence, in the same
manner as if the ea.me were SJ?001ally pleaded, giving notice, however, 
of such special matter with his plea. 
SEC. 104. In actions for trespass on land, the defendant may plead
that he disclaims any title or claim to the land in question, and that
the trespass was involuntary, or by negligence, and that he tendered
or offered sufficient amends therefore, before suit brought, and he shall,
thereupon, bring the amount so tendered into court, and unless the
plaintifff, in such action, shall recover more damages than the amount
so tendered, he shall be. adjudged to pay the costs of the action. 
SEC. 105. The plaintifff in any action, .may, by leave of the court
or judge, plead in answer to the plea, or the subsequent pleading of 
. the defendant, as many several matters as he shall think necessary to 
maintain.hia action; and· the defendant m.ay, by like leave, plesd in
answer to any pleading of the plaintifff; subsequent to the declaration,
as many several matters as he may think necessary to his .defense;
upon the affidavit of the party making. such application, tha\ he is 
advised and believes, that he has just ground to traverse the several
matters proposed to be traversed by him, or that the several matters
sought to be pleaded by way of confession and avoidance, are respec­ 
tively true iu substance and fact.
SEC. 106. Whenever any pleading concludes to the country, issue 
shall be considered as joined thereon,. unless a demurrer be filed
thereto. 
SEC. 107. When any plea in abatement shall be adjudged insuffi­
cient, the plaintifff shall recover full costs, to the time of overruling
the plea, and when, by an interlocutory judgment, any other part of
the pleading shall be adjudged insufficient, all costs occasioned by
such bad pleading shall be adjudged against him who committed the
fault. 

SEC. 108. When a demurrer ahall be put in, the court shall not
regard any defect or imperfection in the proceedings, except such as
shall be assigned for causes of demurrer, unless something so essential
to the aetion or defense, as that judgment according to law, and the 
right of the cause, cannot be given, shall be omitted·
SEC. 109. If the demurrer of the defendant to tbe declaration be 
overruled, the court shall proceed to give. judgment for the plaintifff 
for the amount due, and interest, and no plea shall be admitted, unless
the defendant make oath that he hath a good and subaMLD.tial defense,
setting forth fully the nature of such defense, that the court may
judge whether the plea ought to be admitted or not. 
SEC. 110. If the plaintifff demur to the plea of the defendant, and 
the demurrer be sustained, the judgment shall be, that the defendant
do answer over to the declaration; but.he shall be compelled to plead
to the merits, and. the plaintifff shall not be delayed of his trial. . 
SEC. 111. The court may refuse to receive a demurrer manifestly
frivolous, or intended for delay, or may strike out the same if filed,
and proceed as if such demurrer had not been offered • 
SEC. 112. No joiner in demurrer shall be required in any case. 
4. Pkadings and proc«ding, in action of .Account.
SEC. 118. Actions of account may be brought against the ex~utors 
or administrators of every guardian, bailiff; and receiver, and also by
one joint tenant; or tenant in common, his executors, or administrators,
against the other, his executors, or administrators, as bailiff, for re­
ceiving more than his just share or proportion. And in all actions of 
aooount, where the defendant haa been summoned, and fails to plead; 
the plaintifff may enter judgment against him, that he account, and
the court shall appoint one or more auditors to take the account; and
no pleas shall be allowed before the auditors; but they shall proceed 
88 referees do in other cases; .and if the defendant do not plead, or 
shall neglect or refuse. to account before the auditors, the plaintifff may
prove his account, and the auditors shall investigaie and report there­
on, as if' both parties had appeared before them. 
SEC. 114. E~ress oolor and special traverses shall not be neces­
sary in any pleadings, 
SEC. 115. All pleadings shall be signed by the party or his attorney.
SEC. 116. No pleading shall be deemed insufficient for any defect 
which could heretofore be objected to only by special demmurrer.
SEC. 117 When the allegations of. a pleading are so indefinite or un­ 
certain, that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent,
or if any pleading shall be so framed as to prejudice, embarrass, or
delay the fair trial of the action, the court, on application of the .op­
posite party, shall cause the same to be made definite and certain, or
may strike out or amend the same. 
SEC. 118. Irrelevant or redundant matter, inserted in a pleading,
may be struck out on motion of any party aggrieved thereby. 
SEC. 119. All allegations heretofore usually inserted in declarations
and other pleadings, which are not material or traversable, and which
the party could not be required to prove, may be omitted, unless
where they are required for the right understanding of allegations
that are material. 
SEC. 120. No formal defense shall be required in a plea, but it 
shall commence as follows: " The said defendant by his attorney, ( or
in person,) says that." And it shall not be necessary to state . in a
second or other plea or avowry, that it is pleaded by leave of the
court, or according to the form of the statute, or to that effect. 
SEC. 121. In a plea or subsequent \>leading, intended to be pleaded
in bar of the whole action generally, 1t shall not be necessary to use
any allegation of actionem non, or to the like effect, or any prayer of 
judgment; nor shall it be necessary in any replication, or subsequent
pleading, pleaded in maintenance of the action to use any allegation
of precludi non, or to the like effect, or any pmyel' of judgment ; and
all pleas, replications, and subsequent pleadings, pleaded without such
formal parts as aforesaid, shall be taken, unless otherwise expressed,
• pleaded respectively in bar of the whole action, or in maintenance 
of the whole action. 
SEC. 122. When either party to any civil action in a circuit court,
shall desire to change the venue, he shall present to the court, or to 
the judge of the district, a petition setting forth under oath, that he 
has good reason to believe that from the undue influence of the ad verse
party, prejudice existing in the public mind, or for some other sufll­
oient cause to be described in said petition, he could not obtain a fair
and impartial trial in the county where the action may be depending, ·
and that the application is made as soon as could conveniently be aft.er
being advised of such undue influence, prejudice, or other cause as
aforesaid, and not to delay the trial, or to vex or harass the adverse
party. And on reasonable notice in writing to the adverse party, of 
die time and place of making the application, if made in vacation, the
court, if in term time, or the judge in vacation, shall hear the parties,
and examine the evidence which either may adduce, and may award
a change of venue to some convenient county, where an impartial trial
may be had, and if practicable, in which a circuit court may next be
held. And if made in vacation, the order shall be endorsed on the
petition, and directed to the clerk, who shall file the same with the
papers in the suit. 
SEC. 128. When any order for a change bf venue shall be made as
aforesaid, the clerk shall make out a descriptive list of all the papers
in the cause, and a certified copy of all orders made therein, with their
dates, and a bill of the costs that have accrued; and shall carefully
and safely put all said papers, with a copy of said descriptive list, and
the copy of said orders, and the bill of costs, into a package, to be well
oovered and sealed up, and directed to the clerk of the court-to which
the suit may be removed, and shall (if not otherwise ordered by the 
judge) take the receipt of the party obtaining the change of venue, for
the papers contained on said list, and deliver the package to said party,
to be carried to the clerk of the court to whom it may be directed.
But ihe court or judge may direct in said order that the party apply­
ing, previously to a removal of the papers, shall pay to the clerk the
sum of two dollars and twenty-five cents for every twenty miles of
distance from the place where the suit is depending, to that to which
it is ordered to be removed, and it shall be the duty of the clerk, on
the payment of said sum of money, to carry the papers, or to employ
some trustworthy person to carry them, to the clerk of the court to
whom they may be directed. And all costs that have accrued in the 
oause shall abide its .flnal termination, as in other cases.
SEC. 124. The clerk to whom the papers may be transmitted, shall 
open the seal of the package, and compare the papers with the descrip­
tive list, and· shall gwe to the party or person delivering the same, a
receipt itherefore. He shall then enter the cause in his docket, as if it 
had been commenced in the court of which he is clerk, and issue sub­ 
pamas for 1ritneB9eS as in other cases. 
SEC. 125 No civil suit shall be removed more than once, or in any
other manner than prescribed in this act, and in no case, where it shall
appear that there has ·been any unnecessary delay, or negligence of
the party: in making such application : Provided, that nothing herein
contained shall apply to the removal of suits commenced out of the
county of the residence and freehold of .tbe defendant . 

SECTION XI. 
or Jurors. 
1. Who are Otnnpetent Jurori. 
SEC. 126. All persons being freeholders or householders within
their respective counties, and citizens of the United States, and not
being under the age of twenty-one y:ears, nor over the age of sixty
years, and not having been convicted of any infamous crime, shall be 
qualified to serve as jurors within the county o'f their residence; and 
all persons· who shall have made the ~ payment on a purchase 0£
land from the United States, and all donation and pre-emption claim­
ants, and persons in possession of land under a contract of purchase;
shall be deemed freeholders for all the purposes of this act. 
SEC. 127. All officers in the executive department of the govern­
ment, all judges and officers of the several courts, members of the
board of police, practising physicians, teachers of public schools, and
ministers of the gospel, actuallf 1 engaged in their respective employ­
ments, post-masters, keepers o public mills, and ferrymen, shall be
exempt from serving as-jurors. All other qualified persons shall be
liable to serve as jurors, unless excused by the court for the time
being, on special· cause shown ; but no tales juror, except those em­
pannelled as grand jurors, shall be compelled to serve two days suc­
cessively, unless the CMe in which he is empannelled shall continue
longer than one day. Grand jurors shall serve until discharged by
the court. 

SEC. 128. The board of police of each county, shall, at least thirty 
days before every term of the circuit court, select twenty persons, com­
petent to serve as jurors in said county, to be taken as nearly as con­
veniently may be, in equal numbers from each police district of the
county, who shall serve as grand jurors for the next ensuing term of
said court. 
SEC. 129. The namesof the persons so selected shall be entered on
the minutes of the board of police, and a copy thereof shall be certified
by the clerk thereof, and delivered without delay to the sheriff of the
county, who shall thereupon summon the persons so selected to appear
at the next term of the circuit court of the same county, to serve as
grand jurors, and it shall be the duty of said sJ:\eriff .to summon the
said persons personally, or by written notice left at their places of
residence, at least five days before the first day of the said term; and
the persons so selected and summoned, shall attend, and compose the
grand jury at said term. · 
SEC. 180. The court shall appoint one of the said grand jurors to 
be foreman of the grand jury, to whom the following oath shall be
administered in open court, in the presence of the rest of the grand
jurors, to wit: ''You, as foreman of tbis grand inquest, shall diligently
inquire into, and true _Presentment make, of all such matters and things
as shall be given you m charge, or otherwise come to your knowledge,
touching the present service: the counsel of the State, your fellows
and your own, you will keep secret ; you shall present no person
through malice, hatred, or ill-will; nor shall you leave any person 
unpresented, through fear, favor or affection, or for any reward, hope
or promise thereof; but in all your presentments, you shall present
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, to the best of
your skill and understanding : so help you God." 
And the following oath shall be administered to the other jurors,
to wit: 
"The same oath that your foreman has now taken before you on
his part, you, and each of you, shall well and truly observe, and keep
on your respective parts: so help you God." 
SEC. 181. Not less than fifteen nor more than twenty grand jurors
sball be sworn and empannelled at each term-the number to be
determined by the court; and before swearing any grand juror as such,
he shall be examined by the court on oath, touching bis qualification;
and after . the grand jurors shall have been examined, elected, sworn
and ernpannelled, no objection shall be raised, by plea or otherwise, to 
the grand jury; but the empannelling of the grand jury shall be con­
clusive evidence of its competency and qualifications: Provided, That
any party interested may challenge dr except to the array for fraud. 
SEC. 132. If at any term of a circuit.court, it shall appear tha._t no·
grand jury has been selected, or summoned as required by this act, or
that such grand-jury has been irregularly selected or summoned, such
court shall have power forthwith to order a grand jury to be selected
and summoned by the sheriff, and returned as soon as conveniently 
may be; and in case a sufficient number of grand jurors, selected and
summoned as required by this act, shall not appear at the time of the
empannelling of the grand jury,. or in case any of said jurors shall be
excused by the court, before or after being sworn, it shall be lawful
i>r the court immediately to order others to be summoned to supply
their· places ; and if any grand juror shall fail to attend after bemg
sworn, the court may cause another to be sworn in his stead. 
SEC. 188. Any grand juror who shall without sufficient excuse, 
mil to attend any regular or special term of the circuit court of the
county, for which he has been selected and summoned to serve as
grand juror, or who shall be guilty of any misconduct or contempt of
the court, may be fined not exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use 
ol the common school fund of the county ; and if there be no common
!Chools in the county, then for the use of the county. 
SEC. 134. The foreman of the grand jury shall have power to swear 
all witnesses appearing or brought before said grand jury; and he shall 
keep a correct record of the names of all witnesses sworn by him, and
sbail return the same to the court at the same term, certified and signed 
by him. . 

SEC. 135. The assessor of taxes in each county shall, once in every
year, at the time of making his assessment, make out a list of the
names of all persons in his county qualified to serve as jurors, and
shall deliver the same to the clerk of the circuit court of the county,
at the time prescribed for the return of the tax assessment; and such
assessor shall have power to examine any person on oath, to be admin­
istered by him, touching the qualification of such person as a juror;
and the assessor shall annex to such list, his affidavit, that the same
contains a true list of all persons in his count1. qualified ;> serve as
jurors, so far as he can ascertain, and as he verily believes. 
SEC. 186. The list of names so returned, shall be transcribed by the
clerk or said court, in a book kept for that purpose; and said names
shall also be written on separate slips of paper or parchment, and put
in a box kept for that purpose, marked, "Jury Box, No. 1 ;" and when
the assessor makes his return at any subsequent time, the said clerk
and assessor shall diligently compare the book in which the names 
already deposited in said box are recorded, with the list so returned;
and the clerk shall record the names of all persons not previously
recorded, and shall deposit in said box, slips containing such additional
names, and shall erase from the book, and destroy the slips containing
the names of any persons, who have ceased to be qualified jurors. 
SEC. 137. At each regular term of said circuit courts, there shall
be drawn by the clerk and sheriff, in open court, from the said box,
the names of twenty-four persons to serve as jurors for each and
every week of the next succeeding term of said court, and the names
of the jurors so drawn shall be entered on the minutes of the court,
If at the time of such drawing, it shall appear that any person so drawn
has ceased to be qualified, and liable to serve as a juror, the said court
shall cause the slip containing such name to be destroyed, and the
name erased from said book; and other names shall be drawn to
complete the number required. No jurors shall be drawn for the
week, or other part of the term, allotted to the holding of the chan­ 
cery court. 
SEC. 188. Whenever the jurors shall not have been drawn in open
court, the clerk and sheriff, in the presence of the judge of probate,
shall, at least thirty days before the next term of the circuit court,
draw the jurors for such term, in the manner before directed, and a
list of the jurors so drawn, shall be made out and certified by the said
jud~e of probate, and shall be recorded by said clerk in the minutes 
of the court. . 
SEC. 139. The slips containing the names of jurors drawn for any
regular or special term, shall be safely kept by the clerk until the
sitting of the court at such term, and then the names of all persons
who appear, and are required to serve as jurors at such term, shall be
deposited in a box, to be marked, "Jury Box, No. 2," and the names
of all such persons as shall fail to appear, or shall be excused by the
court, or not required to serve, in consequence of the failure of the
term, or other cause, shall be returned to Box, No. 1, and none of the 
names deposited in Box, No. 2, shall be returned to Box, No. 1, until
the entire number in the last named box shall have been drawn out,
and deposited in Box, No. 2 ; and if, in drawing a jury, all the names
shall be exhausted from Box, No. 1, before obtaining a sufficient num­
ber to complete the panel, the clerk and sheriff shall replenish the
same by depositing therein all the names containedin the other box,
of persons then liable to serve as jurors, and the drawing of the residue
of the jurors shall then proceed as aforesaid. 

SEC. 140. When the jurors shall have been drawn as aforesaid, the
clerk shall issue a oenire faciae; returnable to the next term of the
court, containing the names of the persons so drawn, and the sheriff
shall summon said persons, at least five days before the term, either
by personal service, or by leaving a written notice at their usual
places of abode ; and he shall make return of the said venire, on the
:first day of the terni; and any juror summoned as aforesaid, who shall
not attend, shall be fined not exceeding one hundred dollars, and said
:fine shall be made absolute, unless good cause for such non-attendance 
shall be shown at the next succeeding term, or before final •judgment
on seir« f ocias ; and if good cause be shown, the fine shall be remitted,
without payment of costs, if the court shall so order; and all fines so
collected shall be applied to common school purposes, in the county
where so imposed and collected, and if there be no common schools in 
the county, then for the county. 
SEC. 141. If at any regular or special term of a circuit court, it 
shall appear that no jurors have been drawn or summoned for such 
term, or for any part thereof, or that such jurors have been irregularly
drawn or summoned, or that none of the jurors, so drawn and sum­
moned, are in attendance, the court shall immediately direct the proper
officer, without delay, to summon the requisite number of competent 
jurors to appear at such term, as the court shall appoint, and the court
shall thereupon proceed as if the jurors had been regularly drawn and 
SUinlD.oned. · 
SEC. 142. No challenge to the array shall be sustained except for
fraud, nor shall any venire facias ( except a special venire facias in a 
criminal cause) be quashed for any cause whatever. 
5. Oath of Petit Juror». 
SEC. 143. Petit jurors shall be sworn in the following form, to wit:
'- You, and each of you, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you will 
well and truly try all issues, and execute all writs of inquiry, that
may be submitted to you, or left to your decision by the court, during
the present term, and true verdicts give, according to the evidence, so
help you God." 
,vhich oath or affirmation shall authorize the said jury to try all 
issues, and · execute all writs of inquiry, which may be submitted to 
them during that term of the court; and talesmen, if any be sum­
moned, shall in like manner be sworn to try all issues, and execute
all writs of inquiry, which may be submitted to them during the day
for which they are summoned. · 
SEC. 144. Grand and petit jurors and talesmen, shall be entitled to 
one dollar and fifty cents per day for every day of their 'attendance
at court as jurors, and five cents per mile for travelling to and from
the court, by the usual travelled route from their residence, and also
all tolls and ferrio.ges necessarily incurred ; the said mileage, tolls and
ferriages, to and frotn the court, to be charged but once at any term.
All jurors summoned on a special venire in a capital case, appearing
and answering to their names, and regularly discharged by the court,
shall be entitled to pay, whether empannelled on the jury or not. 
SEC. 145. The amount of compensation of petit jurors and tales­
men, shall be determined on the oath of the juror, to be administered
by the clerk, who shall thereupon ~ive a certificate of the same to ·the 
juror ; and the amount shall be paid by the county treasurer, on pre­
sentment of the said certificate ; and the treasurer shall attend at his
office for that purpose, on the last day of each week of the court. 
Such certificate shall also be received by the tax collectors in payment 
of county taxes.
· The clerk of the circuit court shall keep a book called the "jury 
fee book," in which he shall enter the time of issuing such certificates,
the amount thereof, and to whom issued, and within thirty days after
each term of the court, he shall file in the office of the clerk of the
board of police, a certified copy of such entries, for the inspection of
said board. 
SEC. 146. Grand jurors shall prove their attendance, mileage, tolls,
and ferriages on oath, in open court, af\er the discharge of said grand 
jury, and sheriffs, deputy sheriffs or bailiffs, and jurors summoned on
a special venire, and regularly discharged by the court, shall in like
manner prove their attendance, whenever they shall be discharged,
and a certificate thereof shall be granted; and the court shall enter an
order on the minutes in favor of the sheriff, for the aggregate sum of
the certificates of the said grand jurors, bailiffs or deputies, jurors on
special venire, and sheriff, payable out of the State treasury; and on a 
. copy thereof, duly certified by the clerk, being presented to the
auditor, he shall issue a warrant for the amount in favor of the said
sheriff, or his assigns, and the sheriff shall pay the several certificates
of the jurors, bailiffs or deputies, immediately on reception of the same
from the treasury, or in default thereof he shall be liable individually,
or on his bond, for three times the amount of each certificate, which 
if he shall refuse to pay on demand made, may be recovered by action. 

SEC. 147. There shall be imposed on each original suit in the cir­
cuit court, in which a plea or other· defense shall · be filed, a tax of
three dollars, and in all cases wherein judgment shall be rendered by
default at the first term, and 'in all cases dismissed before plea filed, or
tried on an issue of fact by the court without a jury, no jury tax shall
be charged; and in each case coming up by appealor certiorari, a tax 
of two dollars, to be included in the bill of costs; to constitute a fund
for the payment of petit jurors in said county; and on the .first day of
each term the sheriff and clerk shall account for and pay to the county
treasurer, all sums of money received by either of them as such tax,
and shall make oath that the account thus rendered, contains a true
statement of all the jury tax received by him, and not before accounted
for and paid over; and if any sheriff or clerk shall fail so to account
and pay over said tax, the court, on motion of the county treasurer,
shall enter judgment againat such sheriff or clerk, and their sureties,
for all sums they shall have respectively received, with thirty per cent,
damages, and the court shall cause to be produced in the hearing of
said motion, all books or. papers in the clerk's or sheriff's office, which
will afford evidence on such motion, and said judgments shall bear
interest at the rate of thirty per cent. per annum. 
SEC. 148. Within ten days after the end of any term of the court,
the.clerk shall furnish to the county treasurer a list of all judgments
rendered, and suits disposed of at such term, or in the preceding vaca­
tion, on which a jury tax is imposed; and he shall annually in the 
month ofDecem her, furnish to the said county treasur~r, awt of all cases 
upon which the jury tax has been paid during the year, noting thereon
· the amount paid, and to whom. And if any clerk shall fail to furnish 
to the treasurer; the said lists, or either of them, he shall be fined by
the court in the sum of one hundred dollars, for the use of common
schools in the county, on motion of said treasurer, or the district
attorney. And if any county treasurer shall fail to perform any of
the duties required of him by this act, in relation to the collection of 
· the jury tax, and the payment of jurors' certificates, he may in like
manner be fined one hundred dollars, for the use of common schools 
in the county.
SEC. 149. No juror's certificate shall be received by the county 
treasurer, in settlement with any clerk, or sheriff, unless such clerk or
sheriff" make Qath that he received the same in payment of taxes due
the county, or that he paid the holder the ful] amount expressed on 
its face, without any discount or abatement. 
SECTION XII. 
Of Trial, and New Trial. 
1. Causes, whm Triable. 
SEC. 150. The defendant shall plead on or before the third day of
the term -to which the writ is returnable, or within such other time as
the court, by rule or otherwise, shall allow, and for want of such plea
judgment may be entered by default. All demurrers and dilatory
pleas shall be tried and disposed of at. the return term, and the court
shall r~uire that the issue of fact, if any there be, shall be made up 
and joined, ready for trial at the next succeeding term, and such issue
of fact shall not be tried at the return term, without consent of parties,
except actions commenced by attachment, and actions of replevin,
which shall be tried at the return term, unless continued by consent,
or on cause shown. . 
No judgment by default shall be entered at the return term, where 
it shall appear that the process has not been served personally on fhe
defendant. Any defendant may file with the clerk, on or before the
third day of the return term, a written notice that he desires a con­
tinuance of the cause, and in that case judgment shall not be taken
against such defendant at the return term for want of a plea, but the
plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment by default at the next term, as
'of course. · 
SEC. 151. On all applications for a continuance, the party shall set
forth in his affidavit, the facts which he expects to prove by his absent 
witness or testimony, that the cou~ may jud~e of their materiality. 
SEC. 152. In civil suits each party may challenge peremptorily,
four of the jurors, and as many more as he can show cause for. 
SEC. 158. Whenever there shall be a deficiency of jurors, the
sheriff; or other officer shall, by order of court, summon a suffioient 
number of qualified by-standers or others to complete the panel; but
in case the sheriff or other officer be interested, or related to either
of the parties, or not impartial, or for other good cause, the court may 
appoint any disinterested person to summon and return such by·
standers or others. The court may fine in a sum not exoeeding
thirty dollars, any person summoned as -a talesman, who shall not
appear, or who being present when he is called, does not appear in
court, or who after appearance, willfully withdraws himself during t.he 
day. · 
SEC. 154. A jury de mediatate ling-um mar be directed and SUlD• 
moned, whenever in the O{>inion of the oourt it may be necessary. 
SEC. 156. Jurors knowmg any thing relative to the point in issue,
shall disclose the same, on oath or affirmation, in. open court. 
SEC. 156. No sheriff or other officer shall converse with a juror,
but by order of court, after- the jury have retired from the bar. 
SEC. 167. All papers read in evidence on the trial of any cause,
though not under seal, may be carried from the bar by the.jury. 
SEC. 158. Interpreters may be sworn, truly to interpret when 
necessary: and in criminal cases the court may appoint such inter­
preter, and allow him a reasonable compensation, not exceeding five 
dollars per day, payable out of the State treasury. 
SEC. 169. Every plaintifff desiring to sufYer a non-suit on trial, shall
be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire from the 
bar. 
SEC. 160. The plaintifff may suffer a non-suit 'or dismiss any cause, 
before the clerk in vacation, on paying all coats that have accrued;
and the clerk shall enter on the writ or declaration, the disposition 
made of the same, with the date; and where the plaintifff has received
satisfaction of the cause of action, he shall, by himself or his attorney,
enter such satisfaction on the writ or declaration, and sign the same,
and such entry of satisfaction shall be a bar to any suit brought there­
after for the same cause of action ; and where the plaintifff suffers a
non-suit, or dismisses his suit, without having received sati.sfaetion, he 
shall stand in the same situation as though he had never institut.ed
such suit : Provided, That this article shall not extend M>. cases in 
which the defendant has filed and pleaded any set oft; or paymen', 
unless by consent of such defendant. 
SEC. 161. No judge, in any caaee, civil or criminal, shall sum up or 
comment on the testimony, or charge the jury as to the weight of evi­ 
dence ; but it shall be lawful for the judge to charge the jury upon
the principles of law, applicable to the case, at the request of either
party: Provided, That all instructions asked by either party shall be 
m writing, and all alterations or modifications of instructions given by
the court to the jury, or refused, shall be in writing, and may be taken
out by the jury on their retirement; the clerk having first marked all
instructions asked by either party, or given by the court, 88 being
given or refused, as the case may: be, and all instructions so marked
shall be a part of the record, on appeal, or writ of error, without a bill
of exceptions. · 
SEC. 162. It; on the trial of any cause in the circuit court, either 
party shall be aggrieved by ap.y charge or decision of the court, such
party may tender to the judge giving such charge or decision, a bill of
exceptions to his opinion, stating therein the mat~ of law wherein he is supposed to err, and the judge shall be bound to sign the same, and the bill of exceptions so signed, shall be made and considered a part fo the record in the cause, and in case the judge shall refuse to sign a bill of exceptions so tendered, if the facts therein be truly stated, he shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor in office.

SEC. 168. On the trial of prosecutions for any crime or misdemeanor, it shall be the duty of the judge to sign any bill of exceptions tendered by the defendant during the progress thereof, if the truth of the case be fairly stated therein; and the said exceptions shall be a part of the record of such persecution.

SEC. 164. If the judge shall refuse to sign any bill of exceptions to any opinion, decision or charge, given or made on the trial of any cause or motion in such court, when such bill of exceptions is tendered to such judge in writing, it shall be lawful for any two attorneys at law, who may be present at the time of the giving or making of such opinion, decision or charge, and of the refusal of such judge to sign such bill of exceptions as aforesaid, to sign the same; which bill of exceptions so signed, shall have the same force and effect, as if the same had been signed by such judge.

SEC. 165. Every new trial granted at law, shall be on such terms as the court shall direct, and no more than two new trials shall be granted to either party in teh same cause.

SEC. 166. When a motion for a new trial shall be granted, or refused, either party may except to the decision of the court, and may reduce to writing the reasons offered for said new trial, together with the substance of the evidence in the case, and also the decision of the court on said motion; and it shall be the duty of the judge before whom such motion is made, to allow and sign the same; and such bill of exceptions shall be a part of the record in the cause. And it shall be lawful for the appellant or plaintifff in error, in such cause, to assign for error that the judge in the court below, improperly granted or refused a new trial therein, and the high court of errors and appeals shall have power to grant new trials, or to correct any errors of the circuit court in granting or refusing the same. 

SEC. 167. Trial by jury may be waived by the parties to an issue
of fact in actions on contract, and with the assent of the court in 
other actions and, in cases so tried .by the 'court, no jury tax shall be
charged in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 168. The decision of such court on the trial of an issue may
be stated generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, and it shall not be 
necessary to state the conclusions of fact separately from the con­
elusions of law, unless one of the parties shall · request it, with a
view to except to the decision of the court on the questions of law
involved; in which case the court shall· state in writing the conclusions
of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law. 
SEC. 169. Either party may move for a new trial, take bills of ex­
ception at any time during the term at which the decision is rendered,
and have an appeal or writ of error, as in. oasea of trial by jury. 
SEC. 170. All or any of the issues in an action, whether of fact 01" 
law, may be referred to one or more referees, not exceeding three, upon
the consent of the parties. 
SEC. 171. In all actions in which matt.ere of account are in contro­ 
versy, the court may on the application of either party, direct a refer­
ence to one or more competent persons, not exceeding three, as referees, 
to state and report an account between the parties, and the amount 
that may be due from either party to the other, which report when
confirmed by the court, shall be final and conclusive between the par­
ties, and judgment shall be entered thereon, and execution issued as
in other-casea ; but either party m•y, at the time of ordering such
reference, enter in the minutes of the court his dissent therefrom, and
in the same term in which the report is filed, may .demand a trial by
jury, in which case the cause shall be tried by a jury as heretofore;
the, costs of the reference to abide the result; and upon such trial the 
report of the referees shall be prima facu evidence of all the matters
therein found and reported ; and at the time of demanding such trial
by jury, the party shall file hUJ exooptions to the said report, and no
other exceptions shall be considered on the trial. Either party may
move for a new trial, take bills of exception, and have an appeal or 
writ of error as in other cases. , · 
SEC. 172. Either party who shall not demand a trial by jury, may
file exceptions to the report of the referees, and the court shall hear
and determine the same, and may set aside said report, and direct
another reference to the same, or other referees. Bills of exception
may be taken, and after final judgment, an appeal or writ of error may
be prosecuted as in other cases. 
SEC. 178. Referees appainted under this act shall have power to
administer oaths, and to lSSUe snbpcenas for all witnesses, and to oom­ 
pel their attendance. 

SEC. 174. Upon affidavit of a defendant before plea filed, in ·any
action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal pro~rty, that a
third party, a resident of this State, without collusion with him, has
or makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to
pay or dispose of the same as the court may direct, the court may 
make an order for the safe keeping or payment, or deposit in court, or
delivery of the subject matter of the action to such person as it may 
direct, and an order. requiring such third party to be summoned to
appear in a reasonable time, and maintain or relinquish his claim 
·against the defendant.
If such third pan,, being duly summoned, shall fail to appear, the 
court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject of
the action, against the defendant therein. 
If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself 
defendant in the action at law, instead of the original defendant, who
shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in
respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order 
. of the court, for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof.
If the claim of such third J!CrBOD extend to only a part of the sub­ 
ject matter of the action, similar proceedings may be had respecting
the part.so claimed, and the action shall proceed as to the residue, as 
in other cases. 
SEC. 175. The provisions of the last article shall be applicable to
an action brought against a sheriff; or other officer, for the recovery of
personal property, taken by him under execution or attachment, or for
the proceeds of such property so taken, and sold by him ; and the
defendant inany such ~t1on. shall have the benefit of the said provi- 
. sions, against ihe party in whose favor the execution or attachment
issued, whether such party. be a resident of this State or not, upon
exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with his affi­
davit that the property for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the
action is brought, was taken under such process. 
SEC. 176. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, for ,the
recovery of prope~ taken under an execution or attachment, and
replevied by the plaintifff in such action, the court may, on application
of the defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution or
attachment issued, permit the latter tp be substituted as defendant,
security for costs being given, if required. · 
SEC. 177. If the plaintifff, in such execution or attachment, be a
non-resident of the State, the summons may be served on his attorney, 
and shall have the same effect-as i£ served personally on the party. 

SEC. 178. The defendant in any personal action, except actions for
assault and battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious arrest
or prosecution, criminal conversation, or debauching the plaintifffs'
daughter or servant, may offer with his plea, or in wnting afterwards
before trial, and pay into court, a sum of money by way of compen­
sation or amends, and may plead that the same is sufficient to satisfy
the plaintifff in respect of the cause of action in the declaration men­
tioned. If the plaintifff accept the same, judgment shall be entered
therefore .with costs. . 
If he fails to accept the sarae, the offer . shall be oonsidered with­
drawn, and shall not be given in evidence, and if the plaintifff fail to
recover more *ban the sum so offered, he shall pay all the costs 
accruing af\ei'. suoh offer. 
SEC. 179. In all aotions in which the right to real estate, or to 
goods and chattels is in controversy, the court, or the judges thereof,
may make an order for the protection of the property in controversy
from waste, destruction, or removal beyond the jurisdiction of the
court, upon satisfactory proof being made of the necessity for such
order, and may enforce such order by an attachment for contempt. 
SECTION XVI. 
Of Amendments and Jeofails. 
SEC. 180. The court shall have full power and authority to allow
all amendments to be made in any pleading or proceeding, at any
time before verdict, so as to bring the merits of the controversy
between the parties fairly to trial, and may allow all errors and mis­
takes in the name of any party, or in the form of tlro_ action to be
corrected; and the court shall require e.11 such amendments to be 
made on such terms, as to costs and delay, 88 may seem proper to pre­
vent surprise or undue advantage. Either party may except to the
decision of the court, allowing or refusing amendments, and the same
may be assigned for error. 
SEC. 181. No judgment shall be stayed or reversed afrer verdict,
for any defect in the writ; or for a variance in the writ from the
declaration or other proceedings; or for any misplesding, insufficient
pleading, discontinuance, misjoining of issue, or lack of warrant of
attorney; or for the appearance of either party, being under the age
of twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict be for him, and not to
his prejudice; or for not alleging any deed, letters testamentary; or of
administration, to be brought into court; or for the omission of the
words "with force and arms," or "against the peace;" or for any mis­ 
take of the christian name, or surname of either party, sum of money,
quantity of merchandise, value, day, month or year, in the declaration
or pleading, (the name, sum, quantity, value, or time being right in
any other part of the record or proceeding) ; or tor the omission of
the averment, "this he is ready to verify," or "this he is ready to
verify by the record;" or for not alleging "as appeareth bl the record;"
or for omitting the averment of any matter without proving which the 
jury ought not to have given suoh verdict; or for settin,g forth by way 
of recital, any mattel' which ought to have been set forth by a.vennent;
or for not alleging that the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction of
the oourt; or for not. alleging that the property in the declaration men­
tioned, is the property of the plaintifff; or for any mistake or misconcep­
tion of the form of the action; or for any other defect whatsoever, in
the declaration OI' pleading, whether of form or substance, which might
have been taken advantage of by demurrer, and which shall not
have been so taken advantage of; or for any informality in entering 
up the judgment by the clerk; neither shall any judgment entered by
default be reversed, nor a judgment after inquiry of damages, be
stayed or reversed, for any omission· or fault, which would not have
been good cause to stay or reverse the judgment, if there had been a
verdict on issue joined. . 
SEC. 182. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and
the proof shall be deemed material, unless it·shall have actually mis- 
led the adverse p~rty to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or
defense upon the merits; and where it shall not be shown to the
satisfaction of the court, that the party has been so misled, an imme­
diate amendment of the pleading may be made without costs, and
without delayingthe cause. If' theparty has been so actually misled,
an amendment may be allowed on such terms as shall be just. 
SEC. 183. When there are several counts, one of which is faulty,
and entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good; but the
defendant may apply to the court to instruct the jury to disregard the
faulty count. . 
SEC. 184. It; in detinue, the verdict shall omit price or value, the
court may at any time, award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the same,
If on an issue concerning several things in one count, in detinue, no
verdict be found for part of them, it shall not be error, but the plain­
tiff shall be barred of his title to the things omitt.ed. 
SEC. 185. A judgment on confession shall be equal to a release of
errors; but all powers of attorney for confessing, or suffering judgment 
to pass by default, or otherwise, and all general releases of error made, ~
or to be made, by any -person within this State, before action brought, 
shall be absolutely null and void. . . . . 
SEC. 186. Where in the record of any judgment or decree of any
court of law or equity, there shall· be any mistake, miscalculation, or
misrecital of'any sum of money, quantity of merchandise, or other
thing, or of any name, and there shall be among the records of the
proceedings in the suit, in which such judgment or decree shall be
rendered, any verdict, bond, bill, note, or other writing of the like
nature or kind, whereby such judgment or deoree may · be safely
amended, it shall be the duty of the court in which such judgment
shall be rendered, and of the judge thereof, in vacation, to amend
such judgment or decree thereby, according to the very truth and
justice of the case. Provided, the opposite party shall have had rea­ 
eonable notice of the application for such amendment.
And if the transcript of such judgment or decree, at the time of 
such amendment, or at any time thereafter, shall be removed to the
high court of 'errors and appeals, it shall be the duty of that court,
upon the inspection of such amended record, (to be brought before it
by cmidrari if need be,} to affirm such judgment, if there be no other 
error apparent on such record. 
SEC. 187. Where any bond, taken by virtue of any process or
order, by miscalculation or mistake, shall be conditioned for the
payment of a larger sum of money than by law ought to have been
required thereby; or where a verdict shall be rendered for more dam­
ages than the plaintifff shall have demanded by his suit, and judgment
shall be rendered accordingly, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff at
the same or any future term of the court, to release in open court any
such excess ; or he may in vacation release the same, in writing under
his hand, and filed among the papers of the cause; and such release
shall cure any error growing out of such excess, 
SEC. 188. If the JeCOrd of any such judgment be removed to an
appellate court, before such release shall be made, it shall be compe­
tent for the defendant in error, to make such release as aforesaid, in
the appellate court ; and thereupon the said court, after reversing the
judgment, shall proceed to give such judgment as the court below 
ought to have given, if the release had been filed therein; but in such 
cases, the appellee, or defendant in error, shall par the costs, and the
judgment.shall not be entered against the sureties in the appeal or 
writ of error bond. 
SEC. 189. All things in this section contained, not restricted by
their nature, or by express provision, to particular courts, shall be the
rules of decision and prooeeding in all courts whatsoever within this
State.  
SEC. 190. No person, whether a party to the suit or otherwise, shall
be incompetent to give evidence in any suit at law or in equity, by
reason of any interest in the result thereof, or in the record as an
instrument of evidence in other suits; but the deposition of such in­
terested witness shall not be read in evidence; and the court or jury
shall give such weight to the testimony of parties and interested
witnesses, as in view of the situation of the witness, and other circum­
stances, it may be fairly entitled to. Any party may, by su bpoena, as
in other cases, compel any other party to the suit to appear and give
evidence: Prooided, that no person shall be a witness in·any suit by, 
or against himself, to establish his own claim to an atnount exceeding
fifty dollars, against the estate of a deceased person. 
SEC. 191. No conviction of any person for any offense, except per· 
jury, and subornation of perjury, she.11 disqualify such person as a 
witness, but such conviction may be ,given in evidence to impeach his
credibility. . 
No person convicted of perjury or subornation of ·-perjury, shall
afterwards be a competent witness · in any case, although pardoned
or punished for the same. 
SEC. 192. All negroes, mulattoes, Indians, and persons of mixed
blood, descended from negro, or negro and Indian ancestors, to the
third generation inclusive, though one ancestor of each· generation
may have been a white person, shan be incapable of being witnesses
in any case whatever, except for or against each other. · 
SEC. 198. In criminal cases, husband and wife shall be competent
witnesses for each other. 
2. Of the .At~clance of Witne.,se.,. 
SEC. 194. The first _process to compel the attendance of a witness
shall be a subpoena, directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witness may reside, mentioning the 'time and place for the appearance
of the witness, the parties to the suit, and the party at whose instance
the witness is summoned. 
The names of all the witnesses residing in the same county shall be 
inserted in the same subpeena, provided the number shall not exceed 
six names in each su bpcena. 
SECTION XVII. 
or Evidence. 
SEC. 195. The clerk of the court in which the action may be
depending, shall in like manner issue subpoenas for all witnesses
whose attendance may be required before commissioners to take
depositions, or before referees, or on any survey of lands made by
order of the court, or according to law. 
Any commissioner appointed, or· to whom a commission may be
directed, by any court without the limits of this Stat.e, to take the
deposition of any witnees residing or being in this State, shall have
power in like manner to iesue subpoenas for the witnesses to be
examined, returnable al such time and place as. such commissioner
may appoint. · 
SEC. 196. Subpcenas shall be served personally, or if the witness
connot be found, by leaving a copy at his usual place of residence, in 
the hands of some free white person over the age of sixteen lea.rs ; and
the person so summoned shall appear and continue to atten from day 
to day, and from time to time, until discharged; and if the suit shall be 
settled in the vacation, notice thereof shall be given to the witnesses,
otherwise they .shall be entitled to the same compensation for their
subsequent attendance in pursuance of the eubpcena, as if the suit had 
not been settled, ·
SEC. 197. If any person summoned as !i witness shall fail to appear, 
and attend 88 herein required, an attachment shall be issued by order
of the court, or other authority, before which he was summoned to
appear, returnable at such time as the said court, or authority may
appoint; and such court or authority shall, on ordering such attach­
ment, direct whether the witness shall ent.er into recognizance or bond
for his appearance, and in what sum, and whether with or without
sureties; which recognizance or bond the sheriffor other officer, by
wlfom the attachment is executed, is authorized to take, payable to
the State. And in case said witness shall appear in answer to said
auaohme11,t, the court may discharge him therefrom, on good cause
sh~n, or may n;quire him to enter into like recognizance for his
appearance from day to day, and term to term, until discharged, to 
~tify in said cause. 
· In case said witness shall not appear, in pursuance of his recogni­ 
zance or bond, the same proceedings shall be had 88 upon the forfeiture
of a· recognizance in a eriminal case. 
SEC. 198. Any person summoned as a witness, and not appearing
and at~nding 88 required b~ this act, shall, moreover, be fined by the 
court in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, to the use of the
person at whose instance he was summoned, and a acire facias shall 
188Ue thereon, 88 in the case of· defaulting jurors, and he shall also be
liable to the action of the party for the full damages sustained by the
want of his testimony; but if sufflcient·cause of his failure to attend be 
shown by such person, before :finaljudgment on such scire facias, then
no fine shall be incurred by such failure. · 
SEC. 199. Witnesses in. criminal cases shall be liable to the same 
process of subpoona and attachment, and to the like penalties for 
failure to appear and at~d, as in civil cases; the court may cause the
witnesses on either side to be bound by recognizance to appear and
testify until discharged. · 

SEC. 200. Every witness shall be entitled to receive from the party
at whose instance he is summoned, one dollar and fifty cents for every_ 
day that he shall attend, and five cents for every mile going to . and
returning from the court, by the most direct travelled route from his
residence, and also all neceasary tolls and ferriages actually paid by
him, such mileage, tolls, and ferriages to be charged but once at each 
term. The number of days, and the amount of mileage, tolls and
ferriages, shall be'determined by the oath of the witness, to be ad­ 
ministered by the clerk of the court, who shall give the witness a
certificate thereof; and if any witness shall swear falsely to obtain
such certificate, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and imprisoned
accordingly. Each witness shall be entitled to demand at the expira­
tion of each day, his compensation for attending on that day, and if
the same shall not be paid, such witness shall not be obliged to attend
further, until the compensation for his previous attendance shall be
paid. 
The party paying any witness may file the certificate given by the
clerk, among the papers in the cause, and if he recover costs in the
cause, the amount shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
Any witness may sue for and recover from the party on whose
behalf he was summoned, the amount specified in the certificate of the
clerk, before any justice of the peace, or other court having jurisdiction,
and the certificate of the clerk shall be good prima f acu evideaee in
such action, of the attendance of such witness, and of t.he amount of
compensation he is entitled to recover. 
SEC. 201. Witnesses in criminal oases shall be allowed the same
compensation as in civil cases, but the prosecutor shall not be allowed
compensation as a witness, nor shall any person be allowed for his
attendance as a witness in more than one criminal case on the same 
day.
The compensation of witnesses on behalf of the State, shall be 
allowed in ·open court, and the order therefore entered upon ,he minutes,
and a certified copy made out by the clerk, and delivered to the party 
entitled thereto, and the amoont shall be taxed in the costs, an col­
lected as other costs, in case the defendant shall be convicted, or ilie 
prosecutor taxed with the costs. ·
SEC. 202. If on conviction, the defendant shall be unable to pay the 
costs, or if he be acquitted and the costs be not taxed op the prosecu­
tor, or if the prosecutor being so taxed, shall be unable ~ pay said 
costs, the compensation of the witnesseson behalf of the State shall be
paid out of the State treasury ; and on presentation of a certified copy
of the order of allowance of such compensation, and a certificate of the
clerk, in cases where the defendant has been convicted, or the prose­
cutor taxed with the cost, that executioa.has been issued and returned
nulla bona, or that the defendant has been discharged as an insolvent
debtor, the auditor shall ~ssue his warrant. for the amount, in favor of
such witness, his representatives or assigns. 
On production of the like certificates, the sheriff or tax collector of
the county, shall pay the same out of any money in his hands payable 
into the State treasury, and shall be allowed therefore, by the auditor
of public accounts; in any settlement with him. 
SEC. 203. In all criminal cases, where the defendant, after being
arraigned, shall break jail, escape from custody, or forfeit his recogni­
zance, and in which the court shall order that process against such
defendant shall cease, the witnesses on the part of the State may obtain
pay for their attendance in the same manner as if such defendant had 
been acquitted .
SEC. 204. No witness shall be entitled to charge for his attendance 
in any case, at any term of the court, unless he shall during the same
term, or within five days thereafter, prove his attendance, and obtain 
a certificate in the manner directed by this act.
SEC. 205. Witnesses attending the legislature or any committee 
thereof, under a subpeena, shall receive two dollars for each day's
attendance, and six cents a mile for travelling to and from the place
of attendance, estimating the distance by the most direct tra veiled
route, for which the auditor shall issue his warrant, on production of
the certificate of the presiding officer of the body before whom the
witness was required to attend, ascertaining the amount thereof. 
4. Bxam,"nation of Wuneuu. 
SEC. 206. Any witness being conscientiously scrupulous of taking
an oath, may give testimony upon his solemn affirmation, which shall
be as good and effectual as an oath ; and the person so deposing shall
be guilty of perjury, and liable to all the penalties thereof, in all cases
where he would be guilty of perjury, if he had testified upon oath,
and it shall be sufficient to charge in the indictment, that such person
was sworn, or testified upon oath, and it shall not be a variance, if it 
appear tha~ he was affirmed. ·
The form of affirmation shall be in substance as follows, to wit :­
"You do solemnly and truly declare and affirm," &c. In all cases 
where an oath, or affidavit, is required by law, it shall be sufficient if 
the same be made or given on the solemn affirmation of the party. 
SEC. 207. If any person summoned as a witness, shall refuse to be
sworn, or affirmed, or to give evidence, he shall be committed to
prison, by the court, commissioner, referees, or other person authorized 
to take his testimony, there to remain without bail, until he shall be 
swom or affirmed, and give his evidence.
SEC. 208. Any witness may be examined touching his interest in 
the cause, or his conviction of any crime, and his answers may be 
contradicted, and his interest, or his conviction of a crime established
by other evidence, and no witness shall be excused from answering
any question, material and relevant, unless the answer would expose
him to a criminal prosecution or penalty, or to a forfeiture of his
estate. 

SEC. 209. Depositiona of witnesses residing or being within the
State, may be taken in civil causes, in the. following cases: 
1. When the person whose testimony is required, shall be about to
depart from the State, or by reason of age, sickness, or other cause,
shall be unable, or likely to be unable, to attend the court. 
2. When the claim or defense, or a material point thereof, shall
depend upon the testimony of a single witness. 
3. When the person, whose testimony is required, shall be a judge
of the high court of errors and appeals, or circuit court, or any other
officer of the government of the State, or of the United States, who, on
account of his official duties, cannot attend the court to give evidence. 
4. When the testimony of the clerk of any court of record, or of
any sheriff; or justice of the peace, shall be required beyond the limits
of the county of his residence. 
5. When the witness shall be a female. But when the deposition of
any female shall be taken pursuant to this article, either party may
obtain process to compel the attendance of such female, on filing in
the clerk's office an affidavit, that the personal attendance of such
female in open court, is necessary for the ends of justice; and the
person procuring such process shall be liable for the costs thereof, and
of the attendance of such witness. 
6. When the witness shall reside within the State, and more than
sixty miles from the place of trial. 
SEC. 210. Affidavit shall be made and filed by the party desiring 
to take such deposition, that the witness is material, and stating the
reason for taking the deposition, and thereupon the clerk shall issue a
commission to take the same. 
SEC. 211. Ten days notice of the time and place of taking any
deposition in this State, shall be given to the opposite party, and one
additional day for every twenty miles from the place of holding the
court in which the suit may be pending: Provided, That in cases of
emergency, to be judged of by the commissioner, depositions may be
taken upon shorter notice, so that the opposite party shall have time
and opportunity to be present. 
SEC. 212. When any party shall desire to take the deposition of
any witness absent from, or residing out of the State, he shall file
interrogatories in the clerk's office, and serve the opposite party, or his
attorney, with a copy thereof with a notice of the day on which a
commission will issue, ten days before issuing the same, in which time
the opposite party shall file his cross-interrogatories; and the clerk
shall thereupon issue a commission, and shall annex thereto a copv of
such interrogatories, and cross-interrogatories, and the witness shall
be examined by the commissioner thereon. 
SEC. 213. If the opposite party shall not reside in the State, and
hath not an agent or attorney-at-law, or in fact, within the same, to
whom notice of the time and place of taking a deposition within the
State can be given, or on whom copies of the interrogatories and
notice required for taking a deposition abroad, can be served, it shall
be sufficient to file the same with the clerk, among the papers in the
cause, for the time required; and this provision shall apply to all
courts in the State. 
SEC. 214. All commissions to take depositions under this act, may
be directed to one, or to several commissioners in the alternative,
by name, or to any judge of a court of record, justice of the peace, 
mayor, or chief magistrate of a city or town, commissioner appointed 
by the governor of this State, or other person authorized to administer oaths, by the law of the place where the deposition is to be taken; and the cerrtificate of any such officer shall be prima facie evidence of his official character, and of his authority to administer oaths.

SEC. 215. The witnesses shall be sworn or affirmed by the commissioner to testify the whole truth, and the commissioner, or one or more of them, shall carefully and impartially examine the witnesses on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories annexed to the commission, or if the deposition is taken within the state, upon such interrogatories as may be put, verbally or in writing, by the parties, an dshall cause the testimony to be fairly written down, either by himeslf, or by the witness or some disinterested person in his presence, and subscribed by the witness; and the testimony so taken down, and the commission and interrogatories, and every exhibit an dvoucher relating thereto, and also a certificate by the commissioner of all his proceedings therein, shall be scaled up and directed to the clerk of the court where the action is depending,a nd transmitted in the most save and convenient manner, and the clerk shall open the same, and having endorsed thereon, the time fo the receipt and opening thereof, shall deposit the same among the papers in the cause.

SEC. 216. Depositions taken, certified and returned in pursuance of this act, shall be adminissible as evidence in teh cause: Provided, Any of the causes authorizing the taking of depositions under this act, shall exist tat the time of th etrial, to prevent the personal attendance fo the witness, but the questions and answers wehreto, shall be liable to all legal objections.

SEC. 217. Subpoenas for witnesses to appear before any commissioner within this State, to give testimony in any cause depending in a court of this state, shall be issued by the clerk fo the court in which the action is depending, or by the commissioner, and shall be executed as in other cases, and returned to such commissioner: and in case the witness shall fail to appear, the said commissioner shall issue and attachment against him, returnable at such time as the commissioner shall appoint, and the deposition may be taken without further notice.

SEC. 218. The commissioner shall have power to continue the taking of depositions from day to day, and may adjourn the taking thereof from time to time, giving notice to the parties, unless they shall be present when such adjournment is made.

SEC. 219. The sheriff, coroner and constables of each county shall serve copies of interrogatories and notices of issuing commissions, and notices of taking depositions, and shall be allowed therefore the same fee as for the service of a summons to be charged in the bill of costs; they shall also execute and return all writs of subpoena and attachment; and for any neglect of duty imposed by this article, such officers shall be liable to all the penalties for neglect of duty in respect to the service of a summons.

SEC. 220. No female shall be compelled to attend court as a witness in any civil action, except in the manner prescribed in this section.

SEC. 221. No exception to any deposition, other than for incompetency or irrelevancy, shall be regarded, unless made in writing, and filed before the commencement of the trial; Provided, such deposition shall 


have been filed, at least one day before the time of trial. The court, on
motion of either party, shall determine the exceptions so made and :filed,
before the commencement of the trial, and if the exceptions are sus­ 
tained, may in proper cases, allow time to reta~e such depositions. 

SEC. 222. Any judge of a court of record in this State, any clerk ·
of such court, or his deputy, any member of the board of county
police, and any justice of the peace, or master, or commissioner in
chancery, is authorized to administer oaths and affirmations, and to
take and certify affidavits, whenever the same may be necessary or
proper in any proceeding· in any court, or under any law of this
State; and such officers shell be allowed twenty-five cents for each
oath or affirmation so taken and certified. 
SEC. 228. In all cases where the oath or affirmation of the party
is required, such oath or affirmation may be made by his agent or 
· attorney, and shall be as effectual for an· purposes as if made by the
party. · 
SEC. 224. Private acts of the legislature may be given in evidence
without being specially pleaded, and the printed acts of the legislature,
published by authority thereof, shall be good evidence of such acts, 
SEC. 225. The printed statute laws of the United States, and of the
several States and territories thereof, published by authority of the
United States, or of the respective States or territories, shall be com·
petent evidence of such laws in all the courts of this State; and where
such laws shall purport to be published by authority of the United
States, or any State or territory, it shall be sufficient prima fa~ evi­
dence that they were so published. 
SEC. 226. When any question shall arise in this State, as to the
law of the United States, or of any other State or territory of the
United States, or of the District of Columbia, the court shall take notice
of such law, in the same manner as if the question arose under the law
of this State. 
SEC. 227. Copies of all deeds and other instruments of writing,
which by the laws of any foreign country may be admitted to record
upon acknowledgment or proof thereof, and copies of all judgments,
decrees, and specialties of record, rendered in any foreign country,
and of all foreign registers of births, marriages and deaths, shall be
admissible in evidence in this State, when certified under the hand
and seal of office, of the officer having custody of the record, and
authenticated by the certificate of any public minister, secretary or
legation, or consul, of the United States, that the officer certifying
such copy is the pro~r custodian of the record, and that his attesta­
tion is m due form. The original of all such deeds and other instru­
ments of writing, when acknowledged or proved according to the laws
of the country where they are executed, so as to be entitled to be
recorded there, shall be evidence in this State, without further proof
of the execution thereof. 
SEC. 228. Copies of the record of any deed, bond and other writing,
required or permitted to be recorded by the laws of this State, or of
any other State or territory of the United States, or of the District of 
Columbia, shall, when certified by the clerk in whose office the record
is kept, under his seal of office, be received in evidence in all courts
in this State, without accounting for the absence of the original ; but,
if the execution of such deed, bond, or other writing shall be disputed
by the opposite party, on oath, the original shall be produced, or its
absence accounted for, before such copy shall be read. And such
original when acknowledged or proved, according to the laws of the
State or territory where executed, so as to be entitled to be recorded
there, shall be evidence in this State without further proof of ite 
execution. , 
SEC. 229. All certificates issued in pursuance of any act of con·
gress, by any board of commissioners, register of any land office, or
any other person authorized to issue such certificate, founded on any
warrant, order of survey, entry, grant, confirmation, donation, pre­
emption or purchase from the United States, of any land in this State,
shall be taken to vest the full legal title to such land in the person to
whom such certificate is granted, his heirs and assigns, so far as to
enable the holder of such certificate to maintain any action thereon,
and the same shall be received in. evidence as such, in any court in
this State, saving the paramount rights of other persons. 
SEC. 280. Copies of the records, books, and files belonging to the
land offices of the United States, certified by the officer having charge
thereof; shall be competent evidence in all cases, where the originals,
or sworn copies, could be admitted. 
SEC. 281. Copies from the books of entries of land, kept in any
land office in this State, or in the office of the secretary of state, when
certified by the officer having charge thereof, shall be admissible in
evidence in the same manner, and with the same effect as the original
certificate of entry. And all patents issued by the secretary of state
for lands, may be recorded in the office of the clerk of the probate
court of the county in which the land embraced in such patent may
lie, and certified copies thereof shall be admissible in evidence, in the 
same manner, and with the same effect, as the original patent. 
SEC. 282. Copies of the field notes of survey, and of the township
and sectional maps of lands, deposited in the office of the secretary of 
atat.e, shall, when certified by him, be admissible in evidence. 
SEC. 288. In any suit founded on the bond of any public officer,
or of any collector, administrator, executor or guardian, copies of the
same, certified by the clerk, or other officer in whose office the said
bond is recorded, shall be competent evidence, unless on an issue 
joined upon a plea that such bond is not the deed of the defendant,
or defendants, the production of the original shall be neceaeary; in
which ease, the clerk or other officer, being summoned as a witness,
shall attend with the. said bond, on the trial of the issue. 
SEC. 234. If an action be brought on a bond, or other writing, filed
in any suit brought thereupon in any other court in this State, it shall
be sufficient for the plaintifff to file with his declaration, a copy of such
bond or writing, attested by the clerk of the court in which the original 
may be filed ; and the defendant shall plead thereto, and such copy
shall be admitted as evidence on the trial. If, however, the defendant
shall by plea, deny the execution of the original bond or writing, and 
verify the same by oath, the clerk of the court having such paper in 
bis custody, shall, on being summoned as a witness, attend with the
same on the trial of the issue. 
SEC. 235. All public officers in this State, having the charge or
custody of any public books, records, papers, or writings, are author­
ized to certify copies of the same, which copies shall be received in
evidence in all cases where the original, or a sworn copy, would be 
evidence. · 
SEC. 286. The court in which any action is pending, may, on good 
cause shown, and after notice of the application to the opposite party,
order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, and
under such terms as may be imposed, an inspection and copy, or per~
mission to take a copy, of any books, papers, or documents in his
possession, or under his. control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or proceeding, or of the defense thereto, and if
compliance with such order be refused, such books, papers, or docu­
ments shall not be given in evidence, in such action or proceeding, by
the party so refusing, and the court may punish such party as for a
contempt of court. 

SEC. 237. In suits founded on any written instrument set forth in 
the pleading, it shall not be necessary to prove the signature or exe­
cution thereof, unless the same be denied by a special plea, verified by
the oath of the party pleading the .same ; and in no case shall it be
necessary to prove any written signature, the, execution of any instru­
ment, or any identity or names of persons, or description of char­
acter, or the persons composing any .firm or partnership, which
may be set forth in the pleadings, unless the same be denied by special
plea, verified by oath, as aforesaid. 
And the like rule shall prevail as far as may be applicable, in all 
cases where any writing is pleaded, or set up b:y the defendant, or
any signature, identity, or names of persons, description of character,
or partnership, set forth in his pleading. 
SEC. 238. In suits against one or more of several co-partners,
founded on any written contract made in the co-partnership name,
it shall not be necessary to prove the co-partnership signature, or thal
the defendant was a member of said partnership, unless the same be
denied by plea, verified by the oath of the party pleading the same;
and the same rule shall apply to all pleas, and legal proceedings to 
which the same may apply. 
SEC. 239. In suits by any incorporated company in this State, to
recover any instalments, or calls upon the capital stock subscribed by ..
any person, it shall not be necessary for said company to prove that
such subscription was made, or that such instalments or calls were re­
quired to be paid, or that publication thereof was made, unless the
defendant shall deny the same by plea, verified by oath: Provided, 
Su.ch subscription, and such instalment or call, and such publication, be
distinctly averred in the pleading, 

SEC. 240. The record of the officer or other person, protesting any
promissory note, or bill of exchange, or a copy thereof, shall, when
verified by the oath of the officer, or other person, made before any
person authorized to administer an oath, be competent evidence in all 
the courts of this State, of the facts therein stated, touching the dis­
honor of such bill or note ; and if such officer or other person, shall 
. willfully state anything falsely, ii. the record or copy thereof so sworn
to, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury. 
Officers protesting any bill or note, shall not be compelled to go out
of their county, to give evidence in relation thereto, but either party
may obtain from the clerk of the court; where the action is depending,
a commission to take the deposition of such officer, or other person,
on giving the same notice as .required in other cases. 

SEC. 241. The publication of any notice in a newspaper, when
required by law, or by order of court, may be proved by the produc­
tion of a copy of such notice, with the affidavit of the printer, pub­
lisher, clerk, or superintendent of the newspaper, specifying the
respective numbers and dates of said newspaper, in which said publi­
cation was made, together with the certificate of' the person before
whom the said affidavit is taken, that the newspaper containing such
publication has been produced before him, and compared with said
copy, and that the same is correct, and truly made; and such affidavit
and certificate shall be competent evidence in all courts in this State. 
SEC. 242. Any officer authorized to take such affldavit, who may
reside in the vicinity of, or convenient to the printer, publisher, clerk
or superintendent of any newspaper in which such publication may 
have been made, shall on application of any party interested, by sub­ 
poona or otherwise, require such printer, publisher, clerk or super­
mtendent, to appear before him, at a time and place to be appointed,
and to bring with him the newspaper containing the publication; and
such officer shall then and there take the deposition of said printer,
publisher, clerk or superintendent, to the matters required to be cer­
tified; and shall also compare the publication with the copy, and
certify the same as aforesaid; and the said affidavit or deposition, and
certificate, shall be sealed up, endorsed, and transmitted to the clerk
of the court, where the same is required to be used, in the same
manner as required for the return of depositions. 
SEC. 243. The printer, publisher, clerk or superintendent making
such proof shall be allowed the sum of fift.y cents for making a copy
of said publication, and for his attendance with the newspaper, to
compare and depose to the same; and the officer taking the same,
shall be allowed twenty-five cents for administering said oath or
affirmation, and also fil\een cents for comparing said copy with the 
original, and certifying the same. 

SEC. 244. The governor of this State shall appoint one or more '
commissioners, residing in each of the States and territories of the
United States, and in the District of Columbia, who shall hold their
office for the term of two years from the date of their commissions; 
which commissioners shall have full power to administer oaths and
affirmations, and to take and certify depositions and .affidavits, to be
used in this State; and also to take and certify the acknowledgment
and proof of deeds, and all other instruments of writing, to be recorded
in this State: and their acts shall be as effectual in law, as if done
and certified by any officer thereunto duly authorized -in this State. 
SEC. 245. Before any commissioner appointed as aforesaid, shall
proceed to perform any of the duties of his office, he shall take and
subscribe an oath or affirmation, before any justice of the ~e, or
officer authorized to administer oaths, in the State for which such
commissioner may be appointed, that he will faithfully discharge all
the duties of the said office; which oath or affirmation shall be filed in
the office of the secretary of this State, within six months after the
taking and subscribing of the same. 
SEC. 246. The secretary of state shall be entitled to receive the
sum of two dollars and fifty cents, for every commission, with a copy
of the two preceding articles of this section, issued by him, to be paid
by the party to whom such commission shall be issued. 

SEC. 247. The circuit courts in this Stat.e, are hereby vested with
full power in all cases, to compel discoveries in aid of actions at law
depending therein, and in aid of defeaces thereto, whenever by the
rules of equity, a discovery would be compelled in a court of chan­
cery, subject to the prdvisions hereinafter expressed. 
SEC. 248. Whenever an application shall be made for a discovery
under the provisions of this act, the party shall embody the facts in
relation to which a discovery shall be prayed, with the reasons there­
for, in a petition to the court in which the action may be depending,
substantiated by oath; and the court on inspecting the same, shall
determine whether a discovery shall be had or not; and if the said
court shall determine that a discovery shall be had, the person liable
to make the same, shall forthwith, or at such other time 88 the court
may direct, make in writing, on oath, full and complete discovery
relative to jhe matters concerning which such discove:11 shall be
ordered, and deliver the same into the said court; and if the said
person be not in attendance on said court, a summons shall be ordered,
commanding him to attend the same forthwith, or at the next succeed­
ing term, 88 the court may direct, and· then and there make the dis­ 
covery required, in manner aforesaid; and if the party from whom a
discovery is sought, shall reside out of this State, or be absent there­
from, or cannot be found, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
may direct publication to be made, once a week for four consecutive
weeks, in any newspaper printed within this State, which in the 
opinion of the court or judge is best calculated to apprise the absent
party that such petition has been filed ; and if the person so rendered
liable to make discovery, on the return of a subpoena duly served, or
on due proof of publication made, shall neglect or refuse to make the
same, the fact.s stated in said petition, concerning which the discovel'l
was prayed, shall be taken as confessed, and shall go to the jury, as if
ihe same had been admitted by such person, under oath. 
SEC. 249. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the order ot the
court allowing or refusing a discovery, a bill of exceptions may be
taken to the decision of the court, embodying the petition and pro.
ceedings thereon, and the· same may be assigned for error, and re­
viewed by the high court of errors and appeals, on appeal or writ of
error, after final judgment in said cause. 
SEC. 250. Any person knowingly making a false stat.ement in the
petition or answer required by this act, shall be deemed guilty of
perjury, and being thereof convicted, shall suffer all the pains and 
penalties thereof. ·
SEC. 251. A discoyery made by one defendant shall not operate 
against his co-defendant, who shall not be made a party to the said
petition, or who being a party shall deny the same facts discovered by
such defendant, and if one or more defendants to such petition, shall
deny the facts, or any of them, therein alleged, and one or more other
defendants to the same petition shall neglect or refuse to answer the
same, the facts alleged shall be taken for confessed against the defend­
ant or defendants failing or refusing to answer, and shall operate
against them only; and if any party defendant to such petition, shall
answer some of the facts alleged therein, and shall fail to answer some
of said facts, the facts not answered or denied, shall be taken as admit­ 
ted ~ be true, and shall go to the jury accordingly. 

SEC. 252. Any person who shall remain beyond sea, or absent him­ 
self from this State, or conceal himself in this State, for seven years
successively, shall be presumed to be dead, in any CMe wherein his
death shall come in question, unless proof be made that he was alive
within that time; but any property or estate recovered in any such
case, shall be restored to the person evieted or deprived thereof, if in
a subsequent action, it shall be proved that the person so presumed to
be dead is living. 
SECTION xvm. 
or Judgment,. 
1. Judgment,, WMJ& final •
SEC. 253. In actions of debt for a sum certain, and in actions founded 
on any instrument of writing ascertaining the sum due, or on open ao­ 
count, where a copy of the account is filed with the declaration, if judg­
ment be rendered o». demurrer, by oonfeasion, or by default for want of 
appearance or plea, the clerk shall calculate the amount due for prin­
cipal and interest, and judgment shall be entered therefore; and such
judgment shall be final on the last day of the term, if not set aside.
And in all actions where the sum due does not appear as aforesaid,
and in all actions sounding in damages, if the defendant do not appear
and plead according to law, interlocutory judgments may be taken,
on whichwrits of inquiry shall be awarded, which may be executed
at the same term, by the jurors attending said court, and executions
may issue for the damages assessed by the jury, and costs of suit, as in
other cases. 
And after a writ of inquiry shall be executed, and judgment ren­
dered thereon by the court, the same shall not be set aside, unless
good cause be shown therefore on oath, and in such case, the defendant
shall plead to issue immediately, and the plaintifff shall not thereby
be delayed of his trial. · 
SEC. 254. In all actions brought upon any bond for the payment
of money, wherein the plaintifff shall recover, judgment shall be entered
for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by the payment of the
principal and the interest due thereon, and the costs of suit, and execu­
tion shall issue acoordingly; or if before judgment, the defendant shall
bring into court the principal and interest due upon such bond, he
shall be discharged, and in that case judgment shall be entered for the 
costs only. 

SEC. 255. In all civil actions, the party. in whose favor judgment
shall be given, or in case of non suit, dismission or discontinuance, the
defendant, shall be entitled to full costs, except when it may be other­
wise directed by law; and the law of costs shall not be interpreted 
as penal laws.
SEC. 256. In actions of assault and battery, libel and slander, if the 
jury find for the plaintifff under the sum of ten dollars, he shall not
recover any costs. And in all actions of trespass quare elem.sum f regil, 
where the court before, whom the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied,
and enter upon the minutes, that the freehold, title or interest of the
land mentioned in the plaintifff's declaration, 'was, or might have been
in question, or that the trespass was willful or malicious; and in all
other actions of trespass, where the court before. which the trial shall
be, shall not be satisfied and enter upon the minutes, that the trespass
was willful or malicious; and in all actions upon the case, actions of
covenant, and actions of debt for a penalty intended to secure the
performance of a covennant or condition, where the court before whom
the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied and enter upon the minutes,
that the action was neither frivolous nor vexatious; if the jury find
under ten dollars, the plaintifff shall not recover more costs than the
sum so found; and if more costs are awarded, the judgment shall be
amended, upon motion, at any time; and the party injured shall be
redressed as to such costa so wrongfully awarded, in case the same
be levied upon him. And where several persons shall be made
defendants in any action of trespass, assault, false imprisonment, or 
ejectment, and upon uiaJ. thereo~ any one or more of them shall be 
acquitte<N>y verdict, every defendant so acquitted, shall recover his
costs of suit, in like manner as if a verdict had been given against the
plaintifff or plaintifffs as to all the defendants; unless the court before
whom such cause shall be tried, shall be satisfied that there was reason­
able cause for making such person or persons, defendant or defendants
to such action, and shall order it otherwise. 
S. Oifice 001,feasiun of Judgment. 
SEC. 257. Any person indebted to another in any sum of money,
within the jurisdiction of the circuit courts of this State, on any
promise, agreement, or covenant, .may sign an office confession of
judgment, in the clerk's· offioe of any circuit oourt, in the manner fol- 
lowing, to wit: .
The creditor shall file in the clerk's office a statement, under oath, 
in the form, or substantially to the effect following, viz:
The State of Mississippi, } In the Circuit Court of said County. 
--- County, sa. Term, A. D. --- 
A. B. states, on oath, that C. D. is justly indebted to him to the
amount of on an instrument of writing, in the following words
and figures, viz: (here copy the same,) and in case of endorsement say,
endorsed, as follows: (here copy the endorsement,) or on open account
of which a copy is hereunto attached, which remains due and unpaid,
and that said sum of money is-not due or claimed upon a fraudulent
or usurious consideration. 
Sworn to and subscribed the day}
of A. D. before me, 
Signed, A. B. 
· E. F., Clerk.
And if the evidence of said debt is in writing, the same shall be 
filed with said statement, and if not in writing, then a copy of the
open account shall be filed. And the party indebted shall sign, be­ 
fore said clerk, or his deputy, an acknowledgment written upon, or
annexed to, said statement, in the form, or to the effect following, to
wit: 
I do hereby acknowledge myself indebted to the said A. B., in the
sum of , which includes interest 'up to the first day of the next
term of the said circuit court, and I give my consent for judgment to
be rendered against me in favor of the said A. B., at the next term of
the said circuit court, for said amount, and all legal costs accruing
thereon, with stay of execution until, (as may be agreed upon.) 
Taken and acknowledged, the day }
of A. D. before me, 
E. F ., Clerk. 
SEC. 258. When such statement and acknowledgment are filed, the
clerk shall docket the cause on the appearance docket, and at the next 
ierm, on the motion of the plaintifff; the court shall render judgment 
C.D. 
thereon for the amount acknowledged to be due, with interest from the
first day of the term, and with such stay of execution, if any, as may
be stipulated, and such judgments shall be final, unless set aside during
the term, and shall be as binding and obligatory as judgments ren­
dered in any other form, and a full and complete final record shall be
made therein as in other cases. 
SEC. 259. For the services rendered in such cases, the clerk shall
receive and charge in the bill of costs, the following and no other fees: 
For making out the papers in the cause, fifty cents. For docketing,
fifteen cents. For filing the papers relating to the cause, fifteen cents.
For entering judgment thereon, twenty-five cents. For making out
final record, one dollar. For issuing execution, and services rendered
subsequent to the rendition of judgment, the clerk and sheriff shall be
entitled to the same tees allowed by law in other cases. 

SEC. 260. The clerks of the several circuit courts shall procure and
keep in their respective offices, one or more books to be styled "The 
judgment roll," of said court, which books shell be appropriately
divided under the several letters of the alphabet, and on each page,
under the letter thereon, shall be placed the following caption : 
Defendant.I' I Amoaat of Jadgmeat I Date of I Oounty In I Date of I Pla,nwr.' I 
Dame&. or decne. reocllUoa. •blch rendered. enrolmenL Dame&. 
And the said clerks shall, within thirty days after the adjournment
of each term of the court, enrol all final judgments and decrees ren­
dered at said term, in the order in which they were entered on the
minutes, by entering on said judgment roll, under the proper letter of
the alphabet, the names of each and every defendant to said judgment 
or decree, the amount of such judgment or decree, the date of its 
rendition, the county in which rendered, the date of the enrolment,
and the name of the plaintifff or plaintifffs. 
SEC. 261. All judgments and decrees, so enrolled, shall be a lien
upon, and bind all the property of the defendant or defendants within
the county where so enrolled, from the rendition thereof, and shall have
priority according to the order of such enrolment, in favor of the
Judgment creditor, his representatives or assigns, against the judgment
debtor or debtors, his, her, or their representatives, and purchasers or 
mortgagees from said judgment debtor or debtors; and nojudgment,
except judgments of justices of the peace, shall be a lien on ~~rro· 
perty of the defendant or defendants thereto, unless the same s be 
enrolled in the manner herein directed.
But the priority of lien provided for in this article, shall not extend 
to judgment creditors who fail, refuse, or neglect to sue out execution
for the satisfaction of his, her, or their judgment, or judgments, until
a junior judgment creditor has by due diligence caused his execution
to be levied upon the property of the defendant ; but in all such
cases the sale by the sheriff or other officer shall vest the title of
the defendant or defendants in the purchaser, and the proceeds of 
such sale shall be applied to the satisfaction of the junior judgment
creditor. 
·Providd, That before said junior creditor shall cause a levy to be
made, he shall give notice to older creditors in execution, that unless
they proceed in ten days to levy, he will proceed; in that case he 
shall have a preference under his levy. 
SEC. 262. No judgment or decree rendered in any court of the
United States, or of this State, shall be a lien upon, or bind any pro­
perty of the defendants, situate out of the county in which such judg­
ment or decree was rendered, until the plaintifff shall file in the office of
the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which such property may
be situated, an abstract of such judgment or decree, certified by the clerk
of the court in which the same was rendered, containing the names of
all the parties to such judgment or decree, its amount, and the date of
the rendition, and the amount appearing to have been paid thereon,
if any; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of any circuit court, on
receiving such abstract, .and on payment of the fees allowed by law
for filing, recording, and enrolling the same, to file the same, and record
it in a separate book, plainly indexed, to be kept for that purpose,
and to note therein the day on which such abstract was filed for record
as aforesaid ; and he shall forthwith enrol the same on the "judgment
roll," as in other cases; and such judgment or decree shall, from the
date of its enrolment as aforesaid, be a lien upon, and bind the pro­
perty of the defendants within the county where it shall be so
enrolled. 
SEC. 268. Judgments and decrees in law or in equity, rendered in
any court of the United States held within this State, or in the high
court of errors and appeals, the courts of chancery, or probate courts
of this State, shall not be a lien upon, or bind the property of the
defendants within the county in which such judgments or decrees may 
be rendered, until an abstract thereof shall be filed and recorded in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county, and enrolled
on the "judgment roll," in the manner, and on the terms hereinbefore
provided ; and such judgments and decrees shall bind the property of
the defendants from the date of such enrolment, in like manner as
judgments and decrees rendered in a different county, and so enrolled. 
SEC. 264. A copy of the entry on the judgment roll, with the cap­
tion at the top of the page on which such entry is made, certified by
the clerk under the seal of the court, shall be competent evidence of
such enrolment. 
SEC. 265. The clerks of all courts of law and equity in this State,
unless otherwise ordered by the plaintifff; shall, within thirty days
after the adjournment of the court for the term, issue executions on 
all judgments and decrees rendered therein, and place the same in the
hands of the sheriff of the, county; and if requested by the plaint~ 
they shall issue executions directed to the sheriff of any other county,
and shall deliver the same to the plaintifff or his attorney; but no
execution shall issue .on any judgment entered with a stay of execu­
tion, until such stay shall have expired. 
SEC. 266. Executions may issue at any time within a year and a
day after the rendition of the judgment or decree, or within a year
and a day after the expiration of the stay of execution ordered by the
court, and in case the issuance of execution has been prevented by
injunction or supersedeas, then execution may be issued within a year
and a day after the dissolution of such injunction, or the discharge or
expiration of such supersedeas, 
SEC. 267. Writs of execution shall bear date, and be issued in the
same manner as original process, and shall be made returnable on the
first day of the .. next term of the court in which the judgment or decree
was rendered: Provided, There be at least fifteen days between the
issuance and return thereof, and in case there shall not be fifteen days
between the issuance of such execution and the first day of the next
term, the same shall be made returnable on the first day of the next
term thereafter; and such execution may be directed to the sheriff or
other proper officer, of any county in the State, who shall serve and
execute the same, and make return thereof to the court in which the
judgment or decree was rendered. 
SEC. 268. The. clerk of every court shall keep a docket, in which
he shall enter all executions issued by him, specifying the names of
the parties, the date, and amount of the judgment or decree, and costs,
the name of the person to whom it is delivered, to what county directed,
the date when issued, and the return day thereof; and when the same
is returned, shall, withouj delay, record the return at large, on the
same page of the docket. - 
SEC. 269. If any party, at whose suit an execution has issued, shall
desire to take out another execution, the clerk may issue the same at
the cost of such party, if the first writ has not been returned, and has
not been executed; and when one judgment has been recovered against
several defendants, execution shall issue thereon as if it were against
one defendant, and not otherwise ; and if one or more of several de­
fendants shall have died before the issuance of such writ, and no
revivor has been had, the fact of the death shall be noted on the writ,
and the property of the survivors only shall in such case be liable to
the execution. 
SEC. 270. Writs of execution, where there is no judgment lien,
shall bind the property of the defendant only from the time of the
delivery thereof to the officer to be executed, and if two or more such
writs shall be delivered against the same person on the same day, that
which was first delivered shall be first satisfied; such executions shall
only bind such property as shall be actually levied upon by the officer,
on or before the return day thereof, and of which a written description
shall be endorsed on, or returned with such execution; and it shall be
the duty of the sheriff or other officer, on the receipt of any execution,
to endorse thereon the day of the month and year, and if nece...'-88.ry,
the hour when he received the same; and for any failure to make such
endorsement, the sheriff; or other officer, shall be liable to a penalty
of one hundred dollars, to the use of the plaintifff, recoverable by
motion, before the court from which the execution issued, afkr five 
days notice, and shall, moreover, be liable for all damages sustained 
by any party aggrieved. 
SEC. 271. Laud shall not be levied on, if sufficient personal pro ..
perty be found, or surrendered by the debtor. 
SEC. 272. No slave shall be levied on under an execution, unless
the debt and costs ahall amount to one hundred dollars: Provided; 
There be found, or shown to the sheriff sufficient other goods and
chattels of the defendant, within the county, upon which he may levy
the debt, damages and costs. 
SEC. 273. When any slave shall be sold on execution, the name of
such slave shall be endorsed on, or annexed to the execution, and
returned to the court, and recorded with the return; but a failure to 
do so, shall not vitiate the title of a bona .fok purchaser. 
SEC. 274. When any sheriff or other officer, shall serve an. execu­
tion on slaves, horses or other live stock, he shall provide sufficient
sustenance for the support of such slaves, or live stock, until sold, or
otherwise legally discharged from such execution; and upon the
return of the execution, the court, in cases where the compensation is 
not fixed by law, shall settle and adjust what such officer shall be 
allowed for his expenses incurred bv supporting such slaves or stock;
an_d_ such officer shall be allowed to "retain the same, out of the money
ansmg from the sale of the said slaves or stock, 
2. Bqnd, of lRdemnity, when ttoUired. 
SEC. 275. If any sheriff or officer, shall levy, or shall be about to
levy an execution, or attachment, on any personal property, and a ·
doubt shall arise whether the right to such property is in the defendant
or not, -such sheriff' or officer may demand of the plaintifff a. bond, 
signed by good and responsible persons, payable to such sheriff or
officer, in a sufficient penalty, conditioned that the obligors therein 
will indemnify and save harmless the said sheriff or officer, against all
damages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale 
of the property on which the execution or attachment shall be, or
shall have been levied; and, moreover, will pay and satisty to any
person claiming title to said property, all damages which such person
may sustain, in consequence of such seizure or sale; and, if the plain·
tiff shall fail to give such bond, the sheriff or officer shall be justifiable
in refusing to levy on such property; or, if the levy be made, and
such bond be not given on ~r before the day of sale, or the return-day
of the attachment, the officer shall be justifiable in releasing the levy,
and delivering the property to the party from whose possession it was 
taken: Provided, The plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, bas reasonable
notice in writing before the day of sale, or return-day of the attach­
ment, that such bond will be required. 
SEC. 276. If such bond and security be given, it shall be returned
with the execution or attachment, and any 'Person claiming the pro­
perty levied on, may prosecute a suit upon the bond, in the name of
the payee, or his representatives, for the use of suoh claimant, and
recover such damages as he may sustain by the seizure or sale of said
property, or levy of said attachment, whether the same shall exceed
the penalty of said bond or not; and such claimant shall, after the 
due execution of such bond, be barred of any action against the
sheriff or officer levying such execution, unless the obligors in said
bond shall be, or become, insolvent, or the bond be otherwise invalid. 
8. Bale,, fDMn and how made. 
SEC. 277. All sales by any sheriJf or other officer, by virtue of any
execution or other process, shall be made at the court house of the 
county, except when personal property too cumbersome to be re­ 
moved shall be levied on, which may be sold at the place where the
same may be found, or at any other convenient place, and also except
where cattle, hogs, sheep or stock, other than horses and mules, are 
levied on, the sale of which may be made within the usual hours, on
ten clays notioe, at the most public place in the neighborhood of the
defendant ; and such sales may be made on the first Monday of every
month, or on the first Monday or Tuesday of each term of the circuit
court of the county; and shall not commence sooner than eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, nor continue later than four o'clock in the
afternoon. Sales of land or slaves shall be advertised in a newspaper
published in the county, ~nee iri each week, for three suocessive weeks,
and if there be no such newspaper, or if the publisher thereof shall
refuse to publish such advertisement for the compensation allowed by
law, then such notice shall be given by putting up ~vertisements,
thirty days before the sale, in five public places, one of which shall be
at the court house; and in case of the sale of any other personal
property, notice shall be given by putting up advertisements ten days
before the day of sale, in five public places in the county, one of
which shall be at the court house door; and the officer shall proceed
at the time and place specified in the notice, to sell by auction to the
highest bidder, the property levied on, or so much thereof as will 
satisfy the execution and all costs. 
SEC. 278. Whenever from a defect of bidders, caused by inclement
weather or otherwise, the ~roperty shall not be likely to command a
reasonable price, the sheriff or officer may adjourn the sale, and re­
advertise the same for a subsequent sale day; and whenever 'the sales
advertised for a particular day, shall not be completed on that day,
the same may be continued from day to day until oompleted. 
SEC. 279. If any property taken in execution shall remain in the
hands of the officer unsold, he shall so return on the execution, and
thereupon a writ of venditi.oni exponaa-- shall issue, directed to such
officer, upon which the like proceedings shall be had, as might and
ought to have been had on the first execution. And if property sold
on a venditioni expona, shall not bring enough to satisfy the Judgment,
the officer shall forthwith return the same to the clerk, who shall
there~pon issue another proper execution for the balance remaining
unpaid. 

SEC. 280. The following property shall be exempt from seizure
under execution or attachment, to wit: · 
1. The tools of a mechanic necessary for carrying on his trade.
2. The agricultural implements of a farmer necessary for two male 
laborers.
S. The implements of a laborer necessary in his usual employment.
4. The books of a student required for the completion of his educa­ 
tion.
5. The wearing apparel of every person.
6. The libraries of licensed attorneys at law, practicing physicians, 
and ministers of the gospel, not exceeding two hundred arid fifty dol­ 
lars in value, also· the instruments of surgeons and dentists used in
their professions, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in
value. · . 
7. The arms and accoutrements of each person, of the enrolled
militia of the State ; and · · 
8. Al1 globes, books and maps used by teachers of schools, acade­ 
miee and colleges.
Also the following property of each bead· of a family or housekeeper, 
to wit: one WO!"k horse, four cows and calves, twenty head of stock
hogs, one hundred and fifty bushels of corn, twenty bushels of wheat 
or rice, eight hundred pounds of :pork or bacon, one yoke of oxen, 
one cart or wagon, household furniture to be selected by the ,:lebtor,
not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars in value, and one slave,
to be selected by the debtor if he have more than one; and should
such debtor elect to retain 'a female slave, then all the children of such
female under the age of six years shall likewise be exempt, until such
children shall respectively arrive at the age of six years ; and the said
debtor shall not sell ot dispose of such child or children, pending a 
judgment or execution against said debtor.
And if any sheriff or officer shall levy on or seize any property 
exempt from execution, he shall be liable to an action of trespass, or
on the case, at the suit of the debtor, for all damages sustained 
thereby. · 

SEC. 281. Every free white citizen of this State, male or femaleJ
being a householder and having a family, shall be entitled to hold
exempt from seizure or sale under any execution, judgment or decree,
founded on any contract made, or liability incurred after this act shall
take effect, the land and buildings owned and occupied as a residence 
by such debtor, provided the quantity of land shall not exceed one
hundred and sixty acres, nor the value thereof the sum of fifteen 
hundred dollars, inclusive of improvements, and such exemption
shall continue after the death of such householder, for the benefit
of the widow and fatl).ily of the 
deceased, some or one of them
continuing to occupy such homestead, until the youngest child shall
become twenty-one years of age, and until the death of the widow: 
That the laws now in force respecting the exemption of real 
estate from execution, shall apply to all contracts made, and liabilities
.incurred, before this act shall take effect. · 
SEC. 282. If the land on which any such debtor may reside, shall 
exceed one hundred and sixty acres in quantity, or filieen. hundred 
dollars in value, inclusive of improvements, the ofliqer holding au
execution against such debtor, and not finding other property to satisfy
the same, shall appoint three discreet and disinterested freeholders of
the county, who, on oath to be administered by such officer, shall set 
off to such debtor a portion of said land, embracing the dwelling­
house, and not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres in quantity, or
fifteen hundred dollars in ivalu~ which allotment shall be returned
with the execution, and the part so allotted shall be exempt from the
execution, and the officer may proceed to advertise and sell the residue
of the premises. _ 
SEC. 283. If the premises shall not be capable of being so divided
as to set off to the debtor a. part, including the dwelling· house, and not
exceeding ~ hundred dollars in value, inclusive of improvements,
the said freeholders shall set off a convenient portion of the land, to
include the dwelling-house and buildings, and not more land than
may be necessary for the convenient use thereof and they shall ap­
praise the value of the part so set off; and in case the surplus of such
valuation over and above fifteen hundred dollars, shall, within sixty
days, be paid by the execution debtor, the part so set off shall not be 
sold on said e;xecution; but if such surplus. shall ;uot be paid within
sixty days aft.er such valuation, the officer may advertise and sell the
part so set oft; provided the same shall bring a greater sum than fifteen 
hundred dollars, and out of the proceeds of the sale, ha shall P'J:~
the exeoution debtor the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, which 
be exempt from execution for· one year thereafter, in order that it
may be invested in the purchase of another homestead. · 
SEC. 284. No property shall be exempt from execution when the
purchase-money thereof forms, in whole or in part, the debt on which
the judgment is founded, nor shall any property be exempt from sale
for non-payment of taxes or assessments, or for any labor done thereon,
or materials furnished therefore. 
6. .Mucell,antOUI Provisions Reapecting Sheriff a' &Ju. 
SEC. 285. Bank notes, bills, or evidences of debt, circulated as
money, or any share or interest in any incorporated company, belong­
ing to the defendant in execution, may be taken and sold by virtue of
an execution in the same manner as goods and chattels, or applied to
the payment of the execution, and the clerk, cashier, or other officer
having the custody of the books of the company shall, upon exhibit- ing to him the writ of execution, be bound to give to the officer
having such writ, a certificate of the number of shares, or amount of
the interest held by the defendant in such company; and if he shall
neglect or refuse to do so, or if he shall willfully give a false certificate
thereof, be shall be liable to the plaintifff for double the amount of all 
damagee occasioned by such neglect, or false certificate, to be recov­
ered in an action on the case against him. The purchaser of such
share or interest at such sale, shall -. become the owner thereof, in lhe
same manner as if such share or interest had been regularly assigned 
to him by the defendant . 
SEC. 286. When any officer, under any execution, shall receive the
whole, or any part, of the money for which the m,.m~ was issued, and 
the defendant, before payment thereof to the rlai'nti1f, shall obtain an
injunction to such execution, the officer shal repay to the defendant 
ihe money so received, or such part thereof as may be enjoined; and
if any officer shall, when required, fail to repay the money BO received
and enjoined, to the person having a right to demand the same, such
officer and his sureties shall be liable to the same remedies as are
given by law to the plaintifff, for the non-payment of money levied on 
execution. · 
SEC. 287. When: the officer shall return on any execution, that no
property of the defendant is to be found in his county, and the plain­
tiff shall suggest that the defendavt hath property, but hath fraudu­
lently conveyed· the. same, for the purpose of defrauding his creditors,
or to avoid the payment of. the execution, a summons shall issue to
the person or persons in whose hands such property is supposed to be,
or having such fraudulent conveyance, and on the return thereof,
executed, as in other cases, an issue shall be made up, and tried by a 
jury; and if the jury shall find' the conveyance fraudulent, or without
valuable consideration, the property thus fraudulently conveyed, or
made over, shall be subject to the plaintifff'a execution. 
SEC. 288. No goods or chattels, lying or being in or upon any
messuage, lands, or tenements, leased for life, years, at will, or other­
wise, shall at any time be liable to be taken by virtue of any writ 9f
execution, or other process whatever, unless the party BO taking the
same, shall, before the removal of the goods off such premises, pay or
tender to the landlord or lessor thereof, all money due for the rent of
the said premises, at the time of taking such goods and. chattels in
execution, whether the day of payment by the terms of the lease,
shall have come or not, provided the money due shall not amount to
more than one year's rent; and if more be due, then the party suing
out such execution, paying or tendering to such landlord or lessor,
one year's rent, may proceed to execute his judgment; and the-officer
levymg the same, is hereby empowered and required to levy, and pay 
to the plaintifff; -as well the money so paid for rent, as' the execution
money . 
SEC. 289. If a distringaa issue in detinue, the court, or judge in
vacatjon, on being satisfled that the specific thing cannot be delivered,
may order the writ to be superseded as to the specific thing, and to
be executed 'for' the alternative price or value ascertained by the 
judgment. , ' . · 
SEC. 290. Wben lands or tenements shall be sold by virtue of any
writ of execution, or other process, the officer making the sale, shall,
on payment" of the purchase-money, execute to the purchaser, a deed
of conveyance, which shall vest in the purchaser all the right, title
and interest which the defendant had, in, and to such land.a and tene­
ments, and which by law could be sold under such execution or other 
process. 
SEC. 291. When a defendant in execution shall own, or be entitled
to, an undivided interest in any property not exclusively in his own
possession, such interest may be levied on, and sold by the sheriff
withoui taking the property into actual possession, and such sale
shall vest in the 'purchaser all the interest of the defendant in such
property. 
SEC. 292. When the officer taking propprty under execution shall 
die before the sale thereof a writ of 'Vtmditioni e3pmaa auJl -issue, 
directed to the proper officer of the county in which the ~ Wll8 
taken, and such officer shall, under the said writ of wndilioni expona,,, 
receive the property from the representatives of the former sheriff or
other officer, who are required to deliver the same to the officer having
said venditioni e:zp<maa, on his producing the same, and executing a
receipt for the property, and such officer shall proceed. to sell the 
same as in other cases.
SEC. 293. If the representatives of the deceased officer shall refnse 
or neglect to deliver the property, on demand made as aforesaid, or if 
after three months from the deatb of the officer taking such property,
there shall be no executor or administrator of ~ estate, the officer,
having such writ of wnditioni e:cp<lll,(1,8, may seize the property taken
by the former officer, wherever it may be found, and sell the same, as
in other cases; or the plaintifff may move in the court froµi which the
execution issued, against the representatives of the deceased officer
and his sureties, giving tw9 days' notice of such motion, and there­
upon judgment shall be entered up against the representatives of the
deceased officer, and his sureties, for the amount of the execution
which came to the handa of such deceased officer, with int.erest and 
costs, 
SEC. 294. Nothing in thi~ act contained shall apply to distresses for
rent. · 
7. maim of Property and trial ther.eo/. 
SEC. 295. When any person, not a party to an execution, shall
claim to be the owner of any personal property levied upon by virtue
thereof, such person may make oath or affirmation to his right and title 
to the property so levied on, and may enter into bond payable to the
plaintifff in the execution, with one or more good sureties, in the penalty
of double the amount of .the fair value of the property 80 claimed,
which value shall be estimated by the officer holding such execution,
and shall be endorsed thereon, conditioned for the prosecution of said
claim with effect, or in case he fail therein, for the. payment to the
plaintifff in the execution, of all such damages as may be awarded
against the claimant, in case his claim shall not be sustained or shall
appear to have been made for fraudulent purposes, or for delay, and
that he will well and truly deliver the same property to the shenft: or
other .officer, if the claim thereto should be determined against the
olaimant; and upon the making of such affi.davit and bond, the sheriff;
or other officer holding such execution, shall receive the same, and
shall deliver said property to the said claimant, and shall return said 
_affidavit and bond with the execution; and the court shall thereupon
direct an issue to be made up between the parties, to try the right of 
property 1:>efore a jury, at the same term, unless good cause be shown
for a continuance. 
SEC. 296. Further proceedings on such execution shall be stayed,
for an amount equal to the value of the property 80 claimed, as en­
dorsed and returned by the officer, until t.he final decision of such
claim; and on all subsequent executions issued on the same judgment,
prior to the final decision. of said claim, the clerk shall endorse the 
'
., 
amount of said estimated value, for the government of the officers to
whom the same may be directed. 
SEC. 297. If by default of the plaintifff in execution, an issue for, the
U'ial of the righ't property so levied on and claimed, be not made up
at the term to which such execution is returnable, the court shall dis­
charge the claimant from his bond, and the said property shall never
thereafter be subject to such execution; but if from the default of the
claimant, such issue be not made up a~-.the first term of said court, the
said court shall cause a jury to be empannelled, e.t the instance of the
plaintifff in the execution, and sworn, to execute a writ of inquiry as
to the value of the property claimed. by said claimant, and also to
inquire whether or not the claim was made for fraudulent purposes,
or for purposes of dela7. 
SEC. 298. On the trial of an issue made up on a· claim of property, 
the burden of proof shall be on the plaintifff in execution, and such
issue shall be tried and governed by the same rules which regulate 
and govern the trial of an issue in an action of detinue, and either
party to such issue shall have all the rights of continuances, new trials,
or writs of error,. in the same manner as in an action of detinue, and
the final judgm nt on any uch issue shall have the like effect on the­
rights of the parti th t as if the same had been given in an action
of detinue; and the Jury trying such issuer-in case they find in favor
of the plaintifff _in execution, shall assess the true value of the property,
so found subject to said execution, and shall also certify whether the,
claim of the claimant, was made for fraudulent purposes, or for pur­
p<>ses of dele.1; and if the jury shall omit to find such value, a writ of
inquiry may be awarded. The valuation of the officer, taking the
bond of the claimant, shall in all cases be prima faeie evidence of the
value of the property; and in case the jury fail to find the value of 
the property, the plaintifff- may, at his election; take judgment for the
value &1868800. by the said officer, without resorting to a writ of in- 
quiry. · , · · · _ 
SEC. 299. Whensver a verdict shall be rendered in such case in
favor of the plaintifff in execution, either on an issue joined, or an
inquiry by default, the court shall pronounce such judgment as would
be given m an action of <ktinfl.,e, for the specific property, if to be had,
and if not, for its value as assessed by the jury, and costs of suit, and
if the jury shall find that such cla.im was made for fraudulent pur­
poses, or for purposes of delay, the plaintifff shall also recover ten per
centum damages on the asseesed value of said property, which judg­
ment shall be rendered jointly against the claimant, or his executors
or administrators, and the surety or sureties in bis 'bond given on said
claim, or such of said sureties as may be living at the time of such 
judgment, and execution shall issue thereon accordingly; and the
original execution levied on said property, shall be credited by the
amount of the value of said property as assessed by the jury, and
determined by the judgment of the court thereupon, to bear date of
the rendition of such judgment; and if any balance shall then remain
unpaid on said original execution, another execution may be issued
therefore against the defendant or defendants therein. And in all
cases where the value of the property so levied on and claimed, may
be assessed at an amount greater than sufficient to satisfy said original
execution, the true amount due thereon shall be endorsed by the clerk 
on the execution issued against said claimant, and the amount of such 
original execution, with interest, and all costs, shall be received of
said claimant in full satisfaction thereof. 
SEC. 800. Should the plaintifffs or claimants, or any one or more of 
them, die before final judgment on such claim of property, the same may 
be prosecuted or· defended by the executors or administrators of such
deceased party, and such executors or administrators may voluntarily
appear and become parties thereto; and in case the executors or
administrators of such deceased claimant or claimants, shall not
voluntaril,t appear, or shall neglect or refuse to become parties to
the said proceeding, after having been duly served with a Bcire facilu
flve days before the meeting of the court, the court may proceed to
render judgment against such executors or administrat.ors of the
deceased claimant or claimants, jointly with the other parties, in the
same manner as if such executors or administrators .had voluntarily
made themselves parties thereto ; and in case of the death of a sole
plaintifff, or of all the plaintifffs, in execution, before final judgment
therein, unless the representatives of the proper party or parties shall
appear voluntarily, or on the return of a scir« j<U;ia, executed, and
become parties to such proceeding, on or before the .seeond term of
the court next after the death of such party shall have been suggested 
on the record, the said claimant shall be released from his bond, and
the levy on said property; discharged. In case of the death of one or 
. more of the plaintifffs in execution, or claimants, after final judgment,
the same proceedings shall be had by, or agaiwst, the survivor or
survivors, or by scire facias, aad revival zs · t t e representatives of
the deceased, as may be had uponother ju zm n in the circuit court. 
SEC. 301. In case the claimant shall die re judgment, and there
shall be no representative. of his estate, or such representative shall
fail to appear and become a party to such· issue, judgment shall be 
· entered against the sureties on his bond for the property, or the value
thereof, as assessed by the sheriff, or to be found by the verdict of a 
Jury empannelled to inquire- of the same, at the option of the plaintifff;
with interest on such value from the date of the claimant's bond. 
SEC. 302. In case ope or more of the sureties on any such claim­
ant's bond, shall die before final judgment, and a verdict shall be given
in favor of the plaintifff in execution, judgment shall be rendered
thereon against the parties living and in court, and the said plaintifff'
shall have a scire facial upon the said verdict, againBt the executors or
administrators of such deceased sure~ or sureties, to appear and show
cause why judgment should not be rendered against them on said
verdict, and on return of said acire facias executed, unless good cause
be shown to the contrary, the court shall give a separate judgment
against the representatives of such deceased surety or sureties, and
execution may issue thereon. 
SEC. 303. When the sureties on any claimant's bond shall become
insufficient or irresponsible, the court, on motion of the plaintifff, may
require additional security to be given thereon, or a new bond, and
the said additional sureties, or the sureties on such new bond, shall
be liable equally, and to the same extent with the original sureties]
and if the claimant shall fail to give such additional or new security,
judgment shall be given against him as by default, for not making up
the issue, and a writ of inquiry be executed, 
8. Oollection of Fina, Pe'!!°'Uiea, <!c. '
SEC. 804. The clerks of the several courts in this State, shall im­ 
mediately after the adjournment of ~very term, issue executions of
fieri f acias, capiaa ad satiefacundum, or venditioni exponaa, according to 
the nature of the ease, and the directions of the attorney-general or
district attorney, for all fines, penalties, forfeitures, and amercements
assessed by said courts, or which shall have accrued to the State, or
to any county, and remaining due and unpaid, and shall within thirty
days al\er such adjournment, transmit s list of 'said executions to the
auditor of public accounts, or the county treasurer, as the case may
require, noting the names of the defendants, the amounts, and the
sheriff, or other officer to whom the same were delivered; and shall at
the same time transmit to said auditor, or treasurer, a statement of
the returns made by the sheriff or other officer on executions for 
fines, penalties, forfeitures, and amercements, returnable to the last
term of their respectiv.e courts, with remarks thereon; and any
clerk who shall fail to issue such executions, or to transmit the lists
thereof as herein required, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hun­
dred dollars for every such offense, to be recovered by motion against
the said clerk and his sureties, by and in the name of the district
attorney of the district, before the circuit court of said county, or before
the circuit court of any adjoining county, for the use of the common
schools in the county, and if there shall be no common schools in said
county, then for the use of the county in which such default occurred :
Provided, Five days notice of such motion shall be given to the said
clerk and his sureties. The auditor of public accounts, and the county
veasurer, shall notify the district attorney of such default. 
SEC. 805. If a~y sheriff, or other officer, shall return on any such
writ of execution, thai he hath levied the fine, penalty, forfeiture or
amercement therein mentioned, or any part thereof, or, that he hath
taken the body of the defendant, and shall have suffered such defend·
ant to escape; or, if any person be committed to the custody of such
sheriff or other officer, until the fine, penalty, forfeiture or amerce­
ment, for -which he was committed, shall be paid, and such sheriff or
officer shall permit such defendant to escape; or, if such sheriff or officer·sh~ have received such fine, penalty, forfeiture or amercement,
or any part thereof and shall not "immediately account to the auditor
of public accounts, or county treasurer, and pay the same into the
neasury of the State or county, where the same shall be payable by
law, then, in either of the cases above specified, it shall be the duty of
the auditor, or the county treasurer, as the case may require, to notify
the district attorney of the proper district, of such defaulting sheriff or
other officer, who shall thereupon, on motion, aUhe next term of the 
circuit court of. the 'proper county; demand judgment against such 
sher~ 'or other officer, and their sureties, for the fines, penalties, for­
feitures and amercements, mentioned in such writs, or for so much
thereof as he shall have received on such execution or commitment, 
01' for the whole amount thereof in case he shall have suffered such
defendant or defendants to escape as aforesaid; and the court is hereby
authorized and required to give judgment accordingly, and award 
execution thereon. · · 
SEC. 806. The clerks of the several courts in this State, shall within 
thirty days after every term, render to the auditor of public accounts,
or the county treasurer, as the case may require, a detailed account
under oath, of all sums of money received by them for fines, forfei­
tures, penalties or amercements, and payable into the State or coun~y
treasury, exhibiting the names 'of the persons from whom received,
and the amount thereof; and shall pay the same into the proper trea­
sury; and if any clerk shall fail to render such account, or to pay
over the money; it shall be the duty of the auditor of public accounts,
or county treasurer, as the case may require, to notify the district
attorney of the proper district, of such default, who shall thereupon
~n motion to the next term of the circuit court of the proper county,
demand judgment against such clerk, ·and his sureties, for the amount
so received by him; and the court shall grant judgment, and award 
exe~ution ac?ordingly: Provided, Fin· days no~ice .be given of such
motion ; and it shall be' lawful to make such motion in the ceurt of Q 
adjoining county. · . , 
SEC. 807. The certificate of the auditor 9f public accounts, or of
the treasurer of a county, of the default of any clerk in transmitting a
list of executions, statement of sheriff's returns, or in rendering an
account of monies received by him for fines, forfeitures, penalties, and
amercements, shall be received in all courts as competent evidence of 
such default. 
SEC. 308. Clerks, sheriffs, and other officers, shall be liable to the
same proceedings for any neglect of duty in respect to executions for
fines, penalties, and forfeitures, as in the case of executions in civil 
eases, 
SEC. 309. The district attorney, at every term of a circuit court,
shall carefully examine the minutes of the.preoeding-term, and tho.
execution docket, to see that executions have been issued for all fines,
penalties, and forfeitures adjudged at such term, and that the same
have been properly proceeded on, and returned, and what fines,
penalties, and forfeitures have been collected by. sdch clerk, sheriff or
other officer ; and he shall at the -close of every term, make out a
statement of all fines, forfeitures and penalties adjudged and made
final at such term, and also of all fines, penalties and forfeitures col­
lected or received by the clerk, sheriff or other officer, stating each 
case, and the amount, and shall transmit the same to the auditor or
county treasurer, as the money may be pajable into the State or county
treasury ; and he shall proceed against such officers, and their sureties,
for any neglect of duty of whioh they may. be guilty. 
SEC. 810. Any person on whom any fine, forfeiture, penalty or
amercement, shall be im_posed by the judgment of any court, and who
by such judgment is directed to stand committed until such fine,
penalty, forfeiture or amercement shall be paid, or who shall be in
custody by virtue of any capias ad satiefaaend1'm for such fine, for­
feiture, penalty or amercement, may require the sheriff or other officer 
in whose custody he may be, to take. him before some judge of the
high court of errors and appeals judge of the circuit court, or of the
probate court, or the president of the board of county police, at a con­
venient place within the county where he is detained in custody;
where the said debtor may deliver to such judge or president, a full
and complete schedule under oath, of all his money, property, and 
"Tights of property, real and personal, with all rights and credits due
to him, or to become due bl any contract or service before that time
made or rendered, or accruing to him by descent, or by any last will
and testament; and such person shall thereupon, by warrant of such 
judge, or president of the board of police, be discharged out of the
.custody of such sheriff or other officer: Provided, The district attorney 
of the district shall have ten days previous notice of the time and
place of delivering such schedule : and Provided further, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to extend to cases wherein, by the
judgment pf any court, a certain period of imprisonment is imposed 
as a punishment ; but in every such case, the party shall remain in
custody until such period is expired, or until otherwise discharged. by
due course of law. 
SEC. 811. The property contained in the schedule so delivered, and
all other property of the person delivering the same, shall be bound
by the judgment .for the fine, penalty, forfeiture, or amercement, from
the time of the delivery of such schedule; and such schedule shall be
delivered to the sheriff or other officer, having sueh person in custody;
and- such sheriff shall forthwith seize all the property, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, contained in said schedule, or otherwise
belonging to such _person, and shall advertise the same as in the C886 
of property levied 'On by execution, and make sale thereof for the
satisfaction of the fine, penalty, forfeiture ·or amercement due by such
person, and all costs and jail fees; and if any such property shall be 
'm the hands of, or any money shall be due by, any third person or 
persons, he shall forthwith summon such person or persons to appear
at the next term of the court, to answer as garnishees, and like pro­
ceedings shall be had thereon, as against garnishees in attachment ;
and such sheriff or officer shall return said schedule to the court, with 
his proceedings thereon. 
SEC. 812. If any person being in custody as aforesaid, shall render
a false schedule, on. obtaining or applying for his discharge, he shall
be deemed guilty of willful perjury, and on conviction, shall suffer the 
penalty thereo.t, 
SEC. 818. The clerk of any court of law or equity in this State, on
the suggestion of the plaintifff in any judgment or decree therein ren­
dered, that any person is indebted to the defendant therein, or has any
effects of suoh defendant in his hands or possession, and on filing in
his office, an affidavit of such plaintifff; his agent or attorney, that he
does not believe that such defendant has in his possession visible pro­ 
~rty, upon which a levy can be made, s~fficient to satisfy such judg­
ment or decree, shall issue a summons or garnishment, directed to the
sheriff or proper officer of the county in which the garnishee may
reside, commanding him to summon the said garnishee to appear at
the term of the court, to which such summons or garnishment may 
be returnable, to answer on oath, whether he is indebted. to the said ·
defendant, and in what sum, and what effects of said defendant he has 
in his hands or possession, or had at the time of serving such sum- 
mons, and whether he knows of any other persons indebted to the said 
defendant, or who may have any of the effect.s of said defendant in
their hands or possession ; and upon the return of such summons, the
like proceedings may be had as in cases of garnishees in attachment. 
SEC. 814. All property in the hands of such garnishee, belonging 
to the defendant, at the time of the service of such summons, shall be 
bound by, and subject to the lien of the judgment, on which such
summons shall have been issued; and if the garnishee shall surrender
the same to the sheriff or other officer serving such summons, such
officer shall receive the same, and make sale thereof as if levied on by
virtue of an execution, and shall return the money arising therefrom 
to satisfy the judgment. 
TITLE X
.An Act In relation to Chancery Courta. · 
1. Courts of Chancery established.
2. Jurisdiction. 
3. Powers of Jndge. ,
,. Fine, &c., for contempt .
5. Puuishment for breach of injunction, &c: 
6, In what county, suit to be brought.
7. Proceeding, wfien Judge disqualified.
8. Removing clOllds upon titles.
9. Power to make rules, and regulate 
bnsiness, · 
10. Adjournment, in absence of Judge.
11. Day fixed for taking up busiaess.
12. Who to be Clerk, and how qualified.
13. Deputies appointed.
14. Clerk pro tempore~
15. Duties of Clerk.
16. General docket kept, and papers 
fl led.
17. Issue and motion dockets.
18. Records, &c., delivered to saceessor,
19. Allowances by the Courl. 
" Seal. ' • 
20.· Sheriff' to attAIDd Oourt.. Dotie&.
21. ComJ)enaation of Sbetiff: ·
22. Sheriff's to serve process, and execute 
decrees. Penalties.
S3. Proof of delivery of process. · 
2'. No proceas unlil bill filed. . 
25. By whom process issued.
26. Style, form, and return of process.
27. Process, how sened.
28. Further process to be issued.
29. Names in one summons.
30. Ne exeat, how granted.
31. Proceediegs, when defendant in· 
custody.
82. Representatives, how brought in.
33.. Writ of sequestration.
M. Publication against abseutees.
36. against unknown 'heirs.
36. When decrees against abaenteel 
shall be final.
37. How such decrees may be reheard.
SS. Rules held, and proceedings at rules.
39. When answer, &c., to be filed. 
'°· .Adaitional time allowed.
41. Demurrer to be set down. 
" Pro coofeSBO, for waot of. 
CHAPTER LXII . 
42. Plea set down, or replied to.
43. Replication to answer, not required.
'4. Facts not denied, to be admitted.
'5. Interrogatories not neceuary.
46. When answer taken as true.
47. Exceptions to pleadings.
'8. Practice on bills to foreclose.
49. Amendments. 
50. .Aaa,rers verified out of the State.
51. made cross..t>illa. 
52. Gurdiaos ad lit.em. 
53. Mode of trial in Chucery. 
M. Decrees to bear interest
55. Proceedinga when sta,ed, on bill of 
review.
56. Coats dilcretionary. 
57. Refusal to set aside prv eonfesso, or
allow am~ndmeot. to be error. 
58. New security on bonds, how re­
quired. 
59. Salee, how .JDtMie. 
60 • .Attacbmenta apinat non-resident
debtors. . 
61. Publication, and appearance or de. Cendant. 
62. 8ecuritybycoml>laiuant, after decree.
63. Bond, before sale of real estate. 
64. Injunction not gtanted without oath.
65. bond required.
66. Bond, when the demand is not for 
money.
67. Personal property may be restored.
68. Injunction to operate as releasei or 
errors. ·
69. When bill to stand dismissed.
70. Motions to dissolve, when beard, 
71. Injunction, -·, d.iaaolved, if bill not
filed. 
72. Damages on dissolution.
73. Sale of real estate for partition.
'l'- Beeei"Hr not appointed without 
notice.
75. Receiver's bond.
76. Compensation of Receiver.
77. Receiver ·subject to orders or Court.
78. _ of mone1 paid into Court. 
79. Masters or Comml88ioners. 
80. Special Commissioner&. 
81. Powers of Masters or Commissi(>ners. , 
82. Subpcenaa ilsued b7 Muter or 
Commissioners.
'83. False swearing before, to be per­ 
jury,
84. Fees '1l Muter for copies.
86. .Accounts ordered in vacation or 
term. 
86. Notice of taking affidavits.
87. Justice of the Peace may take testi- 
mony.
88. What depositions taken Oil filing bilL
89. Testimony generally, when taken. 
90. Notice or taking. . .
91. Examination, how taken and ee­ 
MU'lled. 
.ABT. .
92. Non-resident witnesses.
93. Objections to testimony, bow taken.
94. Rule requiring two witnesses, 
modified.
95. Decrees to operate as judgments 
at law,
96. Decree to operate as a conveyance.
97. Rights or infants saved.
98. Deerees, how and by whom exe­ 
outed, 
99. Execution docket to be kept.
100. I ntereat on decrees.
101. Appeal on disallowing a demurrer. 
102. --- from interlocutory decree.
103. --- from final decree.
104. Bond on appeal wiihout super- 
sedeu.
105. Bond for npenedeu on appeal.
106. Clerk to examine parties on oath.
107. Parties jointly interested to be 
summoned ud 1eTered.
108. Appeals, granted in term time. 
ART • 
109. Damages on affirmance.
110. Proceedings in case of death of 
, surety.
111. Bond good, if signed by 01~e ap- 
SECTION I. 
Organization and Terms or Court. 
SEC. 1. Chancery courts shall be held in each judicial district of
this State, by the judge of the circuit court · of such district, at the
same times and places appointed, or hereafter to be appointed by law,
for the holding of the circuit court of each county respectively, and
may continue for the length of time allowed for the. holding of said
circuit court. At least one week of every term shall be given t.o the
business of the chancery court, if so long a time shall be necessary;
and the judge shall make a fair division of the term between the
business of the circuit court and the chancery court, in proportion to
the length of time required by each. 
SECTION. IL 
pellant. 
112. Cauees transf'erred by consent.
113. When all causes to be transferred.
114. General docket to be called. 
115. Doty of Clerk.
116. When Clerk may transfer cansea.
117. Proceedings on unexecuted de- 
crees.
118. Custody of recol'ds and papen. 
119. How appeals obtained.
120. Uaoees pending in High Court, how 
disp08ed of.
121. Caaees pending on reference. 
122. Powere of the Chancery Coarta.
123. Where records kept.
124. Repealing clause. 
125. Act to take effect Crom pMsage. 
Jurisdiction or the Court, and Powers of the Judge. 
SEC. 2. The said chancery courts shall have full jurisdiction in all 
matters of equjty, and of all matters properly cognizable in a court
of equity, and in such other cases as may be provided for by law:
Provided, The amount or value of the thing in controversy shall exceed 
fifty dollars; and may sustain bills of discovery, and grant relief in 
all cases of gambling contracts, before or after judgment. at law. 
SEC. 3. The judge of said courts shall have power, in term time, or
in vacation, to grant writs of injunction, ne exeat, attachments, and all 
other remedial writs returnable to said courts, and properly belonging
to a court of chancery ; and he may make orders for bail, and for the
appointment of receivers, before or after answer filed. Such writ.e
may also be granted, and such orders made, by any judge of a circuit
court in the State, whether the cause be pending within his district or
not, or by any judge of the high oourt of errors and appeals. 
SEC. 4. The said chancery courts shall have power to punish, by
ftne and imprisonment, any person who may be guilty of a contempt
of the court while sitting, either in the presence or - hearing of the
court, but such fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars, and such
imprisonment shall not be for a longer time. than the term of the.court
at which the contempt shall have been committed.' 
SEC. 5. The said chancery courts, or the judge thereof in vacation,
shall have power to punish any person for breach of an injunction, or
other order or process of the court, by fine and imprisonment; but
any person so punished by order of the judge in vacation, may, on
eight days notice to the opposite party, apply .to a judge of the high
court of errors and appeals, who, for good cause shown, may supersede
the same until the meeting o( said chancery court. 
SEC. 6. Suits respecting real or personal- property may be com­
menced in the chancery court of the county in which the said property,
or some portion thereof, may be; _ and in all cases, suits may be
brought in any county where the defendant, or any necessary party
defendant, may reside or be found ; and process may issue to any
county in the State, to bring in the neoeesary defendants, and to enforce all orders and decrees of the court, · 
SEC. 7. When the judge shall be incompet.ent to set in any case, 
the parti~, or the judg6] sllall designate some me1;0ber of the bar, who
shall preside on the trial, and hear and determine the cause. The 
judge of the court shall sign the decree, and the. records and minutes
shall, in all ~ts, appear as if the cause had been tried by the judge
of the court. · 
SEC. 8. When any person, not the righful owner of any real estate
in thia State, shall. have any-deed, or other evidence of title thereto,
whioh may cloud, or cast doubt or suspicion on the title of the real
owner, such real owner may file a bill in the chancery court of the
district where the land may be situated, to have· such deed or other
evidence of utle cancelled, and such cloud, doubt, or suspicion removed
from said title, whether such real owner be in poesession, or be threat.
ened to be disturbed in bis possession, or not, and whether the defend­
ant be a resident of the State or Mt; and any person having· thb
equitable title to land in this State, may, in like cases, file a bill to
divest of the legal titl~,: the person in whom the same may be 
ves1ied. 
SEC. 9. The court, in term time, may regulate all proceedings in
the clerk's office, and, for good cause shown, may set aaide any dis­
mission, and reinstate the suit, on such terms as may be equitable.
The court shall also have power to arrange the business therein, in a
convenient manner, and to establish, from time to time, rules and
orders for the conduct.ing of suits and pleadings, the taking of rules,
entering decrees, by default or otherwise, and respecting all matters to
be done in term time or in vacation, not repugnant to the laws or constitution of the State. · 
SEC. 10. If the judge shall fail to attend, the court shall stand
adjourned from day to day, until a court be made, if that shall happen
before four o'clock in the afternoon of the fourth day. If a court
shall not sit in: any term, or shall not, at any term, hear and determine 
all matters ready for its decision, all suits, matters, and things, depend­
ing in court, and undecided, shall stand continued until the next 
succeeding term. If the court shall not sit on any day of tbe term,
after it shall have been opened, there shall be no discontinuance, but
the court may meet, and resume the business on any subsequent day
of the term. · 
SEC. 11. The chancery business may be taken up on· any day of
the term, to be determined by the court. 
SECTioN m. 
Of the Olerka. 
SEC. 12. The clerk of, the circuit court of the county in whieh a
chancery court is held, shall be the clerk of said chancery court. In
addition to the bond required of the clerk of the circuit court, such
clerk shall also give bond, in the penalty of ~ve thousand dollars, con·
ditioned for the faithful performance of all the duties required of him
as clerk of said chancery court, which bond shall be taken, approved
and recorded, and may be sued upon, in the same manner as the bond
given as clerk of the circuit court. . 
SEC. 13. The deputies appointed by the clerk in the circuit court,
shall be authorized to act as ,the deputies of the said clerk in the
chancery court; or such clerk, with the approb&tion of the judge, may
appoint deputies in the chancery. court, who shall take an oath before
the judge for the faithful performance of the duties of their office. 
SEC. 14. If the office of clerk shall be vacant, or, if the clerk and
his deputies be absent, or refuse to perform their duues, the judge of
the chancery court, may, i~ term time, or in vacation, appoint a clerk
pro tempore, who, after. taking the· oath of office, . shall be authorized t.o 
perform the duties of clerk, and to receive the feea thereof during his
continuance in office. 
SEC. 16. The clerk shall, in person, or by deputy, attend all the
sessions of the court; .he shall keep minute books, in whioh he shall
enter at large, all the proceedings of the court on each ind every day, 
which shall be read in open court Oil the meeting of the court on the
next day, and which, when· read and approved, shall be signed by the
judge; and on the last day of the term, the minutes shall be prepared,
read and signed· on the same day; he shall seasonably record the
decrees and orders of the court ; and he shall within three months
after the· final determination of any ~it, record all the pleadings, 
exhibits, proofs and proceedings therein, in a book to be kept for dw 
purpose, to be known as the "Book of Final Records in Chancery;"
and any olerk failing to _perform any duty required of him, shall be
liable to the same penalties imposed for a failure to perform similar
duties as clerk of the circuit court. ; 
SEC. 16. The clerk shall keep a general docket, in which he shall
enter the names of all the parties in each suit, the time. of filing the 
bill, answer, and all other papers in the cause, the issuance and return
of proeess, and a note of reference to all orders made therein, by the
book and page; and shall mark on every paper filed in a cause, the
style and number of the suit, and the time whenf and the party by 
whom it was filed; and he shall 'not ~ufter any paper so filed to be withdrawn, but by the leave of the judge, and then only on retaining a copy, to be made at the cost of the party obtaining such leave.

SEC. 17. He shall keep an issue docket, in which he shall at each term, set down all causes ordered by the court, or eithe rparty, to be set down for final hearing, or on demurrer of all the defendants, in the order in which they are so ordered to be set down; he shall also keep a motion docket, in which shall be set down all causes on demurrer or plea of a part of the defnedants, all ex parte petitions, all motions not of course and all exceptions to pleadings, proofs, reports, and othe rmatters; and the court shall call such dockets in the order in which the causes are set down therein.

SEC. 18. When the office of clerk shall become vacant, the records, papers, books, stationary, and every thing belonging thereto, shall be delivered to the seccessor in teh office, by any person having the same, on demand; and if any person having such records, papers books, sttationery, or other things, shall refuse to deliver the same, on demand to the person entitled thereto, he shall be liable to indictment, and on conviction may be fined not exceeding five thousand dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both; and shall moreover, be liable for all damages sustained by any person aggrieved thereby.

SEC. 19. The said courts shall make allowance to teh clerk thereof, of all needful sums of money for supplying the offices with necessary books, seals and presses, and for the safe keeping of the books and papers belonging thereto; and the auditor of public accounts, on such allowance being certified to him, shall issue his warrant on the state treasurer for the same. The seal fo the said courts shall have the style of the court engraved around the margin, and an eagle in teh centre.
SECTION IV. 
or the Sheriff. 
SEC. 20. The sheriff of the county in which any chancery court
shall be held, shall be the sheriff of said court, and shall, in person or 
by deputy, attend all the sessions of said court ; he shall execute all
orders and decrees of the said court, directed to him to be executed,
and shall take into his custody, and safely keep in the jail of his
county, all persons committed by the order of said court, or by any
process issuing therefrom. ' · 
SEC. 21. The sheriff, or his deputies, attending on any chancery
court, shall be allowed the same compensation therefore as may be
allowed for similar services in the circuit court, to be allowed in like
manner, and paid ont of the treasury of the county in which the court
shall be held. . . 
SEC. 22. The sheriffs of the several counties of the State, shall exe­
cute and duly return all mesne or final process, orders and decrees,
which shall be directed to them by any chancery court in the State;
and for any neglect of duty therein, or for failing to pay over any
money collected, they shall be liable to the same penalties as are pre­
scribed in like cases, for neglect to execute and return the process of
a circuit court. They shall also serve all notices, relating to suits in 
chancery, and shall execute all decrees for the sale of property within
their respective counties, unless the court shall appoint a special com­ 
missioner for that purpose. 
SEC. 23. In any proceeding against a sheriff or other officer, for
failing to return any process, order or decree, proof that such process,
order, or decree was put in the post office, duly addressed to him, and
that the postage was paid thereon, shall be sufficient evidence of the
receipt thereof by such officer, unless he will make oath that he did
not himself receive it, and that he verily believes it was not received
by any of his deputies. · 
SECTION V. 
Or Process. 
SEC. 24. No process shall issue to bring in the defendant to answer,
until after the filing of the bill. 
SEC. 25. All process shall be issued by te.e clerk of the court, ex­
cept when the fiat of a judge shall direct the process to be issued by
the clerk of a circuit court, or of another chancery court. 
SEC. 26. The style of process shall be, "The State of Mississippi."
The process to bring in a defendant, except when otherwise ordered,
shall be a summons, in a form similar to· that used in actions at law.
No test shall be required, but the process shall be signed by the clerk
issuing the same, with his seal of office affixed, and dated on the day
when issued; and 'such date shall be prima facie evidence of the day
of the issuance thereof; the sheriff; or other officer shall mark thereon
the time when he received it,· and such process may be made returnable
on the next rule day in vacation, or on the first day of the term, to be
held ten days next after the time of issuance thereof, and shall be
executed ten days before the return day. 
SEC. 27. All process of any chancery court shall be executed in 
the same manner as writs of the like nature from the circuit courts
are required to be executed; and any process issued, made returnable,
or executed, otherwise than as directed by law, ma.y be set aside on
motion. 
SEC. 28. If any process be not exeonted, the clerk .shall issue other
similar process, unless otherwise ordered by the party at whose instance
the original process was issued. 
SEC. 29. The names of all the defendants residing in the same
county, shall be inserted in one summons. 
SEC. 30. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless satisfactory
proof be made to the judge, that the defendant designs quickly to
depart from this State; and if granted, the judge shall direct to be
endorsed thereon, the sum in which the party shall give bond, with 
surety or sureties, being freeholders in this State. 
SEC. 81. If a defendant shall be in custody upon process of con­
tempt, and be brought into court by virtue of a writ of habeas Cm-ptl,8 
to answer a bill, and shall refuse to enter his appearance, or to appoint
an attorney to do the same, the court shall appoint au attorney to enter 
an ~ppearance for him, and thereupon sue~ proceedings may be ~ad 
as if he had entered an appearance; but if such defendant, having 
refused to enter an appearance as aforesaid, shall be in custody when:
a decree is made, he shall be served -with a copy of the decree before
any process shall be taken out to compel the performance thereof; and
if such defendant shall die in custody, before such service, then his
heir, executor, or administrator, according as the property affected by
the decree shall be real or personal, shall be served with a copy of the 
decree. · 
SEC. 82. If any party to any suit depending or commenced in any
chancery court, shall die, the clerk, during the recess of the court,
may, on application, issue process to bring into court the, representa­
tive of such deceased party, or such representative may appear volunwily, and become a pa1'y to the suit. · 
SEC. 83. The said court, or the judge in vacation, in all cases where
there shall be danger of the removal of any s1aves or other personal
property, beyond the reach of its process, may order a writ of seques­
tration, directed to the sheriff, or other proper officer, to seize and take
into possession the property in question, and to hold the same until
the further order of the court or judge, or until the defendant, from
whose possession the same is taken, shall enter into bond, with good
security, payable to the complainant, in double the value of the pro­
perty, to be assessed by such officer, conditioned to have the property
forthcoming to abide the decree to be made by the court in the cause;
said bond shall be returned with the writ, and in case the property
shall not be delivered, or forthcoming to abide the decree, shall have
the force and effect of a judgment, and execution may issue thereon
against all the obligors, for the amount of the decree, or the value of
the property, according to the nature of the case. But such process·
shall not be issued until the party obtaining the order therefore, shall
enter into bond, with security, payable to the defendant, in such sum
as the court or judge may direct, conditioned to pay all damages which­
such defendant may sustain, in case it shall appear that such process
was obtained wrongfully, or without sufficient cause. 
SECTION VI. 
Absent, non-resident and unknown Defendants. 
SEC. 34:. When it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
judge, by affidavit or otherwise, that any defendant to a suit in chan­ 
cery, is out of the State, or a non-resident thereof, or cannot, upon due
inquiry, be found therein, an order may be made directing such'
defendant to appear, and plead, answer or demur, to the complainant's
bill, at a certain day therein to be named, being a return day of the
court, not less than two nor more than six months after the date of 
the order, which order shall, within twenty pays thereafter, be person­ 
ally served on such defendant by delivery of a oopy thereof to -him,
or be t3ublished in one of the public newspapers of this State, desig­
nated m such order, for four weeks successively, at least once in each
week ; and such order shall also be served, or published, in such other
manner as may be therein directed. Such orders of publication may
also be entered at rules to be held in the clerk's office, subject to the 
control of the court. And in case such defendant shall no~ appear, 
and plead, answer or demur within the time limited, or within such
further time as may be allowed by the court, the complainant's bill
may be ordered to be taken as confessed against such defendant, and
ihe court may proceed to a decree thereon, or may require the com­
plainant to produce documents, exhibits, depositions or other evidence 
m support of the allegations of the bill, or may examine the com­ 
plainant on oath touching the same, and render such decree thereon
as shall be equitable and just. 
SEC. 35. When the heirs of a deceased person shall be nooeseary 
or proper parties to any suit in chancery, and the names of all or any
such heirs shall be unknown to the complainant, such of said persons
whose names may be , unknown, may be described ·as the unknown 
heirs -of the deceased ; P'nd on affidavit that the names of such heirs
are unknown the complainant may have an order of publication
against them, and such proceedings shall be had thereupon, in all 
respects, as are authorized in the case of absent defendants, 
SEC. 86. Decrees against non-resident, abeent or unknown defend­ 
ants, rendered upon proof of :publication only, without such defend­
ant having appeared and put in a plea, demurrer or answer, shall be 
· :final and conclusive, unless a rehearing shall be applied for within
:6.ve years after the rendition of said deoree ; but if the complainant
shall serve a oopy of said decree on the defendant, then the eame shall 
be final and conclusive in one year after the date of such service,
unless a re-hearing shalt be applied for within that time. 
SEC. 37. If a defendant, agamst whom a decree has been rendered
as aforesaid, on publication only, shall at any time before the said
decree shall have become final and conclusive as aforesaid, appear and
and petition the court for a re-hearing, and give security for the costs,
if required, such defendant shall be permitted to plead, demur, or
answer to the bill, and to take testimony, and the cause shall be heard
anew on i¥ merits, ·and such decree rendered as may be equitable, and
the court may stay all proceedings in the meantime on the original 
decree. 
SECTION VII. 
Practice. 
SEC. 88. Rules shall be held in the clerk's office, under the direc­ 
tion of the clerk, on the first and third Mondays of every month in
vacation, and on every day during .the terms of the oourt. Procees
may be made returnable on any rule day in vaoation, and all decrees
niai, orders for taking bills as confessed, orders for publication against
absent or unknown defendants, orders of reviver for or against the
representatives of a deceased :person, all orders of OOU1'8e, and such
other matters u may be authorized by law or the rules of she court,
may be taken, entered, and done at the rules, in the same manner aa
if done in open court, subject however to the oontrol of the court, and
the clerk shall keep full minutes of the proceedings at the rules, and 
the same shall stand as the act of the court, unless eet aside or altered,
SEC. 89. When the process shall be returned executed, or proof of 
publication made, the def.endani shall plead, answer or demur, on w 
before -the third d~y of the teem, if the process or publication be 
returnable to a regular term of the court; and if the process or pub­
lication require the· appearance of the defendant on a rule day in 
vacation, the defendant shall plead, demur;or answer, on or before the
role day next succeeding that to which such process or publication is 
returnable; and if the defendant shall fail to plead, demur or answer,
at the time required as aforesaid, the complainant's bill may then, or,
at any time afterwards, before plea, demurrer, or answer filed, be takeµ
as confessed against such defendant; and no pro conf esso, so taken, shall
be set aside, without good cause shown. If the bill be taken, for con­ 
fessed against all the defendants, the complainant may set down the
cause for · hearing at the same term, and the court may make such
decree therein as maybe equitable. · 
SEC. 40. Additional time to plead, demur, or answer, may be allowed 
by the court, on cause shown ; and when a plea or demurrer shall be
disallowed, the defendant shall answer within such reasonable time as
the court may require. . 
SEC. 41. When a demurrer is filed, it shall be the duty of the party
demurring, to set it down for argument at the next term, otherwise 
the said demurrer, shall be overruled of course.
SEC. 42. When a plea shall be filed, the complainant may set it. 
down for argument upon its sufficiency in law, or he may reply to it,
and take issue. . 
SEC. 43. No replication to an answer shall be required ; but the.
cause shall be at issue when the answer is filed. 
SEC. 44. · Facts averred in the bill, and not denied by the answer,
otherwise than by the general traverse, may be taken at the hearing 
as admitted.
SEC. 45. The defendant shall answer fully to all the allegations of 
t.he bill, without being specially interrogated.
SEC. 46. If the complainant shall set down· the cause for hearing, 
before the expiration of the time allowed the defendant for taking
testimony, the answer shall be taken as true. 
SEC. 47. Exceptions to bills must be taken before answer filed;
and exceptions to answers must be filed at or before the next term 
after the answer has been filed. When exceptions shall be filed, a.
rule may be entered, of course, with the clerk, to refer the same to a
master, who shall report thereon to the next term of the court. An 
appeal shall be allowed to the judge, who shall hear and determine
the same.
SEC. 48. In suits for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages, or 
deeds of trust, if the court shall think the complainant entitled to a
decree, a reference may be made to the clerk, or a master, to compute
the amount due, who shall proceed without notice to the parties, and
make his report without delay, and no motion to confirm such report
shall be necessary; but the report shall be confirmed, and a final 
decree passed, of course, unless cause be shown to the contrary.
SEC. 49. Amendments shall be allowed in the pleadings and pro· 
~ings, on liberal terms, to prevent delay and injustice. 
SEC. 50. Answers of defendants out of the State, may be sworn to 
before any commissioner for this State, or any judge, chancellor, or
~tice of the peace, ~otary public, or the mayor or alderman of any 
city or town; or clerk of a court of record, in the State or country 
where such defendant may be, if such officer shall be authorized to
administer oaths by the law of such State or country ; and the certifi­
cate of such officer as to his official character, and his authority to
administer oaths, shall be prima /acre evidence thereof. 
SEC. 51. Any defendant in a chan~ry suit, may make his answer 
a cross-bill against the complainant, or his co-defendant or defendants,
or all of them; and may introduce any new matter therein, material
to his defense, and may require the same to be answered ; and in the
same manner may require of the complainant, or any of the defend­
ants, a discovery of any matter material to his defense; and he shall
have process thereon against the defendants to such cross-bill, and the
like proceedings thereon as in other bills, or cross-bills. 
SEC. 52. The court may appoint a guardian ad liiem, to any infant
or insane defendant; but such appointment shall not be made, except
on the application of such infant, until after process shall have been
returned executed, or proof of publication made, and after the day
appointed for the appearance of the party; and such guardian shall n~ 
be liable for the payment of the costs. ·
SEC. 58. The mode of trial in the chancery courts, shall be the 
'same as heretofore used and practiced in courts of chancery ; but the
oourt may direct an issue to be tried by a jury, in the chancery court,
or in any other court .. 
SEC. 54. Any sum of money, directed by the decree of the court to
be paid by any person, shall bear interest until paid, in the same 
manner as judgments of the circuit court.
SEC. 55. When a bill of review shall be presented to the judge in 
term-time, or in vacation, he may direct the proceedings on the decree
sought to be reviewed, to be stayed until further order, requiring of 
~~nkarty such security for the performance of the decree, as he may
· reasonable; but such stay of proceedings shall not be- a matter 
of right.
SEC. 56. The chancery courts shall have power to decree that 
either party shall pay the costs of any suit in equity, or that the same
be divided, as may appear equitable. 
SEC. 57. When the court shall refuse to set aside a pro confe880,
and permit an answer to be filed, or shall allow the same to be done,
or shall improperly refuse to allow any amendment to be made in the
pleadings or proceedings, and the same shall not appear of record, il 
shall be lawful for any party aggrieved, to cause the same, and all the
documents or proofs read; or offered on the hearing of the motion, to 
be made a part of the record by a bill of exceptions, and all such
matters shall be assignable for error; and examinable by the high 
court of errors and appeals.
SEC. 58. When it shall be alleged that the security on an injunc­ 
tion or receiver's bond, or any bond taken upon any proceeding in
any court of chancery, is insufficient, the judge shall have power to hear 
and· determine the same in vacation, as well as in term, and may order
the injunction to be dissolved,' or the receiver to be suspended or
removed, or m~y make such other order 88 may be just and equitable
in the case, unless a new bond, with sufficient securities, may be given
within twenty days, or such longer time 88 he shall appomt; but, if
done in vacation, at least ten days notiee of the time and plaoe of 
making the application, and one additional day for every thirty miles
of travel, shall be given to the opposite party. 
SEC. 59. Sales of real estate or slaves, ordered by a decree of any
court of chancery, shall be made on a credit of six months from the
day of sale, unless otherwise ordered by the court, and at such places,
and on such notice, as may be directed in the decree; and if no direc­
tion shall be given, then, at such places and on such notice as is
required in case of sales under execution at law; the officer making
~e sale, if inade on credit, shall take bond, with good security, in 
double the amount of the purchase-money, payable to the parties
entitled to receive the same under the decree, or to such person as the 
court may direct, conditioned for the payment· of tbe'purcbase-money, 
with interest at the rate borne by the decree, to the time when the
same shall fall due; such bond shall be returned and filed in the clerk's 
office, and if not paid at maturity, shall have the force and effect of a­ 
judgmerit; and the clerk shall issue execution thereon. If any of the·
obligors shall be dead, the execution shall issue againsi the survivors,
and the representatives of the deceased, jointly. If any of the obli­ 
gees be dead, the execution shall be infavor of the survivors, or the
representatives of the last survivor . 
.Atta.chmenta in (J/1.ancery. 
SEC. 60. In all suits in chancery against any non-resident, absent,
or absconding debtor, and others within the State, having in their
hands effeota o( or being indebted to such debtor, or against such
debtor having lands and tenements within this State, if such debtor 
shell not appear, and give satisfactory security for performing the
decree, the court shall have power to make any necessary orders, and
k> require security, to restrain the defendants within this State from
paying, conveying away or secreting the debts by them owing to, or
the effects in their hands belonging to such non-resident, absent, or
absconding defendant, and may order such debts to be paid, or such
effects to be delivered to the complainant, on his giving security for
ihe return thereof, in such manner aa the court may direct. 
SEC. 61. Publication shall be made in the manner directed by this 
act, requiring the said absent debtors to appear and give security for
the performance of the decree; but such defendant may appear and 
plead, demur or answer, to the bill, without giving security; but the
lien of the creditor upon the property attached shall not be affected 
thereby. 
Of Sala. 
SEC. 62. If a decree shall be rendered in such case without the
appearance of such absent debtor, the court, before any t>roceedings 
to satisfy said decree, shall require of the complainant to give security
:for abiding such further orders as may be made, for the restoring the 
anate or eifoots to the absent defendant, on hie appearing and answering 
'1ie bill; and if the complainant shall not give such security, the effeeta 
ahall remain under the direction of the court, in the hands of a receiver, 
or otherwise, for so long a. time as the court shall appoint, and shall
then be disposed of as the court may direct. 
SEC. 63. Land shall not be sold under such decree, until the personal
fund shall be exhausted; nor until the complainant shall have filed in
court, a bond, with security, -in double the value of the land, to be 
ascertained by sworn commissioners appointed by the court, for performing the future orders and decrees of the court in that behalf; 
In}unctwns. 
SEC. 64. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings in any
action, or upon any judgment at law, unless the judge shall be satisfloo
of the complainant's equity, by oath made of the truth of the allega­
tions of the .bill, or by other _)Ile&ns. 
SEC. 65. No injunction to stay proceedings at law, shall be issued,
until after the party 'obtaining the fiat for the same, shall enter into
bond' to the plaintifff at law, in double the amount of the debt sought 
to be enjoined, with two or more sufficient securities, to be approved
of by the judge, or by the clerk issuing the injunction, conditioned
for paying all money and costs due, or to become due to the plaintifff' 
in the action at law, and also such costs and damages as shall be awarded
against him, in case the injunction shall be dissolved; which bond
shall be taken by the clerk issuing-the injunction, and shall be by him
filed with the bill, and safely transmitted to the court in which the bill
is filed. If any clerk, shall, in any case, issue an injunction, without
having first taken bond as required by law, he 'shall forfeit to the party
aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered in an action
of debt; and shall moreover, be liable on his official bond for all damages sustained thereby. 
SEC. 66. Where the injunction obtained shall not be for the stay ot 
proceedings in an action at law, for the recovery of money, or upon a
~udgment requiring the payment of money, the party obtaining the
injunction shall, before the issuance of the same, enter into bond in
the like manner, in a sufficient penalty, to be fixed by the judge 
granting the same, conditioned for the payment of all damages and
costs which may be awarded against him, or which the opposite
party may otherwise suffer or sustain, by reason of the suing out of
said injunction, in case the same shall be dissolved. 
SEC. 67. When an injunction shall be granted to stay the sale of
personal property, levied on by virtue of an execution, the judge may 
order the prope~ to be ·restored to the complainant, on his giving
bond to the sheriff:; with good sureties, in double. the value of the p~
'perty, to be assessed by such sheriff; payable to the plaintifff in the
execution, and conditioned for the re-delivery of the property to said 
sheriff, in case the injunction shall be dissolved; which bond shall be
l'eturned by the sheriff with the execution, and shall have the foroe
'and effect of a judgment; and in case the property shall not be re-de­ 
livered to the said s~eri~ or his successor, within fifteen days after the 
dissolution of such injunction, the clerk of the court to which the bond 
'Was returned, shall issue execution thereon, for · the amount of the 
assessed value of said property, and all costs. But in such oases the
lien on the property, created by the judgment or decree, and the exe- 
tution and levy, shall remain in force, and the sheriff, on a writ of
wnditioni exponas, or other order of sale, may seize the property so
levied on, wherever the same may be found. 
SEC. 68. When an injunction shall be granted to stay the execution
of a judgment at law, in whole or in part, the issuance of such injunc­
tion shall operate as a release of all errors in the judgment at law, in
the same manner as if tne party had signed and sealed a release of
such errors. 
SEC. 69. When an illJUnction shall be wholly dissolved, the bill of
eomplaint shall stand dismissed of course, with costs, unless sufficient
cause is shown against its dismission, at the next succeeding term of
the court; and the clerk shall enter such clismission on the last day of 
said term.· · 
SEC. 70. Motions to dissolve injunctions may be heard by the judge 
in vacation, on ten days notice to the opposite f arty, and one addi •
tional day for every thirty miles of travel; and i the motion is made 
upon the answer of the defendant, a copy of such answer, and the
exhibits filed therewith, shall be served with the notice. 
In term time, motions to dissolve on 'bill and answer, may be heard 
ten days after answer flled, on five days notice to the opposite party,
in writing, or by entering the motion on the docket for the like space. 
SEC. 71. When an injunction, attachment, or other restraining
order or process, shall be granted in vacation, the bill or petition on
which the same was-graneed, shall be filed in the court to which .sueh
process shall be returnable, on or before the first day of the next term,
or the same may be docketed, on the application of the defendant 
thereto, and t~e injunction, attachment, or other order or process dis­
solved, discharged and set aside, unless good cause be shown to the 
eontrary.
SEC. 72. When an injunction, obtained to stay proceedings on a 
judgment at law for money, shall be dissolved, in whole or in part,
damages at the rate of five per centum shall be added to the judgment
enjoined, or to so much thereof as shall be found due, including the
costs ; and the clerk of the chancery court shall certify such dissolution 
to the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, who
shall thereupon issue execution, as well for the original debt and
costs, as for the damages as aforesaid. , 
Damages at the same rate, shall be allowed upon the dissolution of
injunctions to stay sales under deeds of trust, or mortgages, with power
of sale, and such damages may be added to the debt, and collected by
the sale of t)le property, or execution may issue from the chancery 
colll't for the same, iogether with the costs of suit. 
SEC. 78. The chancery court may, upon bill filed by ~ny of the
parties in interest, order the sale of any real est&te held in joint tenancy,
tenancy in oommon, or ooparoency, whenever, in the opinion of the 
court, a sale will better promote the interest of all parties than a par· 
tition, and may appoint -& commissioner to make the sale, and may
make any order necessary to :protect the rights of all parties interested, 
-and to carry the sale into full effect. The money arising from St1ch 
sale, after the payment therefrom of such costs and expenses as the
court may direct, shall be distributed, by order of the court, amOJ;lg
all persons interested in the estate, in proportion to their interests. 
SEC. 74. A receiver shall not be appointed, unleae the party pray­
ing the appointment, shall have given the opposite party at least ten
days notice of the time and place of making the application, and one
additional day for every thirty miles of travel thereto. 
SEC. 75. Every receiver, when appointed, shall, before being author­
ized to actaa such, give bond, payable to the State of Mississippi, in
such penalty, and with such sureties as may be approved by the court
or judge, conditioned that he will receive and safely keep all money
or property that may come to his hands, as such receiver; that he will 
render full and true accounts of his _receipts and disbursements, and of 
the condition and situation of the money and property in his hands,
as often as he may be required by the court, and will dispose of, and de­
liver such money and property, in such manner, and to such persons,
as the court may at any time direct; and will in all things, faithfully
discharge the duties of his office 8iS receiver ; which bond shall be filed
with the clerk of the court, and may be put in suit, in the name of the
State, for the use of any party aggrieved, from time io time, until the
whole penalty shall be recovered. . 
SEC. 76. Receivers shall receive such compensation for their ser­ 
vices as the court shall allow, and shall have a lien upon the property
in their hands, for the payment thereof, and of their necessary expenses.
The court shall make such order to compel the payment thereof as
may be just and necessary, and may decree the payment by any of 
the parties, as a portion of the costs of the suit, as may be just~
equitable. 
SEC. 77. Receivers shall be subject to the- orders and decrees of 
the court, and obedience thereto may be enforced by attachment. 
SEC. 78. When money shall be paid into court under its order, a
receiver shall be appointed to keep the same, who shall give bond
and security, as in other cases. 
Ma{lters, or Commwumer8. 
SEC. 79. The court may appoint two or more persons in each 
county, within the district, to be . masters or commissioners of the
court, who shall remain in office during . the pleasure of the judge,
and who shall receive a reasonable compensation for services rendered
by them, to be fixed by law, or allowed by tbe court, and taxed in the
costs, and collected in the same manner as the fees of the clerk. The
clerk shall issue to such persons a certificate of their appointmenL 
SEC. 80. The court may also appoint a special commissioner in
any particular case. 
SEC. 81. The master or commissioner in chancery, shall have all
the powers properly belonging. to a mute.I or commissioner in chen- 
cery. They shall have power to administer oaths, to take the exami­
nation of witnesses in cases pending in any chancery court in the 
State, to examine and report upon all matters referred· to them, and 
to execute all decrees directed to them to be executed.
SEC. 82. Masters and commissioners in chancery shall have power 
to issue aubpcenas for witnesses, to attend before them, to testify in
TJ.DY matter referred to them, or generally in the cause; and such sub­ 
pamas shall be executed in like manner as subpoonas issued by the
clerk of the circuit court; and i( any witness shall fail to appear, or
shall refuse to give evidence, such master or commissioner shall pro­ 
oeed b,: process of attachment, to compel the witness to attend and
give evidence, 
SEC. 83. If any witness, sworn or affirmed by any master or com­
missioner in chancery, shall give anyevidenoe under such circum­
stances 88 would have constituted the same to be perjury, if given in
the presence of a court of record, the same shall be deemed perjury 
to all intents and purposes. _ ·
SEC. 84. Masters and commissioners in chancery shall be author­ 
ized to charge for copies of reports, or such other papers as the parties 
may require, the same fees allowed the clerk for similar services, to be 
paid by the parties requiring the same. 

SEC. 85. The judge may direct an account to be taken in any
cause, in vacation, 88 well as in term time; and when the master or
commissioner shall doubt 88 to the principles on which the account 
shall~ tak~n, or as ~ the propriety of'admitting a_ny item of ~ebt
or credit claimed by either party, he may state m wntmg the points 
on which he shall doubt, and submit the same to the judge in vaca­
tion, who shall decide the same without argument, except by consent 
 
SEC. 86. No. affidavit shall be read in any cause, unless two days
notice of the time and place of taking the same, shall have been given 
to the opposite party, or his solicitor. . 
SEC. 87. Any justice of the peace in the State shall possess all the
powers of a master or commissioner in chancery, for the taking of
affidavits, and depositions .of witnesses, in cases pending in said chan­
cery courts. 
SEC. 88. After bill filed, the complainant, on affidavit made and 
filed, that any of his witnesses are sick, aged, infirm, or about to go
out of the State, may take the deposition of such witness, on giving 
the opposite.-party, if resident in the State, such reasonable notice as
the circumstances will admit, of the time and place of taking the same.. 
ABT. 89 . .Af\er process returned executed, or after the day a~pointed
for the a_ppearance of the defendant, by an order of publication duly 
published or served, the complainant ~y .Procee_d to take his ~epos!­ 
iions, and t.he defendant may do the like immediately aft.er filing his 
answer, and depositions may be taken until the hearing. of the cause, 
Five months shall be allowed for taking depositions after answer filed,
before the cause shall be set down for hearing, unless the complainant 
shall admit the answer to be true. · 
SEC. 90. Depositions of witnesses in the State, may be taken before
any -master or commissioner in chancery, or any justice of the peace,
on ten days notice to the opposite party or his solicitor, and one addi­
tional day for every twenty miles from the residence of such party or
solicitor, to the place of taking the same; but, in cases of emergency, 
to be expressed in the notice, shorter notice shall be sufficient, 
SEC. 91. The examination may be taken on written interrogatories,
to be filed with the officer taking the same, or the witness may be
examined orally; the testimony shall be written down by the officer
taking the deposition, or by-the witness, or some disinterested person
in the presence of the officer, and signed by the witness; and when
duly certified and sealed up, shall be transmitted to the clerk of the
court, and shall be by him opened, and filed among the papers in the 
ea use. · · 
SEC. 92. If the witness be a non-resident of the State, the party
shall file his interrogatories in the clerk's office, and shall serve the
opposite party, oi: his solicitor, .with a QOPY thereof, with notice of the
day on which the commission will issue, at least ten days before
the same shall issue, in which time the opposite party may file cross­
interrogatories; and. thereupon, the clerk shall issue a commission to 
take the deposition of such witness, to be directed, executed and
returned, in all respects, as like commissions issued in a cause pending
in the circuit courts. 
SEC. 93. All objections to depositions, other than to the competency
of the witness, or of the questions or answers thereto, shall be taken
by motion to suppress the deposition, and not otherwise. All objeo­
tions to the competency of the witness, or of the questions, or the
answers thereto, may be taken by motion to suppress, or may be made
at the hearing; but if made at the bearing, the objections shall be set 
down in writing, and filed with the papers in the cause. 
SEC. 94. The rule requiring two witnesses, or one witness and cor­
roborating circumstances, to overthrow an answer denying the allega­
tions of the bill, is abolished in all cases where the bill is sworn to by
the complainant, and such an answer shall have only such weight and
credit as in view of the interest of the party making the same, and the
other circumstances of the case, it may be fairly entitled to. 
SEC. 95. The decree of a court of chancery shall, from the time
of its being signed, have the force, operation, and effect, of a judgment
at law, in the circuit court. 
SEC. 96. When a decree shall be made for a conveyanoe, release,
or acquittance, or other writing, and the party against whom the said 
decree shall pass, shall not comply therewith by the time appointed,
then such decree shall be considered and taken in all courts of law 
and equity to have the same operation and effect, and shall be es avail· 
able, as if the conveyance, release, or acqui"8.nce, or oiher writing, had 
't>een executed in conformity to the decree; or the court may appoint
a commissioner to execute such writing, which shall have the same
effect as if executed by the party. 
SEC. 97. When a decree shall be made for the sale or conveyance of
the real estate of an infant, such decree shall be binding on the infant, 
unless within three years after attaining the age of twenty-one years,
or unless being summoned for that purpose, or served with a copy of
the decree, he shall, within six months after attaining said age, show
to the court good cause to the contrary; and it shall not be necessary
to insert such saving in the decree; but such saving shall not extend to
oases where the real estate of any infant shall be sold for the payment
of the debts of any person deceased, from whom such infant derived
the estate as heir or devisee. 
SEC. 98. Decrees, where no commissioner is appoitA.ed to execute
them, shall be executed by the sheriff of the proper county, and the
elerk shall issue all writs of fieri fac1:aa, habere facias possessionem, or
other final process, according to the nature of the case, directed to the
sheriff of the proper county; and all such writs shall be executed and
returned, and shall have the same .force and operation, as similar writs
iasued from the circuit court. · 
SEC. 99. The clerk shall keep an execution docket, in the manner
required of the· clerk of the circuit court, in which he shall enter all 
final process issued by him, and record . at large the returns that may 
be made thereon. 
SEC. 100. Decrees shall bear interest in the same manner as judg­ 
ments at law. 
SEC. 101. When a demurrer shall be overruled, the defendant may
appeal to the high court of errors and appeals, without being first 
comrelled to answer; and if the decree shall be affirmed, the cause 
shal be remanded, to be proceeded in, according to the practice of the
court. 
SEC. 102. An appeal may be granted by the court, or t!ie judge in
vacation, from any interlocutory order or decree, whereby monev is
required to be paid, or the possession of property to be changed, or
when the judge may think proper, in order to settle the principles of· 
t.he cause, or to avoid expense and delay; but such appeal shall be 
applied for within twenty days after the date of the order or decree
complained of; and bond shall be given as in other eases, and the
judge shall determine whether such appeal shall operate as a super· 
sedeas or not. · 
SEC. 108. Any one or more of the patties, complainant or defend. 
Ant, feeling aggrieved by the final decree of the court in any cause,
may appeal from the same at any time within three years after the 
rendition thereof on filing his petition ... of appeal with the clerk of the 
court, and entering into bond before the said clerk, in the manner
required by this ·act, and thereupon the clerk shall make out a tran­
script of the record, and transmit the same to the high court of errors
and appeals, and shall also issue a summons to the opposite party, to
appear and answer the said appeal 
SEC. 104. On appeal from decrees overruling a demurrer, or other·
interlocutory orders or decrees, where the court or judge shall not
allow a supersedeas, and on appeals from :final decrees, where the appel­
~nt shall not desire a supersedeas, it shall be sufficient if the appellant
give bond to the opposite party, with two or more good sureties, free­
holders in the State, to be approved by the clerk, in the penalty of
five hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of all the costs of
said appeal, in case the decree be affirmed. 
SEC. 105. On appeals from any interlocutory decree, where ·the 
court shall allow a supersedeas, and on appeals from :final decrees,
where the appellant shall desire a supersedeas, the clerk shall take
bond from such appellant, payable to the opposite party, with two or 
more good sureties, freeholders in the State, to be approved by him,
in a penalty d<llble the amount of the decree complained of, or double
the amount of the value 6f the property, or other matter in contro­
versy, to be determined by the clerk, conditioned that the appellant
will pay and satisfy, and in all things observe, abide, and perform, the
decree complained of, and also such final 'decree as may be made in 
the cause, and all costs, if the same be affirmed ; and no supersedeas
shall issue until bond shall have been given as aforesaid. 
SEC. 106. To enable the clerk to determine the value, or amount of
the matter in controversy, where the same shall not appear by the 
proceedings in the cause, he may examine the parties, and other per­
sons, on oath; and he may also examine, on oath, all persons who may
be offered as sureties on any appeal bond, touching their sufficiency as 
such sureties, and require the same to be put in writing, and signed
by such persons. 
SEC. 107. When several persons shall have a joint interest affected 
by a decree, and one or more of them shall appeal therefrom, the other
parties jointly interested shall be summoned to join in the prosecution
of the said appeal ; and if such parties, on being summoned, shall not
appear and become parties to the appeal, they shall be severed, and 
shall be barred thereafter from any appeal upon such decree; and the 
appeal shall be prosecuted in the name of the party petitioning for the 
same. 
SEC. 108. Appeals may be granted in all cases by the court, in 
term time, upon the terms and conditions prescribed in this act. 
SEC. 109. If a decree, appealed from, be for a money demand, or for
the dissolution of an injunction, or other restraining process, and the
same be affirmed, damages shall be awarded against the appellant, a$
the rate of five per centum on the amount due the appellee, including
the costs; and a judgment shall be entered in the appellate court, on
such affirmance, against the sureties in the appeal bond, jointly with
the appellant, for the amount decreed to the appellee in the court
below, with interest, and also for the damages and ·costs awarded in 
the appellate court, and a copy of such judgment shall be certified
to the court below, and the clerk thereof shall issue execution 
thereon. 
SEC. 110. If the. sureties in an appeal bond, or any of them, shall 
be dead at the time of the affirmance of the decree, the judgment of 
affirmance shall be entered against the survivors, and the representa­
tives of the deceased parties shall be summoned to appear at the next 
term, to show cause w by a similar judgment should not be rendered 
. against them ; and if no sufficient cause shall then be shown, such
judgment of affirmance shall be entered against the representatives of
such deceased parties, which shall, in like manner, be certified to the
court below. 
SEC. 111. Appeal bonds and writ of error bonds, shall be sufficient, 
if signed by one or more of several appellants, or plaintifffs in error,
with sureties as required by law, and in case of tp.e affirmance of the
decree or judgment complained of, the judgment of affirmance shall
be entered against all the appellants or plaintifffs in error, in the same
manner as if all had signed such bond. 
SECTION Vill. 
The disposal or unfinished business in the Superior Court of Chancery and the Vice
Chancery Courts. 
SEC. 112. Causea pending in the superior court of chancery, or any
of the vice-chancery courts, may, at any time after the passage of 
this act, by consent of parties, be removed and transferred to any
court having jurisdiction thereof under this act: Provided, All the
eosta accrued and accruing in such cases· up to the time of such trans·
fer, shall be first paid to the clerk of the court in which the same is 
depending, and such costs shall abide the final decision of the cause,
in the court to which the same shall be transferred. 
SEC. 118. Causes remaining undetermined in the superior court of
chancery, or any vice-chancery court, on the first Monday in Novem­
ber, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven, may, at or after that
date, be transferred, on the application of either party, to any chancery
court in which the eause might then be instituted, on payment of the
costs, as provided in the preceding article, and if the complainant and
defendant shall both apply to have such cause transferred, the com­
plainant shall have the election of the court to -which the cause shall
be transferred, in case the same would be cognizable in more courts
than· one. ' 
SEC. 114. To facilitate the transfer of such undetermined causes, it
shall be the duty of the chancellor and vice-chancellors, at the term of
their' respective courts next preceding the first Monday of November
one thousand eight· hundred and fifty-seven, to call over the generJ
docket of their courts, and to make m each case remaining undeter­
mined, or depending in the high court of errors and appeals, on writ of
error or appeal, an order for the transfer of the same to a court
where the same may thereafter be properly cognizable under this act,
and if there shall be two or more courts m whioh any cause may be
cognizable, the complainant, 'if he desire it, shall have the election of
the court to which the same shall be transferred. 
SEC. 115. When an application or order for the transfer of any
cause shall be made, the clerk shall make out and certify a copy of 
all the orders and decrees made therein, and contained in the minutes 
or records of the court, in chronological order, and also a copy of all 
entries in the general docket relating to said cause, and he shall tax:
the costs, and he shall make a short descriptive list of all the papers, 
and shall deliver the original papers, and a copy of said descriptive 
list, and. the copy of said orders, decrees, and entries, and of the· bill 
of costs, to the party applying for the same, taking his receipt. therefore,
on the said descriptive list to be retained by him; and for making such
copies, and such lists, the clerk shall be authorized to receive fifteen
eents for every hundred words contained therein, to be included in
the taxed costs. The party obtaining the said papers shall, without
delay, file the same in the office of the clerk of the court to which
the cause is transferred, and the clerk shall enter the same on the ge~
eral docket as if it were an original suit. And if the party obtaining
such papers, shall fail to :file the same as aforesaid, he shall be liable to
indictment, and on conviction, may be :fined and imprisoned at the
discretion of the court; and shall, moreover, be liable to the parties
aggrieved for all damages occasioned by such failure . 
SEC. 116. If none· of the parties to any cause, ordered to be trans­
ferred as aforesaid, shall apply for the papers, and pay the costs, the 
clerk may transfer the cause to the proper court, and, unless at the
:first term of the court to which such cause shall be transferred, some
party shall pay to the said clerk or his agent, the said costs, such cause 
shall be dismissed at the cost of the complainant, and like remedies
for such costs may thereafter be had, against the complainant and hie 
sureties, as in other cases. 
SEC. 117. If an_y :final decree, rendered in any of said courts, shall
remain unexecuted after the said :first Monday of November, one thou·
sand eight hundred and fifty-seven, in whole or in part, a certified
copy of such :final decree, and of such of the pleadings in the cause,
~ either party applying therefore shall desire, and a copy of the bill of
costs, including the cost of such copies, may, at the instance of either
party, or of the clerk, be transferred to any chancery court of compe­
tent jurisdiction under this act, and such proceedings may be there.
:upon had for the execution of said decree, as upon decrees rendered in 
such court. 
SEC. 118. All the records and papers belonging to the superior
oourt of chancery, or any of the vice-chancery courts, or to any cause
therein, shall remain in the care and custody of the person who may
be the clerk of said courts respectively, on the first Monday of No­
vember, one thousand eight hundred and ftfty·seven, and his deputies,
for one year from that day, if so long a time be required to close up
the business of said office; and such person and his deputies shall be 
authorized to certify copies of said records and papers, under the seal 
now used in said offices, in the same manner as if he continued to be
clerk of said court; and from and after the first Monday of November,
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight, or such earlier day as the
said clerks. may choose to surrender the same, the records, books, 
papers, and the furniture, presses and property appertaining to the
superior court of chancery shall .be placed in the care, and under the
charge of the clerk of the high court of errors and appeals, and the
records; books, papers, and the .furniture and presses and property
appertaining to any of the said vice-chancery courts shall be placed ill 
the care, and under the charge of the clerk of the chancery court or
the county in which such vice-chancery court shall have been holden;
and such clerk of the high court of errors and appeals, and clerks of 
the chancery courts, shall be authorized to certify transcripts and copies 
o.f said records and pape~, under the seal of their respective courts, 
and to charge therefore the same fees allowed to such clerks in other 
cases. 
SEC. 119. If, after the first Monday of November, one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven, any person shall desire to prosecute an
appeal or writ of error from any final decree rendered before that day 
in the superior court of chancery, or any of the vice-chancery courts,
he may apply within the time limited by law, by petition, to the
officers having for the time being, the care and charge of the records
and papers of the court in which the decree was rendered, and there­ 
llpon the said officer shall take and approve the bond as required' in other cases, and· shall grant the appeal or writ of error, and make out,
oortify and transmit the record of the high court of errors and appeals,
as clerks of the chancery courts are required to do by law. 
SEC. 120. All causes that; on the said first Monday of November,
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven, shall be pending in the
high court of errors and appeals, on appeal or writ of error from the
superior court of chancery, or any of the said vice- chancery courts,
and all causes that may thereafter be removed therefrom to the said
high court, shall, if the decree be reversed, be remanded, if necessary,
for further proceedings, to the chancery court to which the cause may
have been transferred, or if not so transferred, to such chancery court
as may have. cognizance thereof, and such court shall have full power 
. to proceed therein, as if the cause had been originally commenced in
such court ; and if the decree be affirmed, the said high court shall
have full power to cause the decree to be executed, or may, if neces­
sary, remand the case to any proper chancery court, there to be pro­
ceeded in according to law. 
SEC. 121. If, on the said first Monday in November, one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven, any cause pending in the superior
oourt of chancery, or any of the vice-chancery courts, shall be referred 
to a commissioner or master for the taking of an account, or any other
purpose, such commissioner shall have full power to proceed with the
discharge of his duties, and shall make his report to the court to which
the cause may be transferred, and shall, in all respects, be subject to
the jurisdiction of such court, as if originally appointed thereby. 
SEC. 122. The chancery courts to which any cause may be trans­ 
ferred in pursuance of this act, shall have. full power to proceed
~erein, and to hear and determine the same, .in the same manner a.a 
in cases originally commenced therein.
SEC. 123. The records and papers belonging to the superior court 
of chancery, may continue to be kept in the charge of the clerk of the
high court of errors and appeals, in the room in the capitol now appro­ 
priated to the UBe of the clerk of said superior court of chancery.
SEC. 124. From and after the first Monday of Norember, one 
thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven, all laws establishing the
1Uperior court of chancery, and the several vioe-chancery courts of 
thl8 State, and regulating the practice and proceedings therein, shall 
be repealed and of no effect. · 
SEC. 126. That this act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its ~e. 
 
CHAPTER LXIIL 
.An .Act to organize and to define the powen of the High Court of Em>n mad
.Appeal&. 
An An 
1. Districts, and election of Judges. 16. Dismission, ir record not filed.
2. Oath. 17. After - dismissal, no other writ ol 
3. Powers or Judge. error •
. 4. Terms of Court. 18. Chier Justice. Decisions in writing. 
6. Dockets, how called. 19. Minutes kept, read, and signed.
6. Court adjourned, when Judges ab- I 20. Power to fine and imprison. 
sent. 21. Seal.
'i. Return days. Failure to make re- 22. Allowance for books, &c. 
turns. 23. Revival in case of death of party.
8. Jurisdiction. 24. Rules of practice.
9. Writs of error in civil ca.see. 25. Clerk, how appointed and qualified. 
10. New security OD supersedeas bonds. 26. -- to keep minutes and records. 
11. Causes, when heard. Judgment. 27. Dockets, bow kept.
12. Damages OD affirmance. 28i Process issued, and returned. 
13. in suits for property. 29. Citations, and how served.
U. Judgment certified, and execution / 30. Publications against non-residents. 
thereon. 31. Executions for costs.
15. Execution in criminal ca.see. 32. Deputies of Clerk. 
SECTION L 
Of the Judges or the High Cont of Errors and Appeals. 
SEC. 1. The State Bhan be divided into three districts for the elec­
tion of judges of the high court of errors and appeals, to wit: The
counties of W arren, Hinds, Rankin, Scott, Newton, Lauderdale,
Kemper, Neshoba, Leake, Madison, Yazoo, Issaquena, Washington,
Bolivar, Sunflower, Holmes, Attala, Winston, and Noxubee shall eon­
stitute the first district. 
The counties of Claiborne, Copiah, Simpson, Smith, Jasper, Clark,
Wayne, Covington, Jones, Perr,r, Green, Marion, Hancock, Jackson
Harrison, Adams, Jefferson, Amite, Wilkinson, Lawrence, Pike, and 
Franklin, shall constitute the second district;
And the counties of Lafayette, Lowndes, Ootibbeha, Choctaw, 
Carroll, Tallahatchie, Yalobusha, Chickasaw, Monroe, Itawamba,
Pontotoc, Panola, Coahoma, Tunica, De Soto, Marshall, Tippah,
Tishomingo, and Calhoun, shall constitute the third district. - And
after the expiration of the terms of the present incumbents, a judge
of the high court of errors and appeals shall be elected by the quali­
fied electors in each district, to wit: In the third district, at the
~eneral election in 1858 ; in the first district, at the general election 
m 1860; and in the second district, at the general election in 1862, to 
hold their offices for the term prescribed in the constitution. 
SEC. 2. The judges of the high court of errors and appeals, before
they enter on the discharge of their duties, shall take and subscribe
the oath prescribed in the constitution. 
SEC. 3. The judges of the high court of errors and appeals, may
severally grant writ.a of error, if applied to, to the judgment of any 
id,rior coun, or tribunal from which a writ of error 1iee, to the high
court of errors and appeals ; they may grant writs of supersedeas; they 
may grant writs of certiorari; they may grant appeals from interlocu­
tory decrees in chancery, when by such decree money is to be paid,
or the possession of property is to be changed, or when such appeal
is necessary to settle the principles· of the cause, provided such appeal 
shall have been refo.eed by the chancery court, or by the judge thereof
in vacation ; they may allow a petition of appeal, and if necessary a
supereedeas, from the final decree of any ohancery court, at any time
within three years ~r the same shall have been pronounced; they
may ~ant writs of. habeas corpus, returnable either before· the judge
granting such writ, or before any other Judge or officer authorized to 
tiy the same; they mi1y grant injunctions, except in term time, and
writs of ne exeat, and attachments, and all other remedial process 
allowed by law, returnable to the proper court, always imposing the
proper terms and conditions on all parties applying for any writ or 
~; they may take ackn?wledgments a~d proof of all deeds, con­
veymg land, and all other instruments which are necessary to be 
acknowledged or proved; they may solemnize the rites of matrimony; 
they are conservators of the peace, and may,issue the proper warrants
against offenders, and sit as a court of inquiry, and take all proper
recognizances; they may administer the oath of office to any officer
elect, and all other oaths necessary and proper to be administered. 
In criminal cases, when the party applying, is in custody, and
aooo.mpani~. his apl?lication ~y an affi.daV1t, s~pported by ot~er proof, 
of his inability to give seounty for costs, an1 Judge of the high court,
may grant writs of error 'and snpersedeas without bond. 

SEC. 4. The judges of the high court of errors and appeals, shall
hold a court twice in each year, at the city of Jackson, to be styled
"the High Court of Errors and Appeals;" and the terms shall commence
on the third Mondays of April and October, and the judges are 
required to keep said court open for dispatch of business, for at least
nine months in every year, if the business therein should require. 
SEC. 5. The docket' of the first district shall be taken up at the 
October term, and the cases thereon shall be called and disposed of,
until the third Monday in December the!eafter, when the docket of the
third di.mi.ct shall be taken-up, snd the cases thereon shall be called
alld disposed of, until the third Monday of February; when the doeket
of the second disiriot shall be taken up and· called until the first Mon­ 
day in April; and at the April term, the dockets of the several districts,
or. such of them as most require it, shall be taken up and disposed of, 
as.may be ordered by the court, or the clerk thereof, if she court should 
fall to make the order; and notice of the order fa· which the dockets 
will be 1abn up, aocerding to such order, shall be published by the 
cmk in two newspapers published in Jackson, for the period of one
mondi ; wlien the business of the oourt will permit, the high court of 
errors and appeals, shall have power to aher ,he times fixed for taking 
up the dockets' of the second and third districts, and so to arrange the
same, as, in their opinion, the public convenience may require. 
SEC. 6. If, at the commencement of any regular term, a quorum of
the judges shall not be present, it shall be the duty of the sheriff of
Hinds county (who is the proper officer of the court), or his deputy,
to adjourn the court from day to day, for twelve judicial days, within
which time, if a quorum of the judges should appear, the court may 
go on with its session ; but if there should be a failure of the term, rt
shall be the duty of the judgos, or any two of them, to order a special
term, at such time as they may appoint;· notice of which shall be
published in two newspapers published in the city of Jackson, for
thirty days; and after a term has regularly commenced, the court, or
any one or more of the judges, if more than one be present, may
adjourn the court from day to day, or from time to time, as may be
necessary and proper, and there shall be no discontinuance of any
suit, process, matter or thing, returned, or depending in said court,
because a sufficient number of judges shall not attend at the commence- 
- ment of the term, or at any other day, to which the court may have
been adjourned, and in case a quorum .of the judges should not be
present at any day to which the court may have been adjourned,
during any term, a further adjournment may be ordered. 
SEC. 7. The first day of 'each term shall be the return day in the
said court, to which all appeals, writs of' error, executions, and all . 
other process issuing therefrom, or by the clerk thereof, in the pre­
ceding vacation, or during the preceding term, shall be returnable,
unless otherwise ordered by 'rule of court, 'and all officers failing to
return such executions on the return day, or to pay over money col· 
looted thereon, may, on motion; be made liable for such failure, as in
case of failure to return executions, or to pay over money thereon in
the circuit courts, and it shall. be the duty of the sheriff of Hinds 
county, with a competent number of deputies, to attend said court,
and perform all the duties of officer thereof; for a failure to perform
which, he may be punished by fine, and if the sheriff, or his deputies,
should fail to attend at the proper- time, the court may appoint a
special officer to discharge the duties. 
SECTION III. 
O C J 11risdiction and Practice or the CourL 
SEC. 8. The high court of errors and appeals, shall have such juris­
diction as _properly belongs to a court of errors and appeals, and shall
hear and determine all manner of pleas, plaints, motions, causes .and
controversies, civil and criminal, which are now pending therein, or
which may be brought before it, from any circuit court, chancery
court, probate court, or other inferior tribunal, from which by law a
cause may be removed, either by appeal or writ of error, or other legal
means, and which shall be cognizable in said high court of errors and
appeals, according to the constitution and laws of this State; but no
cause shall be removed into said court by appeal, writ of error, or
otherwise, until after final judgment in the court below, except in 
cases particularly provided for by law. 
SEC. 9. Any party, plaintifff or defendant, to any judgment of any
inferior tribunal fromwhich a cause may be taken to the high court
of errors and appeals, desiring to have such judgment reviewed, by the
high court, may apply, by petition, to any judg ethereof, for a writ of
error, or may petition the clerk of the court where such judgment or
decree was rendered, for the issuance of a writ of error, which writ·it
shall be the duty of such clerk to issue ; such writ of error shall
operate as a supersedeas, only when the party applying for the same,
shall enter into bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the judge or clerk granting. the same, payable to the
ad verse party, in double the amount of the judgment, or in double
the value of the personal property, recovered in the court below,
conditioned for the prosecution of the writ of error to effect, or in case
of failure, for the payment or performance of the jud~ent, decree or
sentence of the high court of errors and appeals, and no supersedeas
shall. be granted in any CaE:!6 already pending in the high court,
unless the party applying for the same, shall execute bond as above
required, and no writ of error shall be granted on a judgment by con­
fession. This article shall only extend to civil cases. 
SEC. 10. The sufficiency of any surety taken on any bond for a
supersedeas, mar be excepted to before the high court, or any judge 
thereof in vacation, on· ten days. notice to the opposite party, and if 
such exceptions be sustained, and the security be not .immediately per­
fected, such writ of error shall cease to operate as a supersedeas, and
the supersedeas shall be discharged, by order of the court or the 
judge, and execution may immediately issue on the original judgment;
but the high court mat, notwithstanding, give judgment on the bond,
as in other cases, for the amount of the judgment, damages, and costs,
and if necessary a new execution may be issued thereon, although one
may have been issued on the discharge of the supersedeas, · 
SEC. 11. The high court of errors and appeals shall hear and deter­
mine all cases properly brought before it, 'according to law, at the
return term, unless cause be shown for a continuance, and in case the 
judgment, sentence or decree of the court below, shall be reversed, the
high court of errors and appeals shall render such judgment,' sentence,
or decree, as the court below should have rendered, except it be neces­
sary in consequence of its decision, that some matter of fact be ascer­
tained, or damages be assessed by a jury, or where the matter to be
determined be uncertain, in either of which cases the suit, action, or
prosecution, shall be remanded to the court from which it was brought, 
for a final decision. 
SEC. 12. In case the judgment of the court below shall be affirmed,
or the appellant or plaintifff in error shall fail to prosecute the same to
effect, the high court of errors and appeals shall enter up judgment
against the appellant or plaintifff in error, for the debt, with five per
cent. damages thereon, and costs; and in case aµy bond may have 
been ~~n for an appeal or supersedeas, the judgment shall be for the
debt, ~e.s and costs, against all of the obligors in such bond, who 
may be livmg at the time, and to that end it shall be the duty of the
clerk of the court in which the bond may be filed, to transmit a certi­
fied copy of such bond to the high court of errors and appeals, with
the record in such cause, and if any of said obligors be dead, a scir« 
faeia« may issue against his representatives, to appear and show cause 
why the judgment should not be entered up against them, and on the 
return of such scire farias, executed, if no sufficient cause shall be shown
to the contrary, judgment shall be entered against such representatives,
in like manner as against the pbligors who may be living. And it shall 
be the duty of the clerk of the court below, on the certificate of the clerk
of the high court of errors and appeals, to issue execution on the judg­
ment of affirmance, for the debt, damages and costs, and in case any 
party who has given bond, shall voluntarily dismiss his appeal or writ
of error, after the record has been filed, if he be defendant below, he
shall pay to the appe11ee or defendant in error, five per cent. damages
on the amount of the judgment below, which may be recovered by
action on the bond, and if no bond was given, he shall be liable to the
same damages to be recovered by action-of debt. 
SEC. 18. In case the judgment be for specific personal property, the
damages may be assessed on the value of such property, as the same
appears in the record; and in case it be for slaves, the damages shall
be equivalent to all the hire of such slaves, not included in the judg­
ment below, up to the time of the rendition of the judgment, besides
the damages on the damages assessed in the court below; and if the
value of the hire be uncertain, or do not ap~ar in the record, the
court may render judgment for the specific property, against the de­
fendant and his sureties, and may remand the cause as to the damages,
to be ascertained in the court below, on the trial of an issue, and execu­
tion may issue for the property as in other cases, and afterwards another
execution for the damages, and in like manner damages may be essessed 
on a judgment for mesue profits of real estate. . 
SEC. 14. Every final judgment or decree, rendered in any cause by
the high court of errors and appeals, shall be certified by the clerk of
said court, to the clerk of the court from which the cause was brought,
within twenty days after the rendition of the judgment, together with
the damages, if any ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
from which the cause was removed, on receiving such certificate, to 
issue the proper execution on such final judgment or decree; if the
same be for the plaintifff in the original cause, for the amount of
money, or other things, adjudged to the plaintifff and all cost accrued
in the court below; and, if the judgment be rendered for the defendant
in the original cause, then on the receipt of the certificate as aforesaid,
execution shall issue against the plaintifff in the cause, for the defend­
ant's costs; and, if the clerk of the high court of errors and appeals
fail to issue the certificate as herein required, he shall forfeit to the
aggrieved party, one hundred dollars, to be recovered by motion,
before the high court of errors and appeals, on five days notice of
such motion. . 
SEC. 15. The sentence of the high court of errors and appeals, in
all criminal cases brought before it, shall be executed in like manner
as if such sentence had been passed by the court in which the prose­
cution originated ; and it shall not be necessary to bring any .person
charged with any criminal offense before the high court; but such
writ of error may be prosecuted by the counsel of the accused. 
SEC. 16. In all cases. where an appeal has been taken, or a writ of
error issued upon the judgment of any inferior court, to the high
court of errors and appeals, if the copy of the -record in the court
below, shall not be filed with the elerk of the high court, on or before 
the first or return-day of the term, to which such appeal or writ of
error was returnable by law, or by rule of court, it shall be lawful for
the court, on motion of the appellee, or defendant in error, to dismiss
such appeal or writ of error, the party moving for such dismissal, pro­
ducing a copy of the citation properly ~rved,. or a certificate of the
clerk below, that an appeal or writ of error has been taken; but such
cause may be reinstated, at any time during the term, if the party can
show that the failure to file the record, was not the result of laches, or
neglect on his part; and the court may dispose of cases brought up
for delay, out of their proper order. 
SEC. 17. After the dismissal of any appeal, writ of error, or super­ 
sedeas, by the high court of errors and appeals, no other appeal, writ
of error, or supersedeas shall be granted in the same cause, so as to 
bring it again before the court.
SEC. 18. The judges of the high court of errors and appeals, shall 
choose from among themselves, a chief justice, or presiding judge, and
enter the same of record, and in case of his absence, the senior judge
in commission shall preside; and in all important cases, or cases set­
tling important principles, and in cases to be remanded, the opinion of
the court shall be in writing, stating the reasons upon which the deci­
sion is made, which shall be recorded bl the clerk, in a well bound
book, tQ be kept for that purpose, for which he shall receive ten cents
for every hundred words, payable half yearly, out of the State treasury,
on the certificate of any one of the judges, that the service has been
performed, and that the account is ju.st. 
SEC. 19. For preventing errors in entering u~ judgments, decrees,
orders, and decisions, the court shall cause the minutes of the proceed­
ings of each day, to be drawn up at large by the clerk, and to be read 
in open court the next day, except those ·or the last day of the term,
which shall be read the same day, and any errors may then be cor­
rected, and the minutes of each day shall be signed by the chief justice,
or presidingjudge. 
SEC. 20. The high court of errors and appeals mn.y punish any
person for. 'contempt of the court, by fine or imprisonment, or by
both, but irnprisoment for a contempt shall not extend beyond six 
'days. . . 
SEC. 21. The high court of errors and appeals, shall contmue to 
1lSe the seal now in use in said court, unless it shall become necessary 
to procure a new one, in which case the court may order a new seal,
with like device, to be paid for. out of the treasury of the State, on the
eertificate of any one of the judges that the account therefore is just
and true, and the seal shall be affixed to all process, records, certifi­
cates, and other instruments, issuing from said court. 
SEC. 22. The high court of errors and appeals shall make allow­ 
-ances to the clerk, for all needful sums f~r supplying the office with· 
necessary books, and presses for preservmg the records, and for the
'Stlfe keeping of the books and papers belonging to the office, which
allowance, being certified to the auditor of public accounts, by any
on~ of the jud~es,. shall be paid out of the treasury of the State. 
And the cour1! ~hall annually appoint one of the judges thereof, to
inspect the dlerk's 6fflce, ·and the records and papers thereof who shall
report to the next term of the court, the condition of the office, which
report shall be recorded. · · 
SEC. 28. If either the plaintifff in error, or the defendant, should die
after the · cause has been removed to the high court, and before the 
decision thereof, the suit shall not abate, but the legal represent.atives
of. such deceased parties may come voluntarily, and make themselves
parties, and have the cause revived in their names, and if they should
fail to do so, they may be brought in by scirefacias ; and in like manner, 
may the representatives of ·any co-plaintifff, or co-defendant, who may
die pending the suit, be brought in, or come in, and make themselves
parties, and the cause shall proceed for or against them, jointly with
the surviving plaintifff or defendant. 
SEC. 24. The high court of errors and appeals shall have power to 
make such rules, in respect to making out records for said court, as 
may be expedient to exclude unnecessary matter therefrom, so as to 
save costs, and may enforce such rules by proper fines, or by refusal
to allow costs to be taxed to the clerks below, on records not made
out according to the rules. . 
And said court may prescribe. the mode of pleading in causes civil
and criminal. therein; and the manner of trying the same, and may
also establish such rules of practice and proceeding therein, as may
be deemed necessary and proper, for certainty and dispatch of busi­
ness, and may dismiss causes for non-compliance with any of the rules,
provided such rules be not inconsistent with the laws of this St.ate. 
SEC. 25. The clerk now in office shall eontinue to hold the same
until the expiration of four years from the time of his aprointment;
and thereafter the high court of errors and appeals, shal appoint a
clerk every four years, in the following manner: 
In term time, the appointment shall be made by an order, entered
of record in the proceedings of the court; and before the person so
appointed enters on the discharge of the duties of his office, he shall
take the oath prescribed in the constitution, in open court, and shall 
enter into bond, with two sureties to be approved by the court, pay­
able to the State of Mississippi, in the penalty of five thousand dollars,
conditioned for the faithful performance of all the duties of his office
required by law'; which bond shall be recorded in the records of the
court, and immediately thereafter be deposited in the office of secretary 
of state. · 
 
In vacation, the appointment shall be made by commission, under
the hands .and seals of a majority of the judges of said court, who shall 
also approve the sureties in the bond, which shall be executed by the
person so appointed, and shall endorse the approval thereon ; and the
proper oath may be administered by any one of the judges, who shall
endorse a certificate thereof on the commission, and the judges shall
cause the bond to be recorded, and filed in the office of the secretary
of state, as a bond given in term time is required to be recorded, and
'filed, an authenticated copy of any such bond, may be received in 
evidence in any court of law or equity in the State, as though the
original were produced. 
SEC. 26. The clerk shall carefully keep a minute of the proceedings
of the court for each day, drawn up at large in a record book, to be
kept by him for that purpose; he shall seasonably record the judg­
ments, decrees, orders, and decisions of the court; he shall safely keep
all records, files, books, and papers committed to his charge; and also
all pre,saes and furniture belonging to his office, and deliver such
records, files, books, papers, presses and furniture, to his successor in
office; and in CMe of refusal, or failure; to deliver whatever belongs to
his office, to his successor, his bond may be put in suit by the attorney­
general; he shall prepare for any person demanding the same, a certi­
fied copy of any paper, record, decree, judgment, or entry on file in his
office, proper to be certified, for the fees prescribed 1:;>y law. - 
The transcript filed in the high court, the process in each cause, and
the judgment or decree of said court thereon, shall be the final record
in suoh cause, and certified as such by the clerk of said court, when­
ever an exemplification of the judgment or decree of said court, may 
be required. , . 
SEC. 27. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the high court of errors
and appeals, to make out and keep three dockets, of cases pending in,
or which .may be brought to said court, one for each district for the
election of a judge of said court, and to place on the docket of each
district, all cases, civil and criminal, in the order they mny be brou~ht 
up from the couaties composing the district; but civil cases, in which
the State is a party, shall be placed on the docket of the district in
which the seat o( government is, and criminal cases shall be placed
first, on the dockets to which they respectively belong. 
SEC. 28. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the high court of errors
and appeals, to isssue all writs of error, citations, attachments for con­
tempt, and all other process, which may be ordered to issue by the
court, or any judge thereof, and all wnts and process issuing from
said court, or on the order of any judge thereof, or which may be
returnable therein, shall bear test in the name of the chief justice, and
shall be under the seal of the court, and be signed by the clerk
thereof, and may be directed to the sheriff, or other proper officer, of
any county in the State, who shall execute and return the same accord­
ing to the command thereof, and whenever any such writ or process,
shall not be executed, or not returned, an alias writ or process, may
be issued by the clerk, on the application of the person who sued out
the former writ; and when any plaintifff or defendant, in an1 suit
pending in said court, shall die, it shall be lawful for the clerk, m the
recess of the court, upon the application of the proper party, to issue
process to bring in the representatives of such deceased parties. 
SEC. 29. The clerk of the high court of errors and appeals, and the
clerk of any inferior court, or tribunal, at the time of issuing a writ of error
or supersedeas, shall issue a citation to the defendant in error, to appear
and answer such writ, at the return term thereof, which shall be served
on the defendant or bis attorney in fact, or of record, at least ten days
before the time to which the same is returnable, and shall be sent up
with the transcript of the record, and filed among the pa;eers in the
cause, and if such citation be not issued and served, an alias citation 
may be awarded by said court, returnable to the next term. 
SEC. 80. When the defendant in error, or the appellee, is a non­
resident, and has no attorney in this State, the court being saiisfied 
thereof, may cause notiee to be published for <me · month, in some
public newspaper printed at the seat of govemm.ent; the first of W'hidi
notices shall be published at least three months before the next sue,. 
ceeding term of the court, in which the party shall be required to 
appear and defend the cause, and on due proof of such notice, the court
may proceed to hear sad determine the ca~ in the same manner as if
citation had been served, 
SEC. 31. In cases which hsve been, or which ·ffJ.ff11 hereafter 'be,
decided in the high court of errors and appeals, or which may, be d.i.i­
missed, .or otherwise disposed of, the clerk of said court may .-issu,, 
. executions for costs, in the same manner that the clerks of the circuit
courts are authorized to issue such executions, against any ~y 
liable therefore; and such executions may be directed to the sheriff of
any county in the State, and shall by him be returned, in the same
manner, and under like penalties, u in the case of executions retmn­
able to the circuit courts. 
SEC. 32. The clerk of said court shall have .power, with the &J>: 
probation of the court, to appoint one or more deputies, who shall 
take the oath of office, and the appointment shall be entered of record,
and thereafter such deputy shall have power to do and perform all tae 
official duties required of the principal, and if both the principal and 
his deputy be absent, the court may appoint some fit person, to dis­ 
charge the duties during such absence, bt taking the oath of office. 

