APPEALS.

29-33

education of the colored youth of the state, shall continue as a body-politic and
corporate for that purpose.
29 (776). Certain laws applicable.—Except as stated to the contrary in the
next section, all the provisions of the chapter entitled "Agricultural and Mechan
ical College " shall be applicable, the necessary changes being made, to the "Alcorn
Agricultural and Mechanical College," which shall be entitled to receive for its
support one-half of the interest on' the fund, the other half of which is devoted to
the Agricultural and Mechanical College.
30. The sections excepted. —The sections of the chapter entitled "Agricultural
and Mechanical College," on the subject of the number of students entitled to free
tuition therein, and on the subject of apportioning the same among the several
counties of the state, and dormitory privileges, and on the subject of the agricult
ural experimental station, shall not apply to Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical
College. (Said sections are 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and 27.)

CHAPTER 5.
APPEALS.
31 (2308). To the supreme court; writs of error abolished.—Writs of error,,
as heretofore used, are abolished ; and all cases, civil and criminal, at law and in
chancery, shall be taken to the supreme court by appeal as herein provided, and
shall be dealt with by said court without regard to the manner of removing the
■cases to such court.
32 (2309). Appeal from final judgment or decree.—An appeal may be taken
to the supreme court from any final judgment of a circuit court in a civil case, not
being a judgment by confession, or from any final decree of a chancery court, not
being by consent, by any of the parties or the legal representatives of such parties;,
but such appeal shall operate as a supersedeas only when the party applying for the
same shall comply with the terms hereinafter prescribed; and in no case shall such
appeal be held to vacate the judgment or decree.
An appeal may be prosecuted from a judgment or decree final in its nature, immediately after its ren
dition and before the end of the term of the court at which it is rendered. Byrne v. Jeffries, 38 Miss., 533.
Where an appeal is prosecuted from the decision of the board ot supervisors to the circuit court, and
there decided, the party aggrieved may appeal to the supreme court; the statute is "from any final judg
ment," etc. Crump v. Colfax Co., 52 Miss., 107.
An order of a circuit court of the state sustaining a motion for the removal of the cause to the federal
court, is not a final judgment from which an appeal can be prosecuted. Jackson v. Alabama R. R. Co., 58Miss., 648.
An appeal may be prosecuted from a final judgment of the circuit court, rendered in vacation under a
statute authorizing the case to be so heard and determined. Perkins v. Carravvay, 59 Miss., 222.
The denial of the right of appeal from a judgment by consent or confession, does not apply to cases be
fore justices of the peace. James v. Woods, 65 Miss., 528.
A decree on the final account of an administrator, which allows some items and disallows others, and
awards the pa3rment of certain sums in partial distribution, is final, and may be appealed from without leave,
although it continues the final account. McDonald v. McDonald, 68 Miss., 689.
33 (2310). Appeal on overruling demurrer.—When a demurrer shall be over
ruled in a chancery court, or by the chancellor in vacation, the party demurring
may appeal to the supreme court, without being first compelled to answer; and, if
123

34-37

APPEALS.

the decree be affirmed, the cause shall be remanded, to be proceeded with accord
ing to the practice of the court; but such appeal must be applied for, and bond
given, within ten days after the demurrer is overruled if in term time, and if de
cided in vacation within thirty days after the decree is filed in the proper office.
Such appeal must be allowed by the court or the chancellor ; hut the appeal bond
may be approved by the court or chancellor, or the clerk.
The defendant who appeal* from a decree overrulinsr his demurrer to the bill, is not bound to answer be
fore decision* on the appeal. Montgomery v. Norris, 1 How. (Mies.), 499.
The appeal from decree overruling a demurrer to the bill is a mutter of right. Nesbit v. Rodewald, 43
Miss. 304; McKee v. Coffee, 58 Miss., 653.
The clerk of the court has no power to allow appeals under this section. Nesbit v. Hodewald, 43 Miss.,
304; Thompson v. Toomer, 50 Miss., 394; Johnson v. Jones, 51 Miss., 800.
Where the decree on the demurrer to a bill is that it be sustained as to one ground assigned and over
ruled as to others, with leave to complainant to amend, it is in effect a decree in defendant's favor; and if he
appeal therefrom, the supreme court will, of its own motion, dismiss the appeal. Canton Warehouse Co. v.
Potts, G8 Miss., 637.
34 (2311). Appeal from interlocutory order.—An appeal may be granted by
the chancellor in term time, or in' vacation, from any interlocutory order or decree
whereby money is required to be paid, or the possession of property changed, or
when he may think proper in order to settle the principles of the cause, or to avoid
expense and delay; but such appeal shall be applied for within ten days after the
date of the order or decree complained of; and bond shall be given and approved
as in appeals from a decree overruling a demurrer, and the chancellor shall determine
whether the appeal shall operate as a supersedeas or not.
The clerk of the chancery court has no authority to grant an appeal from interlocutory orders or decrees.
Holliman v. Dibbrell, 51 Miss., 96.
The refusal to hear a motion to dissolve an injunction or to consider an answer, in order to determine
the weight and scope of exceptions to it, is equivalent to overruling the motion to dissolve, and is appealable,
it the chancellor think this necessary or proper to settle the principles of the case. O'Conner v. Starke, 59
Miss., 481.
An appeal from a chancery court on exceptions to an answer for insufficiency or impertinence does not
lie. Clay Co. v. Chickasaw Co., 63 Miss., 289.
A decree dissolving an injunction and awarding damages on a motion to dissolve, is an interlocutory
decree. Wilson v. Pugh, 61 Miss., 449.
An appeal from a decree in vacation, under the section, perfected at the time of the decree by giving the
required bond, is as if perfected during term time; and in such case a summons to the opposite party is un
necessary; but if the bond be afterwards given, summons is necessary. Neel v. Neel, 61 Miss., 630.
If appeals under the section are improvident)? granted, the supreme court, of its own motion, will dismiss
them. Ward v. Whitfield, 64 Miss.. 754.
35 (2312, 2313). Appeal in habeas corpus. —Any party aggrieved by the judg
ment on the trial of a habeas corpus, shall have an appeal to the Bupreme court.
If any person held in service by this state, or by the United States, should be dis
charged by any judge in vacation, or any court, on habeas corpus, the attorneygeneral or any district attorney, or any attorney duly authorized by the United
States, may in like mauner obtain an appeal to reverse the judgment by which
such person was discharged.
36 (2314). Appeal in criminal cases. —Any person convicted of an offense in a
circuit court may appeal to the supreme court.
37 (2315). Decrees in matters testamentary, etc. —The final decrees of chan
cery courts, and interlocutory orders or decrees named in this chapter, include
such final or interlocutory decrees as may be made in matters testamentary and of
administration, and in minors' business, and in cases of persons of unsound mind,
unless it be otherwise expressly provided by a statute applicable to such cases.
124

APPEALS.

38-41

38 (2316). Appeal from judgment for contempt.— A person ordered by any tri
bunal, except the supreme court, to be punished for a contempt, may appeal to the
court to which other cases are appealable from said tribunal, and may supersede any
fine imposed, by the execution of a bond, payable to the state, with two sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the tribunal appealed from, in a penalty to be fixed by
said tribunal, not exceeding three hundred dollars, conditioned to pay the fine and
costs, in case of affirmance in whole or in part; and the appellant shall be entitled
to bail in such cases upon the execution of an appearance-bond, with two or more
such sureties, in the penalty of three hundred dollars, payable to the state, condi
tioned to appear in the court to which his appeal is prosecuted and to abide the
result of such appeal, which may be approved by the sheriff or other officer in
whose custody the appellant may be; and on such appeal the question shall be
whether the appellant was guilty of contempt; and the sentence or decree or order
of the court below may be affirmed, reversed, annulled, or modified according to
the judgment of the appellate court. All such appeals shall be tried on the record,
and the presiding officers of all tribunals condemning any person for contempt shall,
within one day thereafter, sigii bills of exception, if demanded, showing all the
facts and evidence upon which such judgment was predicated.
39. State may appeal in certain criminal cases.—The state may prosecute an
appeal from the judgment of the circuit court in a criminal cause in the following
cases :
(1) From a judgment sustaining a demurrer to or a motion to quash an indict
ment or an affidavit charging crime; but such appeal shall not bar or preclude
another prosecution of the defendant for the same offense.
(2) From a judgment actually acquitting a defendant where a question of law
has been decided adversely to the state; but in such case the appeal shall not sub
ject the defendant to further prosecution, nor shall the judgment of acquittal be
reversed, but the supreme court shall nevertheless decide the question of law pre
sented.
(3) From a ruling adverse to the state in every case in which a defendant is con
victed and prosecutes an appeal; and in such case the whole record shall be carried
before the supreme court on the direct appeal, and the case shall he treated as if a
cross-appeal had been formally prosecuted by the state. All questions of law thus
presented shall be decided by the supreme court.
40 (2317). How appeal obtained ; by petition to clerk except in certain cases.
—The mode of obtaining an appeal from any judgment or decree, other than such as
are provided for to be granted by the court or chancellor, shall be by petition, in
writing, to the clerk of the court where the judgment or decree was rendered, or
where the record of the judgment or decree to be appealed from may be.
41 (2318). The petition.—The petition for appeal need only state the rendition
of the judgment or decree to be appealed from, and ask for an appeal; and such
petition shall be marked by the clerk "filed," and shall be dated, and the marking
filed shall be signed by him; and he shall copy said petition, with the indorsements
on it, in the transcript of the record to be made by him; and the time of presenting
such petition for an appeal shall be considered the time of taking the appeal, if bond
be then given as required.
125

42-46

APPEALS.

42 (2319). One of several may appeal, and others summoned. —Any one or
more of the parties to a judgment or decree may appeal therefrom: and if all do
not join in the appeal, the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken shall
Issue a summons, when the appeal is taken, to such as do not join in the appeal to
.appear hefore the supreme court, at the return term of the appeal, and unite in the
.appeal; and if they fail to obey the summons,' they shall not afterward have the
right of appeal, and the judgment or decree of the court below shall remain in full
force against them. If any of the parties not joining in the appeal be non-resi
dents of this state, the clerk before whom the appeal is taken, or the supreme court,
being satisfied thereof, may cause notice of such appeal to be published for three
weeks in some public newspaper, citing such non-resident party to appear before
said court and join in said appeal; and on proof of publication, the court may pro
ceed as if said party had been served with a summons to join in such appeal. The
summons to joiii in appeal may be issued by the clerk of the supreme court at any
time after the transcript shall be received by him, if applied to for it. An order of
the supreme court for such summons shall not be necessary, and publication may
be made for any non-resident by said clerk in the same manner as it ma}- be made
by the clerk below or by order of the supreme court.
43. When returnable if issued by the clerk of the supreme court.—When
one or more parties against whom a judgment or decree has been rendered shall
appeal, and others do not join therein, a summons notifying those who do not join
therein, when issued by the clerk of the supreme court, maybe made returnable
011 any day of the term not less than twenty days from the issuance thereof; and
publication for any such non-resident party may be made returnable by said clerk in
like manner on any day of the term not less than twenty days after the publication
is to be completed. An order of the court shall not be necessary in the premises.
44 (2320). Bond to be given by parties who join in the appeal. —If the par
ties summoned to join in the appeal desire to do so, they must give bond, with
sureties, as if they had appealed in the first instance, or they shall not be allowed
to join in said appeal ; and such bond must be given so as not to delay the case,
and may be approved by the clerk of the supreme court, or the clerk of the court
from whose judgment or decree the appeal was taken, and certified and filed in the
office of the clerk of the supreme court.
45 (2321). Execution when suspended as to some parties.—If only part of
those against whom a judgment or decree is rendered appeal and supersede its exe
cution, an execution may be issued against all, and the clerk issuing it shall note
on it the fact of the supersedeas as to those who appeal, and it shall be executed
only as to the others.
46 (2322). Petition not necessary to the validity of appeal.—A written peti
tion for an appeal shall not be necessary to its validity, but filing in the office of the
•clerk of the supreme court a transcript of the record of the case in which the
appeal is taken shall confer jurisdiction on the supreme court to try and dispose of
the case ; and where there is no petition for the appeal, it shall be considered to
have been taken when the appeal-bond was filed ; or, if there be no bond, from the
time of filing the transcript of the record in the office of the clerk of the supreme
court.
126

APPEALS.

47-51

47 (2323). Appeal may be granted by the court in term time. —An appeal
may be granted by the court in all cases, in term time, upon the terms prescribed ;
the appeal-bond in such case may be approved by the court, or by its order the clerk
may approve the bond, or it may be approved by the judge or chancellor.
48 (2324). Bonds in civil cases on appeal without supersedeas.—On appeals
from decrees overruling demurrers or other interlocutory orders or decrees, or
where the appeal is granted to settle the principles of the case and the chancellor
shall not allow a supersedeas, or on appeals from iinal judgments of a circuit court
in civil cases, or from final decrees of a chancery court, where the appellant shall
not desire a supersedeas, it shall be sufficient if the appellant give bond to the op
posite party, with two or more sufficient sureties, freeholders in the state, in the
penalty of five hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of all the costs of
appeal in case the judgment or decree be affirmed as to such appellant. But if
appellant prepay the cost of the transcript, a bond for the sum of one hundred dol
lars shall be sufficient, or the appellant may deposit that sum with the clerk in lieu
of the bond.
A bond with but one surety is insufficient. Pfeifer v. Hartman, 60 Miss., 505.
49 (2325). Bond for supersedeas.—On appeal from any interlocutory decree,
where the chancellor shall allow a supersedeas, and on appeal from a final decree of
the chancery court, or the final judgment of a circuit court where the appellant
shall desire a supersedeas, bond shall be given by the appellant, payable to the oppo
site party, with two or more sufficient sureties, freeholders in the state, in a penalty
double the amount of the decree or judgment appealed from, or double the amount
of the value of the property or other matter in controversy, to be determined by
the officer granting the appeal, conditioned that the appellant will satisfy the judg
ment or decree complained of, and also such final judgment as may be made in the
■cause, and all costs, if the same be affirmed, and a supersedeas shall not issue" until
each bond shall have been given; and a supersedeas shall not be granted in any
case pending in the supreme court, unless the party applying for it shall give bond
as above required.
A bond with but one surety is insufficient. Pfeifer v. Hartman, fiO Miss., 505.
50 (2343). Parties and sureties on bonds examined on oath.—To enable the
■clerk to determine the value or amount of the matter in controversy, or the value
of rents, where the same shall not appear by the proceedings in the cause, he may
■examine the parties and other persons, on oath; and he may also examine, on oath,
all persons who may be offered as sureties on any appeal-bond, touching their suf
ficiency as such sureties, and require the examination, to be put in writing and
signed by such persons.
51 (2326). Bond to supersede writ of possession.—It' the appellant desire to
stay the execution of a writ of possession in ejectment, he shall give bond with suf
ficient sureties, freeholders in this state, paj'able to the adverse party, in a penalty
equal to double the value of one year's rent of the land, as to which the stay of
execution is desired, conditioned, if the judgment shall be affirmed, to pay all costs
and the value of the use and occupation of such land after the time of taking the
appeal, and damages for waste or injury to the land, not embraced in its use and
127

52-57

APPEALS.

occupation after taking the appeal. The value of one year's rent shall be deter
mined by the officer granting the appeal.
52 (2327). Judgment on bond to supersede writ of possession.—If the judg
ment in ejectment, as to the land embraced in such stay of execution shall be
affirmed, the court below, on the receipt of the certificate of the affirmance, shall,
after the obligors in the appeal-bond have been summoned, execute a writ of inquiry,
as well of the value of the use and occupation of said land as of the damages by any
waste or injury contemplated by the bond; and judgment for the sums assessed, and
for costs, shall be rendered against the obligors in the bond, or such as are alive;
and if any be dead, like proceedings in all respects may be had as are provided for
in other cases of deceased obligors in bonds given in legal proceedings.
53 (2328). Bond to supersede decree to sell real estate.—If the decree ap
pealed from direct, the sale or the delivery of possession of real estate, the appealbond, to operate as supersedeas, shall be in a penalty double the value of the real
estate to be surrendered, conditioned to pay all the costs and damages, and not to
commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and to pay the value of the
use and occupation thereof until the delivery of possession, in case the possession
is to be surrendered, if the decree appealed from shall be affirmed ; and in such case
the chancery court, when the cause shall be remanded, shall ascertain the value of
the use and occupation and of any waste committed and the damages, and shall
render such decree therefore against the obligors in the bond for appeal, or the rep
resentatives of any who have died, as may be necessary to secure the rights of the
party entitled to such decree ; and a decree for the sums assessed and for costs shall
be rendered against the obligors in the bond or such as are alive; and, if any be
dead, like proceedings may be had in all respects as provided for in other cases of
deceased obligors in bonds given in legal proceedings.
5^ (2329). When bond made payable to state. —In all cases not specially pro
vided for the appeal-bond may be made payable to the state ; and where it is pro
vided that such bond shall be made payable to the opposite party, it shall not be an
objection to the bond that it is not payable to the proper person, but such bond
shall be valid and binding on the obligors, and may be proceeded on in all respects
as if it were payable as directed by law.
55 (2330). Supersedeas in cases not provided for.—In any case of an appeal
to the supreme court, where no special provision is made by law for a supersedeas
of the judgment or decree appealed from, or for the bond to be given in such case,
a supersedeas may be allowed by the court rendering the judgment or decree ap
pealed from or by the judge thereof or by the supreme court or any of the judges
of said court upon such bond, with such sureties as said court or judge may direct
in the order for a supersedeas.
56 (2331). Option of appellant as to bond. —When the decree appealed from
fixes a specific charge on real estate, the amount of the bond for a supersedeas shall
be double the value of the real estate, or of the decree, at the option of the appel
lant.
57 (2332). Appeal-bond signed by one appellant sufficient.—Appeal-bonds
shall be sufficient if signed by one or more of several appellants, with sureties as
required by law, and in case of the affirmance of the decree or judgment com
128

APPEALS.

5S-63

plained of, the judgment of affirmance shall be entered against all the appellants
ill the same manner as if all had signed such bond. But if the decree or judgment
be affirmed as to some and reversed as to others of said appellants, the judgment
of affirmance shall be entered only against those as to whom it is affirmed, and the
sureties on the appeal-bond.
It is unnecessary for all the appellants who unite in the appeal to execute the bond Hudson v. Gray,
58 Miss., 589
If appellants execute a joint supersedeas-bond, and the judgment be reversed as to some and affirmed as
to others, the court will render judgment against the sureties. Terry v. Curd, 66 Miss., 394.
58. Bouds by corporations (Laws 1888, p. 92). —Appeal-bonds maybe executed
by a corporation by its authorized agent or attorney, in the name of the corporation,
without affixing its corporate seal ; and such bond, when so executed by the attorney
of record of a corporation, shall be held and conclusively presumed to have been
executed by the authority of such corporation. (See § 842.)
59. Appeals to be granted and bonds approved by clerk.—In all cases, except
appeals from decrees overruling demurrers in chancery and appeals from interlocu
tory decrees in chancery, appeals to the supreme court may be granted by the clerk
of the court from which such appeals can be taken, and in which the judgment or
decree was rendered ; and in all cases not otherwise provided the clerk shall approve
the appeal-bond.
60. Bond to be given to perfect an appeal.—Except as herein otherwise pro
vided, an appeal shall not be considered as perfected, or a supersedeas awarded thereon,
unless the bond required shall have been given and approved.
61 (2335). Bonds in criminal cases; bonds to stay judgment.—Appeals in
criminal cases shall not stay the judgment or sentence appealed from, unless the
appellant shall give bond, payable to the state, with sufficient sureties, freeholders
in this state, to be approved by the court or clerk before whom the appeal is taken,
in a penalty double the estimated amount of costs accrued and likely to accrue in
the case, and conditioned to pay all cost in case the judgment be affirmed. If the
appellant shall make affidavit that he is unable to give an appeal-bond, and unable
to deposit a sufficient sum of money to cover costs, he shall have an appeal without
bond or deposit for costs; and his appeal shall stay the judgment appealed from.
The bond, affidavit, or deposits for costs, is required in order to stay the judgment in all criminal cises.
Taking bail and discharging the prisoner after conviction, on appeal, is unauthorized until the section is com
plied with, turn v. State, 66 Miss., 389.
Where the sentence in a capital case is imprisonment for life, on an appeal, the defendant, to have a stay
of the sentence, must give bond to secure payment of the jail fees to accrue pending the appeal. Warren
Co. v. Worrell, 67 Miss., 154.
62 (2336). Deposit for costs, etc. —A deposit with the clerk of the court from
which an appeal is taken of a sum of money sufficient to cover the costs accrued,
and to accrue, shall be in lieu of the appeal-bond required in criminal cases; and any
security for jail fees which the sheriff shall certify to the clerk to be satisfactory
to him, shall be sufficient, and the sheriff shall not thereafter be entitled to look to
the county for such jail fees.
63 (2337, 2338). Appeal from judgment on habeas corpus.—An appeal from
a judgment on the trial of a writ of habeas corpus may be had by or in behalf of
the person deprived of his liberty on the same terms and conditions as are provided
for in criminal cases; but such appeal shall not entitle a party to be discharged on
129
9

64-67

APPEALS.

bail in any case held not to be one in which the party is entitled to bail. In all other
cases an appeal from a judgment on trial of a writ of habeas corpus may be had on
the terms prescribed for appeals in civil cases, where a supersedeas is not desired.
64 (2339). Bail after conviction of misdemeanor.—In all cases of conviction
of a misdemeanor, an appeal taken shall stay the judgment appealed from; and the
appellant, if sentenced to imprisonment for his offense, or to stand committed until
his fine and costs shall be paid, may be relieved from such imprisonment or com
mitment, pending his appeal, by giving bond, with sufficient sureties, freeholders
in this state, to be approved by the clerk of the court from which the appeal is
taken, payable to the state in the penalty of not less than one hundred dollars nor
more than one thousand dollars, to be determined by such clerk, with reference to
the grade of the offense, as indicated by the judgment, and the ability of the ap
pellant to give bond, conditioned to surrender himself to the sheriff of the county
to suffer the judgment or sentence, if it shall be affirmed by the supreme court,
within one week after the judgment of affirmance shall be certified to the circuit
court, or to appear before the circuit court at the next term after a judgment of
reversal in such case shall be certified to the circuit court, to answer the charge of
the state, and so to continue until discharged.
65 (2340). Judge may fix the penalty of the bond.—The circuit judge of the
district or presiding on the trial, or a supreme judge, may, in any case, fix the
amount of the bond to be given under the last section, and the clerk shall act
accordingly. Any such bail-bond shall be filed by the clerk, and carefully preserved
among the papers of the case.
66 (2341). Bail, after conviction of felony, discretionary.—A persou con
victed of felony shall not be entitled to be released from imprisonment pending an
appeal to the supreme court, unless it be so ordered by the court in which the con
viction was had, or by the supreme court, or by the judge who presided at the con
viction, or the judge of the district in which such conviction was had, or a judge
of the supreme court in a vacation of said court; and the making of such order
shall be a matter of discretion with either court or judge, to be exercised with the
greatest caution, and only when the peculiar circumstances of the case render it
proper in the opinion of the court or judge.
It is improper to admit to bail, pending an appeal, one convicted of a felony, because he has a crop
which needs his attention, and the forced neglect of which will result in his financial ruin, and because his
wife is frail and delicate. Bail is a special favor, to be granted, not on personal grounds, but under peculiar
circumstances, 10 be judged of as a matter of sound judicial discretion. Hill v. State, 64 Miss., 431.
67 (2342). Amount of bail fixed by judge. — Where an order shall be made as
provided in the last section, the court or judge shall designate the amount of the
bond to be given ; and the clerk of the court where the conviction was had shall take
bond of the appellant and sureties, being freeholders in this state, to be approved by
him, in the sum fixed by the order, payable to the state, and conditioned for the
appearance of the party in the supreme court and circuit court to abide by and per
form such sentence or judgment as may be rendered in the case; or the supreme
court or circuit court, or any judge of either court making such order for bail, may
take and approve the bond required to be given, or it may be taken by the sheriff
in whose custody such prisoner may be, and shall be sent to the supreme court.
All the provisions of the chapter entitled "Criminal Procedure," on the subject of
130

68-70

APPEALS.

bail, as far as applicable, sball be applicable to bail for the appearauce of any person
before the supreme court.
68 (2344). Duty of clerk when appeal is taken.—When the appellant shall
have complied with the law applicable to his appeal, the clerk of the court from
which the appeal is taken shall immediately make and certify a transcript of the
record of the case, and transmit it and the appeal-bond taken, except the bail-bond
in cases of misdemeanor, to the clerk of the supreme court; and in all civil cases,
where the appeal is not perfected during the term of the court at which the judg
ment or decree complained of is rendered, he shall issue a summons to the opposite
party to appear and answer the appeal in the supreme court. A copy of the appealbond shall be kept by the clerk as a part of the record of the case, and judgment
may be rendered by the supreme court against the obligors in the bond without
notice, or the representatives of any who have died after due notice; and in cases
remanded to the court below to ascertain the amount recoverable on any such bond,
the copy kept in the clerk's office shall be admissible in evidence, or the original
may be obtained from the clerk of the supreme court for use in the court below.
When an appeal is granted by the court in term time, the appellee is presumed to be present, and is
bound to take notice of its allowance. Hospital v. Knox, 57 Miss., 600.
Where a decree is rendered in vacation, and an appeal is prayed and granted, and bond given at the
time of the decree, it is as if perfected in term time. Neel v. Neel, 61 Miss., 630.
69. Duty of circuit clerk to certify appeals in all criminal cases to the
supreme court.—Within ten days after the adjournment of each term of the circuit
court it shall be the duty of the clerk thereof to certify to the supreme court each
and every appeal prosecuted by persons convicted of crime at such term, and forth
with so to do when such appeal is taken in vacation ; and the certificate may be to
the following effect, viz.:
" State
v.

"J
> N"o. — In circuit court of

county.

" I,
, the clerk of said court, do hereby certify that at a term of said
court, beginning on the
day of
, A.D.
, and adjourning on the
day of
, A.D.
,
, the defendant [or, if more than one, state names
of all], was convicted of
and sentenced to [here state the punishment
awarded], and that said defendant has taken an appeal to the supreme court of the
state, giving
and
as the sureties on his cost-bond, and
and
as sureties on his appearance or bail-bond.
" Done this the
day of
, A.D.
, as witness my hand and official
seal.
, Circuit Clerk."
Which certificate the clerk shall at once forward by mail, postage paid, to the
clerk of the supreme court.
70. Proceedings thereon in supreme court. —The clerk of the supreme court,
upon the receipt of such certificate, shall file the same, and docket the case; and
paid certificate shall be treated as the record of the cause, unless the appellant shall,
on or before the return-day of the appeal, file in the supreme court a transcript
thereof, or within such other reasonable time as the court may allow ; and, if a tran
script shall not be filed, the supreme court shall affirm the conviction and award
131

71-76

APPEALS.

such judgment against the appellant and the sureties on his bond as it would
render in case of affirmance on a complete record.
71. Beturn-day in criminal cases. —The return-day in the supreme court for
all criminal cases, no matter from what court or county or district appealed, is the
Monday of any term first after the expiration of twenty days from the date of
taking the appeal.
72 (2045). Service and return of summons in appeal.—The summons to an
swer the appeal shall be served by the sheriff of the proper county on the appellee
or his attorney in fact or of record, at least ten days before the time when it is
returnable, and shall be sent up to the supreme court and filed in the case, but a
certified copy of the summons and service shall be sufficient; and, if the summons
shall not be served, an alias summons may be issued by the clerk of the supreme
court, with or without an order of the court, returnable to the next term. A sum
mons served within ten days of its return-day shall be good for the term next after
that to which it is returnable.
73 (1420). Appellee, non-resident or residence unknown. —When the appel
lee is a non-resident of this state, or his residence is unknown, and he has no
attorney in this state, notice of the appeal may be published for three weeks in
some newspaper published in the count}' from which the appeal is taken, or at the
seat of government, and the supreme court being satisfied thereof, may hear and
determine the cause as if a summons had been duly served on the appellee.
74 (2346). Execution stayed by bond. — When an appeal shall be taken, and
bond for stay of execution given, the clerk shall not issue execution on the judg
ment or decree appealed from until such stay shall end or be discharged ; and if
execution had been issued before the bond for stay of execution was given, the
clerk shall issue a command to the officer in whose hands the execution may be to
desist from enforcing it, and to surrender any property seized under it to the person
from whom it was taken or who may be entitled to it.
75 (2347). On second appeal former transcript used.— It' a case be remanded
by the supreme court to thocourt below, and afterwards an appeal be taken in the
same case to the supreme court, it shall not be necessary for the appellant to cause
to be filed in the supreme court a transcript of so much of the record as may be
already on file in said court, but the transcript previously sent up, together with a
transcript of the subsequent proceedings in the case in the court below, shall con
stitute the record for the case in the supreme court ; and, in such case, if the appel
lant shall, in his application for appeal, signify his desire for the clerk to make out
and certify only a transcript of such subsequent proceedings, the clerk shall act
accordingly.
76 (2348). Deposit for costs certified on transcript, etc. — When a deposit for
costs shall be made with a clerk in lieu of a bond for an appeal, he shall certify the
fact on the transcript of the record, and when the case shall be determined, if
costs be adjudged against the appellant, the clerk shall pay the costs out of the
money so deposited, and shall deliver the residue of the money, or all of it if costs
be not adjudged against such part}1, to the party entitled to it; and for any failure
thereof he shall be liable to be dealt with by the supreme court, or the court of
which he is clerk, for a contempt.
132

APPEALS.

77-80

77 (2349). Statement on transcript of fee therefore. —The clerk shall make a
statement on the transcript of the record sent to the supreme court of the amount
of his fee for such transcript, and whether or not it has been paid to him ; and, if
he shall not do this, tlie clerk of the supreme court shall not be required to issue
execution for such costs, nor to demand and receive the same.
78 (2350). Provision as to sending up bond directory.—The provision that
the clerk shall send up to the supreme court the original appeal-bond is directory,
and shall not preclude the rendition of judgment by the supreme court on a copy
of such bond, but said court may give judgment on a copy of 'such bond as if the
original were before it.
79 (2351). Appeal to circuit court from board of supervisors, municipal
authorities, etc.—Any person aggrieved by a judgment or decision of the board of
supervisors, or the municipal authorities of a city, town, or village, may appeal to
the next term of the circuit court of the county, and may embody the facts and decis
ions in a bill of exceptions, which shall be signed by the person acting as president
of the board or of the municipal authorities; and the clerk thereof shall transmit
the bill of exceptions to the circuit court on or before the first clay of the next suc
ceeding term, or at once if the court be in session, and the court shall hear and de
termine the same on the case as presented by the bill of exceptions as an appellate
court, and shall affirm or reverse the judgment ; and if the judgment be reversed,
the circuit court shall render such judgment as the board or municipal authorities
ought to have rendered, and certify the same to the board of supervisors or munici
pal authorities, and costs shall be awarded as in other cases. The board of super
visors or municipal authorities may employ counsel to defend such appeals, to be
paid out of the county or municipal treasury.
It, is unnecessary that the appellant be a party to the record; he may show by evidence apart from the
proceedings in the supervisors' court that his right hus thus been injured by said judgment. DeBerry v.
Holly Springs, 35 Miss., 385.
A creditor of a county has no access to the circuit court until after his claim has been rejected by th_e
supervisors; if the board disallow his claim lie can appeal, or he may sue directly in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Lawrence Co. v. Brookhaven, 51 Miss., 68; Taylor v. Marion Co., 51 Miss., 731.
A bill of exceptions to the action of a board of supervisors must be taken and signed during the term,
unless by consent, or under on order of court, the time for preparing and perfecting it be extended into va
cation. McGee v. Jones, 63 Miss., 453.
When the bill is duly prepared and tendered to the president during the term, the exceptor will not be
prejudiced because of the failure of that officer 10 sign it during the term. McGee v. Beall, 60 Miss., 455.
Any tax-payer may appeal from a decision allowing a claim against the county. Wilson v. Wallace, 04
Miss., 13.
80 (504). Appeal from assessment for taxes.—Any person aggrieved by a decis
ion of the board of supervisors or the municipal authorities of a city, town, or village,
.as to the assessment of taxes, may, within five days after the adjournment of the
meeting at which such decision is made, appeal to the circuit court of the county,
upon giving bond, with sufiicient sureties, in double the amount of the matter in
dispute, but never less than one hundred dollars, payable to the state, and condi
tioned to perform the judgment of the circuit court, and to be approved by the
-clerk of such board, who, upon the filing of such bond, shall make a true copy of
any papers on file relating to such controversy, and file such copy, certified by him,
with said bond, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, on or before its next
term; and the controversy shall be tried anew in the circuit court at the first term,
1R3

8i-82

APPEALS.

and be a preference case, and, if the matter be decided against the person who ap
pealed, judgment shall be rendered on the appeal-bond for damages at the rate of
ten per centum on the amount in controversy and all costs. If the matter be de
cided in favor of the person who appealed, judgment in his favor shall be certified
to the board of supervisors, or the municipal authorities, as the case may be, which
shall conform thereto, and shall pay the costs.
If a tax-payer fail to appeal he will not be relieved in equity. Anderson v. Ingersoll, 62 Miss., 73.
The right to apply for a reduction in the valuation of property for taxation, as fixed by the board of
supervisors, is not affected by this section. Simmons v. Scott Co., 68 Miss., 37.
81 (2657). From unlawful entry and detainer court.—Either, party aggrieved
by the judgment of the justices rendered in a case of unlawful entry and detainer, may,
after final judgment, appeal to the circuit court of the county, within five days after
the rendition of the judgment, by entering into bond with sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the justice before whom the complaint was made, or in his absence be
fore another justice, who tried the case, in a penalty double the amount of the rent
recovered, but never less than two hundred dollars, payable to the opposite party, con
ditioned for the payment of such judgment as the circuit court may render against
him; which appeal shall operate as a supersedeas; and the justice shall 6end to the
circuit court all the papers and proceedings, and a transcript of all orders and judg
ments in said cause, and shall deliver the same to the clerk of the circuit court, to
be there docketed for trial; and the circuit court shall, at the first term, hear and
determine the cause anew on its merits, in a summary way; and on the trial in the
circuit court, the plaintifff may claim for all arrears of rent due at the time of such
trial, or for the use and occupation of the premises up to that time ; and the court
shall cause judgment to be entered against the defendant and his sureties on the
appeal-bond, for the amount found to be due, and award a fieri facias thereon, with
legal interest and all cost; but the judgment against the surety shall not exceed the
penalty of the appeal-bond.
The appeal, taken after judgment, is not a matter which can appear in the record of the special tribunal ;
it is sufficient if the appeal-bond appear to have been executed and approved within five days after the ren
dition of the judgment. Busby v Grayham, 26 Miss., 210.
Objections to an appeal-bond must be made in the circuit court; they cannot be raised for the first time
in the supreme court. Poston v. Mhoon, 49 Miss., 620.
The bond must conform substantially to the statute. Warren v. Baptist Church, aO Miss., 223.
A defendant who has appealed to the circuit court, cannot there complain of defects in the warrant, or
of the record to show the formal organization of the court of the justices. Brown v. Ashford, 56 Miss., 677.
If the bond state the date of the judgment as subsequent to its own date, the defect can be cured by
amendment, or by giving a new bond. Leavenworth v. Crittenden. 62 Miss., 573.
82 (2352). From a justice of the peace in civil cases.—Either party may ap
peal to the circuit court of the county from the judgment of any justice of the
peace, if appeal be demanded and bond given within five days after the rendition of
the judgment. The party taking the appeal shall give bond, with a sufficient surety,
to be approved by said justice, payable to the opposite party, in the penalty of
double the amount of the. judgment, or double the value of the property involved,
and all costs accrued and likely to accrue in the case, and in no case to be less than
one hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of such judgment as the circuit
court may render against him ; and the appeal, when demanded and bond given, shall
operate as a supersedeas of execution on such judgment.
When a judgment was rendered by a justice of the p»ace against three persons, only two of whom exe
134

APPEALS.

83-85

cuted an appeal-bond, the appeal wag good as to the two and the judgment remained in force as to the
defendant who did not give bond. Roberts v. Weiler, 52 Miss., 299.
The time prescribtd for the appeal is a limitation of the jurisdiction of the circuit court, and an appeal
taken after the prescribed time is a nullity. Kramer v. Holster, 55 Miss., "243.
One who sues in forma pauperis cannot appeal without bond. Woods v. Davis, 57 Miss., 206.
If a defeudant appeal to the circuit court, and there dismiss his appeal, the plaintifff is entitled to judg
ment on the appeal-bond for his debt, damages, and costs. Pass v. Payne, 63 Miss., 239.
An appeal-bond is not bad because made before and in anticipation of the adverse judgment. James v.
Woods, 65 Miss., 528.
The statute denying the right to appeal from a judgment by confession or consent, does not apply to
the courts of justices of the peace. James v. Woods, 65 Miss., 528.
83 (2241). Copy of record to be transmitted. —The justice of the peace may
prepare and certify his record to the following effect, viz. :
"Copy of the record of the proceedings before
, a justice of fhe peace of
county, in district No. — of said county, in the case therein set forth, to
wit: [here copy the entries on the docket, and certify as follows, viz. :]
" State of Mississippi,
County :
"I,
, a justice of the peace of the said county, certify that the foregoing
is a copy of the record of the proceedings before me in the case stated therein, as
appears on my docket.
" Given under my hand, this the — day of —,
, A.D.,
.
, J. P."
It is a copy of the docket entries and judgments which the justice of the peace is to certify. Hughston
v. Cornish, 59 Miss., 372.
84 (2353). Justice to deliver papers to circuit clerk.—The justice of the peace
from whose decision an appeal shall be taken, shall, on or before the first day of the
next term of the circuit court to which the same is returnable, transmit to the
clerk of that court a' certified copy of the record of the proceedings, with all the
original papers and process in the case, and the original appeal-bond given by the
appellant, and the clerk shall docket the same, and shall be entitled to the same
fees, upon such appeals, as for similar services in suits originating in said court.
The justice shall, at all times, be allowed to amend his return according to the facts.
The power to allow amendments should be liberally exercised. Weddell v. Seal, 45 Miss., 726; Green
v. Boon, 57 Miss., 617.
The record of which the justice is to transmit a copy is his docket entries and judgments. Hughston v.
Cornish, 59 Miss., 372.
Where the record shows that the judgment was rendered several days after the return-day of the sum
mons, it is presumed, nothing appearing to the contrary, that the court met on the return-day and adjouri eil
from day to day until the judgment was entered. Leavenworth v. Crittenden, 62 Miss., 573.
85 (2354). Trial of cases on appeal. — On appeal from a justice of the peace to
the circuit court, the case shall be tried anew, in a summary way, without pleadings in
writing, at the first term, unless cause be shown for a continuance; but if it appear
on the trial that the suit was brought before a justice of the peace not having
jurisdiction thereof, the circuit court shall reverse the judgment of the justice and
dismiss the case. If the defendant be the appellant, and judgment be rendered for
the plaintifff in the original suit for a sum equal to or greater than he recovered
before the justice of the peace, ten per centum damages upon the amount thereof
shall be included in such judgment ; and any judgment against an appellant shall
be rendered against the principal and his sureties jointly. In all such cases, where
the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of fifty dollars, either party shall be
entitled to an appeal to the supreme court, as in cases originating in the circuit
135

80-87

APPEALS.

court, and the plaintifff may also appeal to the supreme court in cases where the
difference between his demand and the judgment in his favor shall exceed said sum.
The circuit court has no other jurisdiction than such as the justice had. Glass v. Moss, 1 How. (Miss.).
519; Crapoo v. Grand Gulf, 9 Smed. & M., 205; Stier v. Surget, 10 Smed. & M., 154; Scofield v. Pensong, 26
Miss., 402; Richardson v. Davis, 59 Miss., 15.
Unless given by statute. Askew v. Askew, 19 Miss., 301.
The limit provided for an appeal has reference to the debt, demand, or damages in litigation, and not to
interest on the judgment, or the costs or per centum added to the judgment. New Orleans R. R. Co. v.
Evans. 49 Miss., 7*5; Jackson v. Whitfield, 51 Miss., 202; Ward v. Scott, 57 Miss., 826; Davis v. Holberg,
5!) Miss., 362; Kiernan v. Germaine, G2 Miss., 75.
If the circuit court judgment be less than fifty dollars, an appeal cannot be taken by the defendant to the
supreme court, and this even if the amount demanded and recovered in the justice's court be greater. Ward
v. Scott, 57 Miss., 826; Wimbush v. Chinnanlt, 58 Miss., 234.
^
lividence in support of a set-off, filed for the first time in the circuit court, should not be admitted, it
being a cross-aetion. Marks v. Trussell, 50 Miss., 498.
Hut all matters defensive may be proven for the first time in the circuit court, though not offered or notice
given of it in the justice's court. Callahan v. Newell, 61 Miss., 437 ; Illinois R. R. Co. v. Andrews, 61 Miss., 474.
If the plaintifff recover verdict for more than fifty dollars, he cannot remit the excess for the purpose of,
and thereby prevent the defendant from, appealing; but if, on motion for a new trial before judgment, the
plaintifff enter a remittitur because the court expressed the opinion that the judgment was excessive, the
defendant will not be entitled to an appeal. Wimbush v. Chinnault, 58 Mi.-s., 234.
86 (2355). Appeals in criminal cases. — Any one convicted of a criminal offense
against the laws of the state by the judgment of a justice of the peace, or by the
mayor or police justice of a city, town, or village, for the violation of an ordinance
thereof, may appeal to the circuit court of the county upon liis entering into bond
•or recognizance in a sum, to be prescribed by the justice, mayor, or police justice,
of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars, with suffi
cient sureties, conditioned for the payment of the fine and costs, and for the appear
ance of the defendant at the next term of the circuit court; and on his appearance
in said court the case shall be tried anew, and disposed of as other cases pending
in said court; and on default of such defendant, a forfeiture shall be entered against
him and his sureties; and on conviction of such defendant in the circuit court,
judgment shall be rendered on such bond for all costs in both courts. On the trial
in the circuit court of any case on such appeal, the affidavit charging the oft'ense,
and other proceedings, may be amended at any time before verdict, so as to bring
the merits of the. case fairly to trial on the charge intended to he embraced in the
affidavit.
An appeal to the circuit court can be prosecuted at any lime after conviction, even though the prisoner
be in the hands of the convict contractor. Smith v. Boykin, 61 Miss., 110.
The appeal supersedes, but does not vacate, the judgment of the justice. Kx parte Caldwell, 62 Miss., 774.
87 (2356). Appeals without supersedeas.—If bond be given as prescribed in
the preceding section, the appeal shall operate as a supersedeas of the judgment,
and secure the discharge of the appellant from custody; but a defendant may
appeal from such judgment to the said circuit court on his giving bond, with sure
ties, approved by such justice of the peace or mayor or police justice, payable to
the state, in a sum sufficient to cover the estimated amount of the costs accrued
and to accrue in said case, and conditioned for the payment thereof if said appellant
shall be convicted in said appeal, or by his making an affidavit that he is unable to
give such security for costs; and in case of an appeal on a bond for costs only, or
on affidavit of inability to give such security, the appeal shall not operate as a
supersedeas of the judgment, nor discharge the appellant from custody, but the
13tj

APPEALS.

88-89

judgment shall be executed as if an appeal had not been taken; and this shall not
affect the trial of the case anew in the circuit court.
The circuit court may dismiss the appeal and may certify the fact to the justice of the peace, who then
should enforce his judgment. Ex parte Caldwell, 62 Miss., 774.
88 (2357). Payers transmitted to circuit clerk.—The justice of the peace or
mayor or police court from whose judgment convicting of a criminal offense an ap
peal shall be taken, shall at once transmit to the clerk of the circuit court the
bond taken by him and a certified copy of bis record of the case, with all the origi
nal papers in the case, as in appeals in civil cases. If an appeal be taken from a
judgment convicting of a criminal offense, during a session of the circuit court of
the county, the transcript and papers shall be returned to, and the case triable at
that term of the court, and the bond shall bind the defendant accordingly, and the
clerk of the circuit court shall docket the case on the state docket, and shall be
entitled to like fees as in other cases. The justice of the peace, mayor, or police
justice shall be liable for the amount of the bond, if he fail to require a good and
sufficient one.
The record of which the justice is to transmit a copy is his docket entries and judgments. Hughston v.
Cornish, 59 Miss., 372.
89 (2-358). Certiorari. —All cases decided by a justice of the peace, whether ex-ercising general or special jurisdiction, may, within six months thereafter, on good
cause shown by petition, supported by affidavit, be removed to the circuit court of
the county, by writ of certiorari, which shall operate as a supersedeas, the party, in
all cases, giving bond, with security; to be approved by the judge or clerk of the
■circuit court, as in cases of appeal from justices of the peace; and in any cause so
removed by certiorarL.the court shall be confined to the examination of questions
of law arising or appearing on the face of the record and proceedings. In case of
an affirmance of the judgment of the justice, the same judgment shall be given as
on appeals. In case of a reversal, the circuit court shall enter up such judgment
as the justice ought to have entered, if the same be apparent, or may then try the
cause anew on its merits, and may in proper cases enter judgment on the certiorari
or appeal-bond, and shall, when justice requires it, award restitution. The clerk of
the circuit court, on the issuance of a certiorari, shall issue a summons for the party
to be affected thereby ; and in case of non-residents, may make publication for them
as in other cases. *
Where a certiorari has been improperly awarded it may be dismissed by the circuit court upon motion.
Leech v. Irwing, 2 How. (Miss.), 887.
The circuit judge has the sole power to determine the sufficiency of the petition ; its insufficiency cannot
be assigned for error in the supreme court. Loomis v. Bank, 4 How. (Miss.). 660.
The defendant in a certiorari proceeding must have notice. Copeland v. Pate, 6 How. (Miss ), 275.
The dismissal of a writ of certiorari is a bar to the granting of a new writ of the same character to the
same party in the same case. Williams v. Williams, 34 Miss., 143.
Unless the amount in controversy exceed fifty dollars in cases brought by certiorari from a justice of
the peace to the circuit court, an appeal will not be allowed from the circuit court in such case to the supreme
court. O'Leary v. Harris, 50 Miss., 13.
It is the duty of the party who sues out a certiorari to appear in the circuit court and point out the
errors, if any exist; and if he fail to do so, he cannot complain in the supreme court of a judgment by
default affirming the justice's judgment, rendered in the circuit court. O'Leary v. Bolton. 50 Miss., 172.
An interlocutory order, entered by a justice of the peace, will not warrant the carrying of the case by
certiorari to the circuit court. Morris v. Shryock, 50 Miss., 590.
The writ cannot properly issue without good grounds shown by petition; but appearance in the circuit
court, and entry upon trial without noticing the defects in the petition, is a waiver of all objections to the
writ. Moore v. Ernst, 54 Miss., 642.
137

go-94

APPEALS.

The judgment of the circuit court, if the writ were properly awarded on the petition, should he either an
affirmance or a reversal of the justice's judgment, and not a dismissal of the writ. Burrow v. Sanders, 57
Miss., 211.
90. Certiorari to all other inferior tribunals.—Like proceedings as provided
in the last section may be had to review the judgments of all tribunals inferior to
the circuit court, whether an appeal be provided by law from the judgment sought
to be reviewed or not.
91 (2658). New appeal-bond.—In all appeals and in proceedings of certiorari
to the circuit court, the said court, on motion of the appellee or obligee, may in
quire into the sufficiency of the amount of the bond, and of the security thereon^
and may at any time require a new bond, or additional security, on pain of dismissal ;
and if any bond be defective, the principal therein may give a new one, which shall
have the same effect as if given originally.
Where an appeal-bond is defective in any respect, the circuit court should permit it to be amended.
Gaddis v. Palmer, 60 Miss., 758; Leavenworth v. Crittenden, 62 Miss., 573; James v. Woods, 65 Miss., 528.
92 (2334). How executors, administrators, and guardians appeal. —Execu
tors, administrators, and guardians, except those who have not given bonds as such,
may appeal from any judgment, decree, or order affecting them in their fiduciary
character, and shall have a supersedeas on such appeal, without bonds for cost or
for supersedeas; but in appeals to the supreme court they may be required to prepay
the clerk for the transcript of record.
The section does not relieve an executor against whom a decree has been rendered to be satisfied de bonis
propriis from giving bond. Hudson v. Gray, 58 Miss., 589.
But the appeal may be without bond, if by the executor in his fiduciary character onlv. Hudson v.
Gray, 58 Miss., 591.
93 (2333). State, county, municipality, and public officers may appeal with
out bond.—The state, and any county, city, town, or village thereof, and the officials
representing the state, county, city, town, or village, in any suit or action, and any
state, county, city, town, or village officer who is a party to any suit or action in
his official character, in which suit or action the state, county, city, town, or village
is beneficially interested, and the several incorporated charitable or educational in
stitutions established and maintained by the state, shall be entitled to appeal from
a judgment, decree, decision, or order of any court or judge, from which an appeal
may be taken, without giving an appeal-bond; and in such case, if an appeal-bond
would operate as a supersedeas, in favor of a private person, the appeal, without a
bond, shall have the same effect in the cases herein provided for ; and this provision
shall apply to all the courts of the state.
A pi tition for a mandamus in behalf of the state, to compel the board of supervisors of a county to
hold a special election to locate the county site, having been denied, the state can appeal without bond. State
v. Coahoma Co., 64 Miss., 358.
94. Written demand for appeal in certain cases.—In all cases where an appeal
is desired without bond, from a judgment of a justice of the peace, and in cases of
unlawful entry and detainer, by parties who are not required to give bond therefore,
a written demand for the appeal shall be filed, in lieu of the bond required of others,
within the time allowed for appeals in such cases. ■•
Eminent domain proceedings, appeals in.— See § 1696.
Reversioner or remainder-man to have an appeal in ejectment.—See § 1676.
From justice of peace enforcing employe's lien, etc.—See § 2692.
138

ARBITRATION AND AWARD.

95-98

CHAPTER 6.
ARBITRATION AND AWARD.
95. Who may submit to arbitration.—All persons, except infants and persons
of unsound mind, may, by instrument of writing, submit to the decision of one or
more arbitrators any controversy which may be existing between them, which
might be the subject of an action, and may, in such submission, agree that the
court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter shall render judgment on the award
made pursuant to such submission. In such case, however, should the parties
agree upon a court without jurisdiction of the subject-matters of the award, the
judgment shall be rendered by the court having jurisdiction in the county of the
residence of the party, or some one of them, against whom the award shall be made.
An attorney at law, as such, lias no power to submit his client's controversy which is not in suit to arbi
tration. Jenkins v. Gillespie, 10 Smed. & M., 31.
The guardian may sub/nit the controversy of his ward in matters in which he is authorized to give ac
quittances. Goleman v. Turner, 14 Smed. & ST., 118; McComb v. Turner, 14 Smed. & M., 119.
As to jurisdiction of courts over awards, see Memphis R. R. Co. v. Scruggs, 50 Miss., 284.
As to right to revoke before award, see Jones v. Harris, 59 Miss., 214.
96. Qualifications of arbitrators.—A person shall not act as an arbitrator
where he is interested in the subject-matter in dispute, nor where he is related, by
consanguinity or affinity, to any of the parties to the arbitration.
97. Arbitrators to appoint time of meeting, etc., and notify parties.—The
arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and place for the hearing, and notify
the parties thereof, and shall adjourn the hearing from time to time, as may be
necessary, and on the application of either party, and for good cause may postpone
the hearing to a time not extending beyond the day fixed in the submission, if a
day be fixed, for rendering the award.
98. Notice to parties ; how given and form of.—The notice which the arbi
trators shall give to the parties of the time and place of the hearing of the contro
versy shall be in writing, and may be in the following form, viz. :
" To
and
and
[naming all of the parties] :
" You are notified that the undersigned arbitrators, agreed upon by you to de
termine the controversy mentioned in your articles of submission, of date the
day of
A.D.
, have fixed upon and will hear and consider your.
said controversy on the
day of
A.D.
, at
.
a
(<
((
"Arbitrators."
Such notice shall be served by delivering to each of the parties a copy thereof
at least one whole day before the hearing, and shall be given to the parties by one
of the arbitrators, who shall indorse on said notice that he hath served the same by
giving the party or parties so served a true copy thereof ; but, if the parties appear,
the want of notice shall not affect the proceedings.
139

99-io6

ARBITRATION AND AWARD.

99. Arbitrators to be sworn.— Before proceeding to hear any testimony in rela
tion to the matter, the arbitrators shall be sworn, by some officer authorized to admin
ister an oath, to faithfully and impartially hear and determine the matters submitted
to them, according to the evidence and the manifest justice and equity of the case,
to the best of their judgment, without favor or affection.
100. All arbitrators to meet, etc.; majority may award, when.—AH arbitra
tors must meet together and hear all of the allegations and evidence of the parties
pertinent or material to the cause; but the parties may mutually waive, in writing,
the appearance of all of the arbitrators named in the articles of submission and
consent for those present to proceed, or they may, in like manner, substitute other
persons for the absent ones ; but an award made, and every other act done by a
majority of the arbitrators, shall be valid unless the concurrence of all or a certain
number of the arbitrators to the award or acts be expressly required in the sub
mission.
101. Witness to be sworn; legal process for. —All witnesses before arbitra
tors shall be sworn as if before a court, and the parties shall have the benefit of
legal process to compel the attendance of witnesses, which may be issued by the
clerk of any court or a justice of the peace, and shall require the witness to attend
before the arbitrators on a day and at a place certain to be named in the subpuma.
102. Process; by whom executed. —The sheriff, constable, or any person agreed
upon in writing by the parties, may execute process returnable before arbitrators.
103. Penalty for disobeying process. —If any person duly subpoenaed to appear
before arbitrators and testif}-, shall fail to do so, he shall be guilty of contempt of
the court from which, or by whose clerk, the process issued, and upon complaint
thereto of the party injured, the court or justice may punish the person for such
contempt as in other like cases.
104. Award to be signed, and how.— To entitle an award to be enforced ac
cording to the provisions of this chapter, it must be made in writing, and be signed
by the arbitrators making the same and who concur therein. The arbitrators shall
attach to the award the articles of submission, the notice served on the parties, with
indorsements of service, and if the parties appear the fact should be noted in the
award itself; and they shall give a duplicate of the whole to each of the parties to
the controversy, and the duplicates shall each be treated as originals.
It is essential to the validity of an award that it shall be final and complete, responsive to all the matters
of difference included in the submission. (Said of a common law award ! Rhodes v. Hardy, 53 Miss., 587.
The award is an extinguishment of all causes of action submitted. Jones v. Harris, 58 Miss., 293.
105. Award; how confirmed by court, etc.—Upon such submission and award
being presented to the court designated in the submission, or having jurisdiction of
the subject-matter of the award, the court shall, upon motion, confirm the award,
unless the same be vacated or modified, or a decision thereon be postponed, as
herein provided. An award shall not be confirmed unless notice, in writing, of
such motion shall have been served on the adverse party at least five days before
the hearing, to be served as other process ; but such motion shall not be made after
the expiration of one year from the making and publication of the award.
106. Award; how vacated and for what causes. —Any party complaining of
an award may move the court to vacate the same upon any of the following
grounds:
140

ARBITRATION AND AWARD.

IO7-IIO

(a) That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or undue means ;
(b) That there was evident partiality or corruption on the part of the arbitrators,
or any one of them ;
(c) That the abitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the
hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence pertinent or
material to the controversy, or other misbehavior by which the rights of the party
shall have been prejudiced ;
(d) That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so imperfectly ex
ecuted them that a mutual, final, and definite award on the subject-matter was not
made.
The arbitrators must consider every thing submitted to them, and, if they refuse to do so, the award is not
binding. (This was a common law award.) Tucker v. Gordon, 7 How. (Miss.), 306.
107. Award ; how modified and corrected.—Any party to the submission may
also move the couct to modify or correct the award in the following cases:
(a) Where there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an evident mistake
in the description of any person, thing, or property referred to in such award;
(h) Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not submitted
to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision of the matter submitted;
(c) Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form, not affecting
the merits of the controversy, and when, if it had been a verdict of a jury ren
dered in such court, the defect could have been amended or disregarded by the
court.
The award should be in accordance with the submission, and not extend to subjects not submitted nor to
strangers. Gibson v. Powell, 5 Smed. & M., 712.
For a case in which a mistake was corrected without a statute, see Robertson v. Wells, 28 Miss., 90.
108. Motion to vacate or modify award; when made, etc.—An application tovacate or modify an award shall be made to the court at the term next after the
making and publication of the award, upon at least five days' notice, in writing,
being given to the adverse party, if there he time for that purpose; and if there be
not time, such court, or the judge thereof, may, upon good cause shown, order a
stay of proceedings upon the award, either absolutely or upon such terms as shall
appear just, until the next succeeding term of court.
109. Award may be vacated, modified, or corrected, or new hearing di
rected, when.—On such application the court may vacate the award in any of the
cases specified, and if the time within which the award shall have been required to
be made by the articles of submission has not expired, may, in its discretion, direct
a new hearing by the arbitrators ; and, in the cases specified, the court may modify
and correct the award so as to effect the intent thereof, and to promote justice be
tween the parties.
110. Judgments; when and how rendered.—Upon such award being con
firmed or modified, the court shall render judgment in favor of any person to whom
a sum of money shall have been awarded, that he recover the same ; and if the
award adjudge any person entitled to specific personal property, the court shall
render judgment that such person do have and recover the property, or its value,
from the party against whom the award is made, as judgments are rendered in
actions of replevin; and if the possession of land be awarded to either party, judg
141

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

125-129

CHAPTER 9.
ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.
125 (2414). In what cases a remedy.—The remedy by attachment shall apply to
all actions or demands founded upon any indebtedness, or for the recovery of dam
ages for the breach of any contract, express or implied, and to actions founded upon
any penal statute.
In order to entitle a party to an attachment, he must have a present subsisting debt or demand; a mere
surety cannot attach. Henderson v. Thornton, 37 Miss., 448.
The remedy does not extend to actions ex delicto. Fellows v. Brown, 38 Miss., 541.
A non-resident of the state may attach another non-resident. Barrow v. Burbridge, 41 Miss., 622.
A county can sue out an attachment. State, use, etc., y. Fortenberry, 54 Miss., 316.
Wherever assumpsit will lie for the breach of an implied contract the case is within the statute. Netherly v. Belden, 66 Miss., 490.
An attachment will lie to recover for a breach of warranty. Hambrick v. Wilkins, 65 Miss., 18.
126. Suit against one or more of joint debtors.—Tbe creditor may sue out an
attachment against one or more of joint debtors or joint and several debtors, whether
primarily or secondarily liable, without affecting his rights as against the others.
127. Attachment against partners.—In case any one or more partners shall
be liable to attachment on any of the enumerated grounds therefore, save tbe first,
an attachment may be maintained against said partner, or all of the partners, by the
partnership creditors; and the propert}7 of the partnership, in either case, may be
levied on and dealt with in all respects as if the grounds of attachment existed as
to all of the partners; and the effects levied upon may be replevied by the partners
sued by giving bond as other defendants in attachments, or, if they fail to do so,
any partner not sued therein may replevy the same in like manner; but, by doing
so, such partner shall thereby become a party defendant to the suit for all purposes,
and judgment may be rendered on his bond against the obligors therein as in other
attachment cases.
128 (2420). Attachment against non-residents jointly indebted.—When two
or more persons, not residing in this state, are jointly indebted, the writ of attach
ment may be issued against such debtors, or any of them, by their proper names or
by the name of the partnership, or by whatever other name such debtors may be
called or known in this state, or against the executors or administrators of them or
any or either of them, and may be levied upon the separate or joint estate or both
of such debtors, and the lands, tenements, money, goods, chattels, effects, rights,
and credits of such debtors, or any or either of them, which shall be liable to be
seized and taken for the satisfaction of any debt or demand for which an attach
ment will lie.
129 (2415). Affidavit.—The creditor, his agent or attorney, shall make oath be
fore a judge of the supreme court, a judge of a circuit court, or a chancellor; or
before a clerk of a circuit court or chancery court or the deputy of such clerk, or
any justice of the peace, or the mayor of any city, town, or village, of the amount
of his debt or demand, to the best of his knowledge and belief, and shall also make
oath to one or more of the following grounds for attachment :
145
10

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.
(1) That the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this
state ; or
(2) That he has removed, or is about to remove, himself or his property out of
this state ; or
(3) That he so absconds or conceals himself that he cannot be served with a sum
mons ; or
(4) That he contracted the debt or incurred the obligation in conducting the
business of a ship, steam-boat, or other water-craft in some of the navigable waters
of this state ; or
(5) That he has property or rights in action which he couceals, and unjustly re
fuses to apply to the payment of his debts ; or
(6) That he has assigned or disposed of, or is about to assign or dispose of his
property or rights in action, or some part thereof, with the intent to defraud his
creditors; or
(7) That he has converted, or is about to convert, his property into money or evi
dences of debt, with intent to place it beyond the reach of his creditors; or
(8) That he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation for which
suit has been or is about to be brought ; or
(9) That he is buying, selling, or dealing in, or has, within six months next be
fore the suing out of the attachment, directly or indirectly bought, sold, or dealt in
future contracts, commonly called " futures ; " or
(10) That he is in default for public money, due from him as a principal, to the
state, or some county, city, town, or village thereof; or
(11) That defendant is a banker, banking company or corporation, and received
deposits of money knowing at the time he or it was insolvent ; or has made or pub
lished a false or fraudulent statement as to his or its financial condition.
The attachment law applies to transactions occurring before its adoption as well as afterwards. Green
v. Anderson, 39 Miss., 35!).
Where cause for attachment is shown for only a part of the debt, and the court has no jurisdiction of so
small an amount as that part, the whole attachment must fail. Delmas v. Morrison, 61 Miss., 314.
A creditor asked a justice of the peace to prepare papers for an attachment against his debtor, telling
him the amount of the debt and the grounds of attachment; and the justice wrote an affidavit, bond, and writ, and
handed them to him, asking "if that was all right," and the creditor answered that it was The affidavit was
not signed, and an oath was not administered or attempted to be administered. Held : There was no affidavit,
and the levy based thereon was invalid, and a subsequent amendment could not validate the proceedings so
as to affect intervening rights. Carlisle v. Gunn, 68 Miss., 243.
Whether a paper, in form an affidavit, is really one is not determinable by what either of the parties con
sidered in reference to it, but by the inquiry whether any thing was done which could properly be construed
as taking or administering an oath. Carlisle v. Gunn, 6S Miss., 243.
It is unnecessary for the agent who makes the affidavit to affirm therein that he is agent; the certificate
of the officer to that effect is sufficient evidence of the fact. Lindner v. Aaron, 5 How. (Miss ), 581.
It is unnecessary for the affidavit to be in the exact language of the statute; substantial compliance is
sufficient. Wallis v. Wallace, 6 How. (Miss.), 254.
The affidavit is not invalid because not signed by the affiant. Redus v. Wofford, 4 Smed. & M., 579.
An affidavit which recites the reasons of affiant's belief of the existence of the grounds of attachment
is not because of the recitals invalid. Spear v. King, 6 Smed. & M., 276.
The affidavit may be made in another state and before a commissioner for this state; the statute does not
require that the writ of attachment shall be issued by the officer before whom the affidavit is made. Griffing
v. Mills, 40 Miss., 611.
It is erroneous to state several causes for attachment in the affidavit disjunctively. Bishop v. Finnerty,
46 Miss., 570.
Domicile and residence are not convertible terras, and one having a domicile in this state may j-et be a
non-resident in the meaning of the law. Alston v. Newcomer, 42 Miss., 186.
The test of one's non-residence is whether the absence is of such character and so prolonged that he can
not be served with ordinary process. Morgan v. Nunes, 54 Miss., 308.
146

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

I3O-I32

If a defendant have remaining in the state, and which he is not about to remove, ample property to sat
isfy, and which is liable to his debts, then the mere removal of some other property from tbe state will not
subject him to attachment. Montague v. Gaddis, 37 Miss., 453.
If the purpose to remove exist, and may be carried out in one, two, three, or several weeks or months,
though the debtor's movements be not characterized by fright, speed, or haste, he is liable to attachment, if
the object be to defeat or defraud or delay creditors. Myers v. Farrell, 47 Miss., 281
To sustain an attachment on the ground that the debtor has removed, or is about to remove, his property
out of the state, it is sufficiei t for the plaintifff to show that the defendant has removed, or is about to remove,
any of his property out of the state; and then it devolves on the defendant to show, if he can. that he has
other, ample, visible property to satisfy all claims against him, unless such fact appear from the plaintifff's
evidence. Pickard v. Samuels, 64 Miss., 822.
Under the statute subjecting to attachment one who " has removed, or is about to remove, ... hie
property out of the state," a merchant, though insolvent, who ships cotton to his commission merchant in
another state, for sale to pay a debt exceeding the value of the cotton, is not liable to attachment. Lowenstein v. Bew, 68 Miss., 265.
•
To sustain an attachment on the ground of the fraudulent disposition of property, the plaintifff mny rest
on evidence which shows such disposition, in case the defendant owns no other property; the ownership of
other and ample property, liable to his debts, must be shown by defendant, unless it appear trom the plaint
iff's evidence. Pickard v. Samuels, 64 Miss , 822.
A purpose to defraud at the time is necessary in order to constitute the fraudulent contraction of the
debt. Marqueze v. Sontheimer, 59 Miss., 430.
Although the defendant commit a felony in contracting the debt sued for, to sustain the attachment it
must be shown that in so doing he intended to defraud the plaintifff. The statute defining the felony in this
case was intended for the protection of the public. Hughes v. Lake. 63 Miss., 552.
A false warranty, knowingly made, is evidence of a fraudulent contraction of the debt. Hambriek v.
Wilkins, 65 Miss., 18.
130 (2416). Bond.—The creditor, his agent or attorney, shall also give bond,
with a sufficient surety or sureties, to be approved by the officer issuing the attach
ment, in double the sum for which the complaint is made, payable to the defendant
and conditioned to the effect following, to wit:
" The condition of the above obligation is that, whereas, the above bound
prays an attachment against the estate of the said
for the sum of
dollars, returnable to the
court of
, on the
day of
next:
" Now, if the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all such damages as he shall
sustain by the wrongful suing out of the attachment, and all costs which may be
awarded against the plaintifff in said suit, then the obligation shall be void."
The bond, together with the affidavit for the attachment, shall be returned by
the officer taking the same to the court to which the attachment is returnable.
A bond signed by one partner, who acts for himself and as agent for his partners in suing out the attach
ment, is sufficient, though not signed by the other members of the firm. Wallis v. Wallace, 6 How. (Miss. ), 254.
A bond executed by an agent, binding himself personally and not his principal, is sufficient. Frost v.
Cook, 7 How. (Miss ). 357; Page v. Ford, 2 Smed. & M., 266.
A bond executed by the usee in the suit is good. Grand Gulf v. Conger, 9 Smed. & M., 505.
In case of the execution of bond by the officers of a corporation for their company, the presumption is
that the instrument has been rightly executed. Saunders v. Columbus, 43 Miss., 583.
131 (2417). Bond by an agent.—If the bond purport to be executed by an agent
or attorney of the attaching creditor, it shall be prima facie evidence that the agent
or attorney had due authority to act.
132 (2464). Bond excepted to ; new bond and affidavit.—When it shall ap
pear to the court, on exceptions taken by the defendant or otherwise, that the
sureties on any attachment-bond are insufficient, the court shall direct the plaintifff
to give a new bond with sufficient surety ; and such bond shall be as valid, in all
respects, as the original bond ; and, if the plaintifff fail to give a new bond within
the time required by the court, the attachment shall be dismissed ; and in all cases
-where an attachment-bond or affidavit may be defective in any respect, or may be
147

133-134

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

lost or destroyed, the plaintifff shall be allowed to file a new affidavit and bond,
which shall be, in all respects, as valid and binding as if given at the commence
ment of the suit.
Mere irregularities in the bond must be availed of by exceptions taken by the defendant; a claimant, or
the surety <m his bond, cannot object to the attachment proceedings on account thereof. Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 741.
A bond executed by a single surety, who was incapacitated to become such, is amendable. Field v. McKinney, 60 Miss., "63.
A bond signed by sureties in a partnership name may be amended by allowing each partner to sign his
own name. Boisseau v. Kahn, 62 Miss., 757.
The jurat to an affidavit may be amended by allowing the officer to subscribe his name to it. Boissean
v. Kahn, 62 Miss., 757.
An attachment proceeding will not be quashed, where an application is made to amend the affidavit, be
cause neither the officer nor the affiant signed the affidavit ; it being shown that the affidavit was in fact sworn,
to, and both parties thought every thing necessary to be done had been done, and their failure to sign was by
mere inadvertence; and this, too, even though the affiant did not ' hold up his hand and swear." (The re
port of this case omits to state, what is shown by the record, that an application to amend was made.) Dunlap v. Clay, 65 Miss., 454.
The amendment of an affidavit in attachment does not affect the lien of the writ. Griffing v. Mills, 40
Miss., 611.
133 (2418). The 'writ.—On affidavit being made and bond given, the officer ap
proving the bond shall issue one or more writs of attachment against the estate
of the debtor, directed to the sheriff, or any constable or other proper officer of the
county or counties in which the defendant shall have property or debts, and shall
be returnable to the next term of the circuit court of any county, or to the court
of a justice of the peace of any district, in cases within his jurisdiction, in which
the defendant, or property or debts of the defendant may be found, and shall be
the leading process in the suit.
Where a writ of attachment, issueil by a justice of the peace in one district, is returnable to a justice's
court to be held at a designated place in another district, and the parties appear at the place to which the
writ is return ible, and try the case before a justice of the peace other than the one who issued the writ, the
judgment is valid; and on appeal to the circuit court in such case, the certificate of the justice who tried the
case that the affidavit and bond is a part of the record in the case in his court, obviates all objections to
them on the ground that they were not executed before him. Armitage v. Rector, 62 Miss., 600.
The proper court of the county of a garnishee's residence has jurisdiction of an attachment against a
defendant to whom he is indebted, although the defendant be a householder and resident of another county.
Barnett v. Ring, 55 Miss;, 1)7; Smith v. Mulhern, 57 Miss., 591; Bautn v. Burns, 66 Miss., 124.
134 (2419). Form of the writ. —The writ shall be in the form or to the effect
following, to wit :
" The State of Mississippi.
" To the sheriff [or coroner] or any constable of
county, greeting:
"Whereas, A B [or agent or attorney of A B~\ hath complained on oath to
, one of the judges of the supreme court [or other officer, as the case may
be], that C D is justly indebted to the said A B to the amount of §
, and
that the said C D is a non-resident, etc. [reciting the affidavit], and bond and
security having been given according to the statute :
" We thereforee command you, that you attach the said C D by his estate, real
and personal, in your county to the value of the said demand and costs of suit, and
that you safely keep the same according to law, so as to compel the said C D to
appear before the
court [or before the court of
, a justice of the peace
of
district], to be held at
, in and for the county of
, on the
Monday of
, to answer the above complaint. And that you summon the said
148

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

135-138

C D, if to be found in your county, to appear and answer accordingly; and have
there then this writ, with your proceedings thereon.
" Witness ray hand, this
day of
A.D.
."
The writ shall be signed by the officer granting the same, or, if issued by a clerk
or his deputy, shall be dated, signed, and sealed as other writs; and an attachment
shall not be quashed or abated for want of form if the substantial matters expressed
in the foregoing precedent be contained therein ; and, on the demand of the plaint
iff, said writ may embody a garnishment.
135 (2421). Duplicate and alias writs.—The officer granting an attachment
may issue duplicate writs to any other county in which the defendant may have
property or debts due him, which writs shall be returnable to the court to which
the original is returnable, and shall be executed and returned in like manner; and
where the attachment has not been executed, or where no property has been found,
or not sufficient to satisfy the debt, or where the plaintifff desires to garnish other
persons, the clerk of the court to which the same is returnable may issue alias writs
to the same or other counties without a renewal of the bond or affidavit.
It is not required that the duplicate writs should have indorsed thereon that they are duplicates. Saun
ders v. Columbus, 43 Miss., 583.
The service of an alias attachment writ, returnable to a court, will give the court jurisdiction. Barneit
v. Ring, 55 Miss., 97.
.
136 (2423). Writ to be served, on what, and what bound by the levy.—The
officer receiving the writ of attachment shall forthwith levy the same, according to
law, on the property of the defendant, real and personal, wherever found; and he
shall summon, as garnishees, by writs of garnishment, to be issued and served by
himself, and duly returned, all persons indebted to the defendant, or having in pos
session effects belonging to him, to appear at the court to which the attachment is
returnable, there to answer as required by law; and he shall seize the books of
accounts and other evidence of debt belonging to the defendant, and levy on the
stock, shares, or interest of the defendant in any corporation, joint-stock company,
or copartnership. All the property, debts, choses in action, stock, shares, aud inter
est of the defendant attached, shall be bound by the levy from the date thereof.
The seizure of the books of accounts and the choses in action creates no lien; this can be acquired oniy
by service of notice on the garnishees. Boone v. Mcintosh, G2 Miss., 744.
Whatever may be true of the validity of the levy, a junior creditor cannot question it, unless he has pro
cured such a levy upon the property in his own case as will give him precedence. Scharff v. Chaffe, 68 Miss.,
641.
137 (2423). The defendant to be summoned. —The officer serving the attach
ment shall summon the defendant, if to he found, to appear and answer the action,
as in other cases.
138 (2426). Proceeding when levy by other than sheriff.—If a writ of
attachment, returnable to the circuit court, be served by a constable, coroner, or
marshal, or by any person specially appointed for that purpose, the writ of attach
ment, with the return thereon of the action of such person and all property and
effects levied on, shall forthwith be delivered to the sheriff of the proper county,
who shall be responsible for the property so seized, and shall return the writ to the
proper court, with a statement of his action under it; but if the sheriff be a party,
the officer serving the attachment shall make the return, and so state therein, and
149

139-143

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

likewise retain the property, unless the court, or judge in vacation, make an order
for the safe-keeping and forthcoming thereof.
The circuit court has no jurisdiction of an attachment returned by a constable uuless the sheriff be a
party. Tucker v. Byars, 46 Miss., 549; Barnett v. Ring, 55 Miss., 97.
139 (2471). May be issued and served on Sunday. — Attachments may in all
cases be issued and executed on Sunday; and may be executed in any part of the
county, by any constable of the county, or by the constable or police officer of any
municipality, in the same manner as the sheriff of the county; and in cases of
emergency, and when a sheriff or his deputy, or a constable or police officer cannot
be had in time, the officer issuing an attachment may appoint some reputable per
son to execute such attachment; and such officer shall be liable on his bond and in
dividually, for the consequence of appointing an insolvent or incompetent person
for such service.
140 (2425). Writ and bonds returned. —The officer serving an attachment
shall make a full return thereon of all his proceedings, on or before the return-day
of the writ. He shall deliver to the court or clerk all bonds which he may have
taken pursuant to law.
It cannot be presumed that the officer levied upon any property other than that enumerated in his rpturti
on the writ. Phillips v. Harvey, 50 Miss., 489.
141 (2461). Ancillary attachment. —When a suit shall have been commenced,
the plaintifff may obtain an attachment against the defendant, or one or more of
them, on making affidavit and giving bond as required in other cases of attach
ment, which attachment shall be granted, issued, executed, and returned by the
same officers; and the like proceedings, as far as applicable, shall be had thereon as
in other cases; and the affidavit, bond, and writ, when returned, shall be filed with
the papers in the original suit, which shall not be delayed thereby.
142 (2459). Attachment for debt not due.—When any creditor whose debt is
not due, shall make affidavit of any of the five last grounds for an attachment, or
that he has just cause to suspect, and verily believes, that his debtor will remove
himself or his effects out of the state before the said debt will become payable, with
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud his creditors, or that he hath removed, with like
intent, leaving property in this state, and shall give bond as in other cases, he may
obtain an attachment in the county where the debtor resides, or last resided, or
where his property may be'found ; which attachment shall be issued, executed, and
returned, and the like proceedings had thereon as in other cases of attachment.
143 (2437). Publication of notice. — When any writ of attachment shall be
executed and returned, if the defendant be not summoned, the clerk of the court
shall cause a notice to be published, once a week for three weeks, in some news
paper published within the county, or in some convenient county, and having a cir
culation in the county in which the suit is pending, stating the issuance of such
attachment, at whose suit, against whose estate, for what sum, and in what court
the same is pending, and that unless the defendant appear on the first day of the
next succeeding term of the court and plead to said action, judgment will be
entered, and the estate attached will be sold. Such publication may be made before
or after the return-term of the court; but in cases of attachment against persons
residing out of this state, the creditor, his agent or attorney, shall file with the
150

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

144-147

clerk his affidavit —if the affidavit for the attachment do not contain such state
ment—showing the post-office of the defendant, or that he has made diligent
inquiry to ascertain it without success ; and if the post-office shall be stated, the
clerk shall send by mail to such defendant, at his post-office, a copy of such notice,
and shall make it appear to the court that he has done so, before judgment shall be
rendered on publication of notice; and for a failure of duty in this respect, the
clerk may be punished as for contempt.
Publication is to be made after the levy of the writ, if the defendant be not summoned. GriflSng v. Mills,
40 Miss., 611.
»
Where there is no return showing a service of process on defendant, and no affidavit as required, although
publication be made and be mailed, a judgment by default will be void. Drysdale v. Biloxi, 67 Miss., 534.
144 (2438). When publication unnecessary.—Such publication of notice shall
not be necessary if it shall' be served on the non-resident defendant, and proof of
such service be made as provided for in case of non-resident defendants in chan
cery ; but such proof of service of notice shall be as effectual as if such defendant
had been served with a summons.
Personal service of summons in another state, as authorized by § 3423, will not justify a personal judg
ment. Cudabac v. Strong, 67 Miss., 705.
145 (2439). Form of notice required.—The notice of the attachment which the
clerk is required to cause to be published may be in the following form, to wit:
" The State of Mississippi to
:
"An attachment at the suit of
against your estate, for
dollars,
returnable before the circuit court of
county, at
, Mississippi, has
been executed, and is now pending in said court; and unless you appear before
said court on the
Monday of
, A.D.
, and plead to said action, judg
ment will be entered, and the estate attached will be sold.
, Clerk."
"
;>A.D.
."
146 (2440). If no newspaper.—If there should be no newspaper published
within the county in which the attachment is pending, or in a convenient county,
such notice shall be posted at the door of the court-house of the county, and that
shall be instead of publication in a newspaper.
147 (2427). Property may be replevied.—The defendant, at any time before
final judgment, may replevy the personal property seized and taken into possession
by the officer serving an attachment, by giving to such officer a bond, with sufficient
sureties, to be approved by him, payable to the plaintifff*, in double the value of such
property, conditioned to have said property forthcoming to answer and abide the
judgment of the court in said suit, or, in default thereof, to pay and satisfy the
judgment to the extent of the value of said property ; and, on the execution of such
bond, the officer shall restore to the defendant the property so replevied, and shall
return the bond so taken with the writ of attachment and all his proceedings
thereon. Such replevin shall not affect the lien of the attachment, or the proceed
ings thereon, as to any rights, credits, or choses in action of the defendant.
The execution of a replevy-bond by the defendant before the return-day of the writ is equivalent to per
sonal service of process on him, and renders him personally amenable to the jurisdiction of the court. Rich
ard v. Mooney, 39 Miss., 357.
The surety on the bond cannot plead to the action, or interpose any defense, or complain of any errors
in the action against his principal ; but he may contest his original liability on the bond or bIiow a discharge
from liability. Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 733
151

148-153

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

A surety on a replevin-bond is only liable for the value of the property, and the jury must find the
value. Bedon v. Alexander, 47 Miss., 254; Phillips v. Harvey, 50 Miss., 489.
148 (2477). Form of bond for replevin of goods—The defendant's replevinbond may be in the following form, viz.:
*v
" We,
, principal, and
and ———,
sureties, bind ourselves to pay
dollars, unless the said
shall have forthcoming, to abide the judg
ment of the circuit court of
county, in the suit by attachment therein pend
ing in which said
is plaintifff and said
is defendant, returnable on the
day of
,
, a certain
levied on by the sheriff of said
county by virtue of said attachment, and valued by .him at'
, and now
restored to said
; or in default thereof shall satisfy such judgment to the
extent of the value of said property, to replevy which tliis bond is given.
"Witness our hands, this the
of
,
.
"
,
•c
)
»
((
149. But one bond required, etc.—If personal property be seized under an
attachment writ, and the defendant, or a claimant, replevy the ,same, giving bond
therefore, he shall not be deprived of the property under a subsequent attachment
against the same defendant, returnable to the same court to which the first writ is
returnable; nor shall but one replevy-bond be required. The bond given to the
plaintifff in the first attachment shall inure to the benefit of the plaintifff in any
subsequent attachment, and judgment may be rendered thereon as if it had been
made payable to the plaintifff in the subsequent attachment. The officer shall show
in his return on a subsequent attachment writ, what prior attachments in same
court have been levied upon the property, if any, and whether the property has
been replevied therein, naming the sureties on the bond.
150. Execution not to issue against sureties, unless, etc. — Where the amount
demanded in an untried prior attachment, or the judgment, if the same be tried,
shall equal or exceed the value of the property replevied, an execution, or other
process, shall not be issued against the sureties on the replevin-bond on a judgment
in a subsequent attachment, unless the prior attachment fail, or the judgment
therein be satisfied otherwise than by the proceeds of the property replevied.
151. Loss of priority, etc.—If the plaintifff in a prior attachment fail to enforce
his judgment, after ten days' written notice to do so by the plaintifff in a subsequent
attachment, he shall lose his priority; but where the amount of the prior attach
ment shall be less than the value of the property, process may issue on the subse
quent judgment against the sureties on the replevin-bond for the difference between
the amount of the prior attachment and the value of the property as shown in the"
officer's return.
152. One satisfaction releases sureties.—If the value of the property be paid
by the sureties, or the property surrendered as provided in the bond, the judgment
in the subsequent attachment shall, as to the sureties on the replevin-bond, be
satisfied.
153. Prior attachment from another court.—Execution or other process shall
not issue against the sureties on a replevin-bond where the property replevied hath
152

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

154-157

been levied upon and replevied in a prior attachment against the same defendant,
returnable to another court, unless the amount of the prior attachment and prob
able costs thereof be first deducted from the value of the property; and in such
case execution may issue against the sureties on]y for the difference.
154 (2428). Bond to discharge attachment for a debt due.—If any defendant
in attachment for a debt due shall, at any time before the return thereof, execute
and deliver to the officer serving the same, a bond, with two or more sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by said officer, payable to the plaintifff in attachment, in a pen
alty double the amount claimed by the plaintifff, conditioned to pay and satisfy any
judgment which may be recovered by the plaintifff in the suit, with all costs, the
attachment shall be thereby discharged ; and all the property of every kind levied on,
attached, or seized hy virtue thereof, shall be released and restored to such defend
ant. The bond shall be returned with the attachment; and in case of any recovery
by the plaintifff in the suit, judgment shall be entered against the defendant and the
sureties in the said bond. After the return of the attachment, the bond herein
provided for may be given at any time before final judgment, and may be taken by
the sheriff, or officer by whom the attachment was served, in case any of the
attached property remains in his hands; otherwise, by the clerk of the court in
which the attachment is pending.
155 (2478). Form of bond in such cases.—The bond in such case may be in
the following form, viz. :
" We,
, principal, and
and
, as sureties, are held
to pay
the sum of
dollars, unless the said
shall
judgment which may be recovered against him by the said
in
ment suit against the said
for
dollars, returnable before
court of
county, on the
day of
, A.D.
."

and bound'
eatisf\7 any
his attach
the circuit

156. Bond to discharge attachment for a debt not due. —If a defendant in
attachment for a debt not due, shall, on or before the return-day thereof, execute and
deliver to the officer serving the same, a bond, with two or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by said officer, payable to the plaintifff in attachment, in a penalty
double the amount claimed by the plaintifff, conditioned to pay the said debt when
it shall become payable and the costs of the attachment, the said attachment shall
be discharged thereby, and all the property attached shall be released to the de
fendant. The bond shall be delivered by the officer to the plaintifff. After the
return of the attachment, the bond herein provided for may be given at any time
before final judgment, and may be taken by the sheriff, or officer by whom the
attachment was served, in case any of the attached property remain in his hands,
or by the clerk of the court in which the attachment is pending.
157. Form of bond in such case. —The bond in such case may be in the follow
ing form, viz. :
" We,
, principal, and
and
, sureties, are held and bound to
pay
the sum of
dollars, unless
shall well and truly pay
the sum demanded by him as plaintifff in his attachment suit for a debt not due, the
sum of
dollars, on or before the
day of
, A.D.
, and pay
153

158-161

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

the costs of said suit, which suit is pending in the circuit court of
Mississippi. This the
day of
,'A.D.
.

"

county,
,

u
»
If the constable levy on property and turn it over to the sheriff, the latter may take the discharge-bond,
even if he be the plaintifff in the suit. Forbes v. Navra, 63 Miss., !.
158 (2465). Officer bound, if bond insufficient.—If the hond or sureties given
by the defendant, or any claimant of the property, or garnishee or other person, be
insufficient, then the sheriff or other officer shall be subject to the same judgment
with the surety in such bond as if he were co-surety thereon. And the court or
judge, being satisfied that such bond is not a sufficient security, may order process
to seize the property for which the bond was given ; and when seized it shall be
dealt with as provided by law upon its seizure in the first instance under attach
ment.
This is the exclusive remedy. Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 733.
159 (2460). Claim of third person to attached property.—All the provisions
of law in relation to third persons claiming property levied on by virtue of fieri
facias shall extend and apply to claimants of property levied on by virtue of writs
of attachment. The trial of the right of property shall not be had until after
judgment in favor of the plaintifff in the attachment suit, and proceedings in gar
nishment shall be in accordance with the provisions of law on that subject. (See
§ 4425-4436.)
If a claimant give bond, and be given the property thereon, and his claim is dismissed for want of the
proper affidavit, suit may be maintained on the bond. Higdon v. Vaughn, 58 Miss., 572.
In the trial of such issue, judgment in plaintifff's favor against the defendant in attachment is a part of
the record, and need not be ottered in evidence. French v. Sale, (iO Miss., 516.
On the frial of a claimant's issue, it is error to instruct that the judgment sustaining the attachment is
prima facie evidence against the claimant, and places upon him the burden of showing that he is a bona fide
purchaser of the goods attached As against the claimaut, such judgment is not evidence of the facts on
which it rests. Ott v. Smith, 68 Miss., 773.
160 (2462). Property of certain kind to be sold pending suit.— When goods
and chattels, levied upon under an attachment, are in danger of immediate waste
and decay, or when live-stock of any kind is so levied upon, and the same is not
replevied, the officer holding them shall sell them as like property is required to be
sold under execution. The proceeds of such sale shall be held by the officer to abide
the result of the suit, unless replevied. The owner of such goods may replevy the
same, as in other cases, at any time before sale, and after sale, the money. (See
§ 3488.)
Railroad cross-ties, though liable to be burned, are not in danger of "immediate waste and decay "
Goodman v. Moss, 64 Mis«., 303.
161 (2466). Death of defendant not to abate action.—If the defendant die
after service of the writ of attachment, the action shall not thereby be abated, but
may be prosecuted to judgment, sale, transfer, and final determination as if the
defendant's death had not occurred; and all proceedings and conveyances in such
case shall be as valid and effectual in law as if had and made in the life-time of the
defendant.
The object of the section is to authorize the court, after the attachment was served, notwithstanding the
death of the defendant, to proceed to judgment and sale, or final process, against the garnishee and property
attached. For those purposes, and to that extent, the process is strictly in rem. Holman v. Fisher, 49 Miss.,
472, citing Melius v. Houston, 41 Miss., 59.
154

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

l62-l66The administrator of the deceased defendant may appear, whether the deceased was or was not served.
Dyson v. Baker, 54 Miss., 24.
If the administrator appear, or be brought into court, a judgment in personam may be rendered against
him as such. Lowenburg v. Tironi, 62 Miss., 19.
162 (2441). The declaration and subsequent pleadings.—The declaration may
be filed on or before the return-day of the attachment or before an order of dis
missal be taken ; and the defendant shall plead thereto as in other cases, except
that, when he has pleaded in abatement of the attachment, he shall not plead to the
action until the issue made by the plea in abatement has been disposed of.
163 (2467). Judgment by default.—If the defendant shall not appear and plead
to the action, in pursuance of notice, the court, as in other cases, shall give judg
ment against him by default, and award a writ of inquirj if necessary ; but on such
judgment by default, unless granted on the service of summons executed in this
state, no execution shall issue except against the property on which the attachment
has been served, or against a garnishee who shall have money or property in hi&
hands belonging to the defendant.
A judgment against a defendant in an attachment case is, in. legal effect, a judgment of condemnation
ordering the sale of the property attached, and no formal order for sale in the judgment is necessary. Sale
v. French, 61 Miss., 170.
Although a judgment by default against a non-resident be personal in form, it cannot, if he were notified
by publication only, affect any of his property except that attached and condemned. Tabler v. Mitchell, 62
Miss., 437.
Nor can a personal judgment be sustained by service of process in another state. Cudabac v. Strong, 67
Miss., 705.
164 (2436) . Defendant may defend without replevying property. —The defend
ant in attachment may appear, without replevying the property attached, and defend
the suit as in other actions for the recovery of money; and in case the defendant
shall have been personally summoned, or shall appear and plead to the action, the
judgment therein shall have the same force and effect against the person and prop
erty of the defendant as in other actions where a summons has been personally
served on him; but such appearance shall not vacate or affect any bond taken here
under, nor discharge any garnishee, nor affect any lien created by the attachment;
but the proceedings in respect to any property attached, or any garnishee sum
moned, shall be the same as if final judgment had been entered by default.
165 (2429). Plea in abatement.—The defendant in attachment may file a plea in
abatement, verified by affidavit, traversing the truth of the alleged grounds upon
which the attachment was sued out ; and upon such plea being filed, the court shall
order a jury to be empaneled to try the issue; and if the jury shall find for the
defendant, it shall assess damages against the plaintifff' for wrongfully suing out the
same.
The issue is whether or not the attachment was rightfully sued out, and not whether the matters of fact
stated in the affidavit are true or false. The doctrine of estoppel applies. Cocke v. Kuykendall, 41 Miss , 65
Special allegations in the plea, if the plea deny the grounds, do not vitiate it; but the traverse should be
a simple denial. Ross v. Fowler, 42 Miss., '293.
166 (2430). Damages in favor of defendant.—On the trial of the issue, the
defendant may introduce evidence as to the actual damages, if any, which the issu
ance of the attachment has occasioned him ; but the defendant, when he files his plea
in abatement, shall file therewith written notice of what damages he will insist upon
at the trial. If the issue be decided for the defendant, he shall have judgment that
155

167-168

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

the attachment he discharged, and against plaintifff and the sureties in his attach
ment bond, for the damages assessed by the jury and the costs of suit; and the
jury may add to the actual damages found, a reasonable sum as an attorney's fee for
defending the issue; but the judgment against the sureties in the attachment-bond
shall not exceed the penalty thereof.
The extent of the depreciation in value between the time properly was attached, and the time the attach
ment is quashed or the property is restored, is the measure of the actual damages for preventing a sale of
the property. Fleming v. Bailey, 44 Miss., 132.
The jury has as large a scope to consider the damages on a plea traversing the grounds of attachment, as
in a suit on the attachment-bond. Fleming v. Bailey, 44 Miss., 132; Marqueze v. Sontheimer, 59 Miss.. 43d.
Where there is no malice or intent to oppress, the damages should be limited to those actually sustained ;
mere possible expectations of profits are not to lie considered. Myers v. Farrell, 47 Miss., 281.
Damages resulting from a levy by judgment creditors, subsequent to the levy of an attachment, made in
consequence of the attachment, cannot be recovered of the attaching plaintifff. Marqueze v. Sontheimer,
59 Miss., 430.
Compensation is the measure of damages. Marqueze v. Sontheimer, 59 Miss., 430.
Loss of business, as to goods attached, caused by the attachment, may be a factor in estimating damages
if proved as a matter of fact and not as a mere opinion or estimate of witnesses. Marqueze v. Sontheimer,
59 Miss.. 430
167 ("2455). Property assessed and judgment in certain cases.—If the per
sonal property attached, or any part thereof, shall have been replevied by the
defendant, the court or jury trying the issue between the parties, if it find for the
plaintifff, shall assess the value of the property so replevied by the defendant, as
well as the debt or damages due the plaintifff; and if the value of the property shall
equal the amount found due the plaintifff, judgment shall be entered against the de
fendant and his sureties on such replevin-bond, for the amount of said value; and
if the value of the property be less than the amount found due the plaintifff, judg
ment shall be entered against the defendant for the amount of the verdict, and
against the sureties in his replevin-bond for the value of the property so replevied;
and if judgment by default shall be entered in such case against the defendant, an
inquiry shall be awarded to assess the value of the property so replevied ; and on
the execution thereof judgment shall be entered as above provided. In all cases
the judgment against the sureties of the defendant shall be satisfied and discharged
by the delivery to the sheriff of the property replevied within ten days after exe
cution on such judgment shall have come to his hands; and the sheriff shall sell
the property so delivered to him, and apply the proceeds to the payment of the
execution.
A failure to comply with the statute vitiates the verdict. Young v. Pickens, 45 Miss., 553; Bedon v.
Alexander, 47 Miss., 254.
Where the attachment is levied on various articles, which are replevied, the value of each article sepa
rately should be assessed. Thoniason v. Wadlington, 53 Miss., 560; Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 733.
The sureties, when it is proposed to enter judgment against them, may show any reason, good in law, why
the bond should not be declared forfeiteil ; they may show that it is impossible to return animals bonded,
because they had died without the fault or negligence of their principal. Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 741.
If the value of the property be not assessed, it is error to render judgment for the whole of plaintifff's
demand against the sureties. Phillips v. Harvey, 50 Miss., 489.
Plaintiff cannot take judgment in the attachment against the defendant onry, the principal in the bond,
and afterwards bring a separate action againtt the sureties. McKinney v. Green, 52 Miss., 70.
168 (2432). Voluntary dismission and damages.—The plaintifff may dismiss
his attachment, but defendant shall have a jury empaneled forthwith to assess the
damage sustained by reason of suing out the attachment.
When the issue in abatement is found against several defendants, and the plaintifff, failing to establish his
debt as to one, dismisses as to him, the judgment on plea in abatement is thereby vacated as to this defend
ant, and he is entitled to have his damages assessed. Dean v. Stephenson, til Miss., 175.
156

ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEBTORS.

169-174

If such defendant fail to ask for damages or make claim for the property or its proceeds, he can neither
obtain a new trial nor appeal. Dean v. Stephenson, 61 Miss., 175.
169 (2431). Plea to the merits.—If the issue on a plea in abatement be decided
for plaintifff, the defendant shall be permitted to plead to the merits, on such termsas the court may impose.
The defendant cannot plead to the merits without waiving his plea in abatement. Lewenthal v. Missis
sippi Mills, 55 Miss., 101.
170. Judgment in case debt not due. —In determining the amount for which
judgment shall be rendered on the merits in favor of plaintifff whose debt is not
due, interest shall not be computed on the principal for a time beyond the rendi
tion of the judgment; and if the debt do not bear interest until a future day, theprincipal shall be discounted for the time to elapse before interest begins, at the rate
at which the debt will bear interest. Such judgments shall be enforced as in other
cases.
171 (2433). Judgment for damages pleadable as payment.—The judgment in
favor of the defendant against the plaintifff for the damages assessed and the costs may
be pleaded by the defendant as a payment in the same action, or in any other suit on
the same cause of action on which the attachment was sued out. An execution shall
not be issued on such judgment until after the dismissal of the action or final judg
ment on the merits. If the action be dismissed, or if, upon a trial on the merits,
judgment be in favor of the defendant, without his having obtained the benefit of
the judgment in his favor for damages and costs, he shall have execution of said
judgment in his favor. If the plaintifff recover in the trial on the merits, and
on such trial the defendant did not avail of his judgment against the plaintifff for
damages and costs, the greater recovery shall be credited with the sum of the
smaller, and judgment shall be rendered by the court in favor of the party to whom
the difference may be due.
172 (2434). Discharge of attachment not to affect action.—If the issue on a
plea in abatement be found for the defendant, the attachment shall be thereby dis
charged, and all property seized under it, and all persons summoned as garnishees,
shall be released from it; but the action, unless dismissed by the plaintifff, shall be
proceeded with in all respects as if it had been an ordinary action in its commence
ment; and the costs accruing in it, after the trial of the issue on the plea in abate
ment, shall abide the result of such action.
173 (2435). Attachment preserved by appeal.—If the plaintifff, within five
days after the expiration of the term of the court at which judgment is rendered
discharging his attachment, shall perfect an appeal from such judgment, the attach
ment shall not be discharged, nor garnishees nor property released therefrom, by
such judgment; but such appeal shall preserve the attachment in full force, to
await the result of the appeal.
The statute must be fully complied with or the lien will be discharged. If the appeal-bond lias but one
surety, when two are required, the lien will not be preserved. Pfeifer v. Hartman, 60 Miss., 505.
And if not prosecuted within five days, the lien is discharged. Lowenstein v. Powell, 68 Miss., 73.
174. Other creditors may intervene.—Any creditor of the defendant in attach
ment, upon filing a petition, under oath, averring that he is a creditor, and that
the grounds of attachment alleged are untrue, or that the attachment was sued out
by collusion between the plaintifff and the defendant, or that the debt claimed by
157

I75~I79

ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

the plaintifff is fictitious or simulated, in whole or in part, or any other fact showing
fraud or collusion in suing out the attachment, may intervene and make defense,
and in such case the facts stated in the petition shall be tried: but the intervening
creditor must give bond, payable to the plaintifff, in such penalty and with such
sureties as the court or judge may prescribe, conditioned to pay the costs of the
trial in case the issue be found against him.
175. But one trial, etc.—But one trial shall be allowed under the provisions of
the last section unless the petitions of the interventors present different issues ; and
if the judgment be in favor of the intervening creditor, he shall recover of the
plaintifff and his sureties the costs of suit, and the attachment shall be dissolved.
176 (2472). Proceedings before justice of the peace. —Justices of the peace
shall have cognizance of attachments in all cases where the amount in controversy
is within their jurisdiction ; and in such case the notice to a defendant not found
shall require the appearance of the defendant at some reasonable time, to be fixed
by the justice, not less than one month after the return-day of the attachment,
and shall be transmitted by such justice by mail to the defendant, at his post-office,
when stated; and such notice shall not be published in a newspaper, but shall be
posted in three public places, where they will be likely to be seen by persons in the
district of the justice of the peace, three weeks before the time for the appearance
of the defendant; and such mailing and posting, or posting alone when the postoffice is not stated, shall be in lieu of publication in a newspaper in attachments
before a justice of the peace, and shall authorize such further proceedings as are
provided for in other cases of publication.
177 (2474). Trial before justices of the peace. —On the return of an attach
ment before a justice of the peace, the defendant may file an affidavit, or plea sworn
to, traversing the grounds on which the attachment was sued out, and the justice
shall hear all the evidence adduced by either party, as to whether said attachment
was wrongfully sued out or not; and, if the same was wrongfully sued out, he shall
dismiss the attachment, with costs, and shall give judgment against the plaintifff for
such damages as the defendant may have sustained by the wrongful suing out of
said attachment, and shall proceed to hear the case on the merits.

CHAPTER 10.
ATTORNEY - GENERAL.

\

178 (251.) To attend the supreme court, etc. —The attorney-general shall
attend the supreme court, and prosecute and defend therein all causes to which
the state, or any officer thereof in his official capacity, is a party, and all causes
to which any county may be a party, unless the interest of the county be adverse
to the state or some officer thereof acting in his official capacity, or to some other
county.
179. To enforce judgments and pay over the collections. —After judgment
in favor of the interests represented by him in any of the causes mentioned in the
158

200-203

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

simple, with general warranty [or without warrant}', or as the case may be] of title,
that land situated in [describe it].
" Witness my signature, the
of
, A.D.
.
" George Poindexter."
200 (1185). Form to represent party in administration of estate.—" Know
all, that I, C. C. Claiborne, of
county, Mississippi, do hereby constitute
Gerard C. Brandon, of
county, in said state, my attorney in fact to represent
me in the chancery court of said county of
, in all matters pertaining to the
administration in said court of the estate of Phoebe Jones, in which I am interested
as an heir and distributee; and I consent that all process issued from said court
touching said estate may be executed on my said attorney.
" Witness my signature, the
day of
, A.D.
.
"C. C. Claiborne."
201 (1186). Special form not required. —A letter of attorney to transact any
business need only express plainly the authority conferred.

CHAPTER 12.
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.
202 (2396). How licensed; preliminary proceedings.—Any person, being a
citizen of the United States, a resident of this state, above the age of twenty-one
years, and of good moral character, who shall desire to be admitted to practice as
an attorney and counsellor at law, may make application, in writing, to the chan
cery court of the county of his residence, making known his wish. The court
shall thereupon inquire into the moral character and qualifications, other than legal
learning, of the applicant, and to that end may examine witnesses; and if the
applicant be found possessed of all the necessary qualifications except legal learning,
the court shall so adjudge, and enter an order on the minutes to that effect; but if
the applicant be found not to be so qualified, his application shall be dismissed at
his costs.
203. How legal learning of applicant determined. —The applicant being
found to be otherwise qualified, the chancellor, in open court, shall propound, in
writing, to said applicant, a sufficient number of questions to thoroughly test his
learning upon the following subjects, viz. :
(1) Of the law of real property ;
(2) Of the law of personal property;
(3) Of the law of pleading and evidence;
(4) Of the commercial law;
(5) Of the criminal law;
(6) Of chancery and chancery pleadings;
(7) Of the statute law of the state;
(8) Of the constitution of the United States and of this state.
162

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

204-209

W.hich questions the applicant shall, in open court, or in the presence of the
chancellor, answer, in writing, without aid from any person or from examination of
books.
204. Chancellor to certify and forward the written examination to a judge
of the supreme court. —When the written examination shall be completed, the
chancellor shall certify thereon that it was taken before him and in his presence in
conformity to the last section, and he shall forward the same, both questions and
answers, to a judge of the supreme court.
205. Duty of the supreme judges.—The supreme judge who receives the writ
ten examination shall read and consider the same, and cause at least one other judge
of the supreme court to examine the same; and two at least of said judges shall,
within fifteen days if practicable, indorse on or at the end of such writing their
judgment and conclusion as to the sufficiency or insufficiency of the legal learning
of the applicant to be licensed as an attorney and counsellor at law ; and they shall,
within said time, transmit said writing, with the certificate thereon, to the chancel
lor from whom it was received.
206. If the certificate of the supreme judges favorable, the chancellor shall
grant the license.—Upon the receipt of the written examination with the certifi
cate of the supreme court judges by the chancellor, he shall, if the certificate of
two of said judges be that the applicant possesses sufficient legal learning, grant
the application, and cause to be entered on the minutes of the court, in term time
or vacation, an order granting to the applicant license to practice law in all the
courts, both of law and equity, in this state, upon the taking by the applicant of
the oath prescribed by law ; if the certificate of two of said judges be that the ap
plicant does not possess sufficient legal learning, the chancellor shall enter an order
dismissing the application; and, in either case, the applicant shall pay the costs.
207. Refusal to grant an application no bar. —The dismissal of an application
for license to practice law shall not bar another application by the same person after
the expiration of six months from the order of dismissal.
208. Diploma from the state university shall be sufficient evidence of legal
learning.—rf the applicant present to the chancery court with his written applica
tion a diploma granted him by the University of Mississippi conferring the degree
of bachelor of law7s, the chancellor shall inquire into his moral character and other
qualifications, but need not examine him on the law, and may, if he be otherwise
qualified, grant him license without a certificate from the supreme judges.
209 (2397). Oath in each court.—Every attorney and counselor at law, before
he shall be permitted to practice, shall produce his license in each court where he
intends to practice, and, in the presence of such court, shall take the following oath
or affirmation, to wit:
" I do solemnly swear [or affirm] that I will demean myself, as an attorney and
counsellor of this court, according to the best of my learning and ability, and with
all good fidelity as well to the court as to the client; that I will use no falsehood
nor delay any person's cause for lucre or malice, and that I will support the consti
tution of the state of Mississippi so long as I continue a citizen thereof. So help
me God."
163

210-214

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

And thereupon the name of such person, with the date of his admission, shall
be entered in a roll or book to be kept in each court for that purpose.
210. Duties of attorneys.—It is the duty of attorneys:
(1) To support the constitution and laws of this state and of the United States ;
(2) To maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers;
(3) To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to them, such
means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead by any arti
fice or false statement of the 'law;
(4) To maintain inviolate the confidence, and, at every peril to themselves, to
preserve the secrets of their clients;
(5j To abstain from all offensive personalities, and to advance no fact prejudicial
to the honor or reputation of a party or a witness, unless required by the justice of
the cause with which they are charged ;
(6) To encourage neither the commencement nor continuance of an action or
proceeding from any motives of passion or personal interest;
(7) Never to reject, for any consideration personal to themselves, the cause of
the defenseless or oppressed.
211 (2399). Attorneys of coterminous states.— Attorneys and counsellors at
law, of good standing, resident in coterminous states, may be admitted to practice
law in this state, under the same restrictions and regulations that attorneys and
counsellors, resident in this state, are permitted to practice in such coterminous
state, and shall not be required to take the oath to support the constitution of this
state; but any attorney or counsellor at law of another state, in good standing,
shall be permitted to appear and plead in any special cause.
212 (2400). Convicts of felony disqualified. —Every person who has been or
shall hereafter be convicted of felony, manslaughter excepted, shall be incapable of
obtaining a license to practice law; or, if already licensed, the court in which he
shall have been convicted shall enter an order disbarring such convict.
213 (2401). Judges not to practice law, etc. —It shall not be lawful for any
judge of the supreme court, or a judge of a circuit court, or a chancellor to exer
cise the profession or employment of an attorney or counsellor at law, or to be
engaged in the practice of law; and any person offending against this prohibition
shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor, and be removed from office ; but this shall not
prohibit a chancellor from practicing in any of the courts so far as to enable him to
bring to a conclusion cases actually pending when he was appointed chancellor, in
which he was then employed; nor shall it hinder a circuit judge from concluding
cases pending in the supreme or chancery courts or in the courts of the United
States, at the time of his appointment, in which he was then employed ; nor shall a
judge of the supreme court be hindered from appearing in the courts of the United
States in any case in which lie was engaged when he was appointed judge.
214 (2402). Clerks, sheriffs, and other officers prohibited.— It shall not be
lawful for a clerk of any court of record or the deputy or assistant of any such
clerk, or for any sheriff or his deputy, to exercise the profession or employment of
an attorney or counsellor at law, or to be engaged in the practice of law, or to
receive any fee or reward for any such services rendered during his continuance in
164

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

2I5-2I8

such position; and any person offending herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction, be punished accordingly, and be removed from office.
215 (2403). Restriction of certain persons to practice law.—If any justice of
the peace or mayor and ex officio justice of the peace, or the partner in the practice
oT law of any such person, shall appear as attorney or counsel in any case, civil or
criminal, before a justice of the peace or mayor acting as such of his district, or in
any appeal from the judgment of such officer, or in any certiorari to such officer, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction, be fined not more than five
hundred dollars, or be imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
216 (2404). Penalty for misconduct. —If any attorney or counsellor at law be
in default of record, or otherwise guilty of an}' deceit, malpractice, or misbehavior,
or shall willfully violate his duties, he shall be stricken from the roll and disbarred,
and his license revoked, by any court in which he may practice; and such person
shall never afterward be permitted to act as an attorney or counsellor in any court
in this state.
An attorney was disbarred, on motion made therein, by the high court of errors and appeals for miscon
duct in case3 pending in a circuit court. Ex parte Brown, 1 How. (Miss.), 303.
217 (1545). Attorney to state residence of plaintifff. —Any attorney whose
name is subscribed to or indorsed on any declaration or bill or petition in chancery,
shall, on demand in writing, made by or on behalf of the defendant, declare forth
with, in writing, whether the suit has been brought by him, or with his authority
or privity, and also the place of abode of the plaintifff; and if such attorney shall
state that the suit was not brought by him, or with his authority or privity, or shall
refuse to declare the place of abode of the plaintifff, then no further proceedings
shall be taken in the action without leave of the court.
218 (2405). Proceedings for money collected.—Every attorney or counsellor
at law receiving money for his client, and failing or refusing to pay the same when
demanded, may be proceeded against in a summary way, by motion before the cir
cuit court of the county where such attorney or counsellor usually resides, or where
he may be found, or before the court in which the money was collected, in the same
manner that sheriffs are liable to be proceeded against for money collected on exe
cution, five days' notice of such motion being given ; and, in addition to the prin
cipal and legal interest, damages at ten per centum on the amount thereof shall be
awarded; and in case the failure to pay over said money shall appear to have been
willful and without reasonable excuse, the court shall fine and imprison such attor
ney or counsellor as for a contempt, and strike his name from the roll and revoke his
license, or may suspend his right to practice until the money shall be paid over.
The statute gives the remedy, by motion, only where the attorney fails or refuses to pay over money
actually collected. The statute must be strictly construed. Lombard v. Whiting, Walker, 229; Banks v.
Cage, 1 How. (Miss.), 293; Sloan v. Johnson, 14 Smed. & M., 47.
Notice must be given the attorney. Ex parte Heyfron, 7 How. (Miss.), 127.
Only the client can make the motion. Sloan v. Johnson, 13 Smed. & M., 47; McCreary v, Iloopes, 25
Miss., 428.
It is no defense to the motion that the attorney has been notified by others, claiming the fund, not to
pay; and the attorney's right of setoff is good only to the extent of his lien for his fees in that particular
case. Dunn v. Vannerson, 7 How. (Miss.), 579.
A decision in an attorney's favor because the motion was an improper remedy, does not bar a suit against
him on the same case. Coopwood v. Baldwin, 25 Miss., 129.
165

219-227

AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS.

-219 (24C6). Not to have pay as a witness.—Ad attorney or counsellor at lawshall not be allowed any compensation as a witness in auy cause in wliicli he shall
be concerned as attorney or counsel.
220 (2407). Bight to inspect papers. —Every attorney or counsellor at law,
practicing in any court in this state, shall be allowed, at all reasonable times, to
inspect the papers and records relating to any suit in such court in which he may
be concerned as attorney or counsel, without being compelled to take copies thereof.
A clerk of any court may permit an attorney to take out of the office the papers in
which he is interested, under such regulations as the court or the law may prescribe.
221 (2408). Not more than two on a side to argue cause.—A court shall not
permit more than two attorneys to argue on one 6ide, unless good cause be shown
therefore.
222 (2409;. Notice to attorney as effectual as if to his client.— Any notice
required in the progress of a suit or action, in any court of this state, shall be as
valid and effectual when served on the attorney or solicitor of the party in that cause
as if served on the party himself.
223. Bar associations may prosecute any defaulting attorney. —Any regu
larly incorporated bar association of this state shall have power to institute and
prosecute any attorney, before any court having jurisdiction, to disbar him for
willful violation of his duties as an attorney or misconduct in his office.

CHAPTER 13.
AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS.
224 (214). His bond; where filed, etc.—The auditor of public accounts shall
give bond in the penalty of thirty thousand dollars, with three or more sufficient
freehold sureties, to be approved by the governor, conditioned according to law;
and said bond, when approved, shall he filed and recorded in the office of the sec
retary of state.
225 (215). Office hours, etc. —The auditor shall keep his office at the seat of
government, and shall keep the same open on each business day from nine until
twelve o'clock in the forenoon, and from two until five in the afternoon.
226 (216). Deputy and clerks; how appointed, etc. —The auditor may appoint
a deputy, with power and authority to do and perform all the acts and duties re
quired of the auditor; the appointment shall be made in writing, and shall he filed
in the office of the secretary of state, with a certificate that the deputy has taken
• an oath faithfully to discharge his duties as deputy auditor. The auditor may take
bond from his deputy and clerks as he may see proper, and may remove either at
pleasure; but he shall be answerable for the acts of the deputy and clerks in the
same maimer as if done by himself. The auditor may employ four clerks, to be
paid the compensation provided by law.
227. Legislative expenses published, etc. —The auditor shall, within sixty
days after the adjournment of the legislature, prepare and publish, in a neat pam
l(5>i

440-45°

CHANCERY COURTS.

CHAPTER 20.
CHANCERY COURTS.
440 (14;')5). Chancery court districts.—The state is divided into seven chan
cery court districts, severally composed of the counties following, to wit:
441. The first district.—Alcorn, Chickasaw, Clay. Itawamba, Lee, Monroe,
Oktibbeha, Pontotoc, Prentiss, Tishomingo, Union, and Webster.
442. The second district.— Clarke, Covington, Greene, Hancock, Harrison,
Jackson, Jasper, Jones, Lauderdale, Marion, Newton, Pearl-River, Perry, Smith,
and Wayne.
443. The third district.—Benton, Calhoun, DeSoto, Grenada, LaFayette, Mar
shall, Montgomery, Panola, Tate, Tippah, and Yalobusha.
444. The fourth district. —Adams, Amite, Claiborne, Ftanklin, Jefferson,
Sharkey, Warren, and Wilkinson.
445. The fifth district. — Copiah, Hinds, Lawrence, Lincoln, Madison, Tike,
Rankiij, Simpson, and Yazoo.
446. The sixth district. —Attala, Carroll, Choctaw, Holmes, Kemper, Leake,
Lowndes, Neshoba, Noxubee, Scott, and Winston.
447. The seventh district. — Bolivar, Coahoma, Issaquena, Leflore, Quitman,
Tallahatchie, Tunica, Sunflower, and Washington.
448 (1790). Terms of the courts. —A court, to be styled "The Chancery Court
of the County of
," shall be held in each county twice in each year, and shall
commence at the times and continue for the number of days specified if busiuess
shall require, viz. :
.
449. For the first district.—In the county of Oktibbeha, on the second Monday
of February and August, six days.
In the county of Monroe, on the fourth Monday of February and August, twelve
days.
In the county of Lee, on the third Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Pontotoc, on the fourth Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Webster, on the first Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Prentiss, on the second Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Alcorn, on the third Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Itawamba, on the fourth Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Clay, on the first Monday in May and November, twelve days.
In the county of Chickasaw, first district, on the third Monday of May and
November, six days.
In the county of Chickasaw, second district, on the fourth Monday of May and
November, six days.
In the county of Tishomingo, on the first Monday of June and December, six days.
In the county of Union, on the second Monday of June and December, six days.
450. For the second district. —In the county of Pearl-River, on the first Mon
day of January and July, six days.
210

CHANCERY COURTS.

451-452

In the county of Marion, first district, on the second Monday of Jauuary and
July, six days.
In the county of Marion, second district, on the thirdjMonday of January and
July, six days.
In the county of Hancock, on the fourth Monday of January and July, six days.
In the county of Harrison, on the first Monday of Fehruary and August, six days.
In the county of Jackson, on the second Monday of February and August, six days.
In the county of Wayne, on the
Monday of
and
-, six days.
In the county of Jones, on the first Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Jasper, on the second Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Perry, first district, on the third Monday of March and Sep
tember, six days.
In the county of Smith, on the
Monday of
and
, six days.
In the county of Greene, on the third Monday, of April and October, six days.
In the county of Covington, on the fourth Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Newton, on the first Monday of May and November, six days.
Iu the county of Lauderdale, on the second Monday of May and November,
twelve days.
In the county of Clarke, on the fourth Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of Perry, second district, on the first Monday of June and Decem
ber, six days.
451. For the third district.—In the county of Montgomery, on the third Mon
day of Januarj' and July, six days.
In the county of DeSoto, on the first Monday of February and August, six days.
In the county of Panola, first district, on the third Monday of February and
August, six days.
In the county of Panola, second district, on the fourth Monday of February and
August,' six days.
In the county of Tate, on the first Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Yalobusha, first district, on the second Monday of March and
September, six days.
In the county of Yalobusha, second district, on the third Monday of March and
September, six days.
In the county of Benton, on the second Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Grenada, on the third Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Tippah, on the first Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of Marshall, on the second Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of Calhoun, on the third Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of LaFayette, on the fourth Monday of May and November, six days.
452. For the fourth district.—In the county of Franklin, on the second Mon
day of January and July, six days.
In the county of Amite, on the third Monday of January and July, six days.
In the county of Warren, on the first Monday of February and September,
twenty-four days.
In the county of Adams, on the first Monday of March and October, eighteen days.
In the county of Sharkey, on the fourth Monday of March and October, six days.
211

453-455

CHANCERY COURTS.

In the county of Claiborne, on the third Monday of April and November, twelve
days.
In the county of Jefferson, on the first Monday of May and December, six days.
In the county of Wilkinson, on the second Monday of May and December, twelve
days.
453. For the fifth district. —In the county of Hinds, second district, on the
first Monday of June and December, six days.
In the county of Madison, on the fourth Monday of February and September,
six days.
In the county of Hinds, first district, on the first Monday of March and October,
twelve days.
In the county of Rankin, on the fourth Monday of March and October six days.
In the county of Simpson, on the first Monday' of April and November, six days.
In the county of Copiah, on .the third Monday of May and November, twelve
days.
In the county of Lawrence, on the second Mouday of January and July, six days.
In the county of Lincoln, on the third Monday of February and September,
six days.
In the county of Pike, on the second Monday of June and December, six days.
In the county of Yazoo, on the third Monday of June and December, twelve days.
454. For the sixth district. —In the county of Attala, on the first Monday of
February and August, six days.
In the county of Carroll, first district, on the second Monday of February and
August, six days.
In the county of Carroll, second district, on the third Monday of February and
August, six days.
In the county of Holmes, on the first Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Scott, on the second Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Choctaw, on the third Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Winston, on the fourth Monday of March and September,
six days.
In the county of Lowndes, on the first Monday of April and October, eighteen
days.
In the county of Noxubee, on the fourth Monday of April and October, twelve
days.
In the county of Leake, on the second Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of Neshoba, on the third Monday of May and November, six days.
In the county of Kemper, on the fourth Monday of May and November, six days.
455. For the seventh district. —In the county of Bolivar, on the second Mon
day of February and September, twelve days.
In the county of Coahoma, first district, on the third Monday of May and
December, six days.
In the county of Coahoma, second district, on the first Monday of June and
January7, six days.
In the county of Washington, on the first Monday of March and October,
twenty-four days.
212

CHANCERY COURTS.

456-460

In the county of Leflore, on the first Monday of April and November, six days.
In the coujity of Tallahatchie, on the second. Monday of April and November,
six days.
In the count}7 of Quitman, on the third Monday of April and November, six days.
In the county of Tunica, on the fourth Monday of April and November, six days.
In the county of Sunflower, on the second Monday of May and December,
six days.
In the county of Issaquena, on the first Monday of May and December, six days.
456 (1803). Of the chancellor.—A chancellor shall be appointed for each of
said districts.
457. The chancellor may try causes in vacation (Laws 1886, p. 145).— A
chancellor may, by consent of parties or of their solicitors of record, try causes,
deliver opinions, and enter decrees in vacation; and decrees so made and entered
shall have the same force and effect as if made and entered at a regular term of the
court, and appeals may be had therefrom as in other cases. In all matters in which
the chancellor shall make an order or decree in vacation, the order or decree shall
be recorded upon the minute-book of the court as decrees in term-time are recorded.
(See § 593.)
458 (1804). Chancellors may alternate, etc.—Chancellors may alternate and
make temporary changes of their districts when, in their opinion, the public inter
est may require.
459. Duty of chancellor as to county library.—It shall be the duty of the
chancellor, as soon as practicable after this section becomes operative, to cause to
be entered on the minutes of the court in each county of his district a complete list
of all books of statutes, department reports, supreme court reports and digests
thereof, and other books in the keeping of the sheriff of the county as county libra
rian. He shall, further, at each term of court, examine the said books belonging to
the county, see that they are properly kept, and that the sheriff, as county librarian,
faithfully performs his duty as such ; and he shall record on the minutes his finding
in the premises, noting all books that have bee!) added to the library and not before
Listed, adjudging the absence of any not properly in the court-room that should be
there ; and he shall impose the fine provided by law for the absence of each volume,
and may fine the sheriff not exceeding one hundred dollars for any other violation
of his duty in respect to the books belonging to the count}'.
460 (1807). Of the clerk; his bond. —The clerk of said court, before he enters
upon the duties of the office, shall take the oath of office and give bond, with suffi
cient sureties, to be approved as provided by law, in a sum not less than three thou
sand dollars nor more than twenty thousand dollars, to be fixed by order of the
chancellor, or, if he should fail to fix it, by the president of the board of supervisors ;
and the board of supervisors may, at any time, require the clerk of the chancery
court to give a new bond when it shall appear that his official bond is not sufficient;
and such clerk may be required by the court, or the chancellor in vacation, to give
additional bond in any particular case, which shall be a cumulative security, and
shall not in any manner affect the liability on his official bond for any matter cov-ered by it; and his official bond shall be held to cover all his official acts, and all
213

461-465

CHANCERY COURTS.

monies which may come into his hands according to law or by order of the court
or chancellor.
.
.
461 (1808.) Clerk to attend court and keep minutes.—The clerk shall, in per
son or by deputy, attend all the sessions of the court, and shall keep minute-books,
in which he shall record, under the directions of the chancellor, all the proceedings
of the court; and the minutes of the preceding day shall be read by him each
morning of the session in open court, and the last day's proceedings shall be read
by liim iu open court before adjournment, and the minutes must be signed by the
chancellor.
462 (1808). Clerk to make final record of causes. —The clerk shall, within
three months after the final termination of each suit involving real estate, record all
the pleadings, proofs, exhibits, and proceedings therein, or such parts thereof as may
be required by order of the chancellor, in a book to be kept for that purpose, and to
be styled " The Book of Final Records in Chancery;" and he shall likewise make a
final record of all other suits, if required by the decree or by order of the chancellor,
omitting such portions from the record-books as the chancellor may direct; and,
except as required to be made, a fee shall not be allowed for final records. (See, for
final records in circuit court, §640.)
463 (1809.) Dockets to be kept; general docket, and entries therein.—The
clerk shall keep a general docket, in which he shall enter the names of the parties
in each suit, the time of filing the bill, petition, answer, plea, or demurrer, and
all other papers in the cause, the issuance and return of process, and a note of
reference to all orders made therein, by the book and page; and shall mark on the
papers in every cause the style and number of the suit, and the time when and the
party by whom filed ; and he shall not suffer any paper so filed to be withdrawn
but by leave of the chancellor, and then only by retaining a copy, to be made at
the costs of the party obtaining the leave. All the papers and pleadings filed in a
cause shall be kept in the same file, and all the files kept in numerical order; and
the general docket shall be duly indexed, both direct and indirect, in the alphabetical
order of the names of the parties, and each of them, so that the page of the docket
containing the entries in each cause may be readily found.
464 (1810). Matters testamentary, etc., to be docketed.—The clerk shaH
docket iu said docket all applications made and proceedings had in Baid court in
matters testamentary, of administration, in minors' business, and in cases of persons
of unsound mind, by entering the name of the person whose estate is the subject of
the application or proceedings, the time of filing the application or other paper, the
nature of it in brief terms, the issuance and return of process, if any, or publication
and proof of it, and a note of reference to all orders made by the clerk or court, by
the book and page, so that by reference to such docket the history of the adminis
tration of such estate may be traced.
465 (1811). Issue-docket and entries.—The clerk shall keep an issue-docket,
in which he shall set down all causes ordered by the court or either party to be set
down for final hearing, or on demurrer of all the defendants, in the order in which
they are so ordered to be set down ; and he shall place on said docket, in proper
order, all petitions for the sale of the estates of decedents, minors, and persons of
unsound mind; all proceedings representing estates to be insolvent; final accounts
214

CHANCERY COURTS.

466-469

of executors, administrators, and guardians, and petitions for distribution of an
estate or payment of a legacy; and all other similar matters in which an order or
decree of the court is sought in matters testamentary, of administration, or guard
ianship.
It is usual for parties to direct, in writing, the clerk to set down a cause for hearing; but the writing is for
the guidance of the clerk, and is not required by the statute, though ver3' proper to be enforced by the court
as a rule of practice. Reynolds v. Nelson, 41 Miss., 83; Leach v. Shelby, 58 Miss., 681.
466 (1812). Motion-docket and entries. —The clerk shall also keep a motiondocket, in which he shall, when ordered by the court or either party, docket all
causes on demurrer or plea of part of the defendants, all ex parte petitions, all
motions, all exceptions to evidence, reports, and pleadings, and all matters pertain
ing to administration and guardianship not directed to be placed on the issuedocket. The clerk shall docket in the motion-docket all matters brought before
him in vacation, at the time such matters are presented; and at the next term of
the court the motion-docket shall he disposed of by the court, by approving all
the acts of the clerk as to matters on said. docket, of which the court, on examina
tion, shall see proper to approve.
467 (1813). Execution-docket and entries therein.—The clerk shall keep an
execution-docket in the manner required of the clerk of the circuit court; in which
he shall enter all final process issued by him, and record at large the returns that
may be made thereon.
468 (1814). Acts clerk may perform at any time.—The clerk or his deputy
may at any time receive and file all bills, petitions, motions, accounts, inventories,
reports, or other papers offered for that purpose, and may issue all process author
ized bylaw and proper in any matter or proceeding; he may issue warrants of
appraisement, to appraise the personal estate of decedents; may allow and register
claims against estates being administered in the court of which he is clerk; may
make all orders and issue all process necessary for the collection and preservation
of estates of decedents, minors, and persons of unsound mind ; may appoint some
person to collect and preserve the estate of any decedent in the state of case pro
vided for; may grant letters of administration to the husband or wife, or other per
son entitled thereto; may take the proof of wills, grant letters testamentary, letters
of administration with the will annexed, and de bonis non ; appoint guardians for
minors, persons of unsound mind, and convicts of felony; may grant letters of
administration to institute suits in cases provided for, and, whenever an appeal shall
be taken from the grant of letters testamentary, of administration, or guardianship,
he may appoint some fit person to discharge the duties pending the appearand may
do all such other acts as are provided by law to be done by him in vacation and are
not directed to be done only on the monthly rule-days.
469 (1815). Monthly rules, and what then may be done.—Rules shall be
held in the clerk's office, under the direction of the clerk or his deputy, on the sec
ond Monday of every month in vacation, for hearing such matters and doing such
acts as may be then done; and such rules may continue from day to day as business
may require. At said monthly rules the clerk or his deputy may do the following
acts, in addition to what he may do at any other time, that is to say: He may
compel the return of inventories, as required by law, and the presentation of either

47°-473

CHANCERY COURTS.
annual or final accounts by executors, administrators, or guardians, and may
approve and allow such annual accounts; may refer any claim against an estate
which is contested by the executor or administrator, or other person interested, to
auditors, and receive and act on their report, as provided by law in such cases; may
make all orders and do all acts necessary to the settlement of insolvent estates
and the ascertainment of the rights of creditors, and distribution of the assets
according to law after the estate has been declared insolvent by the court, and the
lands and personal estate have been decreed by the court to be sold; may require
any executor, administrator, or guardian to give new bond and sureties in cases
provided by law, and, in default thereof, revoke the letters, and grant letters anew;
and may require new bond and sureties in such oases as are provided for, on the
application of the sureties of any executor, administrator, or guardian, and revoke
the letters if such bond and sureties are not given ; may require executors relieved
by the will from giving security to give it in the cases provided for; may enter
decrees nisi; make all orders of course; enter orders of revivor .in the name of the
representatives of any party to any suit who has died; orders for taking bills as
confessed; and ma}' do all such other acts as are authorized.
470 (1815). All acts of clerk subject to approval or disapproval.—All acts,
judgments, orders, or decrees made by the clerk in vacation or at rules, shall be
subject to the approval or disapproval of the court of which he is clerk, and shall
not be final until approved by the court.
471 (1816). Minutes of proceedings in vacation. —The clerk shall enter at
large on the minute-book every order made by him in vacation, as orders are entered
in term-time. Immediately following the minutes of the court at its last preceding
term, the clerk shall commence the minutes of acts done in vacation with the cap
tion as follows: "Minutes of the chancery court of
co*unty, in vacation
before the clerk;" and the minutes of each monthly rule-day shall have this begin
ning: "At rules in the clerk's office, on the second Monday and
day of
, A.D.
," and, at the expiration of monthly rules, each month, said
clerk shall enter an adjourning order, as to such rules, so as to distinguish acts done
at rules from other acts done in vacation.
472 (1817). How such minutes preserved and approved. —The minutes, so
kept, shall constitute a record of the office, and shall be carefully preserved as such,
free from erasure or alteration ; and, at the first term thereafter of the court, shall
be examined by the court, and, if. approved, shall thereby become the minutes of
the court, as if entered at a term thereof; and all of the orders and decrees entered
in said minutes in vacation, shall, by such approval of the court, become final, and
be as valid and effectual as if done by the court when the}' were done by the clerk.
473 (1818). How approval of vacation orders shown.—The approval by the
court of minutes entered in vacation, and adoption of the order* and decrees made
by the clerk, may be evidenced by an order of the court approving such orders and
decrees, excepting such as maybe specified as not approved; and it shall not be
necessary to enter on the minutes of the court, in term-time, any of said orders or
decrees made in vacation, but the same, as entered in vacation, shall, by the approval
of the court, become the acts of the court.
216

CHANCERY COURTS.

474-479

474 (1819). Orders of clerk in vacation may be suspended.—All such orders
and proceedings of the clerk may, by order of the chancellor in vacation, be sus
pended until a hearing before him in court,*and shall be subject to such orders and
decrees as the court may make.
475 (1820). Bonds examined by chancellor.—The chancellor shall, at each
term of the court, carefully examine all bonds taken by the clerk in vacation, in
pursuance of any order of the court, or the requirement of law, in any proceeding
in such court, and make such orders in reference thereto as he shall deem necessary
for the security of the parties interested therein.
476 (1821). How proceedings before clerk to be conducted.— In all applica
tions and proceedings before the clerk in vacation, the same pleadings and evidence
and forms shall be observed, and the same process and service and return shall be
necessary, as though the proceedings were before the court.
477 (1822). Other duties devolved on clerks.—The clerks shall keep in their
respective offices* a well-bound book, to be called the " Register of Claims," each
page of which shall be divided into five columns, the first to contain the creditor's
name, the second the description of, the claim, the third the time when due, the
fourth the amount of the claim, and the fifth the day of the registry. And they
shall register in said book all claims proved and allowed against any estate admin
istered in their respective courts. It shall also be their duty to preserve and keep
all records, files, papers, and proceedings belonging to their offices, and to record
all last wills and testaments which may be probated; all letters testamentary, of
administration, and guardianship ; all accounts allowed ; inventories, appraisements,
and reports duly returned ; all instruments which are duly proved, and which by
law are required to be recorded in their offices, in well-bound books to be kept for
that purpose, each class in a separate book or books, which shall be properly
indexed. They shall issue all process which may be required of them by law or by
order of the court, or the chancellor in vacation ; and they shall discharge all other
duties which may be required of them by law. or which properly appertain to the
duties of their offices. The clerk shall be under the direction of the court in termtime, and of the chancellor in vacation.
478 (1823). Abstract of certain decrees furnished circuit clerk.—The clerk
of the chancery court shall, within ten days after the expiration of the term at
which any decree for money shall be made, which is enforceable by execution against
the defendant, furnish an abstract of such decree to the clerk of the circuit court of
the county in which such decree is made; and it shall be the duty of the circuit
clerk forthwith to enroll the same on the "Judgment Roll" in his office as judg
ments of a circuit court are required to be enrolled.
479 (1824). Custodian of certain records and papers.—The clerk of the chan
cery court shall be the custodian of all records, books, and papers belonging, or in
any way appertaining, to the probate court, and of the board of police, formerly
existing, except as to such as may be required by law to be kept by the clerk of
the circuit court; and, as such custodian, shall do and perform all acts in relation
to such records, books, and papers which were heretofore required of, or might
lawfully have been done by, the clerk of the said probate court or board of police.
217

480-483

CHANCERY COURTS.

480 (1826). All records and papers subject to inspection.—All the records
and papers of the office of the chancery clerk shall, at all reasonable hours on busi
ness days, be subject to the inspection and examination of all citizens; and the
clerk shall show to any person inquiring for it where any record or paper in hiB
office can be found, and shall allow him access to it, and to examine it and make
any copy, note, or memorandum he desires to make of it.
481 (1827). Newspaper subscribed for and preserved.—The clerk of the
chancery court shall subscribe for such of the newspapers published in his county
as the court or chancellor may direct, not exceeding two, and shall carefully file and
preserve the same in his office, and* shall from time to time cause the same to be
bound in suitable volumes, the expense of which subscriptions and binding shall be
paid out of the county treasury; and in the event no newspaper is published in the
county, then the clerk shall subscribe for the newspaper in which the publications
ordered by the court arc usually made.
482 (1829). Jurisdiction; general statement. —The chancery court shall have
full jurisdiction in the following matters and cases:
(a) All matters in ecrnity ;
((>) Divorce and alimony ;
('■) Matters testamentary and of administration ;
(d) Minors' business;
(e) Cases of idiocy, lunacy, and persons of unsound mind;
(/) All cases of which it has jurisdiction as elsewhere provided by law;
(g) All cases transferred to it by the circuit court, or remanded to it by the
supreme court.
" Full jurisdiction" indicates that where a court takes hold of a subject it ought to dispose of it fullv and
finally. Bank v. Duncan, 52 Miss., 740; Georgia K. R. Co. v. Brooks, 66 Miss , 5JC; Evrich v. Bank 6T
Miss., 60.
As a matter of necessity, in order to ascertain the boundaries of the jurisdiction of the courts, reference
must be had to the system of jurisprudence prevalent at the time the constitution was adopted, and to the
legislation of the state with a view to which the framers of the constitution must be understood to have acted.
Servis v. Beatty, 32 Miss., 52.
Equity is defined to be that system of justice which was administered by the high court of chancery in
England. Smith v. Everett, 50 Miss., 575.
The legislature may confer on the chancery court jurisdiction of legal matters in aid of its authority over
the principal matter of equitable nature. Bunk v. Duncan, 52 Miss., 740; Buie v. Pollock, 55 Miss., 309.
The jurisdiction of the chancery court extends to the allowance of an attorney's fee out of an infant's
estate for services rendered in the recovery of the estate. Epperson v. Nugent, 57 Miss., 45.
A court of chancery has jurisdiction to decree an account for profits of land against a disseizor, where
some of the complainants are infants. Carinichael v. Hunter, 1 How. (Miss.), 308; Waltham v. Glass 54
Miss., 382.
And so if the complainant be non compos mentis. Robinson v. Burritt, 66 Miss., 356.
Where suit is brought in equity on a note stipulating for an attorney's fee, if suit should be necessary to
collect it, the chancery court has full jurisdiction to fix the quantum of the fee, and include it in the decree.
Eyrich v. Bank, 67 Miss., 60.
483 (1831). Restraint of collection of taxes.— The chancery court shall have
jurisdiction of suits by one or more tax-payers in any county, city, town, or village*
to restrain the collection of any taxes levied or attempted to be collected without
authority of law.
The remedy of a tax-payer aggrieved by the action of the board of supervisors in increasing the assess
ment of his property is by an appeal to the circuit court; and failing to pursue this course, he cannot obtain
relief in a court of chancery. Anderson v. Ingersoll, 62 Miss., 73.
Where part of the tax is legally assessable, and that part is tendered and refused, a bill to enjoin the col
218

CHANCERY COURTS.

484-487

lection of the excess is maintainable, without tendering therewith the part that is legal. Meridian v. Ragsdale, 67 Miss., 86.
If by reason of illegal proceedings no valid charge on property is effected, the tax-payer may enjoin
without tendering any thing. Ball v. Meridian, 67 Miss., 91.
484 (o76). Proceedings on injunction of the collection of taxes.—All causes
in which it is sought to enjoin or delay the collection of any taxes imposed by com
petent authority, shall be preference cases, and tried at the earliest moment compat
ible with the ends of justice. Upon a dissolution of any such injunction, the chan
cellor or court ordering it dissolved shall enter a decree against the person suing out
the same and the sureties on his injunction-bond, for the amount of the taxes so
enjoined and ten per centum thereon, and all costs of suit; and such decree shall be
enforced by execution for the use of the state or county, or both, or of the city,
town, or village, as the case may require; and the said decree shall be a lien from its
date upon the property of the persons against whom it is rendered ; and all the prop
erty on which the taxes enjoined were assessed shall remain bound by the lien for
taxes declared by law, notwithstanding such injunction ; and such property may be
sold under the execution upon such decree.
485 (577). The same; partial dissolution; general powers.—The provisions
of the foregoing section shall apply to a partial dissolution of an injunction* of the
collection of taxes and to an injunction of the sale of any property for taxes; and
in all cases of the injunction of the collection of taxes, or of the sale of any prop
erty for taxes, the court, or chancellor in vacation, in dissolving in part or in whole,
or in modifying an injunction, shall have full power to make such decree as may be
necessary to enforce the right of the state, county, city, town, village, or other com
petent authority entitled to the taxes involved in such suit, and may direct a sale of
any property liable to such taxes, and involved in such suit.
486 (1832). Attachment against non-residents.—The chancery court shall
have jurisdiction of attachment suits against any non-resident, absent or abscond
ing debtor, whether the debt be legal or equitable, who has lands and tenements
within this state, or against any such debtor and persons in this state who have in
their hands effects of, or are indebted to, such non-resident, absent or absconding
debtor.
The complainant need not have a judgment at law. Comstock v. Rayford, 1 Smed. & M., 423; Zecharie
v. Bowers. 3 Smed. & M. 641.
The complainant may, at, the time of filing the bill, upon a sufficient and proper showing for it, obtain
an injunction against the transfer or removal of the effects. Trotter v. White, 10 Smed. Sc M., 607.
Non-resident complainants may sue. Comstock v. Rayford, 1 Smed. & M., 423; Zecharie v. Bowers, 3
Smed. & M., 641; Freeman v. Malcom, 11 Smed. & M., 53.
So may resident complainants. Freeman v. Guion, 11 Smed. k M., 58.
A demand for rents by an infant or insane person against a disseizor can be maintained by an attachment
in chancery. Robinson v. Burritt, 66 Miss., 356.
The basis of the chancery jurisdiction is statutory. Complainant need not show equity independent of
the statute. Scruggs v. Blair, 44 Miss., 406; Statham v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 45 Miss., 581; Allen v. Mont
gomery, 48 Miss., 101.
487 (1898). The same; how effects or indebtedness bound.— When a bill
shall be filed for an attachment of the effects of a non-resident, absent or abscond
ing debtor in the hands of persons in this state, or of the indebtedness of the
defendant in this state to such non-resident, absent or absconding debtor, it shall
be sufficient, to bind such effects or indebtedness, that the summons for the de
fendant resident in this state shall have stated in or indorsed upon it the nature
219

488-492

CHANCERY COURTS.

and object of the suit, and that it is to subject the effects in the hands of the
resident defendant, and the indebtedness of such defendant to the non-resident,
absent or absconding debtor, to the demand of the complainant; or, instead of such
statement on the summons, a copy of the bill may be served with the summons, and
shall bind the effects or indebtedness from the time of such service.
488 (1899). The same; how land levied on. —If the laud of the non-resident,
absent or absconding debtor be the subject of such suit, a writ of attachment shall
be issued, and shall be levied by the sheriff or other officer as such writs at law are
required to be levied on land, and shall have like effect. (See § 3464.)
489 (1900). The same; writs of sequestration.— Writs of sequestration may
be issued for personal property in such cases as in others. (See § 511-517.)
490 (1901). The same; publication for defendant and his appearance —The
non-resident, absent or absconding debtor shall be made a party to such suit by pub
lication of summons as in other cases, and may appear and plead, demur or answer,
to the bill without giving security; but the lien of the creditor upon the property
attached shall not be affected thereby unless security be given. If such debtor
appear, he may give satisfactory security for performing the decree, and thereby dis
charge* the lien, the court, or chaucellor in vacation, approving the security and
making an order to that effect; but if such debtor fail to appear, or fail to give
security, the court shall have power to make any necessary orders, and to require
security, to restrain the defendants within this state from paying, conveying away,
or secreting the debts by them owing, or the effects in their hands belonging to,
the non-resident, absent or absconding defendant, and may order such debts to be
paid, or such effects to be delivered to the complainant, on his giving security for
the return thereof in such manner as the court may direct.
491 (1902). The same; a complainant to give security after decree, etc.—If
a decree be rendered in such case without the appearance of the absent debtor, the
court, before any proceedings to satisfy said decree, shall require the complainant to
give security for abiding such further orders as may be made, for the restoring the
estate or effects to the absent defendant, on his appearing and answering the bill
within two years; and if the complainant shall not give such security, the effects
shall remain under the direction of the court, in the hands of a receiver, or other
wise, for such time, and shall then be disposed of as the court may direct.
492 (1496, 1830). May alter names, legitimate offspring, and decree adoption
of children.—The chancery court shall have jurisdiction, upon the petition of any
person, to alter the name of such person, to make legitimate any of his offspring
not born in wedlock, and to decree said offspring to be an heir of the petitioner;
and any person who may desire to adopt an infant, and to change the name of such
infant, may present his petition for that purpose to the chaucery court of the county
in which he resides or in which the infant may reside, and shall state in the petition
the name and age of the infant, and the names of the parents or guardian, and their
residence, if they be living, the name proposed to be given to such infant, and that
he has obtained the consent of the parents, if living, or of the guardian, if any there
be, and of the infant, if over fourteen }ears of age, to the adoption and change of
name as prayed for; and shall also state in the petition what gifts, grants, bequests,
or benefits he proposes to make or confer upon such infant; and the court shall hear
220

CHANCERY COURTS.

493-498

the evidence, and, it' satisfied that the allegations of the petition are true, and that
the interest and welfare of the infant will be promoted by the adoption, may decree
that such child be adopted by the petitioner, and that the name be changed to the
name proposed, and that said infant shall thereafter be called b}' that name; |md
that such infant so adopted shall be entitled to all the benefits proposed by the peti
tioner to be granted and conferred ; and thereafter the petitioner shall have and
exercise over such infant all such power and control as parents have over their own
children. The infant, by next friend, and the parents or guardian, may join in said
petition, or they may voluntarily appear and become parties thereto, otherwise the
infant and the parents or guardian, if living, shall be summoned as in other cases;
and the cost of the proceeding shall, in all cases, be 'paid by the petitioner.
493 (1838). Removal of disability of minority.—The chancery court of a
county in which a minor resides may re-move the disability of his minority.
494 (1839). Same; proceedings. —The application therefore shall be made in
writing by the minor, by his next friend, and it shall state the age of such minor
and the names and place of. residence of his parents, and, if he has no parent, the
names and places of residence of two of his nearest kin within the third .degree,
computed according to the civil law, and the reasons on which the removal of the
disability is sought; and, when such petition shall be filed, the clerk of the court
shall issue the proper process, as in other suits, to make the proper parties defend
ant, which shall be executed and returned as in other cases ; and any person so made
a party, or any other relative or friend of the minor, may appear and resist the
application.
495 (1840). Same; when the application ex parte.—If the minor have no
kindred within the prescribed degree whose place of residence is known to him or
his next friend, or if all such kindred known to him or his co-petitioners shall unite
with him in his application, it shall not be necessary to make any person defendant
thereto, but the court shall proceed to investigate the merits of such application,
and decree thereon as in other cases.
496 (1841). Same; trial and decree.—When the proper persons have been
made parties to the application, the court shall examine it, and the objections to it
if any, and may hear testimony, given viva voce in open court, in reference thereto,
and shall make such decree thereon as may be for the best interest of the minor.
497 (1842). Same; decree may be partial or general, etc. —The decree may
be for the partial removal of the disability of the minor so as to enable him to do
some particular act proposed to be done and specified in the decree; or it may be
general, and empower him to do all acts in reference to his property, and making
contracts, and suing and being sued, and engaging in any profession or avocation,
which he could do if he were twenty-one years of age ; and the decree made shall
distinctly specify to what extent the disability of the minor is removed, and what
character of acts he is empowered to perform notwithstanding his minority, and
may impose such restrictions and qualifications as the court may adjudge proper.
498 (578). Proceedings to confirm tax-titles.—Any person holding or claiming,
under a tax-title, lands heretofore or hereafter sold for taxes, when the period for
redemption has expired, may proceed by bill in" the chancery court, to have such
title confirmed and quieted, and shall set forth in his bill his claim under the tax
221

499

CHANCERY COURTS.

sale, and tlie names and places of residence of all persons interested in the land, so
far as known to complainant, or as lie can ascertain by diligent inquiry; and where
the names of persons in interest or their places of residence are unknown, and have
not been ascertained by diligent inquiry, the bill shall so state, and shall in all cases
be sworn to; and where the names ami places of residence of persons in interest are
given, they shall be made parties defendant ; and where the bill shall show that the
persons interested are unknown to complainant, and that he has made diligent inquiry
for their names and could not obtain them, all persons interested may be made
defendants by a notice addressed: "To all persons having or claiming any interest
in the following described land, sold for taxes on
day of
, A.D.,
,
viz.: [describing land as described in the tax-collector's conveyance];" and the
notice shall state the nature of the suit, and require the appearance of all parties in
interest on the returu-daj', not to be less than two months from the date of the first
publication of notice; and the notice shall be published for three weeks in a public
newspaper of the county in which the court is held, if there be one; and where
there is no newspaper in the county, the notice shall be posted at the court-house
door of the county, and published for three weeks in a public newspaper in an
adjoining county or at the seat of government of the state. And it shall be lawful
in all cases to set forth in the bill the names of all persons interested, as far as ascer
tained, and make them parties, and also to join and make defendants "all persons
having or claiming any legal or equitable interest in the lands described in the bill.
Such suits shall be proceeded with as other cases; and if the bill be taken for
confessed, or if it appear that complainant is entitled to a decree, it shall be
rendered, confirming the tax-title against all persons claiming to hold the lauds by
title existing at the time of the sale for taxes; and such decree shall vest in the
complainant, without any conveyance by a master or commissioner, a good and
perfect title to said lands; and such decree shall, in all the courts of this state, be
held as conclusive evidence that the title to said land was vested in the complainant,
as against all persons claiming the same under title existing prior to tlie sale for taxes.
The statute is constitutional. Belcher v. Mhoon, 47 Miss., 613.
The stiitute embraces levee tax titles, however acquired. Belcher v. Mhoon, 47 Miss., 613 ; Beirne v.
Burdett, 52 Miss.. 795.
The section applies to every variety and species of tax-title. Chrisman v. Currie, 60 Miss., 858; Metcalf
v. Perry, 66 Miss., 68.
The statute authorizing a rehearing by defendants brought in by publication only, applies to a decree
confirming tax-titles. Belcher v. Wilkerson, 54 Miss., 677.
Defendant must have an interest in the land or his defense will not be heard. Chrisman v. Currie, 60
Miss., 858.
Complainant must, however, show title in himself. Peterson v. Kittredge, 65 Miss., 33:
499. Any other title may be confirmed. —The owner in possession of any
land, or the owner thereof who may be out of possession, if there be no adverse
occupancy thereof, may file a bill in the chancery court to have his title confirmed
and quieted; and the law for notice, process, proceedings, and practice, as provided
for confirming and quieting tax-titles shall apply, no matter by what tenure the
complainant may hold; and unknown and nou-resident parties may be made defend
ants as they are made defendants to proceedings to confirm tax-titles. If on the
final hearing of any such suit the court shall be satisfied that the complainant
is the real owner of the laud, it shall 8o adjudge, and its decree shall be conclusive
222

CHANCERY COURTS.

500-503

■evidence of title as determined from the date of the decree as against all parties
defendant.
500 (1833). Removing clouds upon titles.—When a person, uot the rightful
owner of any real estate, shall have any conveyance or other evidence of title thereto,
or shall assert any claim, or pretend to have any right or title thereto, which may cast
doubt or suspicion on the title of the real owner, such real owner may file a bill in the
chancery court to have such conveyance or other evidence or claim of title canceled,
and Buch cloud, doubt, or suspicion removed from said title, whether such real owner
be in possession or not, or be threatened to be disturbed in his possession or not, aud
whether the defendant be a resident of this state or not ; and any person having the
equitable title to land may, in like cases, file a bill to divest the legal title out of the
person in whom the same may be vested, and to vest the same in the equitable
owner.
The complainant must show the entire fairness of bis own title. Boyd v. Thornton, 13 Smed. & M., 33S.
He must have a perfect legal or a perfect equitable titie; and must show the invalidity of bis adversary's
claim. Toulrain v. Heidelberg. 32 Miss., 268; Jayne v. Boisgeratd, 3!) Miss., 79G; Huntington v. Allen, 44
Miss., 654; Handy v. Noonan, 51 Miss., 166; Griffin v. Harrison, 52 Miss , 824.
The statute enlarges the jurisdiction for the purposes of quia timet bills, and must be construed in the
light of the doctrines and principles pertaining thereto. Carlisle v. Tindall, 4!) Miss., 229.
Equity will enjoin a sale of real estate under legal process, where the only effect of the sale would be
to cast a cloud upon complainant's title. Irwin v. Lewis, 50 Miss., 363.
If the person owning the legal title be estopped to assert it as against complainant, who has a perfect
equitable title, the latter may cancel the legal title as a cloud. Shivers v. Simmons, 54 Miss., 520.
Clouds may be removed from the reversionary interest in land, by the real owner thereof, before the
expiration of the particular estate. Fox v. Coon, 64 Miss., 465.
A. bill in chancery can be maintained by the real owner out of possession against a person in possession,
to cancel a void tax-deed and a title-bond from one who never had title. Wofford v. Bailey, 57 Miss., -'39.
The real owner can file a bill to cancel a paper-title, or a bill for protection against a pretense of title.
Cook v. Friley, 61 Miss., 1.
If the object be to cancel a particular evidence of title possessed by defendant, it should be as fully
desc-ibed as known to the pleader. Cook v. Friley, 61 Miss., 1.
The doctrine of common source of title applies. Bank v. West, 67 Miss., 729.
501. Title of complainant must be deraigned ; and decrees, in certain cases,
recorded as deeds. —In bills to confirm title to real estate, and to cancel and remove
clouds therefrom, the complainant must set forth in plain and concise language the
deraignment of his title; and a mere statement therein that complainant is the real
owner of the land shall be insufficient, unless good and valid reason be given why
he does not deraign his title; and in all such cases final decrees in the complainant's
favor shall be recorded in the record of deeds, and shall be indexed as if a convey
ance of the land from the defendant, or each of them if more than one, to the com
plainant or complainants, if more than one.
502. May decree possession, rents, etc. —In suits to try title, to cancel deeds
and other clouds upon title, and to confirm title to real estate, the chancery court
shall have jurisdiction to decree possession and to displace possession, to decree
rents and compensation for improvements and taxes; and in all cases where said
court heretofore 'exercised jurisdiction auxiliary to courts of common law, it ma}'
exercise such jurisdiction to grant the relief sought, although the legal remedy may
not have been exhausted or the legal title established by a suit at law.
503 (1843, 1844, 1845). Creditors may attack fraudulent conveyances, etc.—
The said court shall have jurisdiction of bills exhibited by creditors who have not
■ obtained judgments at law, or, having judgments, have not had executions returned
223

504-505

CHANCERY COURTS.

unsatisfied, to set aside fraudulent conveyances of property, or other devices resorted
to tor the purpose of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors; and may subject
the property to the satisfaction of the demands of such creditors as if complainants
had judgments and executions thereon returned "no property found." Upon such
a bill a writ of sequestration or injunction, or both, may be issued, upon like terms
and conditions as such writs may be issued in other cases, and subject to such pro
ceedings and provisions thereafter as are applicable in other cases of such writs.
The creditor in such case shall have a lien upon the property described therein from
the filing of his bill, except as against bona fide purchasers before the service of
process upon the defendant in such bill.
The federal courts refuse to enforce this section. Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S., 106.
The object of the statute is to prevent the necessity of a creditor resorting first to a court of law to
recover a judgment, and then going into equity to secure its satisfaction; there is no reason why th» court,
having jurisdiction under the statute, should stop short of giving the parties all the relief which their case
requires. Insurance Co. v. Ligon, 59 Miss., 305.
A cross-bill may be predicated on this statute. Heirmau v. Stricklin, 60 Miss.. "2IU.
A writ of seizure in favor of the vendor of personal properly, cannot be enforced against property in
the hands of an assignee or receiver appointed in a suit under the statute. Frank v. Hobinson, 65 Miss., 162.
A bill filed under the statute need not show that the defendant debtor is insolvent, nor that complainant
cannot obtain satisfaction of his demand without resorting to the property in suit. Bank v. Buddig, 65
Miss., 2S4.
504 (1834). May determine all matters in estates administered.—The court
in which a will may have been admitted to probate, letters of administration granted,
or a guardian may have been appointed, shall have jurisdiction to hear and deter
mine all questions in relation to the execution of the trust of the executor, admin
istrator, guardian, or other officer appointed for the administration and management
of the estate, and of all demands against it by heirs at law, distributees, devisees,
legatees, wards, creditors, or others ; and shall have jurisdiction of all cases in which
bonds or other obligations shall have been executed in any proceeding in relation to
the estate, or other proceedings, had in said chancery court, to hear and determine
upon proper proceedings and evidence, the liability of the obligors in such bond or
obligation, whether as principal or surety, and by decree and process to enforce
such liability.
The statute enables a judgment creditor of an estate to sue in equity. Whitfield v. Evans, 56 Miss., 488;
Cloptou v. Haughton, 57 Miss., 787.
Ex contractu creditors may sue in chancery without judgments. (Seemingly orerruling Bernheimer v
Calhoun, 44 Miss., 426.) Hunt v. Potter, 58 Miss., 96; Brastield v. French, 59 Miss., 6;i2.
The statute is constitutional. ( Overruling Smith v. Everett, 50 Miss., 575. ) Bank v. Duncan, 52 Miss.,
740; Brunini v. I'era, 54 Miss., 649.
Executors de son tort of a deceased surety on the bond of an administrator may be sued in equity with
the principal thereon. Buie v. Pollock, 55 Miss., 309.
The statute applies in favor of distributees, even after a formal settlement bv the administrator Brunini
v. Pera. 54 Miss., 649.
The chancery court in which a guardian is subsequently appointed has jurisdiction to ascertain proper
compensation to those entitled thereto from the ward's estate. Epperson v. Nugent, 57 Miss , 45.
The chancery court in which a will is probated has jurisdiction to decree the sale of lands, at the suit of
the legatee, though the land lie and all defendants reside out of the county. Turner v. Turner, 57 Miss., 775.
The statute does not authorize a suit by an administrator against a person who bid off the same for the
price of goods sold by the administrator under decree directing the sale to be for cash. Pate v. Tavlor 66
Miss., 97.
'
505. Concurrent jurisdiction.—And the chancery court shall have jurisdiction,
concurrent with the circuit court, of suits on bonds of fiduciaries and public officers
for failure to account for money or property received or wasted or lost by neglect or
failure to collect, and of suits involving inquiry into matters of mutual accounts.
224

CHANCERY COURTS.

506-509
•
506 (1835). May summon all persons and punish for contempt —The chan
cery court shall have power to issue a summons for any person, or subpoena for any
witness, whose appearance in court may be deemed necessary for any purpose,
whether such party or witness reside in the same or any other county; and it shall
be the duty of the party summoned or subpoenaed, to attend the court according
to the command of the process; and if it be necessary or proper to enforce the
appearance of the party, the court, on the return of process executed and failure to
appear, may issue an attachment, and may fine the party when brought in, for a con
tempt. If a witness before the court shall refuse to testify, the court may commit
such witness for contempt of court.
507 (1836). Issue may be tried by a jury.—The chancery court, in a contro
versy pending before it, and necessary and proper to be tried by a jury, shall cause
the issue to be thus tried to be made up in writing. The jury shall be drawn in
open court from the jury-box used in the circuit court, in the presence of the clerk
of the circuit court, who shall attend with the box for that purpose. The number
drawn shall not exceed twenty, and the slips containing the names shall be returned
to the box. The clerk of the chancery court shall issue the venire facias to the
sheriff, returnable as the court shall direct. If there be no jury-box, the jury may
be obtained as provided for in the circuit court in such case. The sheriff and jurors,
for failure to perform duty or to attend, shall be liable to like penalty as in the
circuit court. The parties shall have the same right of challenge as in trials in the
circuit court, and the jury may be completed in the same manner. The chancellor
may instruct the jury in the same way that juries are instructed in the circuit court,
and the parties shall have the same rights in respect thereto; the instruction shall
be filed in the cause and become a part of the record, and the chancellor shall sign
bills of exceptions as in the circuit court, and the court may grant new trials in
proper cases. (See § 732, 733, 735, 736, 737, and 738.)
508 (1837). Change of venue in jury cases allowed, etc. —The chancery court,
or the chancellor in vacation, may award a change of venue for the trial of all issues
of fact to be tried by a jury, to some convenient county, in the same manner, and
upon the same terms, and for the same causes provided for in the circuit court; and
the application for a change of venue, and the order for it, in term-time or vacation,
shall be as required in such case in the circuit court. And the clerk of the court from
which the issue is to be removed, and the clerk of the court to which it is removed,
respectively, shall, upon an order for a change of venue, discharge the duties directed
to be performed by the clerks of circuit courts in such cases ; and in such case
the chancery court to which the venue is changed shall try the issue by a jury, and
shall proceed and render decrees and finally dispose of the cause as if the suit had
been begun therein. (See § 655, 656, 657, 658, and 659.)
509 (1846). Power to punish for violation of injunction, etc.—The chancery
court, or the chancellor in vacation, shall have power to punish any person for
breach of injunction, or any other order, decree, or process of the court, by fine or
imprisonment, or both, or the chancellor may require bail for the appearance of the
party at the next term of the court to answer for the contempt; but such person
shall be first cited to appear and answer. And any person so punished by order of
the chancellor in vacation, may, on five days' notice to the opposite party, apply to
225
15

510-514

CHANCERY COURTS.

a judge of the supreme court, who, for good cause shown, may supersede the pun
ishment until the meeting of said chancer}' court.
510 (1847). Venue of suits. —Suits to confirm title to real estate, and suits to
cancel clouds or remove doubts therefrom, shall be brought in the county where the
land, or some part thereof, is situated; suits against executors, administrators, and
guardians, touching the performance of their official duties, and suits for an account
and settlement by them, and suits for the distribution of personalty of decedents
among the heirs and distributees, and suits for the payment of legacies, shall be
brought in the chancery court in which the will was admitted to probate, or letters
of administration were granted, or the guardian was appointed ; other suits respecting
real or personal property may be brought in the chancery court of the county in
which the property, or some portion thereof, may be; and all cases not otherwise
provided may be brought in the chancery court of any count}' where the defendant,
or any necessary party defendant, may reside or be found; and in all cases process
may issue to any county to bring in defendants and to enforce all orders and decrees
of the court. (For venue in partition suits, see § 3097.)
A bill by a judgment-debtor seeking to enjoin the enforcement of the judgment, and to recover from the
sheriff the possession of the property levied on, is a suit respecting real or personal property, and ma}" be
filed in the county where the property is. Boswell v. Wheat, 37 Miss., 610.
A purchaser of land situated in another state can maintain a bill in the chancery court of the county of
this state where his vendor resides, to enforce the warranty of title and obtain re-imbursemeut for expendi
tures in resisting ft suit and extinguishing » paramount title. Oliver v. Loye, 59 Miss., 320.
This statute does not apply to suits for partition of land. Such suits are governed by the chapter on that
subject. Nugent v. Powell, 63 Miss., 99.
511 (1854). The writ of sequestration. — When a bill is filed in the chancery
court in reference to personal property, and affidavit and bond as retired therefore is
made and filed, the clerk of the court shall issue a writ of sequestration. (See § 489.)
512 (1854). The same; affidavit required.—Before any writ of sequestration
shall issue, the complainant shall make and file an affidavit showing that he has
good cause to believe, and does believe, that there is danger of the removal of the
property involved in the suit beyond the limits of the state, or of its concealment
in the state so as to be beyond the process of the court, or of its transfer so as to
defeat the rights of the complainant, and that such removal, concealment, or transfer
is about to occur, and, moreover, shall give the bond required by the next section.
513 (1854). The same; bond required of complainant.—Before the writ of
sequestration shall issue in any case, the complainant shall enter into bond with
sufficient sureties, payable to the defendant, in double the value of the property
proposed to be seized, to be fixed by the clerk from affidavit, or such evidence as
may satisfy him, conditioned to pay all damages which may accrue from the wrong
ful seizure of the property to be sequestered, which bond shall be filed in the
cause.
514 (1854). The same; what the writ to contain, etc.—The writ of sequestra
tion shall be directed to the sheriff or other proper officer, commanding him to seize
and take into possession the property in question, and to hold the same until" the
further order of the court or chancellor, or until the defendant from whose posses
sion the same is taken shall enter into bond, with sufficient sureties, payable to the
complainant, in double the value of the property, to be assessed by the officer, con
ditioned to have the property forthcoming to abide the decree to be made by the
226

CHANCERY COURTS.

515-519

court in the cause, which bond the defendant may give, and thereby be restored to
the possession of the property. Said bond, if given, shall be returned with the writ
and filed in the cause, and, in case the property shall not be delivered or forthcom
ing to abide the decree, shall have the force and effect of a judgment; and execution
may issue thereon against all the obligors for the amount of the decree or the valueof the property, according to the nature of the case.
515 (1854). The same; complainant may bond the property in certain cases.
—Should the defendant fail to give bond to retain the property, as above allowed,
within five days from the date of seizure, then the complainant at whose instance the
property was seized, may give such bond and receive the property; which bond
shall be dealt with in all respects as if the defendant had given it and retained the
property.
516 (1854). The same; how property disposed of if not bonded.—If neither
of the parties litigant shall give such bond to retain the property, within ten da}-s
after the seizure, the officer having possession of the property shall sell the same, in
the mode prescribed by law for selling property levied upon under writs of fieri
facias, if the property be liable to waste or decay, or if subject to extraordinary
expense in preserving the same, and hold the proceeds subject to the future orders
of the court; and if the property be not liable to waste or decay, or be not expen
sive to keep, it shall be held by such officer, unless the court or the chancellor shall
order it to be sold, as may be done when it is thought best to do so; and if such
property shall be sold, either by the officer seizing it, in the state of case provided
for when he may sell it, or by order of the court or chancellor, the proceeds of
such sale shall be subject to the, orders of the court or chancellor, as to their safe
keeping or investment, during the litigation. If the property seized be liable to
immediate waste or decay, it shall be sold immediately. If the defendant do not
give bond to retain the property within five days from its seizure, and the complain
ant do not do so within five days after defendant's failure, either party may, before
sale of the property, give the required bond and receive the property, or after sale
may give such bond and receive the proceeds.
Attorney's fees and other expenses incident to the chancery suit are not recoverable in an action on the,
snquestration-bond. Stauffer v. Garrison, 61 Miss., 67.
517 (1854). The same ; the chancellor or any judge may order the writ and
fix amount of bond. —Writs of sequestration may also be ordered, and the amount
of the bond to be given therefore by complainant ma}' be prescribed, by the chancel
lor, or by any judge authorized to grant remedial process of such'nature. (See § 910.)
518 (1858). How unknown persons may be made parties.—When the heirs of
a deceased person shall be necessary or proper parties to any suit or proceeding in
chancery, and the names of all or any such heirs shall be unknown to the complain
ant, such of said persons whose names may be unknown, may be described as the
" unknown heirs" of the deceased; and when the parties in interest are unknown
they may be sued as " unknown parties in interest."
The statute applies whether the unknown defendants are resident or non-resident. Reed v. Gregory, 46
Miss., 740.
519 (1859). When decrees on publication only are final.—Decrees against
non-resident, absent, or unknown defendants, rendered upon proof of publication
227

520-523

CHANCERY COURTS.

only, without such defendant having appeared, shall be final and conclusive from
the date of rendition, unless a rehearing shall be applied for within two years there
after; but if the complainant shall serve a copy of said decree on the defendant
within one year and six months of its rendition, a rehearing shall be applied for
within six months after the date of such service. But decrees for divorce, or for
the sale of property, in the administration of the estates of decedents, or on peti
tions of guardians, or in any other case in which it is so provided by law, are not
included in the provisions of this section for rehearings.
If the facts conform to all the requisites of the statute, a right to a rehearing is thereby conferred. Mc
Allister v. Plant, 49 Miss., 628.
The fact that defendant had full knowledge of the proceedings does not deprive him of the right to a
rehearing Jacks v. Bridewell, 51 Miss., 88 1 .
Decrees confirming tax-titles are within the section as to rehearings. Belcher v. Wilkinson, 54 Miss., 677.
520 (1860). How such rehearing may be obtained.—If a defendant against
whom a decree has been rendered on publication only, at any time before the expi
ration of the time allowed for a rehearing, shall appear and petition the court
therefore, and give security for the costs, such defendant shall be permitted to plead,
demur, or answer to the bill, and to take testimony; and the cause shall be heard
anew on its merits, and such decree be rendered as may be equitable, and the court
may stay all proceedings in the meantime on the original decree; and if it have been
executed, may, on the final hearing, decree restitution; but notice of such petition
must be given to the opposite party, as in other suits; and the title to property sold
to a purchaser, in good faith, in pursuance of a decree, shall not be affected by any
such rehearing.
After the petition for rehearing- is allowed, the suit is a pending one, and the complainant may dismiss
it. Belcher v. Wilkinson, 54 Miss., 677.
521 (1861). Pleadings and practice; application of rules prescribed.—The
rules of pleading and practice herein prescribed shall apply to all cases in matters
in equity in the chancery courts, but the statutes regulating proceedings in matters
testamentary and of administration, in minors' business, and in cases of idiocy,
lunacy, and persons of unsound mind, or any other matter or proceeding in such
courts, shall be the rules of practice and proceeding in such cases; and all the pro
visions of law regulating the decrees of said courts in matters in equity, and
their operation and effect, and the manner of enforcing them, shall apply to all cases
in said courts, unless it be otherwise provided.
522 (1862). Mode of trial.—The mode of trial in chancery courts shall be the
same as heretofore practiced by such courts, except as modified by law.
523 (1863). Answer not required in certain cases.—In proceedings in matters
testamentary and of administration, in minors' business, and in cases of idiocy,
lunacy, and persons of unsound mind, as provided for by law, no answer shall be
required to any petition or application of any sort, and such a petition or applica
tion shall not be taken as confessed because of the want of an answer; but every
petition, application, or account shall be supported by the proper evidence, and may
be contested without an answer. And all such proceedings shall be as summary as
the statutes authorizing and regulating them contemplate; but when either of the
parties having a controversy in court as to any of said several matters shall require,
and the court shall see proper, it may direct plenary proceeding by bill or petition,
228

CHANCERY COURTS.

524-530

to which there shall be an answer, on oath or affirmation ; and if the party refuse
to answer to any matter alleged in the bill or petition, and proper for the court to
decide upon, the party refusing may be attached, fined, and imprisoned at the dis
cretion of the court, and the matters set forth in the bill or petition shall be taken
as confessed, and a decree be made accordingly.
524 (1864). Answer or demurrer may be filed.—Where an answer is not neces
sary in the matters mentioned in the preceding section, any one desiring to contest
any petition or application ma}- file a plea or an answer, or may demur to any
petition, and in that way test its sufficiency.
525 (1865). Pleadings to be subscribed.—All pleadings shall he subscribed by
the party or his solicitor.
526 (1866, 1867). Of bills and petitions- —The address of bills and petitions
may be "To the Chancery Court of the County of
," and may commence as
follows, to wit : " The complainant [or petitioner] shows to the court," and the
residence of the parties must be stated, following the address, thus : "A B, a citizen
of
, complainant, v. C D and E F, citizens of
, defendants."
If the bill conform to the statute, it is then unnecessary to name the defendants in the prayer for process.
White v. Thorua* 52 Miss., 4'J.
527 (1868). What bill must contain.—The bill must contain a statement of the
facts on which the complainant seeks relief, in ordinary and concise language, with
out repetition or needless prolixity, and conclude with a prayer for relief, without
a charge of combination or confederacy by the defendants, or the insufficiency of
the remedy at law, or other merely formal matter or similar useless averment, but
the bill may contain special interrogatories to the defendant; but it shall not be a
ground of objection to a bill that it contains all the parts of a bill according to the
former practice in chancery pleadings.
A fishing bill is demurrable. Richardson v. Wolf, 31 Miss., 616.
Where some of the allegations of the bill are too vague, a demurrer, limited thereto, should be sustained;
but in such case a demurrer to the whole bill would be overruled. White v. Thomas, 52 Miss., -VX
Complainant, to obviate a demurrer, must aver distinctly and clearly his case. Smith v. Hill, 52 Miss.,
607; Perkins v. Sanders, 56 Miss., 733.
528 (1869). Exhibits made part of bill.—Exhibits filed with a bill, as part of
it, shall be considered, on demurrer, as if copied in the bill.
529 (1938). Exhibits proved by affidavits or witnesses.—Exhibits to bills or
answers may be proved by affidavits filed with the exhibits in the clerk's office at
any time before the hearing, or by witnesses at the hearing; but two days' notice of
the taking of such affidavits, or of the purpose to produce witness at the hearing,
shall be given to the opposite party.
530 (1870). Of demurrers; form of demurrer. —Demurrers may be in the fol
lowing form, after giving the style of the case and its number, to wit:
"The demurrer of
to the bill exhibited against him by
: The said
defendant demurs to said bill, and prays the judgment of the court if he shall make
any further answer thereto; and he shows the following causes of demurrer to said
bill, to wit :
"First.
.
" Second.
.
" Third.
, etc. [Setting out each cause separately.]
"
:
, Solicitor for said Defendant."1
229

531-536

CUANCERY COURTS.

531 (1871). Certificate necessary.—A demurrer must not only be subscribed
by tbe solicitor interposing it, but must have attached his certificate that he believes
it ought to be sustained.
532 (1872). Demurrer to be set down.—The party demurring must set the
demurrer down on the docket for hearing at once if it be filed in term-time, and at
the next term if it be filed in vacation. If the party do not see that his demurrer
is set for hearing, it shall be overruled of course.
The part}' who files a demurrer in vacation is not allowed the whole of the next term in which to set
down his demurrer for hearing; he must do so promptly. Memphis R. R. Co v. Owens, 60 Miss., 227.
533 (1873, 1892). Of answers; answer must be full; charges of bill not
denied true.—The defendant shall answer fully all the allegations of the bill with
out being specially interrogated. All matters of fact averred in the bill and not
denied by the answer otherwise than by the general traverse, may be taken at the
hearing as admitted.
If facts be stated to be in defendant's knowledge, he must answer positively; as to facts not within his
knowledge, he must answer as to his information and belief, and not as to information only. McAllister v.
Clopton, 51 Miss., 257.
Facts within the personal knowledge of the defendant must be explicitly admitted or denied ; and if not
within his knowledge, he must deny all knowledge and information. ( Overruling Cowan v. Alsop, 51 Miss.,
159.) Mead v. Day, 54 Miss., 58.
An answer may refer to another answer in same court denying the averments of the bill, and, in the
absence of exception, is not to be taken as an admission of the averments of the bill. Davis v. Lumpkin,
57 Miss., 506.
The answer of one defendant will inure to the benefit of another. Salmon v. Smith, 58 Miss., 399'.
Where the answer fails to traverse a charge in the bill, evidence will not be considered which denies it.
Colbert v. Henley, 64 Miss., 374.
A denial in an answer upon information is sufficient to prevent the facts averred from being taken asadmitted. Carpenter v. Edwards, 64 Miss., 595.
534 (1874). Answer under oath unless waived in bill; answer of a corpo
ration. —The answer shall be sworn to by the defendant unless the complainant in
his bill shall waive an answer under oath; in which case the answer, whether
sworn to or not, shall not be evidence for the respondent. The answer of a corpo
ration need not be under its seal, but shall be sworn to by its president, general
manager, or superintendent or other general officer, unless an answer under oath
shall likewise be waived.
535 (1949). Rule requiring two witnesses modified. —The rule requiring two
witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances, to overthrow an answer
denying the allegations of the bill, is abolished in all cases where the bill is sworn
to by the complainant; and such an answer shall have only such weight and credit
as in view of the interest of the party making the same, and the other circum
stances of the case, it may be fairly entitled to.
A bill sworn to by the solicitor of the complainant is not within the statute. Jacks v. Bridewell, 51
Miss., 881 ; Waller v. Shannon, 53 Miss., 500.
The rule requiring two witnesses, etc.. applies only when the denial is positive, and does not apply when
on belief or as matter of inference or argument. Toulme v. Clark, 64 Miss., 471.
Nor does it apply where a sworn answer to an unsworn bill, is on information and belief merely. Snell
v. Fewell, 64 Miss., 655.
536 (1875). Answer may he made a cross-bill.—A defendant in a chancery
suit may make his answer a cross-bill against the complainant, or his co-defendant
or defendants, or all of them; and may introduce any new matter therein mate
rial to his defense, and may require the same to be answered ; and in the same
230

CHANCERY COURTS.

537-541

manner may require of the complainant, or any of the defendants, a discovery of
any matter material to his defense, and he shall have process thereon against the
defendants to such cross-bill, and the like proceedings thereon as in other bills or
cross-bills ; but live days' notice, in writing, to the solicitor of the complainant in the
original bill shall be sufficient to require the complainant to appear to such cross
bill, and to answer the same within said time, unless the court, or chancellor in
vacation, for cause shown, extend the time for answering. (See § 121.)
Relief cannot be granted a defendant except upon a cross-bill filed by him. Arnold v. Miller, 26 Miss.i
152; Millsaps v. Pfeifer, 44 Miss., 805.
Persons not parties to the original bill cannot be made parties to a cross-bill. Ladner v. Ogden, 31 Miss.,
332 ; Bishop v. Miller, 48 Miss., 364; Wright v. Frank, 61 Miss., 32. (For an exception to this rule, see §121-)
Relief cannot be granted on a cross-bill which is purely legal ; and new and distinct matters, not embraced
in the original bill, cannot be made the foundation for relief on the cross-bill. Gilmer v. Felhour, 45 Miss.,
627; Wright v. Frank, 61 Miss , 32.
As against the complainant in the original bill, the cross-bill need not show equity to support the juris
diction of the court. Thomason v. Neely, 50 Miss., 310.
The dismissal of the original bill, as a rule, carries with it the cross-bill; but to this there are exceptions.
Gilmer v. Felhour, 45 Miss., 627; Jacks v. Bridewell, 51 Miss., 881; Thomason v. Neely, 50 Miss., 310; Bel
cher v. Wilkinson, 54 Miss., 677; Dewees v. Dewees, 55 Miss., 315.
The time within which a cross-bill may be filed rests within the discretion of the court. Burford v. Ker
sey, 48 Miss., 642.
A cross-bill will not stay the proceedings in the original cause, except by order of court. Griswold v.
Simmons, 50 Miss., 137.
If the cross-bill be taken as confessed it will have the same effect as if the complainant had admitted
the same facts in the answer. Griswold v. Simmons, 50 Miss., 137.
Unless the cross-bill presents ground for relief, it is nothing more than an answer, and is demurrable.
Buckingham v. Wesson, 54 Miss., 526.
A cross-bill may be predicated upon separate and independent matter if it grow out of the same subjectmatter involved in the original bill. Dewees v. Dewees, 55 Miss., 315.
537 (1876). Proceedings to compel an answer; defendant attached.—When
a defendant shall fail to answer within the time required by law, the complainant,
instead of taking a decree pro confesso, may obtain from the chancellor an order
for an attachment, returnable in term-time, to compel such defendant to answer;
but affidavit must be first made and filed in the cause, by the complainant or his
solicitor, that such answer is necessary for the ends of justice, as he believes.
538 (1877). Proceedings on refusal to answer. —Any defendant attached for
the purpose of coercing an answer, who may refuse to answer, shall be committed
to prison, there to remain until he do answer.
539 (1878). Before whom answers of non-residents may be sworn to.—
Answers of defendants out of the state may be sworn to 'before any commissioner
for this state, or any judge, chancellor, or any justice of the peace, notary public,
or the mayor or alderman of any city or town, or clerk of a court of record, in the
state or country where such defendant may be, if such officer shall be authorized
to administer oaths by the law of such state or country; and the certificate of such
officer as to his official character, shall be .prima facie evidence thereof.
540 (1870). Replication to answer unnecessary.—A replication to an answer
shall not be required, but the cause shall be at issue when the answer is filed.
541 (1880). Plea set down or replied to. —When a plea shall be filed the com
plainant may set it down for argument upon its sufficiency in law, or he may reply
to it.
A bill cannot be taken as confessed while a plea thereto is pending. It is not the duty of the defendant
to set the plea for hearing. Smith v. Cozart, 45 Miss., 698.
231

542-547

CHANCERY COURTS.

542 (1881). Amendments liberally allowed.—Amendments shall be allowed
in the pleadings and proceedings, on liberal terms, to prevent delay and injustice.
Neither an amended nor supplemental bill, proposing to change the frame and essential character of the
original bill, should be allowed. Chirk v. Hull, 31 Miss , 520; Miazza v. Yerger,'53 Miss , 135.
An amendment should not be allowed if it do not charge a material fact not contained in the original.
Richardson v. Wolfe, 31 Miss., 610.
An amendment cannot be made, unless specially authorized by statute, without an order of court Hunt
v. Walker, 40 Miss., 590.
But a refusal to strike out an amendment is equivalent to leave Ward v. Whitfield, 64 Miss., 754.
It is error to dissolve an injunction because of a defective bond, without giving time to amend it. Smith
v. Harrington, 49 Miss., 771.
It is within the discretion of the court to allow a defendant to withdraw an answer and demur. Kimbrough v. Curtis. 50 Miss.. 117.
It is not error to refuse complainant leave to file an amended bill after the cause is set for final hearing,
which proposes to introduce new grounds of relief known to him when he prepared his original bill. Walker
v. Brown, 45 Miss., 615.
Amendments may be allowed after the reversal of the case in the supreme court if the applicant have
not been guilty of negligence. Hanserd v. Gray, 46 Miss., 75.
Even if the cause be set for final hearing it is error to refuse an application to amend the bill so as to
cure a variance between its allegations and the evidence, where the complainant has not been guilty of negli
gence in not asking to amend betore that time. Jeffries v. Jeffries, 66 Miss., 216.
543 (1882). When bill amended without leave. —The complainant may amend
his bill as of course, without applying to the court, at any time before the defend
ant has made defense, upon complainant paying the costs of furnishing a copy of
the amendment to such of the defendants as have taken out copies of the original
bill, and of notice of the amendment to be served on all of the defendants. In
all other cases amendments can be made only by leave of the court, or the chancel
lor in vacation, and upon such terms as the court or chancellor may impose.
544 (1883). Defendant to answer amendment after notice.—When a bill is
amended, after answer filed, and an answer to the amendment is necessary, the
defendant shall be allowed twenty days after notice of the amendment to answer,
failing in which the matter of the amendment may be taken as confessed; and if
the defendant or his solicitor be present in court when an amendment is made, other
notice shall not be required.
It is unnecessary to summon a defendant to answer the amendment, if he be duly summoned to the
original bill, where the amendment does not vary or affect his rights. Albright v. Flowers, 52 Miss., 246.
If the amendment to a bill be material, the defendant should be allowed a reasonable time to answer it.
(One hour and three-quarters held unreasonable in the case.) Davis v. Davis, 62 Miss., HIS.
If, after answer filed, the bill is materially amended, the defendant sh mid be permitted to treat it as a
new bill. Davis v Davis. 62 Miss., 818.
545 (1884). How amendments made.—Amendments of bills and answers shall
be made on paper, distinct from the bill or answer, except where the amendment is
of a brief character, when it may be made by an erasure or interlineation with ink
of a different color from that in which the bill or answer is written ; and the amend
ment shall be made in such a manner that it may be ascertained with certainty in
what it consists.
546 (1885). Bill to make new parties filed in vacation. —A complainant desir
ing to make new parties to his bill may file his amended bill for that purpose in the
clerk's office, in vacation, without leave of the court or chancellor; and thereupon
the clerk shall issue process upon such bill, in like manner as if it were an orig
inal bill.
547 (1886, 1887). Of multifariousness.—If a demurrer for multifariousness
shall be sustained, the court may authorize amendments by directing separate bills

CIIANCKRY COURTS.

548-551

to be filed without new process as to the parties before the court, and by the addition
of new parties, or otherwise, as may be necessary or proper for the attainment of
justice; but the uniting in oue bill of. several distinct and unconnected matters of
equity against the same defendants shall not be an objection to the bill.
The statute does not permit the uniting in one bill of distinct and unconnected equities against discon
nected defendants; it in no way affects the question as to disconnected parties or subjects. Columbus v.
Humphries. (14 Miss., 258.
Statute applied. Georgia R. R. Co. v. Brooks, 60 Miss., 583.
548 (1888). No objection at hearing for misjoinder. —An objection for mis
joinder of parties taken at the hearing shall not be considered, but the court shall
decree upon the merits without regard to such objection.
549 (1889). When defendant shall plead, answer, or demur, etc. —When the
process shall be returned executed, or proof of publication made, the defendant shall
plead, answer, or demur on or before the first day of the term, if the process be
returnable to a regular term of the court; and if the process require the appearance
of the defendant on a rule-da}' in vacation, the defendant shall plead, answer, or
demur on or before the monthly rule-day next succeeding that to which 6uch pro
cess is returnable; and if the defendant shall fail to plead, answer, or demur at the
time required, the complainant's bill may then, or at any time afterward, before
plea, answer, or demurrer is filed, be taken as confessed against such defendant ; a
pro confesso, so taken, shall not be set aside without good cause shown. If the bill
be taken for confessed against all the defendants, the complainant may set down
the cause for hearing at once.
A cause ought not to be set down for linal hearing before a pro confesso is taken against a defendant who
hiis failed to appear. Beville v. Mcintosh, 41 Miss., 516.
When application is made to set aside it pro confesso the defendant must exhibit his answer, or must
show why he cannot do so, and ask for further time; if he do neither he will not be considered as showing
"good cause." Pittman v. McClellan, 55 Miss., 299; Pattison v.'Josselyn, 43 Miss., 373.
When a pro confesso has been taken through the mere neglect of defendant to answer, nnd the conse
quences of the neglect do not operate injuriously to the complainant, except to deprive him of the advantage
of such a decree, the defendant should not be deprived of making defense. Yost v. Alderson, 68 Miss., 40.
Upon appeal from a decree setting aside a pro confesso, unless the record be shown to contain all the
" showing" made, it will be presumed that the chancellor decided correctly. Bryant v. Rosenbauni, 62 Miss.,
191 ; Peterson v. Kittredge, 65 Miss., 33.
Where process is returnable before the clerk, at rules, the defendant has until the next succeeding ruleday to plead, although a term of court intervene. Jones v. Hervey, 66 Miss., 99.
550 (1890). Additional time to plead, answer, or demur.—Additional time to
plead, answer, or demur may be allowed by the court on cause shown, and when a
plea or demurrer shall be disallowed, the defendant shall answer within such rea
sonable time as the court may require ; but an answer may be required to be filed
duringithe same term, and should be where the plea or demurrer is merely for delay.
When a demurrer is overruled because not set for hearing, it is not improper to require an answer at once.
Memphis R. R. Co v Owens, 00 Miss., 227.
551 (1891). Exceptions to bills or answers. —Exceptions to bills must be taken
before answer filed, and exceptions to answers must be taken at or before the next
term after the answer has been filed. When exceptions shall be taken in vacation
the clerk shall refer the same to a master, who shall report thereon to the next, term
of the court, when the court shall hear and determine the same, if applied to;
otherwise the report of the master shall be adopted. Exceptions taken in termtime shall be set down on the motion-docket by the party excepting, and be dis

552-558

CHANCERY COURTS.

posed of, if possible, during such term. In all cases exceptions shall be taken in
writing and filed in the cause.
552 (1893). When answer to be taken as true. —If the complainant shall set
down the cause for hearing before the expiration of the time allowed for taking
testimony, the answer shall be taken as true.
The date of filing, and not the date of the affidavit to the answer, controls; and if no objection be made
at the hearing that the cause is prematurely set for trial, it will be a waiver. Hart v. Bloomfield. t!6 Miss., 100.
553 (1894). Guardian ad litem. —The court may appoint a guardian ad litem toany infant or defendant of unsound mind, and allow him suitable compensation
payable out of the estate of such party, but the appointment shall not be made
except when the court shall consider it necessary for the protection of the interest
of such defendant ; and a decree or judgment of any court shall not be void or
erroneous because of the failure to have a guardian ad litem.
554 (1947). Note of evidence made on hearing. —On the hearing of each causethe chancellor or clerk shall make a note of the depositions and instruments of
written evidence introduced and read by the parties respectively, showing the order
of their introduction, and by which party ottered; and such note of the evidence
shall be filed with the papers of the cause, and shall be part of the record thereof;
but the want of such note or memorandum shall not affect the rights of any party.
555 (1895). Bills of exceptions. —Either party may tender a bill o.f exceptions
in a chancery court whenever it may be necessary to make any matter a part of
the record in the cause, and the chancellor shall sign the same; and all the provis
ions of law applicable to obtaining bills of exceptions in a circuit court shall apply
to a chancery court. (See
733-737.)
556 (1896). Staying proceedings on bill of review.—When a bill of review
shall be filed, the chancellor, in term-time or in vacation, may direct the proceed
ings on the decree sought to be reviewed to be stayed until further order, requiring
such security for the performance of the decree as he may think reasonable ; but
such stay of proceedings shall not be a matter of right ; and on disposing of the
bill of review, the court may render a decree against the parties to such security
as may be proper.
557 (1903). Injunctions; evidence of complainant's equity required.—An
injunction shall not be granted unless the judge or chancellor shall be satisfied of
the complainant's equity and of the truth of the allegations of the bill, by oath or
other means.
558 (1905). Bond required to stay proceedings at law.—An injunction to stay
proceedings at law shall not be issued until after the party obtaining the fiat for the
same shall enter into bond, payable to the plaintifff at law, in double the amount of
the debt sought to be enjoined, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
of by the judge or chancellor, or by the clerk issuing the injunction, conditioned for
paying all money and costs due or to become due to the plaintifff in the action at
law, and also such costs and damages as shall be awarded against him in case the
injunction shall be dissolved; which bond shall be taken by the clerk issuing the
injunction, and shall be by him filed with the bill. If any clerk shall, in any
case, issue an injunction without having first taken bond as required by law, he shall
forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered in
234

CHANCERY COURTS.

559-565

an action, and shall, moreover, be liable on his official bond for all damages sus
tained thereby.
559 (1906). Bond when injunction is not to stay proceedings at law.— Where
the injunction shall not be for the stay of proceedings in an action at law for the
recovery of money, or upon a judgment requiring the payment of money, the party
applying for the injunction shall, before the issuance of the same, enter into bond
in like manner, in a sufficient penalty, to be fixed by the judge granting the same,
conditioned for the payment of all damages and costs which may be awarded against
him, or which the opposite party may suffer or sustain by reason of the suing out
of said injunction, in case the same shall be dissolved.
560 (1907). Bonds in particular cases.—If the injunction be to stay a sale
under execution of certain designated property, real or personal, or any proceeding
at law as to certain specified things, and not'to restrain proceedings at law generally,
bond may be given as in the last preceding section; but if the injunction shall be
obtai/ied on the ground of some objection to the judgment or execution, or the
demand of the party enjoined to sustain his claim, and shall not be confined to a
contest of his right to subject to his demand particular property by his proceeding,'
bond shall be given as prescribed in the section next before the last.
561 (1908). Bond to enjoin collection of taxes.—An injunction shall not be
granted to stay the collection of state, county, city, town, or village taxes unless
upon condition that, before its issuance, the party obtaining it shall enter into bond
payable to the state, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved as in case
of other injunctions, in a penalty at least equal to double the amount of taxes sought
to be enjoined, conditioned for the prompt payment of the taxes enjoined, and
damages and costs, in case the injunction shall be dissolved.
562 (1909). Bond not required of state, county, etc. —Xeither the state, nor
any county, nor any state officer of this state suing out an injunction in his official
character, shall be required to give bond to obtain an injunction.
563 (1910). Injunction dissolved, unless bill filed by first term.— When an
injunction or other restraining order or process shall be granted in vacation, the
bill or petition on which the same was granted shall be filed forthwith in the court
to which such process shall be returnable; and in default thereof the same may be
docketed, on the application of the defendant thereto, and the injunction or other
order or process dissolved, discharged, or set aside, unless good cause be shown to
the contrary.
564 (1?11). Issuance of injunction a release of errors.—When an injunction
shall be granted to stay the execution of a judgment at law, in whole or in part,
the issuance of such injunction shall operate as a release of al] errors in the judg
ment.
565 (1912). Chancellor may order restoration of personal property levied
on. — When an injunction shall be granted to stay the sale of personal property,
levied on by virtue of an execution, the chancellor may order the property to be
restored to the complainant, on his giving bond to the sheriff, with sufficient sureties,
in double the value of the property, to be assessed by such sheriff, payable to the
plaintifff in the execution, and conditioned for the redelivery of the property to the
sheriff in case the injunction shall be dissolved ; which bond shall be returned by
235

566-569

CHANCERY COURTS.

the sheriff with the execution, and shall have the force and effect of a judgment ;
and in case the property shall not be redelivered to the sheriff within fifteen days
after the dissolution of the injunction, the clerk of the court to which the bond was
returned shall issue execution thereon for the amount of the assessed value of said
property and all costs. But in such case the lien on the property, created by the
judgment or decree and the execution and levy, shall remain in force; and the sher
iff, on a writ of venditioni exponas, or other order of sale, may seize the property
so levied on wherever the same may be found.
566 (1913). Similar proceedings in case of property seized under mortgage,
etc.— When an injunction shall be granted to restrain a sale of personal property
seized under a deed of trust or mortgage with power of 6ale, or in any case in which
the sale of such property may be enjoined, the chancellor may order the property to
be restored to the complainant on his giving bond, with sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the chancellor or such officer as he may designate, in double the
value of the property, payable to the person by whom such property is to be sur
rendered and conditioned for the return of the property to the person surrendering
it, if the injunction shall be dissolved; and such bond shall be filed with the bill on
which the injunction was granted, and shall have the force and effect of a decree
against the obligors for the amount thereof; and, if not discharged by the delivery,
within fifteen days after the dissolution of the injunction, of the property to the
person in whose possession it was before said order for restoration to the complain
ant, execution shall be issued on such bond by the clerk for the value of said prop
erty.
567 (1914). Motions to dissolve injunctions. —Motions to dissolve injunctions
may be heard by the chancellor in vacation, on five days' written notice to the
opposite party, accompanied with a copy of the motion ; and if the motion be made
upon the answer of the defendant, a copy of such answer and the' exhibits filed
therewith, shall be served with the notice and copy of motion. In term-time,
motions to dissolve on bill and auswer may be heard five days after answer filed,
on three days' notice to the opposite party, in writing, or by entering the motion
on the docket for the like space of time.
Service of the notice on the complainants' solicitor is as valid as if on the complainant. Such notice is not
vitiated by a misdescription of the client, if there be no mistaking the cause to which it relates. The motion
may be heard by the chancellor in any county of his district Hiller v. Gotten, 54 Miss., 551.
The law does not authorize the hearing of the motion by the chancellor out of his district. Adams v.
Kyzer, 61 Miss., 407.
The complainant cannot object to the hearing of the motion on the statutory number of days after the
filing of the answer, as too early, if the law be complied with in other respects. Carraway v. Odeneal, 06
Miss., 223.
568 (1915). Effect of exception to answer on motion to dissolve.—A motion
to dissolve an injunction upon bill and answer shall not be entertained pending
exceptions to the answer for insufficiency, unless the chancellor be of opinion that
the matters of exception would not affect the motion, even if they be well taken.
The motion to dissolve must be entertained, unless the chancellor be of opinion that the exceptions are *
well taken and affect the merits of the motion; to determine this, he must examine the bill, the answer, and
the exceptions. O'Connor v. Starke, 59 Miss., 481.
569 (1916). Affidavits read in evidence. —Either party may, on the hearing of
a motion to dissolve an injunction on bill and answer, read in evidence affidavits
236

CHANCERY COURTS.

570-573

taken by him, on two days' notice to the opposite party, of the time and place of
taking such affidavits.
570 (1917). Effect of dissolution of injunction on the bill.—When, on
motion, an injunction shall be wholly dissolved, the bill of complaint shall be dis
missed of course, with costs, unless sufficient cause be shown against its dismission
at the next succeeding term of the court.
An order dissolving an injunction, on motion for that purpose, does not of itself dismiss the bill. Pickle
v. Holland, 24 Miss., 56G.
On mere motion to dissolve, on bill and answer, it is error, on sustaining the motion, to dismiss the bill at
once. Draoe v. Winter. 41 Miss., 517; Guion v. Pickett, 42 Miss., 77; Maury v. Smith, 46 Miss., 81 ; Strong
v. Harrison, 62 Miss., 61.
The object of the siatute is to give the complainant an opportunity to amend or to take further proof;
but where the case is disposed of on its merits, both sides having taken their proofs, the case can be dismissed
at once. Bass v. Nelms, 56 .Miss., 502.
571 (1920). Certain injunction-bond to operate as a judgment. —A bond to
enjoin proceeding at law on a judgment for money, upon the dissolution of the
injunction, in whole or in part, shall have the force and effect of a judgment against
the obligors; and being certified by the clerk of the court in which it is filed to the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, execution may be issued
against the obligors for the amount of the judgment which was enjoined.
572 (1918). Damages on dissolution of certain injunctions.—When an injunc
tion, obtained to stay proceedings on a judgment at law for money, shall be dis
solved, in whole or in part, damages at the rate of five per centum shall be added
to the judgment enjoined, or to so much thereof as shall be found due, including
the costs; and the clerk of the chancery court shall certify such dissolution to the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, who shall thereupon issue
execution for the damages, as well as for the original debt and costs. Damages at
the same rate shall be allowed upon the dissolution of injunctions to stay sales
under deeds of trust, or mortgages with power of sale; and such damages may be
added to the debt, and collected by the sale of the property, or execution may issue
from the chancery court for the same, together with the costs of suit, unless the
value of the property the sale of which was restrained, be less than the amount of
the debt, in which case the damages shall be computed on the value of the property,
to be ascertained and determined by the chancellor; and in all cases upon the dis
solution of an injunction the damages may be ascertained by the court or chancel
lor, or upon reference to a master, and proof, if necessary, and decree therefore be
made, 'and execution be issued thereon.
Attornpy's fees and cost of the transcript of papers used on the trial are recoverable. Baggett v. Beard,
43,Miss., 120.
573 (1919). Suggestion of damages and decree therefore.— Where the party
claiming damages shall desire, upon the dissolution of an injunction, to have the
same ascertained and decreed by the chancellor or the chancery court, he shall sug
gest in writing, on the hearing of the motion to dissolve the injunction, the nature
and amount of the damages; and the chancellor or court shall hear evidence, if
necessary, and assess the damages, and decree the same to the party entitled thereto,
for which execution may be issued, as in other cases, against the obligors in the
bond given for the injunction. And if the chancellor, instead of hearing evidence
as to said damages—which may be by witnesses examined before him in vacation or
237

574-578

CHANCERY COURTS.

in term-time, or by deposition, according to the circumstances—shall see proper, he
may make a reference to a master to take testimony and report in such matter; but
nothing herein contained shall prevent the party entitled from maintaining a suit
on the injunction-bond, if his damages shall not be assessed as herein provided for.
A decree dissolving an injunction and awarding damages is interlocutory. Wilson v. Pugh, 61 Miss., 449.
The section does not authorize an independent suit on the bond before final decree. Goodbar v. Dunn,
61 Miss., 624.
If proof of damajres claimed under the statute be insufficient, it is not error to disallow the claim without
prejudice to a suit on the bond. Davis v. Hart, 66 Miss., 642.
574 (1921). Receivers; not appointed without notice, unless, etc.—A receiver
shall not be appointed without the party praying the appointment have given the
opposite part}' at least five days' notice of the time and place of making the appli
cation, and one additional day for every thirty miles of travel thereto, unless it
shall appear that an immediate appointment is necessary, or good cause be shown
for not giving notice.
575. Complainant to give bond before receiver appointed without, notice. —
Before any receiver shall be appointed without notice, the party applying for
the appointment shall execute bond, payable to the adverse party, in a sufficient
penalty, to be fixed by the court or chancellor, with sufficient sureties, conditioned
to pay all damages that may he sustained by the appointment of such receiver in
case the appointment be revoked; and said bond shall he filed in the cause, and
damages may be recovered thereon in the suit in the same manner as damages are
recoverable on an injunction-bond, or the party entitled to damages may maintain
an independent suit on such bond therefore.
576. Receivers may be appointed or removed in vacation.— Receivers may
be appointed by the chancellor in vacation, as well as by the chancery court in termtime; and any receiver may be removed b}- the chancellor in vacation, as well as
by the chancery court in term-time; but before any receiver shall be so removed in
vacation, the party applying therefore must give the adverse party, or his solicitor,
and the receiver five days' notice of the time and place of presenting such applica
tion ; such applications may be heard in term-time on two days' notice.
577 (1024). Receivers subject to orders of court, and may apply therefore in
vacation.—Receivers shall be subject to the orders, instructions, and decrees of the
court, and of the chancellor in vacation; and they, or any party in interest, may
apply therefore in term-time, or to the chancellor in vacation, or for modifications of
previous orders or instructions; and obedience thereto may be enforced by •attach
ment.
578. Bond in lieu of receiver.—On an application for the appointment of a
receiver, the court or chancellor may, in the exercise of a sound discretion, in lieu
of a receiver, order that the party against whom the receiver is asked execute bond,
to be approved by the court or chancellor, payable to the party who asks for the
appointment, with sufficient sureties, in a sufficient penalty, to be fixed by the court
or chancellor, conditioned according to the nature of the case, as the court or chan
cellor may direct. Upon the execution, approval, and filing of such bond, the
receiver shall not be appointed; and any decree rendered in the cause on final
hearing against the principal obligor in the bond shall be rendered against the sure
ties therein, within the scope of its conditions and penaltv. On an application to
238

CHANCERY COURTS.

579-585

remove a receiver who shall have been appointed without notice, the court or chan
cellor may exercise the same discretion, and, in lieu of retaining the receiver, may
remove him upon the execution, approval, and filing of such bond ; and decree may
be rendered thereon as if given on the application for the appointment of a receiver.
579 (1922). Bond of receiver. —Every receiver, when appointed, shall, before
being authorized to act as such, give bond, payable to the state, in such penalty and
with such sureties as may be approved by the court or chancellor, conditioned that
he will in all things faithfully discharge the duties of his office as receiver; which
bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and may be put in suit, in the name
of the state, for the use of the party aggrieved, from time to time, until the whole
penalty shall be recovered.
580 (1925). Receiver of money paid into court.—When money shall be paid
into court under its order, a receiver may be appointed to keep the same, who shall
give bond and security as in other cases; but if the money shall be ordered to be
paid to the clerk of such court, his official bond shall cover it, and an additional
bond may be required if the court or chancellor shall think proper.
581 (1926). Receiver of estate of decedent, minor, etc. —In all cases in which
it may be thought to be necessary for the protection of the estate of decedents,
minors, and persons of unsound mind, a receiver may be appointed, either by the
court or by the chancellor in vacation, subject to the foregoing provisions.
582 (1923). Compensation of receiver. —Receivers shall be entitled to have
such compensation for their services as the court shall allow, and shall have a
lien upon the property in their hands for the payment thereof, and of their nec
essary expenses. The court shall make such order to compel the payment thereof
as may be just and necessary, and may decree the payment thereof by any of the
parties as a portion of the costs of the suit.
583 (1897). New bond required in certain cases.—When it shall be alleged
that the security on an injunction or receiver's bond, or any bond taken upon any
proceeding in the chancery court, is insufficient, the chancellor shall have power to
hear and determine the same in vacation, as well as in term-time, and may order
the injunction to be dissolved, or the receiver to be suspended or removed, or may
make such other order as may be just and equitable in the case, unless a new bond
with sufficient sureties be given within twenty days, or such time as he shall appoint ;
but if done in vacation, at least five days' notice of the time and place of making
the application shall be given to the opposite party.
An injunction ought not to be dissolved becnu.se of an insufficient bond, without allowing time for the
execution of an amended or new one. New v. Wright, 44 Miss., 202; Smith v. Harrington, 49 Miss., 771.
584 (1927). Masters in chancery.—The court may appoint two or more persons
in each county to be masters of the court, who shall remain in office during the
pleasure of the chancellor, and who shall receive a reasonable compensation for
services rendered by them, as fixed by law, or allowed by the court, and taxed in
the costs, and collected in the same manner as the fees of the clerk. The clerk
shall issue to such persons a certificate of their appointment.
585 (1928). Special commissioners.—The court may also appoint a special
commissioner in any particular case.
239

■
586-591

.

CHANCERY COURTS.

586 (1929): Powers of masters- —The masters in chancery shall have power to
administer oaths ; to take the examination of witnesses in cases pending in any
court; to examine and report upon all matters referred to them; to execute all
decrees directed to them to be executed; and all the powers properly belonging to
masters or commissioners in chancery according to the practice of equity courts as
heretofore exercised.
587 (1930). Witnesses subpoenaed by master. — Masters in chancery shall have
power to issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend before them to testify in any mat
ter referred to them or generally in the cause, and the subpoenas shall be executed
in like manner as subpoenas issued by the clerk of the court; and if any witness
shall fail to appear, the master shall proceed by process of attachment to compel
the witnesses to attend and give evidence.
588 (1931). Fees of masters for copies.—Masters in chancery shall be author
ized to charge for copies of reports, or such other papers as the parties may require,
the same fees allowed the clerk for similar services, to be paid by the parties requir
ing the same.
589 (1932). Bond may be required of master or special commissioner.—The
court or chancellor may in any case require a master or special commissioner who
is directed to make sale of any property, to give bond, in such penalty and with
sufficient sureties to be approved as the court or chancellor may direct, payable to .
the state, and conditioned to pay according to law all money which may come into
his hands as such master or special commissioner, which bond shall be filed in
said court; ancLfor any breach of its condition execution may be issued, on order
of the court, for the sum due.
590 (1933). Account ordered in vacation or term-time. —The chancellor may
direct an account to be taken in any cause in vacation as well as in term-time; and
when the master shall doubt as to the principles on which the accounts shall be
taken, or as to the propriety of admitting any item of debit or credit claimed by
either party, he may state in writing the points on which he shall doubt, and sub
mit the same for decision to the chancellor in vacation.
Notice to the parties in interest of the time and plitce of taking the account should be t'ven, except
where it is to be taken on the facts as they appear in the pleadings, or is merely a calculation of interest.
Felder v. Wall, 26 Miss., 595; Cobb v. Duke, 36 Miss., 60; Chapman v. Evans, 44 Miss., 113; Gaines v.
Coney, 51 Miss., 323.
591 (1934). Proceedings without notice in certain cases.—In suits for the
foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages or deeds of trust, and other like cases
involving a mere computation of the sum due on the face of the pleadings and
evidence, if the court shall think the complainant entitled to a decree the court may
compute the amount due, or a reference may be made to the clerk, or a master, to
make such computation, who shall proceed, without notice to the parties, and make
his report without delay, and amotion to confirm such report shall not be necessary;
but the report shall be confirmed and a final decree passed of course, unless cause
be shown to the contrary.
The statute applies to suits to enforce a vendor's lieu. Kilcrease v. Lum, 36 Miss., 569.
To order a reference to take an account, it is not necessary to remand the cause to rules. Griswold v.
Simmons, ;j0 Miss., 137.
It is not necessary to enter separate orders of reference and confirmation. Brooks v. Robinson, 54
Miss., 272.
240

CHANCERY COURTS.

592-597

592 (1935). Decree for balance after sale of property.—Upon the confirmation
of the report of the sale of any property, real or personal, under a decree for sale
to satisfy a mortgage, deed of trust, or other lien on such property, if there be a
balance due to the complainant the court, upon motion, shall give a decree against
the defendant for any such balance for which by the record of the case he may be
personally liable, upon which decree execution may issue.
The right to move for a personal decree is not confined to the term at which the sale is confirmed, but
may be exercised at any time before the decree becomes barred. Notice is unnecessary if the motion be
made at the time of confirmation, but if made at a subsequent term it is necessary. Such decree may be
obtained against the personal representative of a deceased debtor. Weir v. Field, 67 Miss., 292.
593 (1952). Chancellor may sign decrees in vacation.—When a cause has
been taken under advisement at a term of the court by the chancellor, or when a
cause or matter has been tried or heard in vacation by a chancellor, he may sign the
decree in such case or matter in vacation, as well as in term-time, and it shall be
entered on the minute-book of the chancery court in which such cause or matter
is pending, and shall have the same force and effect as if entered in term-time.
594 (1953). Decree to operate as judgment of circuit court.—The decree of a
court of chancery shall have the force, operation, and effect of a judgment at law
in the circuit court.
595 (1954). Decree to operate as a conveyance.—When a decree shall be made
for a conveyance, release, or acquittance, or other writing, and the party against
whom the decree is made shall not comply therewith, then such decree shall be con
sidered and taken in all courts of law and equity to have the same operation and
effect, and shall be as available, as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance, or
other writing had been executed, iu conformity to the decree; or the court may
appoint a commissioner to execute such writing, which shall have the same effect as
if executed by the party.
596 (1955). Rights of infants saved.—When a decree shall be made for the
sale or conveyance of the real estate of an infant, such decree shall be binding on
the infant unless he shall, within one year after attaining the age of twenty-one
years, show to the court good cause to the contrary; and it shall not be necessary
to insert the saving in the decree, but the saving shall not extend to decrees for the
Bale of the property of deceased persons, authorizing sales by guardians, or enforc
ing deeds of trust or mortgages.
An infant may by an original bill impeach a decree against him. Sledge v. Boone, 57 Miss., 222; Enochs
v. Harrelson, 57 Miss., 465.
A party, within the year after his arriving at majority, may attack a decree rendered against him during
infancy by averring matter aliunde the record. After the expiration of the year he stands on the same ground
as if he had been adult when the decree was entered. Mayo v. Clancy, 57 Miss., 674.
If the infant wish to interpose a new defense, he must, in general, wait until he have become adult; but
for special circumstances shown1 may obtain leave to make new defense during infancy; if the desire be to
impeach the decree for fraud, collusion, or error, he may proceed by original bill during minority. McLemore
v. Chicago R. R. Co., 58 Miss., 514.
An absolute title cannot be acquired under a decree against an infant until the expiration of the year
after his majority. The purchaser of the property should be made a party to the proceeding to vacate the
decree. McLemore v. Chicago R. R. Co., 58 Miss., 514.
The affirmance of the decree by the supreme court will not bar the application for a rehearing; and this is
true though the infant prosecuted the appeal. Vaughn v. Hudson, 59 Miss., 421.
A decree rendered in an infant's favor on a bill filed in his name by a next friend, cannot, in the absence
of fraud, be re-opened by the infant. Johns v. Harper, 61 Miss., 142.
597 (1956). Sheriff to execute decrees; clerk to issue process.—Decrees,
where a master or special commissioner is not appointed to execute them, shall be
241
16

598-602

CHANCERY COURTS.

executed by the sheriff; aud the clerk shall issue all writs of fieri facias, habere
facias possessionem, or other final process, according to the nature of the case,
directed to the sheriff, and returnable to the next term of the court or at such other
time as in a given case may be prescribed.
The statute embraces, and authorizes the issuance of, a writ of assistance. Griswold v. Simmons, 50
Miss , 123; Jones v. Hooper, 50 Miss., 510.
598 (1957). Fieri facias or garnishment on decrees for money. —Whenever
the court shall render an order, judgment, or decree for the payment of money
agiiinst any executor, administrator, or guardian, or any other party litigant therein,
a compliance with such order, judgment, or decree may be enforced by process of
fieri facias or garnishment. (See § 2130, 2151.)
599 (1959). Of sales under decrees.—Every sale of real estate ordered by a
decree of any court of chancery shall be made for cash, unless otherwise ordered
by the court, and at such place and on such notice as may be directed in the decree ;
and if direction be not given, at such place and on such notice as is required in case
of sales of land under execution at law. The person making the sale, if made on
credit, shall take bond, with sufficient security, in double the amount of the pur
chase-money, payable to the parties entitled to receive the same under the decree,
or to such person as the court may direct, conditioned for the payment of the pur
chase-money, with interest at the rate borne by the decree, to the time when the
same, as directed by the decree, shall fall due; such bond shall be returned and
filed in the clerk"s office, and if not paid at maturity, shall have the force and effect
of a judgment; and the clerk shall issue execution thereon. If any of the obligees
be dead, the execution shall be in favor of the survivors and the representatives of
those deceased. And in all decrees for the sale of real estate, the chancellor may
fix a sum to be paid on sale, and if the sale be not confirmed, the sum so paid shall
be returned to the bidder. If the purchaser fail to pay the amount of his bid or to
comply with the decree, the amount advanced shall go to the party entitled to the
purchase-money, and the land shall be resold.
The presumptions of validity which the lnw attaches to ancient deeds will aid an administrator's or
executor's sale. Stevenson v. McReary, 12 Smed. & M., 9.
Failure to pive the prescribed notice will not render the sale void. Bland v. Muncaster 24 Miss 62 ■
Hanks v. Neal, 44 Miss., 212.
600. Bond to prevent confirmation (Laws 1884, p. 71). —The party who objects
to a sale under a decree because of the inadequacy of the bid, or any person inter
ested therein, may prevent the confirmation thereof by entering into bond in a
penalty equal to double the amount of the bid, with sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the court or clerk, payable to the opposite party, conditioned to pay all
costs of a resale, and that the property shall bring thereat an advance of not less
than twenty per centum upon the bid, exclusive of the costs of resale.
The statute relates to the remedy. Clmffe v. Aaron, G2 Miss., 29.
One who procures a resale under the statute must be treated as starting the bidding on the resale at
twenty per centum advance on the former sale. Mason v. Martin, 0! Miss., 572.
601 (2044). Court may fix terms of sale.—All property may be sold on such
terms and at such time and place as the court may direct.
602 (2048). Lien on land sold on credit.—All land sold under decree of the
chancery court shall be held liable and subject to a lieu for the unpaid purchase
242

CHANCERY COURTS.

603-606

money therefore as if a mortgage had been executed by the purchaser and duly
recorded; and said lien shall exist until actual payment of the purchase-money, or
until, by order of the court or chancellor, the same shall be discharged.
An administrator or executor who charges himself with the receipt of the money is estopped to deny the
payment; and the heirs are estopped if they do not object thereto on final settlement. Lambeth v. Elder,
44 Miss., 80.
603. Person making sale not to purchase.—In no instance shall the person
who makes the sale become, either directly or indirectly, the purchaser at a sale
made by him.
604 (2049). Hour and adjournment of sales. —A sale of re,al estate shall not
commence before the hour of eleven o'clock on the day appointed, nor continue
longer, than four o'clock of the same day ; but if the time be insufficient to com
plete the sale, it may be continued from day to day until completed, hy giving pub
lic notice to the company present at the conclusion of each day's sale ; and such
sale on the succeeding day shall commence and end as directed for the first day.
605 (2050). Report of sale of land. —And when the sale has been completed,
the person making the same shall make report thereof in writing to the court,
stating the time and place of sale, the name of the purchaser, and the amount of
purchase-money, and shall satisfy the court that the directions prescribed'iu the
decree of sale and the law have been followed ; and thereupon the court shall pro
ceed to make a decree confirming the sale, unless good reason be shown to the con
trary. And the court shall order the person who made the sale to make a convey
ance to the purchaser of the land so sold; but if the sale be not reported to the
following term, the court may compel the making of a proper report at a subse
quent term, and may then confirm or set aside the same; and the person failing to
make such report in proper time may be fined, as for a contempt, not exceeding one
hundred dollars.
It is not an objection to an administrator's sale that he was ordered by the decree to sell and report to a
certain term of the court, and that he did not sell until after that time. Yerger v. Ferguson, 55 Miss., 190.
If the decree confirming the sale recite that notice of the sale was given, this is sufficient on appeal,
though the notice do not appear of record. Yerger v. Ferguson, 55 Miss., 190.
Confirmation of a sale, reported at a term subsequent to that which next followed the sale, without
notice, is not void. (Learned v. Matthews, 40 Miss., 210, overruled.) Johnson v. Cooper, 5G Miss., 60S.
606 (2051). On death of executor, or other person authorized, who shall
sell or convey.—If the executor, administrator, guardian, master, or special com
missioner who was ordered to make a sale or lease, shall die, resign, or be removed
before doing it, such sale or lease may be made by the successor of such executor,
administrator, guardian, master, or commissioner, or by any person appointed by
the court or the chancellor in vacation to make it, and, in case of the death, resig
nation, or removal of an executor, administrator, guardian, master, or commissioner,
after making a sale, and before its report or confirmation, or before a conveyance of
the title, in case of the sale of laud, the court shall ascertain the facts, and, if
satisfied that the sale ought to be confirmed, shall make a decree confirming it, and
order a conveyance, if land were sold, to be made to the purchaser, cither by the
successor in the administration or guardianship of the person who made the sale,
or by a master or commissioner appointed for that purpose; and such conveyance
shall have the same effect to vest the title in the person to whom it is made, as if
it had been made and delivered by the person who made the sale. (See § 2442.)

607-620

CIRCUIT COURTS.

607. Sales may be reported and confirmed in vacation. —Reports of sales or
leases may be made in vacation to the chancellor, and upon five days' notice to the
parties and the purchaser of the time and place of hearing the application therefore,
may be confirmed by the chancellor.
608 (1959). Provisions applicable to all sales made by order or decree of the
court.—All the provisions of this chapter on the subject of sales shall apply to all
sales of real estate under any decree of the chancery court made in matters testa
mentary and of administration, minors' business, cases of idiocy, lunacy, and per
sons of unsound mind, of partition, and all other matters.

CHAPTER 21.
CIRCUIT COURTS.
609 (1455). Circuit court districts. —The state is divided into nine circuit court
districts, severally composed of the counties following, to wit :
610. First district. —Alcorn, Chickasaw, Itawamba, Lee, Lowndes, Monroe,
Oktibbeha, Pontotoc, Prentiss, and Tishomingo.
611. Second district. —Clarke, Greene, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Kemper,
Lauderdale, Marion, Noxubee, Pearl-River, and Wayne.
612. Third district.—Benton, DeSoto, LaFayette, Marshall, Panola, Tate, Tip
pah, Union, and Yalobusha.
613. Fourth district. —Bolivar, Coahoma, Leflore, Quitman, Sunflower, Talla
hatchie, Tunica, and Washington.
614. Fifth district.—Attala, Calhoun, Choctaw, Clay, Carroll, Grenada, Holmes,
Montgomery, and Webster.
615. Sixth district.—Adams, Amite, Franklin, Jefferson, Lawrence, Pike, and
Wilkinson.
616. Seventh district.—Copiah, Hinds, Lincoln, Madison, and Yazoo.
617. Eighth district. —Covington, Jasper, Jones, Leake, Neshoba, Newton,
Perry, Rankin, Scott, Simpson, Smith, and Winston.
618. Ninth district. —Claiborne, Issaquena, Sharkey, and Warren.
619 (1469). Terms of the courts.—A circuit court, to be styled " The Circuit
Court of the County of
," shall be held in each county twice in each year,
and shall commence at the times and continue for the number of days specified if
business shall require, viz. :
620. For the first district. —In the county of Tishomingo, on the second Mon
day of January and July, six days.
In the county of Alcorn, on the third Monday of January and July, twelve days.
In the county of Prentiss, on the first Monday of February and August, twelve
days.
In the county of Lee, on the third Monday of February and August, twelve
days.
244

CIRCUIT COURTS.

621-022

In the county of Itawamba, on the first Monday of March and September, six
days.
In the county of Monroe, on the second Monday of March and September,
eighteen days.
In the county of Chickasaw, first district, on the first Monday of April and
October, twelve days.
In the county of Chickasaw, second district, on the third Monday of April and
October, twelve days.
In the count}- of Oktibbeha, on the first Monday of May and November, twelve
days.
In the county of Lowndes, on the third Monday of May and November, eight
een days.
In the county of Pontotoc, on the second Monday of January and July, six
days.
621. For the second district.—In the county of Lauderdale, on the first Mon
day of January and July, thirty days.
In the county of Noxubee, on the second Monday of February and August,
eighteen days.
In the county of Kemper, on the first Monday of March and September, twelve
days.
In the county of Clarke, on the third Monday of March and September, twelve
days.
In the county of Wayne, on the first Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Greene, on the second Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Pearl-River, on the third Monday of April and October, six
days.
In the county of Hancock, on the fourth Monday of April and October, twelve
days.
In the county of Harrison, on the second Monday of May and November, twelve
day 8.
In the county of Jackson, on the fourth Monday of May and November, twelve
days.
In the county of Marion, second district, on the second Monday of June and
December, six days.
In the county of Marion, first district, on the third Monday of June and Decem
ber, six days.
622. For the third district. —In the county of Tippah, on the second Monday
of January and July, twelve days.
In the county of Union, on the fourth Monday of January and July, twelve
days.
In the county of Benton, on the second Monday of February and August,
twelve days.
In the county of Marshall, on the fourth Monday of February and August,
twelve days.
In the county of LaFayette, on the second Monday of March and September,
twelve days.
245

623-624

CIRCUIT COURTS.

In the county of Panola, first district, 011 the fourth Monday of March and Sep
tember, twelve days.
In the county of Panola, second district, on the second Monday of April and
October, twelve days.
In the county of Tate, on the fourth Monday of April and October, twelve days.
In the county of Yalobusha, first district, on the second Monday of May and
November, twelve days.
In the county of DeSoto, on the fourth Monday of May and November, twelve
days.
In the county of Yalobusha, second district, on the second Monday of June
and December, twelve days.
623. For the fourth district.—In the county of Tunica, on the second Monday
of September and the third Monday of February, twelve days.
In the county of Quitman, on the fourth Monday of September and the first
Monday of March, six days.
In the county of Coahoma, first district, on the first Monday of October and the
second Monday of March, twelve days.
In the county of Coahoma, second district, on the third Monday of October and
the fourth Monday of March, twelve days.
In the county of Sunflower, on the first Monday of November and the second
Monday of April, twelve days.
In the county of Bolivar, for civil business, when a grand jury shall be sum
moned, on the third Monday of November and the fourth Monday of April, nine days.
In the county of Bolivar, for criminal business, when a grand jury need not be
summoned, on the second Tuesday after the third Monday of November and the
fourth Monday of April, nine clays.
In the county of Washington, for civil business, when a grand jury shall be
summoned, on the second Monday of December and the third Monday of May,
eighteen days.
In the county of Washington, for criminal business, when a grand jury need
not be summoned, on the first Monday of January and the second Monday of June,
twelve days.
In the county of Tallahatchie, on the third Monday of January and the fourth
Monday of June, twelve days.
In the county of Leflore, on the first Monday of February and the second Mon
day of July, twelve days.
624. For the fifth district.—In the county of Clay, on the second Monday of
January and July, eighteen days.
In the county of Grenada, on the first Monday of February and August, twelve
days.
In the county of Choctaw, on the third Monday of February and August,
twelve days.
In the county of Attala, on the first Monday of March and September, twelve
days.
In the county of Calhoun, on the third Monday of March and September,
twelve days.
246

CIRCUIT COURTS.

625-627

In the county of Montgomery, on the first Monday of April and October,
twelve days.
In the county of Carroll, firBt district, on the third Monday of April and
October, twelve days.
In the county of Carroll, second district, on the first Monday of May and
November, six days.
In the county of Webster, on the second Monday of May and November,
twelve days.
In the county of Holmes, on the fourth Monday of May and November, eight
een days.
625. For the sixth district.—In the county of Wilkinson, on the second Mon
day of January and July, eighteen days.
In the county of Lawrence, on the first Monday of February and August, six
days.
In the county of Jefferson, on the second Monday of February and August,
twelve days.
In the county of Pike, on the first Monday of March and September, twelve
days.
In the county of Amite, on the third Monday of March and September, twelve
days.
In the county of Franklin, on the first Monday of April and October, twelve days.
In the county of Adams, on the second Monday of May and November, thirtysix days.
626. For the seventh district.—In the county of Hinds, first district, second
Monday of January and July, twenty-four days.
In the county of Hinds, second district, on the second Monday of February and
August, twelve days.
In the county of Yazoo, on the fourth Monday of February and August, twentyfour days.
In the county of Copiah, on the first Monday of April and October, twentyfour days.
In the county of Lincoln, on the first Monday of May and November, eighteen
days.
In the county of Madison, on the fourth Monday of May and November, twentyfour days.
627. For the eighth district.—In the county of Winston, on the second Mon
day of January and the third Monday of July, six days.
In the county of Newton, on the fourth Monday of January and July, six days.
In the county of Neshoba, on the first Monday of February and August, six
days.
In the county of Rankin, on the second Monday of February and August,
twelve days.
In the county of Covington, on the fourth Monday of February and August,
six days.
In the county of Simpson, on the first Monday of March and September, six
days.
247

■
628-633

CIRCUIT COURTS.

In the county of Smith, on the second Monday of March and September, six
days.
In the county of Scott, on the third Monday of March and September, six days.
In the county of Leake, on the fourth Monday of March and September, six
days.
In the county of Jasper, on the second Monday of April and October, six days.
In the county of Jones, on the first Monday of May and November, twelve days.
In the county of Perry, first district, on the third Monday of May and Novem
ber, six days.
In the county of Perry, second district, on the fourth Monday of May and
November, six days.
628. For the ninth district. —In the county of Claiborne, on the second Mon
day of January and the first Monday of June, eighteen days.
In the county of Sharkey, on the first Monday of February and the fourth Mon
day of July, twelve days.
In the county of Issaquena, on the third Monday of February and the first
Monday of October, twelve days.
In the county of Warren, for civil business, on the first Monday of April, fortyeight days, and on the third Monday of October, thirty-six days.
In the county of Warren, for criminal business, on the first Monday of March,
the fourth Monday of June, and the first Monday of December, twenty-four days.
629 (1585). Following provisions applicable to all courts. —All things con
tained in this chapter, not restricted by their nature or by express provision to par
ticular courts, shall be the rules of decision and proceeding in all courts whatsoever.
630 (1482). Special terms; jurisdiction; juries for. —At a special term the
circuit court may empanel grand and petit juries, and shall have full jurisdiction to
hear and determine all civil and criminal business, in the same manner as at a regu
lar term. Parties and witnesses shall be bound to attend ; and witnesses duly sub
poenaed or bound by recognizance, shall be subject to the same penalties for failure
to attend as if such failure had occurred at a regular term. On receiving the order
for a special term, if it be held because of a failure of a regular term, the proper
officers shall open the envelopes containing the names of the jurors for such regular
term, if it have not been done, and the venire facias shall issue and the jurors be
summoned as required by law; but if there be no such envelopes, the jurors shall
be drawn as provided in case of a failure of the judge to draw them. The judge
may direct whether jurors shall be summoned and how to be drawn.
631 (1483). Judge of the circuit court.—A judge shall be appointed in the
mode prescribed by the constitution for each circuit court district.
632 (1483). Judges may alternate, etc. —Judges of the circuit court may alter
nate and make temporary changes of their circuits whenever the public interest
may require.
The record need not show that the "public interest" required the interchange. Fletcher v. State, 60
Miss., 675.
633 (1484). The clerk.—The clerk of the circuit court, before he enters upon
the duties of the office, shall take the oath of office, and enter into bond of not less
than three thousand dollars, nor more than ten thousand dollars, to be fixed by the
248

CIRCUIT COURTS.

634-638

order of the board of supervisors of the county, with two or more sufficient sureties,
conditioned according to law. And he may be required to give additional bond
from time to time, for the faithful application of all monies coming into his hands
by law or order of the court; but such additional bonds shall be cumulative
security, and the original bond shall likewise cover all monies coming into the
hands of the clerk by law or order of the court.
634. Dockets to be kept and entries made; general docket.—The clerk shall
keep a general docket, in which he shall enter the names of the parties in each
case, the time of filing the declaration, indictment, record from inferior court on
appeal or certiorari, petition, plea, or demurrer, and all other papers in the cause, the
issuance and return of process, and a note of all judgments rendered therein, by
reference to the minute-book and page; and shall mark on the papers in every
cause the style and number of the suit, and the time when, and the party by whom
filed ; and he shall not suffer any paper so filed to be withdrawn but by leave of the
court, and then only by retaining a copy, to be made at the cost of the party
obtaining the leave. All the papers and pleadings filed in a cause shall be kept in
the same file, and all the files kept in numerical order. Entries in criminal cases
shall not be made on the docket so as to disclose the names of the defendants until
their arrest. And the docket shall be duly indexed, both directly and indirectly, in
the alphabetical order of the names of each of the parties. (See § 463.)
635 (1485). The same; issue-docket. —Before each term of the court the clerk
shall make out a docket, in which he shall enter all cases triable at the approach
ing term in the order in which they are filed and numbered; and, under the control
of the court or judge, he shall set the causes for the several days of the term, com
mencing with the first day, and proceeding so far in the term as the number of
suits may require. Subpoenas shall be made returnable on the day for which the
case may be set; and a case shall not be taken up for trial before that day, except
by consent. The court shall call the cases in the order in which they stand on the
docket, and each case shall be tried or continued, or set for trial on a future day,
before proceeding to the trial of any other, except by consent.
It is error for the court to compel the trial of a case at an earlier da}- than that at which it had been set
down for trial by the clerk. Fall v. Commissioners, 3 Smed. & M., 127.
But this rule does not apply to "privilege" causes. Tifft v. Verden, 11 Smed. & M., 153.
A failure of the clerk to make out the dockets as required is a breach of his official bond. Brown v.
Lester, 13 Smed. & M., 392.
636 (I486). The same; criminal docket. —The clerk shall make out for each
term a separate docket of cases begun by indictment, presentment, information, or
other proceedings of a criminal nature, in the name or on behalf of the state or
any municipal corporation.
637 (1487). The same; appearance-docket.—The clerk shall keep an- appear
ance-docket, in which he shall enter all civil cases not triable at the first term after
they are begun, in the order in which they are commenced, with the date of such
commencement.
638 (1488). The same; subpoena-docket. —The clerk shall keep a subpoenadocket, in which he shall enter the style and number of each case in which a sub
poena for a witness is issued, the name of the party for whom the witness is sub
poenaed, to whom the subpoena is directed, the date of its issuance, when returnable,
24!)

639-643

CIRCUIT COURTS.

whether or not executed, and he shall therein keep an account of all witnesses who
may be absent when the case in which they have been subpoenaed is called for trial,
or who may disqualify themselves from giving testimony by being intoxicated when
such case is tried; and he shall not issue any certificate to such witnesses; and the
docket shall be kept duly indexed.
639 (1489). The same; execution-docket.—The clerk shall keep a docket, in
which he shall enter every capias pro finem and all executions issued by him, spec
ifying the names of the parties, the date, the amount of the judgment or decree
and of costs, the name of the officer to whom it is delivered, to what county
directed, the date when issued, and the return-day thereof; and, when the same is
returned, shall, without delay, record the return at large on the same page of the
docket. And the execution docket shall be kept duly indexed, both directly and
indirectly, in the alphabetical order of the names of each of the parties.
640. Final record to be made (1490, Laws 1884, p. 73).—Within three months
after the final determination of any suit, or, if an appeal shall have been taken, then
within three mouths after receiving a certificate of the affirmance of the judgment,
the clerk shall enter in a well-bound book, to be kept for the purpose, a full and
complete record of all the proceedings in the suit, if the title to the real estate be
involved or affected, and if not, only on the order of the court; and on failure to
make a final record required by law or the order of the court, the clerk may be
fined, as for a contempt, twenty dollars for each failure; and he shall also be liable
in damages to any party injured. A final record shall not be made of any suit
without a judgment on the merits. (For final records in chancery court, see § 462.)
641 (1491). List of allowances against county treasury.—Within ton days
after each term of circuit court, it shall be the duty of the clerk to deliver to the
clerk of the board of supervisors a certified list of allowances made by the court at
such term, payable out of the county treasury, specifying the amount, to whom
allowed, and on what account. For any failure to deliver such list, the clerk of the
circuit court may be punished by the court as for a contempt.
642 (1699). Jury fee-book.—The clerk of the circuit court shall keep a book
to be called the "Jury Fee-book," in which he shall enter the time of issuing all
certificates to jurors, the amount thereof, and to whom issued; and within ten days
after each term of the court he shall file in the office of the clerk of the board of
supervisors of his county a certified copy of such entries, for the information of the
board. For any failure in this respect, the clerk of the circuit court may be fined
and imprisoned by the court as for a contempt.
643 (1700). Jury-tax imposed, and how collected. —A jury-tax of three dol
lars is imposed on each original suit in the circuit court in which a plea is filed, and
on every issue therein tried separately by a jury, and a tax of two dollars on each
case transferred or appealed thereto, to constitute a fund for the payment of jurors,
and to be collected by the clerk or sheriff as costs. The clerk shall be liable on his
official bond for any failure to charge, receive, or issue execution for the jury-tax ;
and the sheriff shall likewise be liable for a failure to collect or to pay the same to the
county treasurer; and they may be fined as for a contempt therefore not more than
one hundred dollars.
250

CIRCUIT COURTS.

644-648

644 (1701). Clerk to report list of cases subject to jury-tax. — Within ten
days after the end of any term of the court, the clerk shall furnish to the clerk of
the hoard of supervisors a list of all judgments rendered and suits disposed of at
such term, or in the preceding vacation, on which a jury-tax is imposed, and shall
pay over all sums received by him for jury-tax during the term and since the last
term, and for any failure shall be liable as provided by the last section. And if
any clerk shall fail to furnish the said list he shall be fined by the court in the sum
of one hundred dollars, on motion of the clerk of the board of supervisors or the
district attorney.
645 (1493). Jurisdiction; general enumeration of subjects. —The circuit
court shall have original jurisdiction in all actions when the principal of the amount
in controversy exceeds two hundred dollars, and of all other actions and causes,
matters and things arising under the constitution and laws of this state which are
not exclusively cognizable in some other court, and such appellate jurisdiction as
prescribed by law; and such court shall have power to hear and determine all pros
ecutions in the name of the state for treason, felonies, crimes, and misdemeanors,
except such as maybe exclusively cognizable before some other court; and said
court shall have all the powers belonging to a court of oyer and terminer and gen
eral jail delivery, and may do and perform all other acts properly pertaining to a
circuit court of law.
The circuit court has jurisdiction where there is no other legal remedy. Madison Co. v. Alexander,
Walker, 523; Planters v. Cramer, 47 Miss., 200
The circuit court, on an appeal or certiorari from a justice of the peace, has such jurisdiction only as the
justice had. Glass v. Moss, 1 How. (Miss.), 519; Crapoo v. Grand Gulf, 9 Sm<>d. & -M , 205; Steir v. Surget,
10 Smed. & M., 154; Scofield v. Pensons, 20 Miss., 402 ; Askew v. Askew, 49 Miss., 301 ; Bell v. West Point,
51 Miss., 262.
This rule does not apply in unlawful entry and detainer cases. Poston v. Mhoon, 49 Miss., 620.
The circuit court may consolidate several cases where the parties are the same on both sides and a single
judgment can settle the rights of all. Ammon v. Whitehead, 31 Miss., 99; Spratley v. Kitchens, 55 Miss.,
578; McLendon v. Pass, 66 Miss., 110.
The principal of the amount in controversy at the time the suit is brought, after deducting credits, if any,
is the test of jurisdiction. Martin v. Harding, 52 Miss., 694.
Garnishment is not an original suit, and the circuit court may issue and render judgment thereon for
amounts within the justices' jurisdiction. Martin v. Harvey, 54 Miss., 685.
A claimant's issue is not an original suit. Bernheimer v. Martin, 66 Miss., 486.
The original jurisdiction of the circuit court can be made, by statute, to embrace contested election cases.
Hall v. Lyon, 59 Miss., 218.
Where jurisdiction is given to a court by the constitution, it cannot be conferred exclusively on any other
court by the legislature. Montross v. Stnte. 61 Miss., 429.
The pleadings, where honest, fix and determine the amount in controversy. Fenn v. Harrington, 54
Miss , 733.
646. Jurisdiction of cases transferred or remanded to it.—The circuit court
shall have jurisdiction of all cases transferred to it by the chancery court or
remanded to it by the supreme court.
647 (1494). Motions against officers for money collected.—The circuit court
shall hear and determine all motions against attorneys at law, sheriffs, coroners, and
other officers, for money collected or received as such, and not paid over on demand
to the party entitled to the same, and may give judgment and award execution
thereon. (See § 218, 771, 828, 2431, 4120.)
648 (1495). Judgments and executions. —The circuit court' may render judg
ments according to the principles and usages of law, in all cases cognizable before
251

649-650

CIRCUIT COURTS.

it, and award executions, directed to the sheriff' or other proper officer of any county ;
and the court, upon legal conviction of a person of a crime or misdemeanor, shall
proceed to judgment and award execution thereon as the law directs.
649 (1497). Suit for sum below the jurisdiction.—If a suit shall be brought
in the circuit court for a sum less than the court can take cognizance of, or if a
greater sum than is due shall be demanded, on purpose to confer jurisdiction, the
plaintifff shall be non-suited ; and if the- plaintifff, in any case, shall not recover
more than two hundred dollars, he shall not recover any costs of the defendant
unless the judge shall be of the opinion, and so enter on the record, that the
plaintifff had reasonable ground to expect to recover more than two hundred dol
lars, or unless the court shall have jurisdiction of the cause, without respect to the
amount in controversy. (See §878, which relates to actions ex delicto.)
It must appear that a greater sum than two hundred dollars was demanded on purpose to evade the law
requiring suits for sums ot" and under that amount to be brought before a justice of the peace, or the plaintifff
cannot be non-suited. Griffin v. Lower, 37 Miss., 45S.
The test of jurisdiction is the amount demanded in the pleadings, subject to be defeated, if shown to be
an attempt to evade the stutute. (Stephen v. Eiseman, 54 Miss., 535, distinguished.) Feun v. Harrington, 54
Miss., 733.
The entry of the opinion of the judge that the plaintifff had ground to expect to recover over two hun
dred dollars must be made at the term at which the judgment is rendered. Shackleford v. Levy, 63 Miss., 125.
The statute only relates to actions ex contractu. Kansas R. R. Co. v. Mabrr, 67 Miss., 131.
650 (1498). Venue of actions; in what county, generally.—Civil actions of
which the circuit court hits original jurisdiction shall be commenced in the county
in which the defendants or any of them may be found, except where otherwise pro
vided, and except actions of ejectment and actions of trespass on land, which shall
be brought in the county where the land, or some part thereof, is situated; but if
the land be in two or more counties, and the defendant reside in either of them, the
action shall be brought in the county of his residence, and in such cases process
may be issued against the defendant to any other county. If a citizen resident in
this state shall be sued in any action, not local, out of the county of his household
and residence, the venue shall be changed, on his application, to the county of his
household and residence.
Where an action is begun against several persons and none are served in the county, and the suit is dis
missed as to those who reside there, and who have never been served, jurisdiction will be gone. Wolley v.
Bowie, 41 Miss., 553.
If the defendant in the county be served, the suit may be discontinued as to him without losing jurisdic
tion. Read v. Renaud, 6 Smed. k M., 79.
Where the defendant, after the commencement of a suit but before the service of process on him, removes
into another county, plaintifff may have a testatum writ. Andrews v. Powell, 41 Miss., 729.
Where duplicate writs are issued and are served upon all of the defendants in a county other than that
in which the suit was brought, and the process to the county where the suit is brought was returned "not
found" as to all, the court should dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction on a showing that all . defendants,
at the time the suit was begun, lived out of the county. Bank v. Jennings, 5 How. (Miss.), 425.
Ejectment and trespass quare clausum frogit are the only ordinary actions which can be brought in a
county where the defendant does not reside and is not found. Elder v. Hilzheitn, 35 Miss., 231 ; Archibald
v. Mississippi R. R. Co., 66 Miss., 424.
The rule as to change of venue applies to an executor or administrator. McLeod v. Shelton, 42 Miss., 51 7.
If the party entitled to a change of venue fail to apply therefore the court may render judgment.
Christian v. O'Neal, 46 Miss., 669; Cain v. Simpson, 53 Miss., 521.
Motions against sheriffs for failure to return executions are determinable in the court to which the execu
tion is returnable, and a change of venue will not be granted to the county of the officer's residence. Cox
v. Ross, 56 Miss., 481.
The statute for change of venue does not apply in favor of a defendant in attachment brought in a
count3r other than that of his residence, where jurisdiction has been secured by a levy on effects or debts of
the defendant. Smith v. Mulliern, 57 Miss., 591 ; Baum v. Burns, 66 Miss., 124.
252

CIRCUIT COURTS.

651-655

An action is not " an action of trespass on land" within the meaning of the statute unless there exists the
elements of force and entry necessary to constitute the common law action of quare clausum fregit. Archi
bald v. Mississippi R. R. Co., 6G Miss., 424.
651 (1499). Actions against railroad companies, etc.—Actions against any
railroad, express, steam-boat, or telegraph corporation, or against individuals own
ing, managing, operating, or controlling a railroad, express line or route, steam-boat
or telegraph line, maybe brought in any county in which any part of such railroad,
express route or line, steam-boat way or telegraph line may be.
652 (1500). Actions against insurance companies.—Actions against insurance
companies may be brought in an\T county in which a loss may occur, or, if on a life
policy, in the county in which the beneficiary resides, and process may be sent to
any county to be served as directed by law ; and such actions may also be brought
in the county where the principal place of business of such corporation or company
may be, and in a case of a foreign corporation or company may be brought in any
county where service of process may be had on an agent of such corporation or
company.
653 (1520). Actions against executors, etc., out of the state.—Executors,
administrators, or guardians, appointed in this state and residing out of it, ma}' be
sued in the county of their appointment, and may be made parties to such suit, so
as to authorize judgment against them, by publication of summons made as pro
vided for in the case of absent and non-resident defendants.
654 (1501). Where brought when judge interested.—If the judge of the
court be a party to or interested in any suit about to be commenced, the suit may
be instituted in an adjacent district, and the process may be issued to and served in
any county where the defendant maybe found; or the suit may be brought as if
the judge were not a party to or interested in it.
655 (1502). Change of venue because of prejudice, etc.—When either party to
any civil action in the circuit court shall desire to change the venue, he shall present
to the court, or to the judge of the district, a petition setting forth under oath that
he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that, from the undue influence of
the adverse party, prejudice existing in the public mind, or for some other sufficient
cause to be stated in the petition, he cannot obtain a fair and impartial trial in the
county where the action is pending, and that the application is made as soon as
convenient after being advised of such undue influence, prejudice, or other cause,
and not to delay the trial or to vex or harrass the adverse party. On reasonable
notice in writing to the adverse party of the time and place of making the applica
tion, if made in vacation, the court, if in term time, or the judge in vacation, shall
hear the parties and examine the evidence which either may adduce, and may award
a change of venue to some convenient county where an impartial trial may be had,
and, if practicable, in which the circuit court may next be held. If made in vaca
tion, the order shall be indorsed on the petition and directed to the clerk, who shall
file the same with the papers in the suit. (For change of venue in criminal cases,,
see § 1411.)
The statute must be substantially complied with; a change of venue, unless the statute be followed, even,
by agreement, is error. Wilson v. Rodewald, 49 Miss., 506.
The statute applies only to civil actions begun by ordinary summons and not to attachments. Baum v.
Burns. 66 Miss.. 124.
253

■

656-661

CIRCUIT COURTS.

On an application for a change of venue in term-time an order of court is necessary. Saunders v. Moss,
3 How. (Miss.), 101.
An affidavit for a change of venue is not a part of the record unless made so by bill of exceptions.
Grant v. Planters, 4 How. (Miss.), 326.
656 (1503). The same; papers transmitted. — When au order for a change of
venue shall be made, the clerk shall make out a descriptive list of all the papers in
the cause and a certified copy of all orders and judgments made therein, with their
dates, and a bill of the costs that have accrued; and shall carefully and safely put
all the papers, with a copy of the descriptive list, and copy of the orders and judg
ments, and the bill of costs, into a package, to be well covered and sealed up, and
directed to the clerk of the court to which tlie suit is ordered removed; and shall,
if not otherwise directed by the judge, take the receipt of the party obtaining the
change of venue for the papers contained on said list, and deliver the package to
said party, to be carried to the clerk of the court to whom it may be directed, or it
may be sent by mail, postage paid, or by express, the clerk taking proper receipt
therefore.
657 (1504). The same; papers received and receipted for. —The clerk to whom
the papers may be transmitted shall open the package and compare the papers with
the descriptive list, and shall give the person delivering the same, if demanded, a
receipt therefore. He shall then enter the cause on his docket as if it had been com
menced in the court of which he is clerk, and issue subpoenas for witnesses as in
other cases.
658 (1505). The same; venue changed but once. —A civil suit shall not be
removed more than once, or in any other manner than as prescribed, and in 110
case where it shall appear that there has been unnecessary delay or negligence in
milking the application.
659 (1506). The same; provisions applicable to districts in county. —The
provisions for a change of venue shall be applied in those counties where there are
two places of holding circuit courts in the same manner as if each district were a
separate county.
660 (1507). Parties; assignee of chose in action may sue, when. —The
assignee of any chose in action may sue for and recover on the same in his own
name if the assignment be in writing. In case of a transfer of interest after suit
brought, the action shall be continued in the name of the original party, or the
court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the
action. A setrott* or other defense existing at the time of or before notice of
the assignment, shall not be prejudiced thereby.
In a suit by an indorsee of a note against the maker the latter will be entitled to use as a set-off an open
account which was acquired by assignment before suit. Phipps v. Shegog, 30 Miss., 241.
And this is true, though the assignment of the account was not in writing. Ashbv v. Cart, 40 Miss., 64;
Hunt v. Shaekleford, 55 Miss., 94.
But the right is purely defensive unless, the assignment be in writing. Pollard v. Thomas, 61 Miss., 150.
The equitable holder of a chose in action, to whom a written assignment is not made, cannot sue in his
own name. Lowenburg v. Jones, 50 Miss., 6S8.
The person to whom a claim for damages for injury to personal property has been assigned in writing,
can sue thereon in his own name. Chicago It. R. Co. v. Packwood, 59 Miss., 280.
It is no defense that the cause of action has been assigned since the beginning of the suit, and is still
prosecuted in the name of the assignor. Montgomery v. Handy, 63 Miss., 43.
661 (1508). Unmarried female may sue for seduction.—An unmarried female
may prosecute an action for her own seduction, and recover damages.
251

CIRCUIT COURTS.

662-666

662 (1509). Action for seduction of a daughter. —A father or mother may
bring an action for the seduction of a daughter, although such daughter be not
living with nor in the service of the plaintifff, and though there be no loss of
service ; but a recovery by the father, mother, or daughter shall bar any other
action for the same cause.
663 (1510). Actions for injuries producing death. — Whenever the death of
any persons shall be caused by any such wrongful or negligent act or omission as
would, if death had not ensued, have entitled the party injured or damaged thereby
to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, and such deceased
person shall have left a widow or children, or both, or husband or father or mother,
the person or corporation, or both, that would have been liable if death had not ensued,
and the representative of such person, shall be liable for the damages, notwith
standing the death ; and the action may be brought, in the name of the widow for the
death of her husband, or by the husband for the death of his wife, or by the parent
for the death of*a child, or in the name of a child for the death of au only parent ;
the damages to be for the use of such widow, husband, or child, except that in case
a widow should have children the damages shall be distributed as personal property
of the husband. In every such action the jury may give such damages as shall be
fair and just with reference to the injury resulting from such death to the person
suing; but every such action shall be commenced within one year after the death of
such deceased person.
Where the injury resulting in death occurs in another state having a statute substantially corresponding
to ours, the remedy may be enforced here. Chicago R. It. Co. v. Doyle, 00 Miss., 977.
Independently of the statute the mother, being the only surviving parent, may maintain a suit for injuries
resulting in the death of au infant sou, for the time between the injury and death. Natchez E. R. Co. v.
Cook, 63 Miss., 36.
The right of action is independent of that given to the executor and administrator. Vicksburg R. R.
Co. v. Phillips, 61 Miss., 693.
When the suit is broughf by the widow for the death of a husband and father, she can compromise and
thereby bind her children. Natchez Cotton Mills v. Mullins, 67 Miss., 672.
664 (1511). Non-joinder or misjoinder of plaintifffs.—The non-joinder or mis
joinder of a plaintifff shall not be objected to by the defendant at the trial, unless
he give written notice thereof with his plea, stating the name of the person alleged
to be omitted or improperly joined; and the court or judge, at any time before the
trial of the issue, whether of law or fact, may allow the declaration and writ to be
amended so as to obviate the objection, upon such terms as may be proper.
An objection because of the non-joinder of all the obligees in a bond in a suit thereon, cannot lie availed
of at the trial unless written notice thereof be given with the plea. Stauffer v. Garrison, Gl Miss., 07;
Walker v. Hall, 66 Miss., 390.
665 (1512). Non-joinder or misjoinder of defendants.—The non-joinder or
misjoinder of a defendant in any action upon contract shall not be objected to by
a defendant on the trial of the cause unless he give written notice thereof with his
plea, stating the name of the person alleged to be omitted or improperly joined;
and upon such notice being given, the court or judge, at any time before the trial
of the cause, may allow an amendment to the pleading so as to obviate the objec
tion, upon such terms as may be proper.
666 (1515). Death of one of several parties.—If there be two or more plaintifffs
or defendants in any suit, and one or more of them die, if the cause of action sur
vive to the surviving plaintifff or against the surviving defendant, the suit shall pro
255

667-671

CIRCUIT COURTS.

ceed in the name of the surviving plaintifff against the surviving defendant; and
where either party shall die between verdict and judgment, such death need not
be suggested in abatement, but judgment may be entered as if both parties were
living; and if, 011 the death of any plaintifff' in actions which survive, before verdict,
the heir, legatee, or devisee, executor, administrator, or other legal representatives
of such deceased party, shall not appear and become a party to the action, on or
before the second term of the court next after the death of such party shall have
been suggested on the record, the action shall be dismissed, unless good cause be
shown to the contrary.
A dismissal at the first term after the death of a party is suggested, and before the administrator has
become a party, is not void, bat erroneous. American Co. v. Shaughnessy, 59 Miss., 398.
667 (1516). Death of nominal plaintifff" not to abate action.—If suit be com
menced in the name of any person for the use and benefit of another, the same
shall not abate by the death of the nominal plaintifff, but shall progress to a final
judgment and execution in like manner as if brought in the name of the person
for whose use and benefit such suit was instituted, who shall be liable for the costs
of suit as in other cases ; and in case the party for whose use and benefit a suit
shall be brought shall die before final judgment, it shall be lawful for the party rep
resenting such deceased person as executor or administrator, to be entered on the
record of such suit in the place of such deceased person.
The statute does not abate the suit upon the usee's death, but merely makes it lawful for the adminis
trator to be entered in the place of the deceased. Lee v. Gardner, '26 Miss , 521.
668 (1517). Death of defendant after judgment.—When judgment shall have
been rendered against two or more persons, and any one or more of them shall die,
such judgment shall survive against the representatives of the deceased parties and
the survivor; and a scire facias may issue against the survivor, jointly with the rep
resentatives of the deceased parties; and such judgment may be thereupon revived,
and execution issued in like manner.
669 (1521). Certain actions not to abate.—Actions by or against public offi
cers in their official character, or by or against trustees or commissioners in refer
ence to the trust committed to them, or by or against persons who occupy a similar
position to that of public officers, trustees, or commissioners, shall not abate on
account of the change of the person occupying such position, but may be revived
and proceeded with in the name of the successor of such person.
670 (1522). Filing declaration the commencement of an action.—Except in
cases in which it is otherwise provided, the manner of commencing an action in
the circuit court shall be by filing in the office of the clerk of such court a declara
tion, on which a summons for the defendant shall be immediately issued; and an
action shall, for all purposes, be considered to have been commenced and to be
pending from the time of the filing of the declaration, if a summons shall be issued
thereon for the defendant, and, if not executed, other like process, in succession,
may be issued, in good faith, for the defendant.
671 (1536). Of pleadings; the declaration.—The declaration shall contain a
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise
language, without repetition ; and if it contain sufficient matter of substance for
the court to proceed upon the merits of the cause, it shall be sufficient; and it shall
256

CIRCUIT COURTS.

672-677

not be an objection to maintaining any action that the form thereof should have
been different.
All that is required is a written statement of the facts in ordinary and concise language. Lamkin v.
Nye, 43 Miss., 241.
The statute is said to abolish all forms of action. Evans v. Miller, 58 Miss., 120.
672 (1537). Statement of venue. — The name of the county shall be stated in
the margin of the declaration, and it shall not be necessary to state any venue in
the body of the declaration or in any subsequent pleading, nor to set forth in any
manner the place in which an act is alleged to have been done, unless, from the
nature of the case, the place be material or traversable.
673 (1539). How names of defendants stated if unknown. —When the plaint
iff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated
by any name ; and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceed
ing may be amended accordingly.
674 (1539). Defendant may be sued by initials in certain cases —In actions
on written instruments, the defendant may be sued by the initial letters or contrac
tion of the Christian name, used by him in his signature to such writing. 675 (1539). Averments that partners contracted by a name affixed to a
writing is sufficient.—In actions against one or more of several partners, it shall
be sufficient to declare that he or they made the contract or executed the writing
sued on by the copartnership name, or other signature affixed to such writing.
Partner;; cannot sue or be sued by their partnership name. Blackwell v. Reed, 41 Miss., 102.
676 (1540). Copy of account or writing filed with declaration.—There shall
be annexed to or filed with the declaration in every case founded on an open
account, a copy of the account or bill of particulars of the demand; and in actions
, founded on any writing, a copy of such writing, with the names of subscribing wit
nesses, if any, shall be annexed to or filed with the declaration ; and evidence thereof
shall not be given on the trial unless so annexed or filed; and the same shall con
stitute a part of the record of the cause.
The bill of particulars must state distinctly the several items of the claim. A general statement " that
the defendant was, before a particular day, indebted to the plaintifff in $8,000, for money before that time
loaned" is not sufficient. Soria v. Planters' Bank, 3 How. (Miss.), 46.
A statement of the amounts of invoices is insufficient. Pipes v. Norton, 47 Miss., 61.
Whatever of the writing sued on is material should be set forth in the declaration. Marshall v. Hamil
ton, 41 Miss., 229.
An insufficient bill of particulars can be amended. Bloom v. McGrath, 53 Miss., 249.
If the declaration accurately specify each item, it is sufficient without a bill of particulars. Nevitt v.
Rabe, 5 How. (Miss.), 653; Tierney v. Duffy, 59 Miss., 364.
Unless objection be made in the lower court because of the absence of the bill of particulars, none can
be made in the supreme court. Tierney v. Duffy, 59 Miss., 364.
The office of the bill of particulars is to give the defendant specific information of the cause of action;
it cannot, thereforee, be less specific than the declaration, nor include any items not within the scope of the
pleading. Chicago R. R. Co. v. Provine, 61 Miss., 288.
A promissory note sued on and filed with the declaration, thereby becomes a part of the record.
(Gale v. Lancaster, '14 Miss., 413, distinguished.) Hamer v. Rigby, 65 Miss., 41.
677 (1541). Writing filed and made part of record.—A copy of any writing
of which profert is made, or ought to be made, in any pleading, shall be annexed
to or filed with the pleading, with the names of the subscribing witnesses, if any,
and evidence thereof shall not be given at the trial unless so annexed or filed; and
every writing filed with any pleading, as part of it, shall thereby become a part of
it, and be so considered for all purposes of the action.
257
17

»

678-684

CIRCUIT COURTS.

678 (1542). Declaration on bonds with a condition.—In all actions upon
bonds with a condition the plaintifff shall state the condition and assign breaches
thereof in his declaration; and evidence shall not be given of any breach uuassigued.
The jury shall assess damages for such of the breaches so assigned as may be proved,
and execution shall issue for so much, and the judgment shall stand as a security to
the plaintifff for any other breaches that may afterward happen ; and he may have
a scire facias thereon and assign any other breach, and thereupon damages shall ho
assessed and execution issued as before.
In a suit upon a bond, where defendant pleads a former recovery, it is not a good replication to aver that
the breaches, which had occurred before the former suit, are different from those in said suit, and were
unknown to the plaintifff when the suit was brought, without an averment of a fraudulent concealment
thereof by the defendant; and the statute does not affect this. State v. Morrison, 60 Miss., "4.
679 (1543). In trespass, place of trespass described.—In actions of trespass
to land, the place of the alleged trespass shall be designated in the declaration by
name, or abuttals, or other proper description.
680 (1544). Declaration for libel or slander. —In actions for libel or slander
the plaintifff may aver that the words or matter complained of were used in a
defamatory sense, specifying such sense, without any prefatory averment to show
how such words or matter were used iu that sense; and such averment shall be put
in issue by the denial of the alleged libel or slander ; and where the words or mat
ter set forth, with or without the alleged meaning, show a cause of action, the
declaration shall be sufficient.
681 (1546). Of pleas, replications, etc.—All the provisions hereinbefore con
tained in reference to the form and sufficiency of the declaration, shall extend and
apply to the pleas of the defendant, and to all subsequent pleadings in the cause,
so far as the same may be applicable.
682 (1547). Several pleas in abatement.—The defendant may plead at the same
time as many matters as he may have to the jurisdiction of the court, to the disa
bility of the plaintifff, and in abatement of the writ or declaration ; and he shall set
forth the matters in separate pleas, and in plain, intelligible, concise language, with
out regard to technical form ; and where the matter pleaded does not appear on
record, he shall verify such plea by the oath or affirmation of himself or some other
credible person.
683 (1548). What pleas in bar may be pleaded together.—The following pleas
in bar, or any two or more of them, may be pleaded together as of course, when
appropriate to the action, without leave of the court or judge, to wit : The general
issue, denial of the debt or contract sued on, tender in whole or in part, statute of
limitations, set-off, plene admiuistravit, infancy, payment, accord and satisfaction,
release, not guilty, a denial of plaintifff's property in the thing injured, leave and
license, duress, son assault demesne, performance, justification in libel, slander, and
other actions, and any other pleas which by law are allowed to be pleaded together.
Under a statute like that of Anne, enacted here as early as 1807, changing the common law rule of a
single issue, all consistent defenses could be pleaded together; the code 1857 first authorized the pleading of
certain inconsistent pleas. Under the existing statute enumerating pleas which may be filed together, defend
ant is not precluded from joining other pleas which he might have joined before the statute. State v. Mor
gan, 59 Miss., 349.
684 (1548). Penalty for mispleading.—If any party shall, without leave of
the court, plead several pleas, replications, or other pleadings together, except in
258

CIRCUIT COURTS.

685-687

cases where the same is allowed by law, the opposite party shall be entitled to judg
ment as for want of the proper pleading; but such judgment may be set aside, on
affidavit of merits and payment of costs and such other terms as the court may
think fitWhen the statute is violated a motion to strike out the plea, if made, should be sustained. The judgment
authorized is a final judgment, and can only be set aside by compliance with the statute. Hartford v. Green,
52 Miss., 332; Hunter v. Wilkinson, 44 Miss., 721.
The statute does not apply to the action of replevin. Bennett v. Holloway, 55 Miss., 211.
685 (1549). Mitigating circumstances. —In actions for libel or slander, assault
and battery, and false imprisonment, the defendant, under the plea of not guilty,
may give in evidence any mitigating circumstances to reduce the damages, notwith
standing he may also have pleaded a justification.
686 (1550). Notice of special matter under general issue.—If the defendant
desire to prove under the general issue in an action any affirmative matter in avoid
ance, which by law may be proved under such plea, he shall give notice thereof in
writing, annexed to or filed with the plea, otherwise such matter shall not be allowed
to be proved at the trial ; and the defendant may, in all cases, plead the general issue
and give written notice therewith of any special matter which he intends to give in
evidence in bar of the action, and which he would be otherwise obliged to plead
specially; and, when such notice shall be given by the defendant, the plaintifff shall,
before the trial of the cause, file a written notice to the defendant of any special
matter which he intends to give in evidence in denial or avoidance of such special
matter so given notice of by the defendant, and which it would have been necessary
to reply specially had the defendant's defense been specially pleaded; and if notice
be not given as required, evidence of such matters shall not be admissible on the
trial.
It is competent to prove a set-off under the general issue if the items of set off be filed with the plea and
notice given. Kershaw v. Merchants' Bank, 7 How. (Miss.), 386; Alliatou v. Lindsey, 12 Smed. & M., 656.
Evidence that the contract sued on was executed on Sunday is not admissible under the general issue,
without notice. Herndon v. Henderson, 41 Miss., 584.
The mode of avoiding matter proposed to be proved under a notice filed with the general issue setting up
an insufficient defense, is by objection to the evidence when offered. Wren v. Hoffman, 41 Miss., 016; New
Orleans R. li. Co. v. Wallace, 50 Miss., 244.
The statute narrows the scope and effect of the general issue; every defense not merely consisting of a
denial of the allegations of the declaration must be pleaded specially or notice thereof given under the gen
eral issue. Tittle v. Bonner, 53 Miss., 578.
Non-assumpsit to a declaration in assumpsit is sufficient notice of any defense which is a mer.e denial of
the contract sued on. Fitch v. Asher, 56 Miss., 571.
It is not allowable to give notice under special pleas. Wren v. Hoffman, 41 Miss., 616; Grayson v.
Brooks, 64 Miss., 410.
687 (1551). Set-off pleaded.—Where a mutual indebtedness exists between the
plaintifff and defendant, the defendant may plead and set off against the demand of
the plaintifff any debt or demand which he may have against the plaintifff; and if it
shall appear that the demand of the defendant is valid and equals the demand of
the plaintifff, the judgment shall be that the plaintifff take nothing by his writ and
pay the costs. And if it appear that any part of the sum demanded has been paid,
but that the plaintifff's demand exceeds that of the defendant, the amount paid shall
be deducted, and the plaintifff shall have judgment for the residue of his demand
only, with costs of suit. But if it appear that the plaintifff is overpaid, and is in
debted to the defendant, the defendant shall be entitled to judgment for the amount
259

688-690

circuit cociits.

due to him against the plaintifff for the amount so found, with costs, and execution
may issue therefore. (For set-off before justice of the peace, see § 2411.)
It is not necessary that an assignment should appear on a transferred note to enable the holder \f> use it
as a set-off. Glass v. Moss., 1 How. (Miss.), 519.
An open account transferred by delivery may be so used. Ashby v. Carr, 40 Miss., G4.
A set-off cannot be interposed by the maker of a note which has been assigned unless the set-off existed
at the time of the notice of the assignment. Northern Bank v. Kyle, 7 How. (Miss.), 360.
Under a plea of payment a bill of particulars is necessary to enable a defendant to avail himself of a
set-off. Vanzant v. Shelton, 40 Miss., 332.
Set-off is not available in a suit for unliquidated damages. Burrus v. Gordon, 57 Miss., 93.
An unliquidated claim for damages cannot be used as a set-off. Casper v. Thigpen, 48 Miss . 635.
If the action be by more than one plaintifff, and it is proposed to set off a debt of one plaintifff to the
defendant ; or if the action be against more than one defendant, and the proposed set-off be in favor of but
one of them, there will be a want of mutuality; but if the set-off be in favor of all of the defendants and
against all the plaintifffs and another person, and the debt be the several debt of each, it will be good. That
another party also owes the debt does not destroy its several character or destroy mutuality. Moody v. Wil
lis, 41 Miss , 347; Peyton v. Planters, 63 Miss., 410.
In an action of assumpsit, the defendant, having a claim as beneficiary under a deed of trust for the
value of property converted and sold by the plaintifff, may set off the same against the plaintifff's demand.
Hunt v. Shackleford, 55 Miss., 94.
Debts cannot be shown to be mutual by evidence that one or more of the debtors are mere sureties.
Peine v. Lewis, 64 Miss., 96.
A demand against one person cannot be set off against him and his nominal partner in a «uit by them
on a note made to the firm. A set off must be against all the plaintifffs. Jones v. Howard, 53 Miss., 707.
In an action by a clerk against a store keeper for the value of his services, the employer cannot set off
a demand for money lost from the cash-drawer owing to the clerk's negligence. Cobb v. Wilson, 60 Miss., 343.
A set-off is in the nature of a cross-action; and in a joint action by several plaintifffs, their separate
debts to the defendant cannot be set off against their joint demand. Denney v. Wheelwright, 60 Miss , 733.
The statute does not authorize a set-off against the state. Raymond v. State, 54 Miss., 562.
Recoupment is contradistinguished from set-off in three essential particulars: (1) It being confined to
matters arising out of and connected with the tfansaction, or contract, upon which the suit is brought; (2)
in having no regard to whether or not such matter be liquidated or unliquidated; (3) that the judgment is
not regulated by statute. Myers v. Estill, 47 Miss , 4.
688 (1554). Items of set-off filed. —If the defendant plead a set-off, or give
notice of any set-off under the general issue, or shall desire to prove any set-off
under plea of payment, he shall file with his plea or notice an account, stating dis
tinctly the nature of the set-off and the several items thereof, and a copy of any
writing intended to he set-off; and on failure to do so, he shall uot be entitled to
prove such set-off on the trial.
The plea or notice must give the plaintifff full information of the character of the demand sought to be
set off. Phipps v. Shegogg, 30 Miss., 241 ; Curry v. Kurtz, 33 Miss., 24.
689 (1552). Balance of mutual dealings on death of one party.— Where there
shall have been mutual dealings between two or more persons, and one or more of
them shall die before an adjustment of such dealings, the lawful demands of such
parties against each other shall be a good payment, or set-off, to the amount thereof,
notwithstanding the estate of one or more of such deceased persons shall be insolvent,
and only the balance due shall be the debt.
A debt due by a deceased person cannot be set off against a note given to the administrator for a part of
the property sold by him. Mellen v. Boarninn, 13 Smed. & M., 100; Boles v. Hyman, 57 Miss., 330
690 (1553). Payment at or after maturity pleadable. — In all actions for the
recovery of any debt or demand alleged to be due by the defendant to the plaintifff,
it shall be lawful for the defendant to plead payment of the money demanded, at or
after the time when the same became due, or at any time before action brought, and,
under such plea, to prove any payments that have been made, in part or in full, of
the sum demanded. Statute applied. Cage v. Her, 5 Smed. & M., 410.
260

CIRCUIT COURTS.

691-697
t
691 (1555). Disclaimer and tender of amends in trespass.—In actions for
trespass on land the defendant may plead that he disclaims any title or claim to the
land in question, and that the trespass was involuntary or by negligence, and that
he tendered or offered sufficient amends therefore before suit brought, and he shall
thereupon bring the amount so tendered into court; and unless the plaintifff in such
action shall recover more damages than the amount so tendered, he shall be adjudged
to pay the costs of the action.
692 (1556). Several replications pleaded by leave, etc.—The plaintifff in any
action may, by leave of the court or judge, plead in answer to the plea, or the sub
sequent pleading of the defendant, as many several matters as he shall think neces
sary to maintain his action ; and the defendant ma}", by like leave, plead in answer
to any pleading of the plaintifff subsequent to the declaration, as many several mat
ters as he may think necessary to his defense, upon the affidavit of the party making
such application that he is advised and believes that he- has just ground to traverse
the several matters proposed to be traversed by him, or that the several matters
sought to be pleaded by way of confession and avoidance are respectively true in
substance and fact.
The court has no discretion to waive the affidavit provided for by the statute or to mitigate the terms.
Hunier v. Wilkinson, 44 Miss., 721 ; Hartford v. Green, 52 Miss., 332.
693 (1557). Similiter not necessary.—Whenever any pleading concludes to the
country, issue shall be considered as joined thereon, unless a demurrer thereto be
filed.
694 (1558). Pleas puis darrein continuance.—Pleas after issue joined, or since
the last continuance, or at any stage of a case, shall not be held to be a substitute
for former pleas, or to waive any defense pleaded.
695 (1559). Costs when pleading held insufficient.— When a plea in abate
ment shall be adjudged insufficient, the plaintifff shall recover full costs to the time
of overruling the plea; and when, by an interlocutory judgment, any other part of
the pleading shall he adjudged insufficient, all costs occasioned by such bad plead
ing shall be adjudged against him who committed the fault.
696 (1560). Of demurrers; causes must be assigned. — When a demurrer shall
be interposed, the court shall not regard any defect or imperfection in the pleadings,
except such as shall be assigned for causes of demurrer, unless something so essen
tial to the action or defense be omitted that judgment according to law and the
right of the cause cannot be given.
A demurrer is a waiver by the demurrant of his right to have the pleading demurred to treated as a
nullity. Mayfield v. Barnard, 43 Miss., 270.
If the declaration be so defective " that judgment according to law and the right of the cause" cannot
be given, a demurrer to a plea may be extended back to the declaration. State v. Bowen, 45 Miss., 347 ;
Shoult v. Kemp, 57 Miss., 218.
A demurrer to the whole declaration, containing two counts, must be overruled if either count, taken by
itself, be good. Lynn v. Illinois B. R. Co., 03 Miss., 157.
697 (1561). Judgment on overruling demurrer to declaration. —If the
demurrer of the defendant to the declaration be overruled, the court shall give
judgment for the plaintifff for the amount due and interest; and a plea shall not be
admitted unless the defendant make oath that he has a good and substantial defense,
setting forth fully the nature of the defense, that the court may judge whether the
plea ought to be admitted or not.
261

698-705

CIRCUIT COURTS.

698 (1502). Judgment on sustaining demurrer to plea. —If the plaintifff demur
to the plea of the defendant, and the demurrer be sustained, the judgment shall be
that the defendant do answer over to tbe declaration ; but he shall be compelled to
plead to the merits, and the plaintifff' shall not be delayed of his trial. And if the
plea then filed be demurred to, and such demurrer be sustained, further leave to
plead shall not be granted.
Upon sustaining a demurrer to a plea, a failure to render judgment respondeat ouster is palpably errone
ous, but the supreme court will not reverse for that, if the merits of the case were litigated and the judgment
correct. [Lee v. Dozier, 40 Miss.. 477, explained.) Wilkinson v. Cook, 44 Miss., 367.
If a demurrer to a plea be sustained, judgment must be respondeat ouster, although there be another
plea on 61e on which issue is joined. Drane v. Madison Co., 42 Miss., 264.
The statute does not apply to a demurrer to a replication; if such demurrer be sustained, the judgment
is final. Memphis R. R. Co. v. Orr, 52 Miss., 541.
Unless the defendant obtain leave to plead over. Tittle v. Bonner, 5;> Miss., 578.
On overruling a demurrer to a plea, the judgment is not required to be respondeat ouster, but it is not
error to grant leave to the plaintifff to reply. Tittle v. Bonner, 53 Miss., 578.
On sustaining a demurrer to a second plea, amended after one demurrer sustained to it. the judgment
should not be respondeat ouster. Tittle v. Bonner, 53 Miss., 578.
But if the first demurrer were confessed, the rule is different. State v. Morgan, 59 Miss., 349.
If a replication erroneously conclude to the country, and a demurrer be sustained to it for that reason
judgment final should not go against the plaintifff, but the court should order the conclusion amended, with
leave to defendant to answer. Metcalf v. Grover, 55 Miss., 145; Northrop v. Flaig, 57 Miss., 754.
699 (1563). Frivolous demurrer.—The court may refuse to receive a demurrer
manifestly frivolous or intended for delay, or may strike out the same if filed, and
proceed as if such demurrer had not been offered.
700 (1564). Joinder not required.—A joinder in demurrer shall not be required
in any case.
701 (1565). Express color and special traverses.—Express color and special
traverses shall not be necessary in any pleading.
702 (1566). Pleadings to be signed. —A pleading shall be signed by the party
or his attorney.
703 (1567). Special demurrer abolished.—A pleading shall not be deemed
insufficient for any defect which could heretofore be objected to only by special
demurrer.
A demurrer to the form of a declaration is not maintainable. State v. Swinney, 60 Miss., 39.
It is error to sustain a demurrer to a special plea on the sole ground that it. amounts to the general issue.
Polkinghome v. Hendricks, 61 Miss., 366.
704 (1568). Obscure pleadings and redundant matter; how dealt with. —If
the allegations of a pleading be so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of
the complaint or defense be not apparent, or if any pleading be so framed as to
prejudice, embarrass, or delay a fair trial of the action, the court, on application of
the opposite party, shall cause the same to be made definite and certain, or may
strike the same from the files. Irrelevant or redundant matter inserted in a plead
ing may be stricken out on motion of any party.
705. Bill of particulars. —If the pleading in any case be in vague and general
terms, or do not specify the 'circumstances or the occasion's on which the pleader
relies, and the opposite party satisfy the court, by affidavit, that for the purpose of
prosecution or defense at the trial it is necessary that his adversary be more specific,
the court may order a bill of particulars to be rendered, specifying time, place, and
circumstances relied upon, and persons present, or, in case of contractual demands,
262

CIRCUIT COURTS.

706-713

more particularly itemizing the claim ; and thereafter on the trial evidence shall not
be admissible of matters not so specified.
Bills of particulars may be ordered without regard to the nature, subject, or form of the action. Tilton
v. Beacher, 59 N. Y , 176 (S. C. 17 Am. Rep., 337, and cases there cited).
706 (1569). Useless verbiage dispensed with.—AH allegations heretofore usu
ally inserted in declarations and other pleadings which are not material or traversa
ble, .and which the party could not be required to prove, may be omitted unless they
be required for the right understanding of allegations that are material.
707 (1570). Formal defense dispensed with.—Formal defense shall not be
required in a plea, but it may commence as follows: "The said defendant by his
attorney [or in person] says that." And it shall not be necessary to state in a second
or other plea that it is pleaded by leave of the court, or according to the form of the
statute, or to that effect.
708 (1571). Actionem non, precludi non, etc., unnecessary. —In a plea or
subsequent pleading, intended to be pleaded in bar of the whole action generally, it
shall not be necessary to use any allegation of actionem non or to the like effect, or
any prayer of judgment; nor shall it be necessary in any replication or subsequent
pleading pleaded in maintenance of the action, to use any allegation of precludi
non or to the like effect, or any prayer of judgment; and all pleas, replications,
and subsequent pleadings pleaded without such formal parts, shall be taken, unless
otherwise expressed, as pleaded respectively in bar of the whole action or in main
tenance of the whole action.
709 (1572). How private statutes may be pleaded. —If a private statute be
pleaded, it shall be sufficient to refer to it by its title and the date of its passage.
710 (1573). How private way may be pleaded.—A right by virtue of a pri
vate way may be pleaded generally in the same manner as in pleading a public way.
711. (1574). How performance of conditions may be pleaded. —In pleading
the performance of conditions precedent, the plaintifff or defendant may aver gen
erally that he duly performed all the conditions on his part; and the opposite party
shall not deny such averment generally, but shall specify in his pleading the condi-.
tion precedent the performance of which he intends to contest.
712 (1575). How judgment of court or officer of special jurisdiction may
be pleaded.—In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or officer
of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring juris
diction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given
or made; and the facts conferring jurisdiction shall be shown at the trial.
Statute applied. Statu v. Bowen. 45 Miss., 347.
713 (1577). Offers of satisfaction by defendant.—The defendant in any per
sonal action, except actions for assault and battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious arrest or prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction, may offer with
his plea, or in writing afterwards, before trial, and pay into court a sum of money
by way of compensation or amends, and may plead that the same is sufficient to
satisfy the plaintifff in respect of the cause of action in the declaration mentioned.
If the plaintifff accept the same, judgment shall be entered therefore with costs ; but
if he fail to accept it, the offer shall be considered withdrawn, and shall not be
263

714-717

CIRCUIT COURTS.

given in evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to recover more than the sum so offered,
he shall pay all the costs accruing after such offer.
A tender after suit commenced is not good unless it include all accrued costs. Collier v. White, 67
Miss., 133.
714 (1578). Proceedings when third person claims subject of action.— Upon
affidavit of a defendant before plea filed in any action upon contract, or for the
recovery of personal property, that a third party, a resident of this state, without
collusion with him, has a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to
pay or dispose of the same as the court may direct, the court may make an order
for the safe-keeping or payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject-mat
ter of the action to such person as it ma}' direct, and an order requiring such third
party to be summoned to appear in a reasonable time and maintain or relinquish his
claim against the defendant. If such third party, being duly summoned, shall fail
to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject of
the action against the defendant therein ; but if such third party appear, he shall be
allowed to make himself defendant in the action at law instead of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties,
in respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the
court for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof. If the claim of such third
party extend to only a part of the subject-matter of the action, similar proceedings
may be had respecting the part so claimed, and the action shall proceed as to the
residue as in other cases.
The statute applies to suits before justices of the peace and to actions for money arising under contracts,
express or implied, as well as to suits for personal property. Moore v. Ernst, 54 Miss., 642.
The statute applies to a garnishee against whom replevin is brought for the property in his hands. Morin
v. Bailey, 55 Miss., 570.
The act of the original defendant does not make the third person a party; an order of court is necessary.
Ettringham v. Handy, tiO Miss., 334.
«
715 (1579). Preceding section applicable to officers, etc.—The provisions of
the last section shall be applicable to any action brought against a sheriff* or other
officer for the recovery of personal property taken by him under execution or at
tachment, or for the proceeds of property so taken and sold by him ; and the defend
ant in any such action shall have the benefit of said provisions against the party in
whose favor the execution or attachment issued by making affidavit that the prop
erty, for the recovery of which or its proceeds the action is brought, was Taken
under process, describing it; and in such case the judgment of the court shall be
framed to effect justice between the parties according to their rights.
716 (1580). Notice when plaintifff is non-resident. —If the plaintifff in such
execution or attachment be a non-resident of the state, the summons may be served
on his attorney, and shall have the same effect as if served personally on the party,
or he may be made a party by publication.
717 (1581). Amendments allowed. —The court shall have full power to allow
all amendments to be made in any pleading or proceeding at any time before ver
dict, so as to bring the merits of the controversy between the parties fairly to trial,
and may allow all errors and mistakes in the name of any party or in the form of
the action to be corrected; and the court shall require all such amendments to be
made on such terms, as to costs and delay, as may be proper to prevent surprise or
264

CIRCUIT COURTS.

718-719

undue advantage. Either party may except to the decision of the court allowing
or refusing amendments, and the same may be assigned for error.
A declaration in ejectment may be amended by correcting a mistake in the description of the land sued
for. Cooper v. Granberry, 33 Miss., 117.
Such an amendment was allowed after verdict in Metcalf v, McCutchen, 60 Miss., 145.
Four years after the commencement of the suit will not be too late for the plaintifff to apply for leave to
amend his declaration so as to make it correspond with the proof contained in a deposition, if the applica
tion be made at the first term after taking the deposition, and if it do not appear that the plaintifff knew the
facts before the deposition was taken. Miller v. Northern Bank, 34 Miss., 412.
If a jury be waived, and the case be tried by the judge, his finding is like a verdict, so far as concerns
the time lor amending. State v. Powers, 52 Miss., 198.
A plaintifff who has commenced a personal action may, after plea, change his action, and substitute for
his declaration in assumpsit a petition, in rem to enforce a mechanic's lien. Weathersby v. Sinclair, 43
Miss., 189.
And vice versa. Duff v. Snider, 54 Miss , 245; Noble v. Terrell, 64 Miss., 830.
An amendment by which the holder of the legal title is made nominal plaintifff is authorized; and if it
be an attachment case, sued out by the usee, it will be unnecessary to amend the affidavit or bond Montugife v. King, 37 Miss., 441; Tully v. Herrin, 44 Miss., 626.
The name of one nominal plaintifff may be substituted for another. Denton v. Stephens, 32 Miss. 194.
A set-off cannot, in a case appealed from a justice of the peace, be filed for the first time in the circuit
court. Marx v. Trussell, 50 Miss., 498.
A bill of particulars of an account may be amended after motion to quash. Bloom v. McGrath, 53
Miss., 249.
An amendment can be made changing the form of action. Dyer v. Brittan, 53 Miss., 270.
On an appeal by a plaintifff from a justice's court, in a suit for cutting trees, he may, in the circuit court,
amend so as to make his demand for a greater number of trees. McCleary v. Anthony, 54 Miss., 70S.
An amendment to the declaration does not necessarily suspend the pleas filed to the original. Parisot v.
Helm, 52 Miss., 617.
If a party introduce evidence material to his case, but inadmissible under the pleadings, and objection
be not made, and the court, by instruction, exclude such evidence from consideration by the jury, an amend
ment to the pleading can then be made; it is not too late. Rodgers v. Kline, 56 Miss., 808.
Alter two terms, on issue joined upon the affidavit for writ of seizure (under act 1876), if both parties be
ready for trial, the plaintifff may even then tender the statement of this claim as required. Allen v. Standifer, 57 Miss , 612.
Where an affidavit was required for an appeal from a justice's court (code 1871), it was admissible to
amend it in the circuit court on motion to dismiss. Green v. Boon, 57 Miss., 617.
If the defendant have pleaded, not under oath, denying a partnership, and it has been treated by the
plaintifff as a plea, he should be allowed on the trial to file the proper sworn plea. Hirsch v. Shafer, 66
Miss., 439.
718 (1582). What variance material. —A variance between the allegation in a
pleading and the proof shall not be deemed material, unless it shall have actually
misled the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his-actioii or defense upon
the merits ; and where it shall not be shown to the satisfaction of the court that the
party has been so misled, an immediate amendment of the pleading may be made
without costs, and without delaying the cause. If the party have been so actually
misled, an amendment may be allowed on such terms as shall be just.
Where the declaration alleged the note sued on was executed in one place, and the note offered in evidence
was made in another, the variance is fatal. Carter v. Preston, 51 Miss., 423.
When objection is made because of a variance, an amendment may be made at once, unless the party
objecting be actually misled ; and the other party can object to joining in a demurrer to evidence because of
the variance. Ware v. McQuillan, 54 Miss., 703.
The objection because of variance must, be distinctly raised before verdict, and if made by an instruction
which is too vague to admonish the court or the opposing party thereof, it is insufficient. Greer v. Bubh, 57
Miss., 575.
719 (1588). When one of several counts faulty. —When there are several
counts in the declaration, one of which is faulty, defendant may apply to the court
to instruct the jury to disregard the faulty count; but if he fail to do so, and entire
damages be given, the verdict shall be good.
205

CIRCUIT COURTS.

720-725

720 (1584). Writ of inquiry to ascertain value.—If the verdict shall omit
price or value, the court may at any time award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the
same.
721 (1584). Not error if verdict omit some things.—If, on an issue concerning
several things in one count, a verdict be found for only part of them, it shall not
be error, but the plaintifff shall be barred of his title to the things omitted.
722 (1703). Of trials; causes, when triable.—The defendant shall plead on or
before the first day of the term to which the process is returnable, or within such
other time as the court, by rule or otherwise, may allow ; and, for want of plea,
judgment may be entered by default. All demurrers and dilatory pleas shall be
tried at the return-term, and the court shall require that the issue of fact, if any
there be, shall then be made up and joined ; but such issue of fact shall not be tried
before the next succeeding term without consent of parties, except in actions, ex
contractu in which the defendant has been personally served with process for thirty
days before the return-day, actions to enforce mechanics' liens, actions commenced
by attachment, and actions of replevin, in which such issues shall be tried at the
return-term, unless continued by consent, or on cause shown. Judgment by default
shall not be entered at the return-term, unless it appear that the process has been
served personally on the defendant.
Where service of the process is acknowledged by the defendant and a judgment by default final is taken,
in which it is recited that there was proof of the acknowledgment of the service, it will be sufficient. Win
ston v. Miller, 12 Smed. <fc M., 550.
The court can allow a defendant to plead out of time. (Pool v. Hill, 44 Miss., 306, explained.) McAdory v. Turner, 56 Miss., 666.
A judgment by default at the return-term, without personal service of process in a justice's court, is void.
Betts v. Baxter, 58 Miss., 329; Heirmann v. Stricklin, 60 Miss., 234.
The return-term is the first term after the summons has been legally executed. Story v. Ware, 35
Miss., 399.
If there be more than one defendant, then the first term after the last one is served is the appearanceterm, and that defendant cannot be forced to trial until the next term afterwards. Murray v. Bank, 5 Smed.
& M., 41; Thornton v. Fitzhugh, 10 Smed. & M., 438.
If the return-term fail, so that a court be not held at that term, it will nevertheless be the appearanceterm, and the case will stand for trial at the next term in the same way as though the appearance-term had
been regularly held. Thornton v. Fitzhugh, 10 Smed. & M., 438.
723 (1704). Affidavit for continuance.—On all applications for a continuance
the party shall set forth in his affidavit the facts which he expects to prove by his
absent witness or documents, that the court may judge of the materiality of such
facts.
724 (1705). Trial of facts by the court.—Trial by jury may be waived by the
parties to an issue of fact in actions on contract, and, with the assent of the court,
in other actions.
If a case be tried by the judge, his findings are regarded as equivalent to the verdict of a jury. Robert
son v. Cloud, 47 Miss., 208; Dixon v. Cook, 47 Miss., 220
725 (1707). Cases may be taken under advisement, etc. — The judge may
take a case under advisement until the next term. If an issue of fact be involved,
before taking it under advisement he shall, on notice to each party, cause the evi
dence on both sides to be reduced to writing and signed by him. At the next term
the judge shall deliver his opinion in writing, and the evidence and opinion shall
be a part of the record without a bill of exceptions; and either party prosecuting
an appeal may avail himself of all questions arising upon the record.
Motion for a new trial cannot be kept under advisement longer than the term next succeeding. The sec
tion does not apply to motions for new trials as to taking under advisement. (Ross v. Gary, 7 How. (Miss.),
266
•

CIRCUIT COURTS.

726-732

47; Kane v. Burris, 2 Sraed. & M., 313; McClure v. Houston, 10 Smed. & M., 392; Coopewood v. Prevett,
30 Miss., 206. cited and distinguished ; and Hudson v. Strickland, 49 Miss., 591, limited.) Scarborough v.
Smith, 52 Miss.', 517.
An opinion delivered in vacation and a judgment then rendered, are null. Wilson v. Bodewell, 61
Miss., 228.
726 (1706). Either party may appeal.—In cases tried by the court either party
may take bills of exception, and have an appeal, as in case of trial by jury.
In such case a motion for a new trial is not contemplated by the statute; the bill of exceptions must be
taken to the judgment. (Nicholson v. Karpe, 08 Miss., 34, explained.) Quinn v. Myles, 59 Miss., 375.
727 (1708). Trial by jury; peremptory challenges.—In civil suits each party
may challenge peremptorily four of the jurors, and as many more for whom he
can show cause. (For challenges in criminal cases, see §1423.)
728. Parties may state their case. —Before the introduction of the evidence
the plaintifff may briefly state his case orally to the jury, and the evidence by which
he expects to sustain it; and then the defendant his case, and the evidence by which
he expects to support it.
v
729 (1711). Officer not to converse with juror.—The sheriff, bailiff, or other
officer, shall not be in the room or converse with a juror after the jury has retired
from the bar, save by order of court. A violation of this section shall subject the
offender to a fine of fifty dollars and one week's imprisonment for a contempt.
730 (1712). Papers carried out by jury. —All papers read in evidence on the
trial of any cause may be carried from the bar by the jury.
731 (1713). Interpreters. —Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when
necessary; and in criminal cases the court may appoint an interpreter, and allow
him a reasonable compensation, not exceeding five dollars per day, payable out of
the county treasury.
732 (1714). * Instructions.—The judge in any cause, civil or criminal, shall not
sum up or comment on the testimony, or charge the jury as to the weight of
evidence; but at the request of either party he shall instruct the jury upon the
principles of law applicable to the case. All instructions asked by either party
must be in writing, and all alterations or modifications of instructions given by the
court or refused shall be in writing, and those given may be taken out by the jury
on its retirement. The clerk, before they are read or given to the jury, shall mark
all instructions asked by either party, or given by the court, as being "given" or
"refused," as the case may be, and all instructions so marked shall be a part of the
record, on appeal, without a bill of exceptions.
An instruction is erroneous if it assume as true a disputed fact of vital importance. Frenck v. Sale, 63
Miss., 386.
The supreme court will not notice requests for instructions unless exception be duly taken to the action
of the court below on them. Barney v. Scherling, 40 Miss., 320.
Under the statute the judge cannot invade the province of the jury by informing it. what weight should
or should not be given to established facts. Kearney v. The State, 68 Miss., 233.
Instructions when marked "given" or "refused" by the clerk, constitute a part of the record. Swan v.
West, 41 Miss., 104.
A circuit judge is denied the power of originating independent instructions not called for, or rendered
necessary by those requested by counsel. Watkins v. State, 60 Miss., 323.
The presiding judge is the source from which the law touching the case is to be supplied, and hp cannot
of his own motion give any instruction whatever; those given must be in writing, and at the request of the
party. Bangs v. State, 61 Miss., 363.
An instruction on the weight of evidence is forbidden. French v. Sale, 63 Miss , 380. See further,
*"This statute seems to bo peculiar to Mississippi ; it is denominated as "juridical nonsense." Thompson on Trials, Vol.2,
p. 1700, note 4. The code commissioners recommended a reformation, but the legislature, in ypite of tbem, re-adopted the old law.
2<!7

733-735

CIRCUIT COURTS.

Williams v. State, 32 Miss., 389, and Edwards v. State, 47 Miss., 581, denying the power to the judge to give
instructions not asked.
733 (1715). Bills of exception; in civil cases—If, on the trial of any cause
in the circuit court, either party shall be aggrieved by any charge or decision of
the court, such party may tender to the judge giving such charge or decision, a bill
of exceptions, stating therein the matters of law wherein he is supposed to have
erred, and the judge shall be bound to sign the same; and the bill of exceptions so
signed shall be made and considered a part of the record in the cause; and in case
the judge shall refuse to sign a bill of exceptions so tendered, if the facts therein
be truly stated, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in office. (See § 555.)
The object of" a bill of exceptions is to put of record matters which transpire on the trial, and which ate
not of record proper. Vieksburg R. R. Co. v. Ragsdale, 51 Miss., 447.
The signing of a bill of exceptions is a ministerial act. VanBuren v. State, 24 Miss., 512. Vicksburg
R. R. Co. v. Ragsdale, 51 Miss., 447.
Bills of exceptions, if correct, must be signed by the judge when tendered, and if he refuse to sign them,
the signatures of two attorneys is the only remedy. (This seems to overrule the dicta in Williams v. Ram
sey, 52 Miss., 851.) Dreyfus v. Cage, 02 Miss., 605.
It is unnecessary, that it may become a part of the record, for a bill of exceptions to be marked "filed''
by the clerk; it becomes such by signature of the judge. Kimball v. Mitchell, 57 Miss., 632.
A statement in a bill of exceptions as to the time of its being signed, is conclusive, and can only be
impeached for fraud Kimball v. Mitchell, 57 Miss., 632.
After a bill of exceptions has been signed and delivered it cannot be amended or corrected. Bridges v.
Kuykendall, 58 Miss., 827; Dreyfus v. Cage, 62 Miss., 605.
Depositions in suits at law are not considered in the supreme court unless contained in a bill of excep
tions, even though they be filed and be referred to in a bill of exceptions. Giegolt v. Joor, 60 Miss., 817, and
cases cited.
A paper on file signed by the presiding judge, reciting what occurred during the progress of a trial and
an exception by defendant, but which was not prepared or tendered on behalf of the defendant, nor assented
to by him, is not a part of the record. Helm v. State, 66 Miss., 537.
734 (1716). In criminal cases.—On the trial of prosecutions for any crime or
misdemeanor, it shall be the duty of the judge to sign any bill of exceptions ten
dered by the defendant during the progress thereof, if the truth of the case be
fairly stated therein; and the said exceptions shall be a part of the record of such
prosecution.
735 (1718). When bill of exceptions signed.—Bills of exceptions to any rul
ing of the court, made before the jury retires from the box, must be tendered and
signed during the trial, or during the term of the court; and bills of exceptions to
judgments overruling motions for new trials must be presented to the judge for his
signature during the term or within ten days, or such further time, not exceeding
sixty days, as the court may allow, after the end of the term, and must be signed
promptly by him, if found to be correct; and if the death, resignation, or other inca
pacity of the judge should prevent him from signing a bill of exceptions, the affi
davit of the attorney of record who represented the party tendering the bill of
exceptions, and of all of them if more than one, that it correctly states the facts
and rulings of the court, shall be received as a substitute for the signature of the
judge to it; but in such case, if the appellee shall rile in the supreme court an affi
davit of himself or his attorney in the court below, that the bill of exceptions is
not correct, stating particularly wherein it is not correct, he may file any affidavits
other than his own touching the matter, and the opposite party may do likewise, up
to the time of the call of the case for trial in the supreme court; and said court
shall consider and determine, on submission of the case, both as to the truth of the
2(58

CIRCUIT COURTS.

736-737

bill of exceptions and the questions involved in what the court may determine to
be the bill of exceptions. (See § 555.)
The day of the final adjournment, as manifested by the minutes, is the end of the term. Jones v. Will
iams, 62 Miss., 183.
If the bill be signed within the ten days, it will not be stricken out because not filed within that time.
Saucier v. Amari, 63 Miss., 276.
The court has no power to extend the time further than authorized by the statute. Allen v. Lev}-, 59
Miss., 613.
736. Bills of exceptions in cases noted by a stenographer.—The preceding
provisions as to the time when bills of exceptions shall be presented and signed,
shall not apply to cases in which the evidence and proceedings arc noted down by
the stenographer; but bills of exceptions in such cases maybe presented and signed
at any time within sixty days after the end of the term of the court at which the
case was tried. The stenographer's copy of the evidence and proceedings in any
case, when certified, signed, and filed, shall be the basis of the bill of exceptions
therein; but such part of the interrogatories and evidence in the stenographer's
copy as are immaterial and do not support or tend to support, on either side, the
points of contention between the parties, should be left out of the bill of exceptions;
and when the stenographer shall have certified, signed, and filed his copy of the
evidence and proceedings, the party taking the appeal in the case may prepare a
draft of the bill of exceptions therefrom, as hereinbefore indicated, and he shall
deposit such draft thereof in the office of the clerk of the court, and notify the
adverse party thereof, or deliver the same to him, who shall, within ten days there
after, suggest in writing any objection thereto that he ma}- have, and deposit the
same in the office of the clerk and notify the party taking the appeal or deliver the
same to him; and after the expiration of the ten days, the party taking the appeal
may present to the judge of the court his draft of the bill of exceptions, with such
objections as may have been interposed by the adverse party, and the judge shall
promptly sign said draft of the bill of exceptions if correct, and, if not, he shall
promptly correct and sign the same, and when signed it shall be a part of the record
of the case. In case of the death of the stenographer before filing a copy of his
notes of the evidence and proceedings in any case, or of his failure to file the same
within forty days after the end of the term of court, the party taking the appeal
may prepare and present to the judge a bill of exceptions in the case as if there
bad not been a stenographer therein, and the judge may sign the same within sixty
days after the end of the term, and it shall be his duty to do so if the same be
correct. (See § 555.)
737 (1717). When attorneys may sign.—If the judge shall refuse to sign a
bill of exceptions to an opinion, decision, or charge given or made on the trial of
any cause or motion, when the bill of exceptions is tendered to him, it shall be law
ful for two attorneys at law who may be present at the time of the giving or mak
ing of such opinion, decision, or charge, and of the refusal of the judge to sign
such bill of exceptions, to sign the same; and the bill of exceptions so signed shall
have the same force and effect as if it had been signed by the judge. (See § 555.)
If the bill of exceptions slate that the judge who tried the cause refused to sign it, and that the two per
sons who did sign were attorneys, and present, etc., it is sufficient. Rawls v. State, 8 Smed. & M., 599.
The statute is constitutional. Van Buren v. State, 24 Miss., 512.
The statute provides the only remedy where the judge refuses to sign. Dreyfus v. Cage, 62 Miss., 605.
269

738-742

CIRCUIT COURTS.

738 (1710). New trials; on terms, and only two to same party.—Every new
trial granted shall be on such terms as the court shall direct; and no more than
two new trials shall be granted to the same party in any cause.
Statute applied. Munn v. Perkins, 1 Sined. k M., 412.
Where three successive verdicts are found against a party, and two new trials are granted him, the circuit
court has not authority to entertain a motion for a third new trial by the same party. Kay v. McCary, 26
Miss., 404; Thornton v. West R. R. Co., 29 Miss , 143; Strickland v. Hudson, 55 Miss., 235; Tagert v. Baker,
57 Miss., 303.
But the prohibition of the statute does not apply where the. record shows a bill of exceptions, taken in
due form pending the trial, to the rulings of the court upon points of evidence and instructions. Ray v.
McCary, 2G Miss., 404; Thornton v. West R. R. Co., 29 Mis*., 143; Garnett v. Kirkman, 33 Miss., 389; Bow
ers v. Ross, 55 Miss., 213; Strickland v. Hudson, 55 Miss., 235: Parham v. Stith, 61 Miss., 199.
The statute does not apply where there had not been two new trials granted to the same party. Wildy
v. Bonney, 35 Miss., 77.
If, without error of law in three trials, new trials be granted because of the jury's incorrect conclusions
of fact, the order granting the last new trial is void. Tagert v. Baker, 57 Miss., 303.
739 (1720). The same; granting or refusing assignable for error.—When a
motion for a new trial shall be granted or refused, either party may reduce to writ
ing the reasons offered for said new trial, together with the substance of the evi
dence in the case, and also the decision of the court on said motion, and tender
the same as a bill of exceptions; and it shall be the duty of the judge to allow and
sign the same; and such bill of exceptions shall be a part of the record in the cause,
and it may embrace the motion, the judgment, or other matters of record; and the
appellant may assign for error that the court below improperly granted or refused
a new trial.
After a new trial has been granted, and before had in the court below, it is premature to appeal from the
order granting the same. ( See, for an exception, Tagert v. Baker, 57 Miss., 303.) Terry v. Robins, 5 Smed.
& M., 291.
The court will consider only such written reasons as are assigned in the motion for a new trial. Barney
v. Scherling, 40 Miss., 320.
The bill of exceptions must be signed by the regular judge, even though a special judge ac tually preside
on the trial. Rankin v. Johnson, 56 Miss., 125.
740 (1721). Non-suit or dismissal; before jury retire from bar. —Every
plaintifff desiring to suffer a non-suit on trial shall be barred therefrom unless he
do so before the jury retire to consider of its verdict.
741 (1722). Same; in vacation. —The plaintifff may suffer a non-suit, or dismiss
any cause, before the clerk in vacation, on paying all costs that have accrued; and
the clerk shall enter on the declaration the disposition made of the same, with the
date. Where the plaintifff has received satisfaction of the cause of action in vaca
tion, he shall, by himself or his attorney, enter such satisfaction on the declaration,
and sign the same; and where the plaintifff suffers a non-suit, or dismisses his suit,
without having received satisfaction, he shall stand in the same situation as though
he had never instituted suit; but, if the defendant have pleaded or filed a set-off,
he may elect to proceed on such counterclaim as a plaintifff, with all the rights of
a plaintifff, as against the party who has suffered a non-suit or dismissed his cause,
whether in term-time or vacation, and may have a trial, ami judgment if he main
tain his demand.
742 (1723). Trial by referees. —All the issues in an action, whether of fact or
law, may be referred to one or more referees, not exceeding three, upon the consent
of the parties. (For arbitration and award, see § 95-113.)
The court cannot, in the absence of fraud, compel the referees to embody the evidence heard by them in
their report. Anding v. Levy, 60 Miss , 487.
270

CIRCUIT COURTS.

'743-746

743 (1724). The same; cause involving matters of account.—In all cases in
which matters of account are in controversy, the court may, on the application of
either party, direct a reference to one or more competent persons, not exceeding
three, as referees, to state and report an account "between the parties, and the amount
that may be due from either party to the other, which report, when confirmed by
the court, shall be final and conclusive between the parties, and judgment shall be
entered thereon ; but either party may, at the time of ordering the reference, enter
his dissent therefrom, and, during the term to which the report is filed, may demand
a trial by jury, in which case the cause shall be so tried, the costs of the reference
to abide the result ; and upon such trial the report of the referees shall be prima
facie evidence of all the matters therein found and reported; and at the time of
demanding the trial by jury, the party shall file his exceptions to the report, and
matters not excepted to shall be treated as true on the trial. Either party may
move for a new trial, take bills of exceptions, and have an appeal, as in other cases.
An action on a tax-collector's bond to recover a balance due the county and shown by a statement of his
accounts for two years, is within the statute. Marlar v. State, 62 Miss., 677.
Where a party enters his dissent, and, at the same term at which the report is made, demands a trial by
jury, and excepts to the report, it is error to confirm the report and refuse the jury trial, even where the
demand is not made until alter the commencement of argument on a motion to confirm the report. Alarlar
•v. State, 62 Miss., 677.
744 (1725). The same; exceptions to report of referees.—Either party, with
out having demanded a trial by jury, may file exceptions to the report of the ref
erees; and the court shall hear and determine the same, and may set aside the
report and direct another reference to the same or other referees. Bills of excep
tions may be taken, and, after final judgment, an appeal may be prosecuted as in
other cases.
745 (1726). The same; powers of referees.—Referees shall have power to ad
minister oaths, and to issue subpoenas for witnesses, and to compel their attendance,
in cases referred to them.
746 (1727). Jeofails; what cured hy verdict.—A judgment shall not be
stayed or reversed, after verdict, for any defect in the writ; or for a variance in the
writ from the declaration or other proceedings; or for any mispleading, insufficient
pleading, discontinuance, misjoining of issue, failure to join issue, or lack of war
rant of attorney; or for the appearance of either party, being under the age of
twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict be for him and not to his prejudice;
or for not alleging any deed, letters testamentary, or of administration, to be
brought into court; or for the omission of the words "with force and arms," or
"against the peace;" or for any misstatement of the Christian name, or surname
of either party, sum of money, quantity of merchandise, value, day, month, or
year, in the declaration or pleading, the name, sum, quantity, value, or time, being
right in any other part of the record or proceedings; or for the omission of the
averment, " this he is ready to verify," or " this he is ready to verify by the record ; "
or for not alleging "as appeareth by the record;" or for omitting the averment of
any matter without proving which the jury ought not to have given such verdict;
■or for setting forth by way of recital any matter which ought to have been set forth
by averment; or for not alleging that the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction
of the court ; or for not alleging that the property in the declaration mentioned is
271

747-749

CIRCUIT COURTS.

the property of the plaintifff; or for any mistake or misconception of the form of
the -action, or for any other defect of form in the declaration or pleading; or for
any informality in entering the judgment. Xeither shall judgment by default be
reversed, nor a judgment after inquiry of damages be stayed or reversed, for any
omission or fault which would not have been good cause to stay or reverse the judg
ment if there had been a verdict on issue joined.
Defects in the declaration are cured after judgment bv default Ragsdale v. Caldwell, 2 How. (Miss. ),
930; Wells v. Woodley, 5 How. (Miss.), 484; Breck v. Smith, 44 Miss., 69U.
Where the declaration does not stute sufficiently a case against the defendant, and he does not demur but
takes issue, a verdict and judgment against him will cure the defect in the declaration; but the judgment
will be reversed if the evidence in a bill of exceptions be insufficient to sustain it. Reaves v. Dennis, 6 Smed.
& M., 89.
Such a defect will be cured by verdict and judgment, where the proof supplies the omission in the plead
ing. Clark v. Reed, 12 Smed. & M., 554.
Where the declaration omitted material averments, and was not demurred to. after verdict and judgment,
it will be presumed that the evidence justified the judgment, in the absence of bill of exceptions showing the
contrary. Gale v. Lancaster, 44 Miss., 413.
The statute does not extend to a case where the declaration does not state a cause of action, or where it
shows that the plaintifff has no right to the action. Wells v. Woodley, 5 How. (Miss.), 4S4; Haynes v. Ezell,
25 Miss., 242; Gale v. Lancaster, 44 Miss.. 413.
If a trial of the right of property be had without a formal issue, which was not objected to, after verdict
and judgment, the defect is cured. Phillips v. Cooper, 50 Miss., 722.
If objection to defects in the pleadings and proceedings be not made at the proper time, it will be too
late, after verdict and judgment, to object thereto. Grubbs v. Collins, 54 Miss , 4S5; Trustees v. Gilman, 55
Miss., 148; Noble v. Terrell, 64 Miss., 830.
As to discontinuances, the statute relates solely to technical discontinuances by the common law, and
not to orders of the court dismissing causes. American Co. v. Shaughnessy, 59 Miss., 398.
A verdict and judgment will cure the omission of only those averments that are necessary to make the
case attempted to be stated in the declaration, and will not supply a new and distinct cause of action not stated.
Hamer v. Higby, 05 Miss., 41.
One who has, in writing, assigned an account, cannot maintain an action thereon in his own name, even
for the use of the assignee; and a judgment by default in such case will not cure the defect. Beck v. Rosser.
68 Miss., 72.
747 (1728). Judgment on confession a release of errors. —A judgment on
confession shall be equal to a release of all errors; but all powers of attorney for
confessing or suffering judgment to pass by default or otherwise, and all general
releases of error made or to be made by any person before action brought, shall
be absolutely null and void.
The statute will not prohibit an appeal from a confessed judgment rendered by a justice of the peace.
James v. Woods, 65 Miss., 528.
748 (1729). Remedial orders. —In all actions in which the right to real or
personal estate is in controversy, the court or the judge thereof may make an
order for the protection of the property in controversy from waste or destruction,
and to prevent the removal of personal property beyond the jurisdiction of the
court, upon satisfactory proof being made of the necessity for such order., and may
enforce such order by an attachment for contempt and other proper process; but in
all such cases the court or judge may require a bond of the party applying for the
order, in an adequate penalty, payable to the opposite party, with sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the court or judge, conditioned to pay all such damages as may
be suffered by reason of such order in case the principal obligor be cast in the suit.
(See §2854.)"
749 (1730). Of judgments; when final. —In actions founded on an instrument
of writing showing the sum due, or on open account, where a copy of the account
is filed with the declaration, if judgment be rendered on demurrer, by confession,
272

CIRCUIT COURTS.

750-753

or by default, the clerk shall calculate the amount due for principal and interest,
and judgment shall he entered therefore and be final, if not set aside during the
term. And in all actions where the sum due does not so appear, and in all actions
sounding in damages, if the defendant do not plead, interlocutor}' judgments may
be taken, on which writs of inquiry shall be awarded, which may be executed at the
same term by the jurors attending court. And after a writ of inquiry shall be
executed, and judgment rendered thereon by the court, the same shall not be set
aside unless good cause be shown therefore on oath ; and in such case the defendant
shall plead immediately, and the plaintifff shall not thereby be delayed of his trial.
In actions for money paid, a judgment final by default is erroneous, unless a bill of particulars be filed
with the declaration. Barker v. Justice, 41 Mis?., 240.
A judgment by default, before writ of inquiry is executed, may be set aside at discretion ; Taut afterwards
only on cause shown under oath. Porter v Johnson, 2 How. (Miss ), 736; Barker v. Justice, 41 Miss., 240;
Meridian v. Trussell, 52 Miss., 711.
A final judgment without an inquiry is allowed only in an action ex contractu. Mississippi R. R. Co. v.
Fort, 44 Miss., 423.
In an action on a tax-collector's bond, if a plea be not filed, a writ of inquiry should be awarded. Boykin v. State, 50 Miss., 375.
750 (1731). Judgment on bonds for money. —In an action brought upon a
bond for the payment of money, wherein the plaintifff shall recover, judgment shall
be entered for the penalty of the bond, to be discharged by the payment of the
principal and interest due and the costs of suit, and execution shall issue accord
ingly; or if before judgment the defendant shall bring into court the principal and
interest due upon the bond, he shall be discharged, and in that case judgment shall
be entered for the costs only.
751 (1732). Judgment according to the rights of parties.—Judgments may be
rendered for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, or for or against one or
more of several defendants; and in such cases the verdict shall be as the right may
appear among the several parties to the action, and shall state separately any
amount allowed to any of the parties.
Where two partners are sued jointly and separate judgments rendered against them, and one appeals, he
cannot complain of errors against the other. Lynch v. Thompson, 61 Miss., 354.
The object of the statute is only to provide that appropriate judgments may be rendered on issues prop
erly determinable in the form of action tried. Lynch v. Thompson, 61 Miss., 354; Dreyfus v. Cage. 62
Miss., 733.
752 (1733). As many verdicts and judgments as necessary.— Such and so
many verdicts and judgments—joint, separate, and cross—as may be necessary to
the adjustment of the rights of the several parties may be rendered in the same
action.
753 (1734). Office confession of judgment; how made.—A person indebted
to another in any sum of money within the jurisdiction of the circuit court, on any
promise, agreement, or covenant, may sign an office confession of judgment in the
clerk's office of the circuit court, in the manner following, to wit: The creditor
shall file in the clerk's office a statement, under oath, substantially to the effect fol
lowing, viz. :
"The State of Mississippi, |
In the circuit court of said 'county,
day
County.
} of
, A.J).
.
states, on oath, that
is justly indebted to him for the amount of
dollars on an instrument of writing in the following words and figures, viz.:
273
18

CIRCUIT COURTS.

754-756

[here copy the same], and in case of indorsement say indorsed as follows: [here
copy the indorsement], or on open account, of which a copy is hereunto attached,
which remains due and unpaid, and that said sum of money is not due or claimed
upon a fraudulent or usurious consideration.
(Signed) —
.
" Sworn to and subscribed the
day of
, A.D.
, before me.
"<
, Clerk."
And if the evidence of the debt be in writing, the same shall be filed with said
statement; and if not in writing, then a copy of the open account shall be filed;
and the party indebted shall sign, before the clerk, an acknowledgment written
upon or annexed to said statement, to the effect following, to wit:
" I do hereby acknowledge myself indebted to the said
in the sum of
dollars, which includes interest up to the first day of the next term of the said circuit
court, and I give my consent for judgment to be rendered against me in favor of said
, at the next term of the said circuit court, for said amount and all legal costs
accruing thereon, with stay of execution [if any] until [as may be agreed upon].
(i
"Taken and acknowledged the

day of

, A.D.
, hefore me.
"
, Clerk."
The fact that a note on which judgment was confessed was not due when the judgment was rendered,
does nut deprive the circuit court of jurisdiction. Black v. Pattison, 61 Miss., 599.
754 (1735). The same; docketed and made final. —When such statement and
acknowledgment are filed, the clerk shall docket the cause on the appearance-docket,
and at the next term, on the motion of the plaintifff, the court shall render judgment
thereon for the amount acknowledged to be due, with interest from the first day of
the term, and with such stay of execution, if any, as may be stipulated : and such
judgment shall be final unless set aside during the term, and shall be as binding'and
obligatory as judgment rendered in any other form; and a full and complete final
record shall be made therein as in other cases.
The lien of such judgment only takes effect from confirmation. Bass v. Estill, 50 Miss., 300.
755. The same; absolutely void in certain cases.—A judgment rendered on
office confession shall be void in toto as to third parties, if tainted with fraud or
usury.
756 (1736). Enrollment of judgments; judgment-roll.—The clerk of the cir
cuit court shall procure and keep in his office one or more books, to be styled '-The
Judgment Roll," which books shall be appropriately divided under the several letters
of the alphabet, and on each page shall be placed the following caption:
Defendants'
Names.

Judgment!I MM™™*.
Date of ^'""wm.S'1''" KM.OLr.MF.NT.
IUTBOP
obDeckek.

^a.xtiffs',
Wh.xa.d
Names.
How
Satisfied. Remarks
R""hks.

And the clerk shall, within twenty days after the adjournment of each term of
the court, enroll all final judgments rendered at said term, in the order in which
they were entered on the minutes, by entering on the judgment-roll, under the
proper letter or letters of the alphabet, the names of each and every defendant to
said judgment, the amount of such judgment, the date of its rendition, the county
and court in which rendered, the date of enrollment, and the names of the plaintifff'
274

CIRCUIT COURTS.

757-758

or plaintifffs. When any judgment shall be satisfied, the deck] shall so enter under
the proper heading, and subscribe the entry.
The enrollment of a judgment against two persons, partners, under the letter of tlie name of one only,
does not bind the property of the other. Hughes v. Lacock, 03 Miss., 1 12.
757 (1737). Lien of enrolled judgments. —A judgment so enrolled shall he a
lien upon and bind all the property of the defendant within the county where so
enrolled, from the rendition thereof, and, shall have priority according to the order
of such enrollment, in favor of the judgment-creditor, his representatives or assigns,
against the judgment-debtor, and all persons claiming the property under him after
the rendition of the judgment ; and a judgment shall not be a lien on any property
of the defendant thereto unless the same be enrolled.
Where several judgments are rendered against a defendant on the same day, the judgment which appears
first entered on the minutes of the court obtains a prior lien. Smith v. Shipp, 1 How. (Miss.), 234; Reed v.
Haviland, 38 Miss., 323; Johnson v. Edde, 58 Miss., 664.
If a creditor suspend his execution he loses his priority of lien. Michie v. Planters' Bank. 4 How.
(Miss.), 139; Smith v. Everly, 4 How. (Miss.), 178.
And this is true if the stay be granted by the judgment itself. (Pickett v. Doe, etc., 5 Smed. & M., 470,
overruled.) Virden v. Robinson, 59 Miss., 28.
The judgment, if enrolled, becomes a lien on after-acquired property from the date of its acquisition.
( Moody v. Harper, 25 Miss., 484, explained.) Jenkins v. Gowan, 37 Mies., 444; Cayce v. Stovall, 50 Miss., 396 ;
Cooper v. Turnage, 52 Miss., 431.
The lien extends to the money produced by sale under execution as well as to the property sold. Smith
v. Everly, 4 How (Miss.), 178.
A judgment of affirmance in supreme court neither satisfies, merges, or extinguishes the judgment
below; and though it be a judgment on the appeal-bond against the principal and his sureties, it does not
extinguish or destroy the lien of the original judgment. Planters' Bank v. Calvit, 3 Smed.it M., 143; Kilpatrick v. Dye, 4 Smed. & M.. 289; Montgomery v. McGimsey, 7 Smed. cfe M., 557.
The removal of property out of the county after the lien has attached does not destroy it. Chilton v.
Cox, 7 Smed. & M., 791.
The lien of a judgment, in a contest between the judgment-creditor and a purchaser from the judgmentdebtor, takes effect from the rendition of the judgment by the judge, and not from the time of signing the
minutes. Clark v. Duke, 59 Miss., 575.
The object of enrollment is to protect the rights of persons who should become purchasers. Josselyn v.
Stone, 28 Miss., 753.
The rights of the state are not affected by the enrollment laws. Josselyn v. Stone, 28 Miss., 753.
A judgment-creditor takes in execution the property of his debtor subject to every liability under which
the debtor himself held it at the time of the rendition of the judgment, and subject to all equities which
exist at the time in favor of third persons, except where otherwise provided by statute. Walton v. Hargroves,
42 Miss., 18; Foute v. Fail-man, 48 Miss., 536.
See as an exception Nugent v. Priebatsch, 01 Miss., 402.
The lien of a judgment duly enrolled binds the property in the hands of a subvendee or more remote
purchaser from the defendant. Mitchell v. Wood, 47 Miss., 231.
The lien can attach to money only from its seizure. Calm v. Person, 56 Miss., 360.
The statute only relates to judgments against the defendant from whom the money has been collected;
and applies only to money made by a sale under execution. Johnson v. Edde, 58 Miss., 664.
Where a creditor refuses to give an indemnifying bond, and another creditor does give it, and a sale is
made because thereof, the latter will have a superior right to the proceeds. Townsend v. Henry, 26 Miss.,
203; Dabney v. Stackhouse, 49 Miss., 513.
758 (1737). How priority, of right forfeited.—A junior judgment-creditor may
give witten notice to any senior judgment-creditor requiring him to execute his judg
ment; and if the senior judgment-creditor, being so notified, shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to have execution issued and levied within ten days from said notice for the
satisfaction of his judgment, he shall lose his priority, and the junior judgmentcreditor may cause execution to issue on his judgment and to be levied on any of
the property of the defendant, and the proceeds of a sale thereof shall be applied
to the junior judgment so levied.
The section applies to living plaintifffs, who can legally enforce their judgments. Dibble v. Norton, 44
Miss., 158.
275

759-764

CIRCUIT COURTS.

The junior creditor having given the notice, and the senior having failed to do as required of him, the
former has a prior lien. Curry v. Lampkin, 51 Miss., 91.
759 (1738). Judgment not a lien out of county unless enrolled.— A judg
ment or decree rendered in auy court of the United States or of this state shall
not be a lion upon or bind auy property of the defendant, situated out of the county
in which such judgment or decree was rendered, until the plaintifff shall file in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which such property
may be situated an abstract of such judgment or decree, certified by the clerk of
the court in which the same was rendered, containing the names of all the parties
to such judgment or decree, its amount, and the date of the rendition, and the
amount appearing to have been paid thereon, if any; and it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the circuit court, on receiving such abstract, and on payment of the
fees allowed by law for filing and enrolling the same, to file and forthwith enroll
the same on the judgment-roll, as in other cases; and such judgment or decree
shall, from the date of its enrollment^ be a lien upon and bind the property of the
defendants within the county where it shall be so enrolled.
A. judgment does not become a lien until an abstract therpof be filed and the judgment be enrolled, and
the lien has priorilv from the time of the filing and enrolling. Bergen v. State, 58 Miss., d'2'i; Hamilton v.
Walker, 67 Miss., 197.
760 (1739). No lien in county without enrollment.—Judgments and decrees,
at law or in equity, rendered in any court of the United States held within this
state, or in the supreme court or the courts of chancery of this state, shall not be a
lien upon or bind the property of the defendants within the county in which such
judgments or decrees maybe rendered, until an abstract thereof shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county and enrolled on the judgmentroll, in the manner and on the terms hereinbefore provided; and such judgments
and decrees shall bind the property of the defendants from the date of such enroll
ment, in like manner as judgments and decrees rendered in a different county and
so enrolled.
761 (1764). Growing crop not subject to judgment-lien.— A growing crop
shall not be subject to the lien of a judgment. (See § 3472.)
762 (1741). Scire facias on judgment after year and day.—It shall not be
necessary to revive a judgment by scire facias, because no execution shall have been
issued on such judgment, within a year and a day after its rendition, but execution
may be issued without such revival.
763 (1756). Of supersedeas.—Supersedeas shall not be granted to stay the exe
cution of any judgment, except upon condition that the party obtaining it shall
undertake in writing, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the judge who
grants or the clerk who issues the writ of supersedeas, to pay the full amount of
the judgment superseded, with interest and costs, if said supersedeas shall be dis
charged; and when such supersedeas shall be discharged, such undertaking shall
have the force and effect of a judgment of the court whose judgment was super
seded, against all the parties thereto, and may be enforced against them or the rep
resentatives of any who may have died, as any other judgment of such court; but
this shall not apply to supersedeas on appeal.
764 (1785). Collection of fines, penalties, etc., and list reported.—The clerk
of the circuit court shall, immediately after the adjournment of every term, issue
276

CONSTABLES.

765-768

execution according to the nature of the case, for all fines, penalties, and forfeitures
assessed by the court, or which shall have accrued to the state or to the county,
and remaining due and unpaid; and shall, within thirty days after such adjournment,
transmit a list of said executions to the clerk of the board of supervisors of the
county', noting the names of the defendants, the amounts, and the sheriff or other
officer to whom the same were delivered; and shall at the same time transmit to
said clerk a statement of the returns made by the sheriff or other officer on execu
tions for fines, penalties, and forfeitures returnable to the last term of the court;
and any clerk who shall fail to issue such executions, or to transmit the lists thereof
as required, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred dollars for every such
offense, to be recovered by the state or county, on motion against him and his sure
ties by the district attorney, before the circuit court. The clerk of the board of
supervisors shall notify the district attorney of such default.
765. (1786). Remedy against officer, in reference to fines.—If any sheriff or
other officer shall return on any such writ of execution, that he hath levied the
fine, penalty, or forfeiture therein mentioned, or any part thereof; or, that he hath
taken the' body of the defendant, and shall have suffered such defendant to escape ;
or, if any person be committed to the custody of such sheriff or other officer until
the fine, penalty, or forfeiture for which he was committed shall be paid, and such
sheriff or officer shall permit such defendant to escape ; or, if such sheriff or officer
shall have received such fine, penalty, or forfeiture, or any part thereof, and shall
not immediately account to the clerk of the board of supervisors and pay the same
into the treasury of the county, then, in either of the cases above specified, it shall
be the duty of said clerk to notify the district attorney of such default, who shall
thereupon, on motion at the next term of the circuit court, demand judgmentagainst such sheriff, or other officer, and his sureties, for the fines, penalties, and
forfeitures mentioned in such writs, or for so much thereof as he shall have received
on such execution or commitment, or the whole amount thereof in case he shall have
suffered such defendant or defendants to escape; and the court shall give judgment
accordingly, and award execution thereon.
766 (1788). Liability of officers for default as to fines, etc.— Clerks, sheriffs,
and other officers shall be liable to the same proceedings for any neglect of duty, in
respect to executions for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, as in case of executions in
civil cases,

CHAPTER 22.
CONSTABLES.
767 (386). To be elected, etc. —One constable shall be chosen in each district
for the election of a justice or justices of the peace, byr the qualified electors of such
district.
768 (387). Oath and bond of office.—Constables shall take the oath of office
prescribed by the constitution, and enter into bond as county officers are required
277

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

9II-915

911. To report state poll-tax collected to auditor.—On the fifteenth day of
January and May of every year the county treasurer shall report to the auditor of
public accounts the amount of the two dollar state poll-tax received by him since
his previous May or January report.

CHAPTER 28.
COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.
912 (2263). Of special terms.—When the business of a circuit or chancery court
may require, the judge or chancellor, in term-time or in vacation, may order a special
term to be held, and the order shall be entered on the minutes, or, if made iu vaca
tion, on the minutes of the special term. A special term shall not be held in a
shorter time than twenty days from the date of the order; and the clerk of the
court shall give two weeks' notice of the time of holding the same in some news
paper published in the county, the proper costs of which notice shall be paid out of
the county treasury; or, if there be no such paper, then by advertisement for the
like time posted at the court-house door and at three other public places in the
county; but a failure or irregularity in giving notice shall not affect the validity of
any judgment or proceeding given or had at a special term.
The statute is directory as to the notice. Friar v. State, 3 How. (Miss.), 422.
A trial of a cause at a special terra cannot be forced unless it were properly triable »t the preceding
regular term. Commercial v. Galloway, 6 How. (Miss.), 515; Hatto v. Brooks, 33 Miss., 575.
913 (2264). Adjourning court if judge be absent.—If the circuit judge or
chancellor fail to attend at any term of the court, it shall stand adjourned from day
to day until the fifth day, when, if the judge or chancellor shall not appear and
open court, it shall stand adjourned without day; but, by virtue of a written order
to that effect by the judge or chancellor, it may be adjourned by the clerk or sheriff"
to the next regular term, or to any earlier day, as the order may direct, and parties,
witnesses, and jurors must attend accordingly.
914 (2265). No discontinuance for certain things. —If any court shall not be
held at any term, or shall not continue to sit the whole term, or during the term
shall not have heard and determined all matters standing for trial, then all suits and
proceedings remaining undecided shall stand continued of course until the next
term; and if the court shall not sit on any day of the term after it shall have com
menced, there shall not be any discontinuance, but the court may proceed to business
on any subsequent day until the end of the term; and any court may take a recessto any day within the time during which it may be held.
The section applies to the courts of justices of the peace. Rice v. Locke. 5!) Miss., 189.
And to unlawful detainer courts. Levenworth v. Crittenden, G2 Miss., 573.
915 (2266). Change of term; how to affect process, etc.—When the time or
place of holding any court shall be changed by law, all writs and process issued
before the act making the change shall take effect, shall be, and are hereby, made
returnable at the time and place to which the holding of said court shall be changed.
303

<) 16-920

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

And all bonds, recognizances, and other obligations for the appearance of any per
son or the performance of any thing before such court, shall have the same force
and effect as if the same required the appearance of the person or the performance
of the thing at the time and place to which the term of the court shall be changed.
916 (1904, 2267). Writs grantable by supreme and circuit judges and chan
cellors.—The judges of the supreme and circuit courts and chancellors, in termtime and vacation, may severally order the issuance of writs of habeas corpus,
mandamus, certiorari, supersedeas, and attachments, and grant injunctions and all
other remedial writs, in all cases where the same may properly be granted accord
ing to right and justice, returnable to any court, whether the suits or proceedings
be pending in the district of the judge or chancellor granting the same or not.
The fiat of such judge or chancellor shall authorize the issuance of the process or
writ returnable to the proper court or before the proper officer. All such process
or remedial writs, if the judge or chancellor consider it proper, may be granted,
issued, and executed on Sunday. (See § 517.)
The terms of granting a supersedeas may be fixed by the judge who grants it- Kramer v. Holster. 55
Miss., 243.
The circuit court has not power to appoint a receiver in chancer}-. Alexander v. Manning, 58 Miss., 634.
917 (2268). Judges conservators of peace, and must reside in districts. —The
judges of the supreme and circuit courts and chancellors shall be conservators of the
peace for the state, each with full power to do all acts which conservators of the
peace may lawfully do; and the circuit judges and chancellors shall reside within
their respective districts.
918 (2269). Subpoena duces tecum ordered in vacation.—The judges of the
•circuit courts and chancellors may, i'n vacation, order writs of subpoena duces
tecum in the same manner as if allowed in open court.
919 (2270). Judge not to sit when interested or related.— The judge of a
court shall not preside on the trial of any cause where the parties, or either of them,
shall be connected with him by affinity or consanguinity, or where he may be inter
ested in the same, or wherein he may have been of counsel, except by the consent
of the judge and of the parties.
920 (2271). Proceedings when judge disqualified. —When the circuit judge
or chancellor, by reason of interest or other cause, shall be disqualified to sit
in an}r case, the parties may select some member of the bar; and thereupon the
judge or chancellor shall retire from the bench for the time, and the member of the
bar so selected shall take his place and hear and determine the cause. The proceed
ings shall be entered as if the same were had before the judge or chancellor, who
shall sign the decrees and orders, if necessary to be signed; and the records, minutes,
and proceedings shall be and appear, in all respects, as if the cause had been heard
and determined before the judge or chancellor, and this shall apply to criminal
cases; or the judge or chancellor in such case may give notice thereof to the judge
or chancellor of another district, and require him to attend and hold a term of the
court, or such part thereof as may be necessary, where such suit may be pending;
and the judge or chancellor so notified shall attend and hold such term, if the same
do not conflict with any term to be held in the district to which he belongs.
The functions of the member of the bar agreed upon to try a cause are ministerial rather than judicial,
his decree having no validity until signed by the judge or chancellor. Grinstead v. Buckley, 32 Miss., 148.
304

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

921-924

A bill of exceptions must be signed by the regular judge, although a special judge presided at the trial.
A bill signed by the special judge alone is insufficient. Rankin v. Johnson, 56 Miss., 125.
Where the prisoner was tried and convicted, but his sentence was postponed, and the judge who tried the
case went out of office, and the prosecuting attorney succeeded to the bench, the latter can pass sentence.
Thomas v. State, 5 How. (Miss.), 20.
921. Special judges.—When any circuit judge or chancellor is unable, from
sickness or other physical disability, to attend and hold any of the courts at the
time and place required by law, such judge or chancellor—or, in case of his inability
to do so, the clerk of the court—shall certify the facts to the governor, who shall
commission some person of law knowledge to attend and, hold said court; or, in
case any such judge or chancellor shall be, for any reason, disqualified to preside in
any cause, and the attorneys therein cannot agree upon a member of the bar to pre
side in his place, it shall be the duty of the judge or chancellor to certify the facts
to the governor, who shall commission some like person to attend and preside in
said cause. If a judge of the supreme court be unable or disqualified to preside at
any term of the court, or in any cause, the facts shall be certified to the governor
by any two of the judges of the supreme court, and the governor shall commission
a like person to preside in the cause or during the disability, as the case may be.
In case the appointment be for the trial of a particular case or cases, the proceed
ings shall be as provided in the last section; but if the appointment be for holding
a term of court, the proceedings shall be as if the special judge were the regular
judge of the court.
922 (2272). Proceedings in vacation when judge disqualified.—When the
judge or chancellor of any district, by reason of interest or other cause, shall be
incompetent to act in any matter in vacation to be done in such district, or before
him, or shall be absent from the district, such matter may be brought before and
acted on by the judge or chancellor of another district in like manner and with
same effect, as if done by the judge or chancellor of the district to which the mat
ter pertains.
The section does not empower a circuit judge, under any circumstances, to appoint a receiver in chan
cery. Alexander v. Manning, 58 Miss., 034.
923 (2273). Supreme, circuit; and chancery courts may fine and imprison.—
The supreme, circuit, and chancery courts shall have power to fine and imprison any
person guilty of a contempt of the court while sitting, but the fine shall, not exceed
one hundred dollars for each offense, nor shall the imprisonment continue longer
than thirty days. 'If any witness refuse to be sworn or to give evidence, or if any
officer or person refuse to obey or perform any rule, order, or judgment of the
court, such court shall have power to tine at discretion, and imprison such officer or
person until he shall give evidence, or until tl le rule, order, or judgment shall be
complied with.
924 (2274). Court to control clerk's office and regulate business.—Each court
shall have control over all proceedings in the clerk's office of such court during the
preceding vacation, and may correct any errors or mistakes therein, and may set
aside any of said proceedings and make such order therein as may be just and
proper; and may, for good cause shown, re-instate any case discontinued during
such vacation; and shall also have power to arrange the business therein in a con
venient manner, and to establish, from time to time, rules and orders for the con305
20

925-929

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

ducting of suits and pleadings and respecting all matters to be done in term-time
or in vacation not repugnant to law.
925 (1410, 2275). Seal of court. —The clerk of the supreme court, at the expense
of the state, and the clerk of every circuit and chancery court, at the expense of
the county, shall keep a seal, with the style of the court around the margin and the
image of an eagle in the center.
926 (2276). A116wance for stationery, etc. —The circuit and chancery courts
shall make allowance to the clerks thereof of all needful sums for supplying the
offices and court-rooms with necessary stationery, furniture, books, presses, seals,
and other things necessary for the same, and for the safe-keeping of the books,
records, and papers belonging thereto ; and such allowance shall be certified to the
board of supervisors.
927 (2277). Copy of books, papers, or documents furnished.—The court in
which any action or suit is pending may, on good cause shown, and after notice of
the application to the opposite party, order either party to give to the other, within
a specified time and on such terms as may be imposed, an inspection and copy, or
permission to take a copy, of any books, papers, or documents in his possession or
under his control containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or pro
ceeding or of the defense thereto ; and if compliance with such order be refused,
such books, papers, or documents shall not be given In evidence in the action or
proceeding by the party so refusing; and the court ma}* punish the recusant party
as for a contempt of court.
828 (2279). Officers pro tempore to be appointed in certain cases.— When
ever a vacancy shall exist in the office of clerk of any court, sheriff, or coroner, ami
the vacancy shall not have been filled 011 or before the commencement of the term
of any court which the clerk, sheriff, or coroner is required to attend, or if the
clerk, sheriff, or coroner shall be absent, deceased, become unable, or refuse to dis
charge his duties, or be on trial therein, the court, or the judge or judges thereof,
shall have power to appoint a suitable person to discharge the duties of clerk, sher
iff, or coroner pro tempore, who shall take the oath required b}- law, and perform
the duties and receive the emoluments of the office to which he is appointed, until
the proper incumbent shall be duly qualified or return to his duties.
The court lias not authority to remove a clerk or suspend him (unless, under the section as now amended,
he be on trial) from office except upon conviction for an offense which subjects him to removal. Ex parte
Lehman, 60 Miss., HG7.
929 (2280). Records, etc., of office of clerk delivered to successor.—When
the office of clerk of any court shall become vacant, the records, papers, books,
stationery, and every thing belonging thereto, shall be delivered to the successor in
office by an}- person having the same, on demand; and if any person having such
records, papers, books, stationery, or other things shall refuse to deliver the same
on demand to the person entitled thereto, be shall be liable for all damages sus
tained by any person aggrieved thereby: and in case of a refusal or a detention of
the same, or of any part thereof, after demand made, the court may compel the
delivery thereof, by fine and imprisonment at discretion, for contempt of court;
and the court, or judge in vacation, may order process to be issued for the seizure
of such records, papers, books, stationery, and other things, and for the delivery
thereof to the successor in office.
306

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

930-935

930 (2281). How clerks may appoint deputies.—The clerk of the supreme
court, of the circuit court, and of the chancery court shall have power, with the
approhation of the court, or o'f the judges in vacation, to appoint one or more dep
uties, who shall take the oath of office, and who thereupon shall have power to do
and perform all the acts and duties which their principals may lawfully do; such
approval, when given by the judges in vacation, shall be in writing, and shall be
entered on the minutes of the court at the next term.
931 (2282). Minutes of supreme, circuit, and chancery courts.—The minutes
of the proceedings of the supreme, circuit, and chancery courts shall be entered by
the clerk of each, respectively, in the minute-book of the court, against the next
sitting of the court, if practicable, when the same shall be read in open court; and
when corrected shall be signed—the minutes of the supreme court by the chief
justice or presiding judge, of the circuit court by the circuit judge, and of the
chancery court by the chancellor; and on the last day of the 'term the minutes shall
be drawn up, read, and signed on the same day, or before the adjournment of the
court.
Parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict the minutes as to date of adjournment. Jones v. Williams,
62 Miss., 183.
932 (2283). All papers relating to a cause filed together.—All the pleadings,
writs, proofs, and other papers relating to any cause in court, shall be filed together
by the clerk, and carefully preserved in his office.
933 (2292). Term of court extended in certain cases.—When the trial or hear
ing of any case, civil or criminal, lias been commenced, and is in progress in any
court, and the time for the expiration of the term as prescribed by law shall arrive,
the court may proceed with such trial or hearing, and bring it to a conclusion, in
the same manner and with the like effect as if the stated term had not expired.
There can be no ending of a term when a trial is entered upon and is not completed. The expiration of
the stated term pending a criminal trial is not a ground for discharging the jury, without the consent oi the
prisoner. Whitten v. State, 61 Miss., 717; Ilelm v. State, 66 Miss., 537.
If a term be prolonged by the continuance of a trial into the time fixed for a special term, it is proper to
complete the trial. Smith v. State, 64 Miss., 754.
934 (2294). Before whom oaths may be taken. —A judge of any court of
record, clerk of such court, master in chancery, member of the board of supervisors,
justice of the peace, notary public, mayor, or police justice of a city, town, or village,
and any officer of any other state, or of the United States, authorized by the law
thereof to administer oaths, may administer oaths and take and certify affidavits
whenever the same may be necessary or proper in a proceeding in any court or
under any law of tins state.
Every affidavit taken in the progress of any suit must bear upon its face the title of the suit in which it
is taken, and show the proceedings to which it is intended to apply. Saunders v. Erwin, 2 How. (Miss.), 732.
Whenever an officer is confined in the execution of his duties to a particular territory, all of his official
acts must show upon their face that they were performed within such territorj-. Saunders v. Erwin, 2 How.
(Miss.), 732.
A justice of the peace is authorized to take affidavits in his own county, to be used elsewhere. Cassedy
v. Mayers, 64 Miss., 356.
935 (2295). Oath of an agent or attorney sufficient in all cases.—In all cases
where the oath or affirmation of the party is required, such oath or affirmation may
be made by his agent or attorney, and shall be as effectual for all purposes as if
made by the party.
A bill in chancery, sworn to by the attorney of complainant, will not dispense with the rule requiring two
"
307

936-940

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances, to overthrow the answer sworn to, as would be
done if complainant himself swore to the bill. Jacks v. Bridewell, 51 Miss., 881; Waller v. Shannon, 53
Miss., 500.
Where a bill in chancery is sworn to by the attorney, the affidavit must be special, stating whether the
allegations made on information and belief are on the information and belief of the complainant or of the
attorney; and statements within the knowledge of the affiant must be stated to be within his knowledge.
Waller v. Shannon, 53 Miss., 500.
The attorney can make affidavit for a principal to a plea of non est factum. Northrop v. Flaig, 57
Miss., 754.
In all cases the affidavit should be special and show whether the knowledge or information be that of the ■
party or the attorney. Burks v. Burks, 06 Miss., 494.
936. Certification of transferred causes. —If a cause be transferred by order
of the chancery court to the circuit court, or vice versa, the clerk of the court
ordering the transfer shall forthwith deposit all the papers in the cause, together
with his certificate of the fact of the transfer, in the court to which it was trans
ferred, taking the receipt of the clerk therefore.
937. Proceedings in such causes.—When the papers have been deposited in
the court to which the cause was transferred, all the parties to the proceeding shall
take notice of the fact of the transfer; and the complainant or plaintifff shall file
his declaration or bill in the court to which the cause was transferred within thirty
days, unless the court, judge, or chancellor shall restrict the time or grant further
time; and the defendant shall plead within thirty days thereafter, unless the time,
by like means, be restricted or extended. And the cause shall be proceeded with as
if it had been originally begun in that court, as of the date on which the cause was
originally instituted.
938. Costs in such causes.—The complainant or plaintifff in the first court shall
pay all the costs in such court; but he may recover the same of the defendant, in
the court to which the cause was transferred, at the discretion of the court.
939 (2296). Courts to take notice of law of other states.— When any question
shall arise as to the law of the United States, or of any other state or territory of
the United States, or of the District of Columbia, or of any foreign country, the
court shall take notice of such law in the same matyier as if the question arose
under the law of this state.
940 (2298). Errors in judgments, etc.; how corrected, etc. — Where, in the
record of a judgment or decree of any court of law or equity, there shall be a mis
take, miscalculation, or misrecital of any sum of money, quantity of any thing, or
of any name, and there shall be among the records of the proceedings in the suit
any verdict, bond, bill, note, or other writing of the like nature or kind, or docket
or other memoranda by the judge or chancellor, whereby such judgment or decree
may be safely amended, it shall be the duty of the court, and of the judge thereof
in vacation, to amend such judgment or decree thereby according to the truth, but
the opposite party shall have reasonable notice of the application for the amend
ment. And if the transcript of such judgment or decree at the time of the amend
ment, or at any time thereafter, be removed to the supreme court, it shall be the
duty of that court, upon the inspection o'f such amended record, to be brought
before it by certiorari if need be, to affirm the judgment if there be no other error
apparent on the record.
There is no limit of time within which an amendment may be applied for and made. If a party appear,
he cannot object for want of proper notice. An amendment cannot afterwards be set aside without notice to
the adverse party. Graves v. Fulton, 7 How. (Miss.), ;V.12 ; Healey v. Just, 53 Miss., 547.
308

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

941-944

The statute applies solely to the correction of judgments and decrees, and cannot be extended so as to
supply a judgment never rendered. Ralph v. Preston, 28 Miss., 744.
The record of an amendment must show that the notice was given. Shirle3T v. Conway, 44 Miss., 434.
The exercise of the power by amending as to one joint defendant does not affect the right to amend as to
others. Healey v. Just, 53 Miss., 547.
An appeal is barred if two 3'ears have elapsed from the rendition of the judgment, though an amendment
iiave been made within that time. Healey v. Just, 53 Miss., 547.
The statute does not apply to criminal cases. McCarthy v. State, 56 Miss., 294.
941 (2299, 2300). Excess remitted.—Where any bond, taken by virtue of any
process or order, by miscalculation or mistake, shall be conditioned for the payment
of a larger sum of money than by law ought to have been required thereby, and a
verdict shall have been rendered thereon for the larger sum, or where a verdict
shall be rendered for more damages than the plaintifff shall have demanded by his
suit, and judgment be rendered accordingly, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, at
the same or any future term of the court, to release in open court any such excess;
or he may in vacation release the same, in writing under his hand, and file it among
the papers of the cause; and such release shall cure any error growing out of the
excess. If the record of any such judgment be removed to an appellate court before
the release be made, it shall be competent for the appellee to make such release in
the appellate court; and thereupon, the court, after reversing the judgment, shall
proceed to give such judgment as the court below ought to have given if the release
had been filed therein; but in such case the appellee shall pay the costs, and the
judgment shall not be entered against the sureties in the appeal-bond.
942 (2301). Proceedings on death of surety on bonds, etc. —If any surety on
a bond, recognizance, or undertaking of any kind given in any legal proceeding,
shall be dead at the time for judgment to be rendered or execution to be issued
thereon, that shall not prevent judgment from being rendered or execution being
issued on such bond, recognizance, or undertaking against parties thereto who are
living, but judgment may bo rendered against such parties, and judgment nisi may
be entered against the personal representatives of parties who are dead, and citation
shall be issued to the personal representatives to show cause why the judgment
should not be made absolute against them, and it shall be made absolute unless,
upon the return of citation executed, good cause be shown against it. Execution '
may be issued on such judgment against the living parties, and after the absolute
judgment against the personal representatives, execution may be issued against
them to enforce it.
943 (2302). Death, of parties on bonds having force of judgment.—Where
execution may be issued on any bond or undertaking, and some of the parties are
dead, it may be issued separately against such as are alive, and citation may be
issued to the personal representatives of such as are dead, to show cause against the
issuance of execution against them on such bond or undertaking ; and on the return
of such citation executed, if no sufficient cause be shown against it, execution may
be issued against them.
944 (2303). The same; citation in anticipation of judgment.—Citation to
the personal representatives of a deceased party may be issued and executed at any
time before the time for judgment or execution on such bond, recognizance, or
undertaking, requiring the appearance of the representatives before the court hav
309

945-948

COURTS, PROVISIONS COMMON TO.

ing possession or control of the obligation, to submit to judgment or execution
thereon; and if issued and executed before the rendition of judgment" or issuance
of execution against the living parties, judgment may be rendered or execution
issued against such personal representatives as well as against parties alive, without
delay or further process.
945 (2304). The same; citation issued and returnable, when.—Such citations
may be issued in vacation or in term-time without any order of court therefore, and
may be made returnable on the return-day for other process, if issued in vacation,
or forthwith, if issued during the term of court, and shall be executed five days
before judgment or execution against such personal representatives.
946 (2305). Certain bonds not affected by irregularity.—When a bond, recog
nizance, obligation, or undertaking of any kind shall be executed in any legal pro
ceeding, or for the performance of any public contract, or for the faithful discharge
of any duty, it shall inure to the person to whom it is designed by law as a security,
and be subject to judgment in his favor, no matter to whom it is made payable, nor
what is its amount, nor how it is conditioned ; and the persons executing such bond
or other undertaking shall be bound thereon and thereby, and shall be liable to
judgment or decree on such bond or undertaking as if it were payable and condi
tioned in all respects as prescribed by law, if such bond or other obligation or
undertaking had the effect in such proceeding or matter which a bond or other
undertaking, payable and conditioned as prescribed by law, would have had; and
where any such bond or undertaking is not for any specified sum, it shall bind the
parties executing it for the full amount for which any bond or undertaking might
have been required in the state of case in which it was given. (For like provisions
applicable to official bonds, see §3076.)
The statute does not apply where a defendant in execution pave a bond to have the proceeds of property
levied on forthcoming. Such a bond is unauthorized; and in such case it makes no difference that another
made a claimant's issue, the court will treat the officer as having the money in his hands. Carothers v. Leigh,
60 Miss., 258.
The obligors in a bond given in a replevin suit cannot, under the statute, object to judgment against
them because the form of the bond be the one appropriate lor a claimant's issue. Clark v. Clinton, 61 Miss., 337.
Although the sheriff be one of the plaintifffs, and accept bond from the claimant, the obligors will be held
under the section. Forbes v. Navra, 63 Miss., 1.
The bond given by one who obtains license to retail is within the section. State v. Depeder, 65 Miss., 26.
947 (2306). Bonds payable to the state in certain cases. — Any bond required
to be given in any matter, where it is not prescribed to whom it shall be made pay
able, may be made payable to the state.
948 (2307). Court or judge may require new security.—Each court, and the
judge thereof in vacation, and any of the judges, if more than one compose the
court, in all cases not specially provided for by statute, may require any bond,
recognizance, obligation, or undertaking of any kind in any legal proceeding, of
which the court has cognizance, which is shown to be insufficient, to be substituted
by a new one, with sufficient sureties ; and for a failure to comply with the order of
the court or judge in the matter, the court or judge may make such order as may be
proper in the case, and may direct such process as may be necessary or proper to
enforce it; but notwithstanding the discharge of a supersedeas, injunction, attach
ment, or other process in consequence of such failure, a judgment or decree may be
given on the bond or other obligation, or liability on it may be enforced by action
310

.

CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS.

949-952

or otherwise, as if it had not been held to be insufficient ; but, if done in vacation,
five days' notice of the time and place of making application for the order shall be
given to the opposite party; and in all cases reasonable time shall be allowed for
giving new bond, upon such terms as the court or judge may prescribe. A new
bond given in any such case shall be cumulative security.

CHAPTER 29.
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS.
949 (2697). Abduction of females. —Every person who shall take any female
over the age of fourteen years unlawfully, against her will, and by force, menace,
fraud, deceit, stratagem, or duress, compel or induce her to jnarry him, or to marry
any other person, or to be defiled, and shall be thereof duly convicted, shall be
punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary not less than five years nor more
than fifteen years.
950 (2698). Accessories; before the fact.^-Every person who shall be an
accessory to any felony, before the fact, shall be deemed and considered a principal,
and shall be indicted and punished as such ; and this, whether the principal have
been previously convicted or not.
Presence and intention to aid is participation. McCarthy v. State, 26 Miss., 299; Hogsett v. State, 40
Miss., 522.
An accessory before the fact is one who is not present at the time of the commission of the offense, but
counsels, procures, or commands the commission of the crime. Unger v. State, 42 Miss., 642.
If the intent be to kill one person, and the principal, by mistake, kill another, this will not be a defense
to the accessory. Wynn v. State, 63 Miss., 260.
'
951 (2699). The same; after the fact.—Every person who shall be convicted of
having concealed, received, or relieved any felon, or having aided or assisted any
felon, knowing that such person had committed a felony, with intent to enable
such felon to escape or to avoid arrest, trial, conviction, or punishment after the
commission of such felony, on conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the peni
tentiary not exceeding five years, or in the county jail not exceeding one year, or
by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by both ; and in prosecutions for such
offenses it shall not be necessary to aver in the indictment or prove on the trial that
the principal has been convicted or tried.
To constitute an accessory after the fact, the aid and assistance must be given after the felony is fully
completed. Hence, a party rendering assistance to one after the mortal blow, and before death of the victim,
can only be convicted as an accessory after the fact to the crime of assault and battery with intent to kill.
Harrel v. State, 39 Miss., 702.
On the trial of an accessory, the admissions of the principal are good only to establish his own guilt.
Lynes v. State, 36 Miss., 617.
And on such trial, the record of the conviction of the principal is evidence to prove that conviction and
all its legal consequences, though not evidence of the guilt of the prisoner. Keitfiler v. State, 10 Smed. &
M., 192.
952 (2744). Adulteration of food, drugs, candy, confects, and sweetmeats.—
If any person shall manufacture, sell, or keep or offer or exhibit for sale any adul
terated food or drug, as. defined by law ; or if any person shall manufacture, sell, or
311

1734~I738

EVIDENCE.

any person who will sue for the same, and shall also be liable in damages to the
party injured ; and when any person employed in driving stock shall violate the
provisions of this section, he and his employer shall be liable to the like penalties ;
but the recovery of such penalty shall not be a bar to indictment for larceny.
1734 (912). Stallion suffered to run at large may be gelded.—If any person
shall suffer any stallion above the age of two years to run at large, out of an enclosure, it shall be lawful for any person to confine and geld such stallion, at the risk
of the owner; but this section shall not apply to such stallions as are usually kept
up, and happen to get out by accident.
1735 (913). Marks and brands of animals.—Every person owning any cattle
or stock may have a brand or ear-mark, which shall be recorded in the office of the
clerk of the chancery court of the county where such cattle or other stock may he,
and such person shall have the exclusive right to the brand or mark from the date
of recording.
1736 (914). How dispute about brands and marks settled.—When any dis
pute shall arise respecting the right of a brand or mark, either party may apply to
a justice of the peace, who shall hear the complaint as in other cases, and give
judgment thereon, which shall be conclusive on the parties ; and a transcript thereof,
certified by the justice, shall be sufficient authority for the clerk to record the brand
or mark.

CHAPTER 43.
EVIDENCE.
1737 (1648). Presumption of death.—Any person who shall remain beyond
the sea, or absent himself from this state, or conceal himself in this state, for seven
years successively without being heard of, shall be presumed to be dead in any case
where his death shall come in question, unless proof be made that he was alive
within that time; but any property or estate recovered in any such case shall be
restored to the person evicted or deprived thereof, if, in a subsequent action, it shall
be proved that the person so presumed to be dead is living. •
The presumption of the death of a husband or wife authorized by the statute will be applied in favor of
the validity of a marriage contracted by the abandoned party after the expiration of the seven years. Spears
v. Burton, 31 Miss., 547; Gibson v. State, 38 Miss., 313.
The uncontradicted testimony of the mother that the last she ever heard of her son was that ten years
before, he sailed on board a vessel for a foreign port, and that about five days afterwards there was a storm at
sea, and that neither the ship nor any one on board has ever been heard of since, and that she is satisfied
her son is dead, fully establishes the presumption of death authorized by the statute. Learned v. Corley, 43
Miss., 687.
1738 (1599). Competency of witnesses. —Every person, whether a party to the
suit or not, shall be competent to give evidence in any suit at law or in equity, and
shall not be incompetent by reason of any interest in the result thereof, or in the
record as an instrument of evidence in other suits; and such weight shall be given
to the evidence of parties and interested witnesses as, in view of the situation of
the witness and other circumstances, it may be fairly entitled to. Any party may,
454

EVIDENCE.

1 739- 1 740

by subpoena, as in -other cases, compel any other party to the suit to appear and
give evidence.
' It is error to instruct the jury that "if an interested witness be uncontradicted, and the jury see nothing
in his mode of testifying, his position in the case, and his demeanor on the stand, to excite suspicion, they are
bound to believe him." Allen v. Lyles, 35 Miss., 513.
1739 (1601). Husband and wife introduced by each other, etc.— Husband
and wife may be introduced by each other as witnesses in all cases, civil or criminal,
and shall be competent witnesses in their own behalf, as against each other, in all
controversies between them. (See § 1571.)
A wife is not a competent witness against her husband who is on trial for crime. Byrd v. State, 57
Miss., 243.
But she is competent if the crime be an assault and battery committed on her person. Turner v. State,
60 Miss., 351.
The failure of the husband to call his wife as a witness for him in a criminal case is not a proper subject
of comment by counsel. Johnson v. State, 63 Miss., 313.
The wife is not a competent witness for a third person in a suit in chancery against ihe husband, who is
joined as defendant, even though he be not a necessary party. Leach v. Shelby, 58 Miss., 681.
The widow is a competent witness on behalf of the estate of her deceased husband to prove a conversation
between her husband in his life-time and the opposing party. Stuhlmuller v. Ewing, 39 Miss., 447.
1740 (1602). Incompetency of claimant against estate of decedent.—A per
son shall not testify as a witness to establish his own claim or defense against the
estate of a deceased person which originated during the life-time of such deceased
person, or any claim he has transferred since the death of such decedent. But such
person so interested shall be permitted to give evidence in support of his claim or
defense against the estate of a deceased person which originated after the death of
such deceased person in the course of administering the estate.
In an action against the survivor of a partnership to recover money borrowed in the name of the firm
by the deceased partner, the lender is a competent witness to establish the debt. Faler v. Jordan, 44
Miss., 283.
A surviving party to a contract is not competent as a witness to prove payment in a suit on. the contract
by the representative of the other party. Buckingham v. Walker, 48 Miss., 609.
The term " claim" is not limited to a fixed debt, nor to a demand ex contractu. Lamar v. Williams, 39
Miss., 342; Rothschild v. Hatch, 54 Miss., 554.
In a suit by the representative of the estate, a defendant is incompetent to testify to a contract between
himself and the decedent. Otey v. McAfee, 38 Miss., 348; Boylan v. Holt, 45 Miss., 277.
A party plaintifff who has no beneficial interest in the suit, is a competent witness for the usee. Hedges
v. Aydelott, 46 Miss., 99.
The statute applies where the witness has assigned his claim since the death of deceased "without
recourse," and is being prosecuted by his assignee. (Note the change in statute since Rothschild v. Hatch,
54 Miss., 554, overruling Reinhardt v. Evans, which latter case is re-established to the extent stated.) Reinhardt v. Evans, 48 Miss., 230; Jones v. Sherman, 56 Miss., 559; Gordon v. McEachin, 57 Miss., 834.
If the assignment be made before the death of the decedent, the assignor is a competent witness. Snell
t. Fewell, 64 Miss., 655.
An executor or administrator is not competent to establish any item of credit in his accounts originating
in the life-time of decedent. Haralson v. White, 38 Miss., 178; Gordon v. McEachin, 57 Miss., 834.
But is competent to testify as to matters occurring after the death of his intestate. McDonald v. Mc
Donald, 68 Miss., 689.
When the cause of action originated after the death of decedent, the parties to the suit are competent
witnesses. Witherspoon v. Blewett, 47 Miss., 570.
Where one is not a party to the suit, and the personal representative of the deceased is not asserting a
claim against him, nor is there involved a claim for himself which he is attempting to establish, he is a com
petent witness. Wood v. Stafford, 50 Miss., 370.
The original debtor is a competent witness to show that defendant's intestate assumed his debt to the
plaintifff, and is liable therefore. Sweatman v. Parker, 49 Miss., 19.
The term "estate" is used, in its broad and popular sense, to signify all the property of every kind which
one leaves at his death ; and any right asserted against the estate of a deceased person which accrued to a
party by virtue of dealings between him and the deceased, cannot be established by the evidence of the living
party. Jacks v. Bridewell, 51 Miss., 881 ; Green v. Mizelle, 54 Miss., 220; Rothschild v. Hatch, 54 Miss.,
554; Jackson v. Smith, 68 Miss., 53.
455

I74I-I744

EVIDENCE.

The statute applies in a proceeding to enforce a mechanic's lien. O'Leary v. Burns, 53 Miss., 171.
A widow is not a competent witness to prove her claim, arising from dealings with her deceased husband,
against his estate, but is competent to prove her transactions as executrix of his estate, although the creditors
of her husband, with whose representative she is litigating, be dead. Buckingham v. Wesson, 54 Miss., 526.
Where a party testified on a former trial of the cause and died, and his evidence on that trial was intro
duced on a subsequent trial thereof, after his death, the other party is competent to testify as to the matters
embraced in the testimony of the dead party. Strickland v. Hudson, 55 Miss., 235.
To exclude a party as a witness to prove his own claim or right, it must be against the estate of a deceased
person in the suit in which he proposes to testify. Love v. Stone, 56 Miss., 449; Cole v. Gardner, 67 Miss.,
670; Jackson v. Smith, 68 Miss., 53.
It is not a valid objection that the testimony of the witness will remotely and collaterally contribute to or
create a liability that may or may not be vindicated in some other proceeding. Griffin v. Lower, 37 Miss., 45* ;
Lamar v. Williams, 39 Miss., 342; Faler v. Jordan, 44 Miss., 283; Love v. Stone, 56 Miss., 449; McCutchen
v. Bice, 56 Miss., 455; Fennell v. McGowan, 58 Miss., 261 ; Combs v. Black, 62 Miss., 831 ; Cole v. Gardner,
67 Miss., 670.
In a suit against a surviving partner on a partnership contract made by the survivor with the plaintifff,
the latter may testify as to a conversation of the surviving partner, although it occurred in the life-time of
the deceased partner. McCutchen v. Rice, 56 Miss., 455.
And this is true though the transaction were with the deceased partner. Combs v. Black, 62 Miss., 831.
On the trial of exceptions to a final account, creditors of the testator are competent witnesses as to the
propriety of the executor's action in paying their demands. Gordon v. McEachen, 57 Miss., 834.
Where the question is one of the admissibility of other evidence—a question to be determined by the
court—the statute does not apply. Bookout v. Shannon, 59 Miss., 378; Harper v. Lacey, 62 Miss., 5.
The statute does not preclude a party from testifying to the loss of a written instrument upon which he
bases his claim, for the purpose of laying the foundation for the introduction of other evidence to prove its
contents. Harper v. Lacey, 62 Miss., 5; Cole v. Gardner, 67 Miss., 670.
In a suit by an administrator for the recovery of personal property, the defendant is incompetent to tes
tify, though the point in issue be whether the property belonged to the estate of the deceased or defendant.
Rushing v. Rushing, 52 Miss., 329.
A husband who j»ins his wife in conveying her real estate, and afterward joins her in a suit to cancel the
deed for fraud against the legatees of the grantee, is a competent witness. Ellis v. Alford, 64 Miss., 8.
Under the statute, the deposition of a plaintifff, taken during the life-time of the defendant and pending
suit, cannot be read on the trial after defendant's death and revivor of the suit. Hewlett v. R agsdale, 68
Miss., 703.
1741 (1603). Accused competent witness (Laws 1882, p. 109).—The accused
shall be a competent witness for himself in any prosecution for crime against him;
but the failure of the accused; in any case, to testify shall not operate to his preju
dice or be commented on by counsel.
Where an accused person testifies, in the exercise of his right under the statute, his testimony may after
wards be used against him. Hill v. State, 64 Miss., 431.
The testimony of the accused should have such effect as the jury think it deserves, unfettered by instruc
tions to weigh it carefully and with great caution. Thomas v. State, 61 Miss., 60; Buckley v. State, 62 Miss.,
705; Woods v. State, 67 Miss., 575.
The court cannot require the accused to be examined before his other witnesses are put upon the stand.
Bell v. State, 66 Miss., 192.
1742 (1604). Religious belief, or want of it, no disqualification.—A person
shall not be incompetent as a witness because of religious belief or the want of it.
1743 (1600). Conviction, except for perjury, no disqualification.— A convic
tion of a person for any offense, except perjury and subornation of perjury, shall not
disqualify such person as a witness, but such conviction may be given in evidence to
impeach his credibility. A person convicted of perjury or subornation of perjury
shall not afterwards be a competent witness in any case, although pardoned or pun
ished for the same.
Under the statute, a convicted principal may testify against his accessory. Keitfiler v. State, 10 Smed& M.f 192.
1744 (1605). Examination of witnesses; affirmation.—Any witness, being
scrupulous of taking an oath, may give testimony upon his solemn affirmation,
which shall be as good and effectual as an oath. The form of affirmation shall be, in
456

EVIDENCE.

1745-1749

substance, as follows, to wit: "You do solemnly and truly declare and affirm," etc.
In all cases where an oath or affidavit is required by law, it shall be sufficient if the
same be made or given on the solemn affirmation of the party.
1745 (1606). Witness committed for refusal to testify.—If any person subpoe
naed as a witness in any case or matter, shall refuse to be sworn or affirmed, or to
give evidence, he shall be committed to prison by the court, justice, master, com
missioner, referee, or other person authorized to take his testimony, there to remain
without bail until he shall be sworn or affirmed and give his evidence.
1746 (1607). Witness examined touching interest or conviction.—Any wit
ness may be examined touching his interest in the cause or his conviction of any
crime, and his answers may be contradicted, and his interest or his conviction of a
crime established by other evidence ; and a witness shall not be excused from answer
ing any question, material and relevant, unless the answer would expose him to
criminal prosecution or penalty. (See § 1430-1434.)
The record of a conviction of a misdemeanor is admissible. Helm v. State, 67 Miss., 562.
1747 (1608). Depositions; when taken for use in circuit court.—Depositions
of witnesses residing or being within the state may be taken in civil causes in the
circuit court in the following cases r
1. When the person whose testimony is required shall be about to depart from
the state, or, by reason of age, sickness, or other cause, shall be unable, or likely to
be unable, to attend the court.
•
2. When the claim or defense, or a material point thereof, shall depend upon the
testimony of a single witness.
v
3. When the person whose testimony is required shall be a judge of the supreme
court, or circuit court, or chancellor, or any other officer of the government of the
state or of the United States, who, on account of his official duties, cannot conveni
ently attend the court to give evidence.
4. When the testimony of the clerk of any court of record, or of any sheriff or
justice of the peace, shall be required beyond the limits of the county of his resi
dence.
>
5. When the witness shall be a female.
6. When the witness shall reside within the state, and more than sixty miles
from the place of trial.
1748 (2203). The same; for use in a justice's court.—The deposition of any
witness in a civil cause before a justice of the peace, may be taken when the wit
ness resides in a different county from that of the justice of the peace; and in all
other instances depositions of witnesses for use before justices of the peace may be
taken under the same circumstances as in circuit courts. (In unlawful eutiy and
detainer courts, see § 4467.)
1749 (1609). The same; affidavit made by party.—Affidavit shall be made by
the party desiring to take a deposition of a witness within the state, to be used in
the circuit court, that the witness is material, and stating the reason for taking the
deposition, which shall be attached to such deposition.
The affidavit is essential to entitle a party to read the deposition of a witness in evidence. Ragan v.
Cargill, 24 Miss., 540.
Depositions of the parties to the suit may be taken the same as of other witnesses. Hartford v. Green,
52 Miss., 332.
457

I750~I754

EVIDENCE.

1750 (1610). Before whom taken and on what notice.—Depositions of wit
nesses in this state may be taken before any officer authorized to administer oaths, on
ten days' notice to the opposite party or his attorney of the time and place of
taking such deposition ; but in cases of emergency, to be expressed in the notice,
shorter notice shall be sufficient. (See § 1759.)
Depositions will be suppressed if notice be not given, and there be no waiver of notice of the time and
place of taking them. Dailey v. Johnson, 48 Miss., 246.
1751 (1611). Interrogatories to non-resident witness filed.—When any party
shall desire to take the deposition of any witness absent from or residing out of the
state, he shall file interrogatories in the clerk's office, or with the justice of the
peace in cases before them, and serve the opposite party or his attorney with a copy
thereof ten days before issuing the commission, in which time the opposite party
shall file his cross-interrogatories; and the clerk or justice shall thereupon issue a
commission, and shall annex thereto the interrogatories and such cross-interroga
tories as may be filed, and the witness shall be examined by the commissioner
thereon; but the witness may be cross-examined by the adverse party if he see
proper to attend the examination, and the party at whose instance the deposition is
taken may, in that event, further examine the witness in rebuttal.
1752 (i612). Notice to non-resident or absent party.—If the opposite party
shall not reside in the state, or if his place of residence be unknown and he have
not an agent or attorney at law or in fact within this state to whom notice of the
time and place of taking a deposition within the state can be given, or on whom
copies of the interrogatories required for taking a deposition abroad can be served,
it shall be sufficient to file the same with the clerk or justice among the papers in
the cause for the time required.
1753 (1613). Commissions ; to whom directed. —A commission to take deposi
tions of a witness out of the state may be directed to one or to several commis
sioners in the alternative, by name, or to any judge of a court of record, justice of
the peace, mayor, or chief magistrate of a city or town, commissioner appointed by
the governor of this state, or other person authorized to administer oaths by the
law of the place where the deposition is to be taken.
1754 (1614). Depositions ; how taken, returned, and opened.—The witnesses
shall be sworn or affirmed by the commissioner to testify the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, and the commissioner shall carefully and impar
tially examine the witnesses on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories ; or, if
the deposition be taken within the state, the officer shall so swear and examine the
witnesses upon such interrogatories as may be put, verbally or in writing, by the
parties, and, in either event, the officer shall cause the testimony to be fairly writ
ten down, either by himself, or by the witness, or some disinterested person in his
presence, and subscribed by the witness; and the testimony so taken down, with
the commission, if any, and interrogatories, and every exhibit and voucher relating
thereto, and also a certificate by the commissioner or officer of all his proceedings
therein, shall be sealed up and directed to the clerk of the court or justice, as the
case may be, where the action is pending, and transmitted in a safe and convenient
manner; and the clerk or justice shall open the same, and, having indorsed thereon
458

EVIDENCE.

.

1755—1758

the time of the receipt and opening thereof, shall deposit the same among the
papers in the cause.
1755 (1617). Examination from day to day.—The commissioner or officer
shall have power to continue the taking of depositions from day to day, and may
adjourn the taking thereof from time to time, giving notice to the parties unless
they be present when such adjournment is made.
1756 (1615, 1946). Depositions admissible, but attendance of witness may
be procured.—Depositions taken, certified, and returned in pursuance of law, shall
be admissible as evidence in the cause; but when the deposition of any witness
shall be taken, the party against whom the witness was examined may procure the
attendance of such witness at the trial of the cause, and may put the witness on
the stand in open court as the witness of the party who procured his deposition, and
may cross-examine him as the witness of such party, who shall be entitled to
re-examine the witness in open court ; but the party procuring such oral examina
tion shall be liable for all the costs thereof.
1757 (1618). Copies of interrogatories and notices; by whom served.—The
sheriff, coroner, and constable shall serve copies of interrogatories and notices of .
issuing commissions and notices of taking depositions, and they shall execute and
return all writs of subpoena and attachment issued by the officer taking depositions,
the fees for such services to be charged in the bill of costs; and for any neglect of
such duty, such officers shall be liable to all the penalties for neglect of duty in
respect to the service of a summons.
1758 (1620, 1948). Exceptions to depositions; how taken, etc.—A deposition
shall not be used in evidence unless opportunity be afforded the adverse party,
before the commencement of the trial, to except to or move to suppress the same.
Exceptions to a deposition in courts other than chancery, save for incompetency or
irrelevancy, shall not be regarded, unless made in writing and filed before the begin
ning of the trial. The court, on motion of either party, shall determine the excep
tions so made and filed before entering upon the trial, and if the exceptions be
sustained, may, in proper cases, allow time to retake the deposition. All objections
to depositions in the chancery court, other than to the competency of the witness,
or of the questions or answers thereto, shall be taken by motion to suppress. All
objections to the competency of the witness, or of the questions or the answers
thereto, may be taken by motion to suppress, or may be made at the hearing; but
if made at the hearing, the objections shall be set down in writing, and filed with
the papers in the cause.
If the exceptor do not call attention to his exceptions, and have them disposed of before the commence
ment of the trial, he waives them. Herndon v. Bryant, 39 Miss., 335; Ratliff v. Thomson, 61 Miss., 71.
A party will be held to the precise grounds of objection made to depositions. Hartford v. Green, 52
Miss., 332.
The supreme court will not consider objections to a deposition in chancery unless the record show that
they were passed upon in the court below. Jones v. Loggins, 37 Miss., 546.
The fact that a deposition was read without objection on one trial will not preclude objections to it before
a second trial. Smith v. Natchez, 1 How. (Miss,), 479.
Where a deposition is taken in the presence of both parties, objections not then made to the deposition
upon the ground that the answers are not responsive to the questions, will not be noticed. Smith v. Williams,
38 Miss., 48.
A deposition should be suppressed if taken by an officer who is the uncle of the party on whose behalf
the witness is examined. Groves v. Groves, 57 Miss., 658.
459

1759-1763

EVIDENCE.

1759 (1940). Depositions de bene esse may be taken on filing bill in chan
cery.—After bill filed in chancery, the complainant, 011 affidavit made and filed that
any of his witnesses are sick, aged, infirm, or about to go out of the state, may take
the deposition of such witness, on giving the opposite party, if resident in the 6tate,
such reasonable notice as the circumstances will admit, of the time and place of
taking the same. (See § 1750.)
1760 (1941). When depositions in chancery may be taken generally. —After
process returned executed, or after the da}' appointed for the appearance of the
defendant, by publication duly published or served, the complainant in chancer}'
may proceed to take his depositions, and the defendant therein may do the like
immediately'after filing his answer; and depositions may be taken until the hearing
of the cause. Four months shall be allowed for taking depositions after answer filed
before the cause shall be set down for hearing by the defendant.
The /our months begin to run from the date of filing the answer, even though the affidavit thereto at the
time be defective, and a formal affidavit be filed afterwards. Hart v. Bloomfield, 6G Miss., 100.
A failure by complainant to object that the cause is prematurely set down for hearing by the defendant,
is a waiver of the time allowed for taking depositions. Hart v. Bloomfield, 60 Miss., 100.
1761 (1943). How testimony of non-resident party obtained. —If the testi
mony of a party to the suit who resides out of the state be desired by the adverse
party, interrogatories to him may be filed in the clerk's office, and a copy thereof,
with notice of filing, shall be given the party, or his attorney or solicitor; and if
he fail to answer such interrogatories within a reasonable time, his suit shall be dis
missed, if he be plaintifff or complainant ; and if he be defendant, his plea or answer
may be taken oft' the file and judgment by default entered, or the bill be taken as
confessed.
The severe consequences of the statute should not be visited on a party except where there has undoubt
edly been ample time to comply with its requirements. McLean v. Letchford, 60 Miss., 169.
The issuance of a commission is not contemplated by the statute. McLean v. Letchford, 60 Miss., 169.
1762 (1944). Either party may have his adversary summoned. —A party to a
suit desiring to examine any opposite party in open court, may, without first taking
his deposition, have such party subpoenaed as a witness and examine him in the
presence of the court during the progress of the trial, and shall bo at liberty to
contradict the testimony of such party as he might do with an adverse witness ;
but such party shall be entitled to fees as a witness for the party by whom he was
subpoenaed, to be paid and taxed as in case of other witnesses.
1763 (1945). Interested witness may be examined in open court, etc. (Laws
1882, p. 111).—When the deposition in chancery of a party or other interested wit
ness has been taken in a cause, and a party to such cause shall make and file an affi
davit, ten days before the time of trial, if such deposition shall be then on file, that,
in his opinion, the oral examination in open court of such person is necessary to
the attainment of justice, the deposition shall not be admitted in evidence for the
party taking it if such persou be alive at the time of trial and not unable to attend
court on account of disability from permaneut sickness, physical injury, or from
weakness and disability incident to old age ; but such person may be examined in
open court. Where such deposition shall be filed in the clerk's office within ten
days of the time of hearing the case, the affidavit required may be made at any
400

EVIDENCE.

1764-1768

time before the trial. Any party or witness thus required to attend shall be enti
tled to compensation as any other witness.
Where an affidavit has been made by a party to the cause under the statute, and his adversary declines
to examine the witness before the court, the affiant party may also refuse to examine him, and may, by motion,
have his deposition suppressed. Ogden v. Guice, 56 Miss., 330.
1764 (1950, 1951). Witnesses examined in open court in chancery.—In all
proceedings in matters testamentary and of administration, in minors' business, and
in cases of persons of unsound mind, and on the hearing of motions to confirm
sales, and in similar cases, witnesses may be produced and examined in open court,
or their depositions may be taken as in other cases in chancery courts. In all eases
where a party shall desire to have the witnesses examined in open court, he shall,
before any depositions have been taken, file a notice to that effect, or the parties
may agree in writing in any case to have all or a part of the witnesses examined
in open court; and thereupon the witnesses shall be subpoenaed and examined in
open court ; but this shall not change the rule as to non-resident witnesses or cases
in which depositions generally are authorized.
1765 (1946). Oral evidence in chancery to be reduced to writing, when;
bills of exceptions. —In all cases where witnesses are orally examined in the
chancery court, the testimony, on request of either party, shall be reduced to
writing and signed by the chancellor, and shall thereby become a part of the
record. Either party may take bills of exceptions on such examinations, as in the
circuit court, with like effect.
1766 (1650). Perpetuation of testimony; written statement filed.—A person
desiring to perpetuate the testimony of any witness or the remembrance of any fact
as to a matter in which he is interested, in respect to which there is no suit pending,
may file his written statement, verified by his oath or the oath of some one for him,
in the office of the clerk of the chancery court of the county in which it would be
lawful to institute a suit, at law or in chancery, touching the matter as to which
such testimony is desired, which statement shall plainly set forth the subjectmatter concerning which testimony is sought to be perpetuated, and the names and
places of residence of the witnesses whose testimony is wanted, and the nature of
the testimony of each witness, and the names and places of residence of all persons
interested in the matter to which the testimony relates; or, if their names and resi
dences be unknown, that shall be stated.
1767 (1651). Same; notice in case of resident witness.—If the witnesses whose
testimony is to be perpetuated reside or be within this state, notice of the filing of
such statement, the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the time and place
-of taking their testimony, shall be given to those represented in such statement as
adverse parties in interest, as required for taking depositions of witnesses in cases
pending in court; btit if the adverse parties be non-residents or unknown, such
notice shall be published for three consecutive weeks in some newspaper in the
county where the statement is filed or at the capital of the state.
1768 (1655). Same; when witness is a non-resident.—If the witnesses whose
testimony is to be perpetuated do not reside in this state or will not come into it to
have their depositions taken, the party making the statement shall file therewith
such interrogatories as he may wish to propound to the witness, and notice of the
461

1769-1775

EVIDENCE.

filing of such statement and interrogatories and the names of the witnesses to he
examined, and of the day on which a commission will be issued to take their testi
mony, shall be given to those represented in such statement as adverse parties, if
residents of this state, ten days before the issuance of the commission ; but if they
be non-residents, or unknown, such notice shall be published for three weeks in
some newspaper published in the county in which such statement is filed, or at the
capital of the state, and shall fix the day on which the commission will be issued,
not earlier than ten days after the completion of publication.
1769 (1652). Same; service, return, and publication of notices. —All the pro
visions of law for the service and return of notices and their publication in a news
paper or otherwise, and the proof thereof, shall be applicable to the notices herein
required.
1770 (1660). Same; minor served with notice and interrogatories. —If any
person interested adversely to the party applying to have testimony perpetuated be
a minor, resident in this state, the notice required shall be served as original process
is required to be served upon him; but if the minor be a non-resident of this state,
or unknown, notice to him as an adult shall be sufficient.
1771 (1653). The same; how deposition taken. —At the time and place desig
nated for taking the testimony of any witness in this state whose testimony is to
be perpetuated, the party may proceed to take his deposition; and the adverse
party, if present, may cross-interrogate the witness as if the deposition were taken
in a pending case.
1772 (1654). The same; before whom taken, and how governed.—Any officer
aiithorized to take depositions for use in pending cases may take the depositions of
witnesses whose testimony is to be perpetuated ; and all the provisions of law in
reference to summoning witnesses and requiring them to testify, and taking, certi
fying, and returning depositions in pending cases, apply to the depositions herein
provided for.
1773 (1656). The same; commission to be issued.—On or after the day named
in the notice, the clerk of the chancery court shall issue a commission, with the
interrogatories and such cross-interrogatories as may be filed annexed thereto, to
take the deposition of a non-resident witness, which shall be directed, executed,
and returned as in case of a like commission to take depositions in a case pending
in court.
1774 (1657). The same; depositions received and recorded.—The clerk of the
chancery court, on receipt of any such deposition, shall open and indorse thereon
the time of receipt and opening, and shall deposit it and all notices and papers per
taining thereto, with the written statement which commenced the proceeding ; and
shall enter a full and complete record of all of said proceedings, including the
deposition, in the book of final records of the proceedings in suits in the chancery
court, unless he shall be directed by the party who instituted such proceedings not
to make such record ; and he shall carefully preserve all the papers of such proceed
ings, as in case of other records of his office.
1775 (1658). The same; how far depositions evidence.—The originals of such
depositions, or certified copies thereof, shall, lubject to all objections that may be
made to any deposition or to the oral examination of any witness, be admissible in
462

EVIDENCE.

1776-1779

evidence in any suit between the parties described in the written statement for
procuring such testimony or their privies in interest, upon proof at the time of
trial of the death, insanity, subsequent incompetency, or departure to some place
unknown of the witness whose deposition was taken.
1776 (1659). The same; costs paid by party procuring services.—The person
at whose instance such proceeding is had shall pay all costs and fees which accrue,
which shall be the same as for like services in pending cases ; and he may be re
quired to pay or secure the costs before the services are rendered, as in other cases.
1777 (1621). Written evidence; foreign instruments.—Copies of the record
of all instruments of writing which by the laws of any foreign country maj7 be
admitted to record upon acknowledgment or proof thereof, and copies of all judg
ments, decrees, and specialties of record rendered in any foreign country, and of
all foreign registers of births, marriages, and deaths, shall be admissible in evidence
when certified under the hand and seal of office of the officer having custody of
the record, and authenticated by the certificate of any public minister, secretary
of legation, or consul of the United States that the officer certifying such copy is
the proper custodian of the record, and that his attestation is in due form ; but
if the execution of any instrument of writing be disputed by the opposite party
on oath, the original shall be produced or its absence accounted for before such
copy shall be read in evidence. The original of all such instruments of writing,
when acknowledged or proved according to the laws of the country where they are
executed, so as to be entitled to be recorded there, shall be evidence without further
proof of the execution thereof.
1778 (1622). Writings recorded in any other state evidence.—Copies of the
record of any writing required or permitted to be recorded by the laws of any other
state or territory of the United States or of the District of Columbia, shall, when
certified by the officer in whose office the record is kept, under his seal of office, be
received in evidence without accounting for the absence of the original; but if the
execution of such writing be disputed by the opposite party on oath, the original
shall be produced or its absence accounted for before the copy shall be received in
evidence. And such original, when acknowledged or proved according to the laws
of the state or territory where executed, so as to be entitled to be recorded there,
shall be evidence without further proof of its execution.
Copies of writings recordable and recorded in another state are admissible in this state only when recorded
in the proper office of the other state and certified by the legal custodian thereof. Davis v. Rhodes, 39
Miss., 152.
The statute was applied in Johnson v. Martin, 68 Miss., 330.
The section does not authorize the admission in evidence of an unrecorded original deed, though acknowl
edged or proved, and entitled to be recorded according to the law of the state where executed, without further
proof of its execution. Lock v. Jayne, 39 Miss., 157.
1779 (1622). Copies of writing recorded in this state.—Copies of the record of
any writing, map, plat, or other instrument required or permitted to be recorded by
the laws of this state, and of any certificate connected and recorded therewith, when
certified by the clerk in whose office the record is kept, under his seal of office, shall
be received in evidence without accounting for the absence of the original; but if
the execution of such writing be disputed by the opposite party, on oath, the orig
inal shall be produced or its absence accounted for before the copy shall be received
463

I 780-I 783

EVIDENCE.

in evidence. The original of any writing entitled to be recorded by the laws of
this state, when acknowledged or proved according to such laws, and when certified
thereto by the officer before whom it was acknowledged or proved, shall be received
in evidence without further proof of its execution and delivery, whether the same
shall have been recorded or not, or disputed by the opposite party or hot.
1780 (2211). Copies of recorded transcript from justices of the peace.—Copies
of the record of any conveyance of land under a judgment of a justice of the peace,
and of the record of a certified transcript of the proceeding had before the justice,
and of the record of the execution and return thereon, authorized by law to be
recorded with such conveyance, when certified by the clerk in whose office the
record is kept, under his seal of office, shall be received as prima facie evidence of
the validity of such deed and proceedings without further proof of the same.
1781 (1975). Copies of wills recorded.—Copies of wills and testaments and codi
cils, and of the record thereof when recorded according to the laws of this state,
shall be admitted as evidence when certified by the clerk in whose office the same
is kept, under his seal of office.
1782 (1623). Land-office certificates.—All certificates issued in pursuance of any
act of congress by any board of commissioners, register of any land-office, or any other
person authorized to issue such certificate, founded on any warrant, order of survey,
entry, grant, confirmation, donation, pre-emption, or purchase from the United
States of any land in this state, shall vest the full legal title to such land in the per
son to whom such certificate is granted, his heirs or assigns, so far as to enable the
holder thereof to maintain an action thereon, and the same shall be received in evi
dence as such, saving the paramount rights of other persons.
The certificate is but a substitute for a better title, and is not on an equal footing with a patent- If a
patent be issued to another person to the same land after a certificate of entry to one without a patent, the
holder of the patent will prevail in an action of ejectment against the holder of the certificate. Dickinson v.
Brown, 9 Smed. & M., 130.
But a prior entry and a certificate thereof, without a patent, gives a better right in equity than a subse
quent entry of the same land by another to whom a patent is issued ; and a court of chancery, at the instance
of the first enterer, will set aside the title of the patentee. Hester v. Kimbrough, 12 Smed. & M., 659.
The statute gives to the certificate the effect of vesting a complete legal title, to all intents and purposes,
in the person to whom issued and his assignees, and not simply to entitle the holder to recover the land in an
action. Lindsey v. Henderson, 27 Miss., 502.
The certificate vests title only when properly issued and while in full force and uncanceled. Where the
certificate was indorsed, " suspended for want of township plat," and was deposited in the general land-office
at Washington City, but was sent to the plaintifff to be used for the purpose of testing his title to the land,
and then to be relumed, it was insufficient to vest title and sustain ejectment. Davis v. Freeland, 32 Miss., 645.
1783 (1624). Certified copies of records of any United States office.—Copies
of the records, books, and files belonging to the offices of the United States, certi
fied by the officer having charge thereof, shall be competent evidence in all cases
where the originals or sworn copies could be admitted.
A certificate of the register of the land-office that a map is a correct representation, is not sufficient; it
must be certified to be a true copy of the original, and that, the original is of record in his office Martin v.
King, 3 How. (Miss.), 125.
It seems that copies of notices and confirmation of claims, and journals of the commissioners appointed
under act of congress providing for the disposal of land south of the state of Tennessee, of record in the landoffice, are competent evidence in questions of boundary, if not of title, Vick v. Peck, 4 How. (Miss.), 407.
The duly authenticated copy of a certificate of confirmation by the board of commissioners of a Spanish
grant of land west of Pearl river, taken from the records in the land-office, is competent evidence without
accounting for the original. Sessions v. Reynolds, 7 Smed. & M., 130.
In an action of ejectment by an Indian claiming land*under the sixth article of the Chickasaw treaty,
the certificate of the register of the land-office of the district, showing the date of the location of the Indian
on the land, is competent evidence. Wray v. Doe, 10 Smed. & M., 452.
464

EVIDENCE.

I 784-I 79*

A list of the swamp and overflowed lands located in this state under the act of congress of the 28th of
September, 1850, approved and confirmed by the secretary of the interior, and transmitted by him to the reg
ister of the United States land-office, is a record, and a duly certified copy thereof by the register is compe
tent evidence. Fore v. Williams, 35 Miss., 533.
1784 (1625). Copies from books of entries of land, etc.—Copies from the
books of entries of land kept in any land-office in the state, or in the office of the
secretary of state, or land-commissiouer, or other public office, when certified by
the officer having charge thereof, shall be admissible in evidence in the same man
ner and with the same effect as the original certificate of entry.
1785 (1626). Copies of field-notes and maps.—Copies of the field-notes of sur
veys, and of the township and sectional maps of lands, deposited in the office of the
secretary of state, land-commissioner, or other public office, shall, when certified by
the laud-commissioner or other officer having their custody, be admissible in evi
dence.
1786. Surveyor's certificate prima facie. —The certificate of a county surveyor
or his deputy of any survey made by him of any lands in his county, or of any
lands surveyed by him under order of court, shall be presumptive evidence of the
facts connected with and pertinent to the survey therein contained, unless such sur
veyor or his deputy shall be interested therein.
1787 (2091, 2198). Certified copy of appointment of foreign administrator,
etc.—A duly certified copy of the record of appointment and qualification of an
executor, administrator, or guardian in other states, in the territories, the District
of Columbia, or in foreign countries, according to the laws thereof, and the certifi
cate of the officer before whom such executor, administrator, or guardian is account
able, that he is there liable to account for the thing sued for or received, when filed
in che office of the clerk of the chancery court of the proper county, shall be evi
dence, and certified copies thereof by the clerk of the chancery court in whose office
the same is filed, shall likewise be evidence.
The record of the appointment of an administrator in a sister state, like the record of all courts in other
states, is not admissible in the courts of this state, unless authenticated according to the federal statutes.
Hope v. Hurt, 5!) Miss., 174. '
1788 (1787). Certificate of clerk, evidence of default, etc.—The certificate of
the clerk of the board of supervisors of the county of the default of any clerk or
district attorney in transmitting a list of executions or statement of sheriff's returns,
shall be received as evidence of such default.
1789 (1149, 1151). Certificates of marriages and copies thereof.—A certificate
of marriage, signed and transmitted to the circuit clerk of the proper county by
the person, officer, or clerk of the religious society celebrating the same, and copies
of such certificate or of the record thereof, under the hand and official seal of the
clerk in whose office such certificate or record is kept, shall be admitted in evidence.
1790 (2388). Copies of taxed bill of costs. —Copies from the taxed bill of
costs, when duly certified or proved, shall be admissible as evidence to show the
amount due to any officer or person entitled to receive the same.
1791 (1632). Custodian of books, etc., authorized to certify copies.—All pub
lic officers in this state having the charge or custody of any public books, recoids,
papers, or writings, are authorized t^ certify copies of the same, which copies shall
be received in evidence in all cases where the original or a sworn copy would be
evidence.
465
30

1792-1797

EVIDENCE.

1792 (1749). Copy from judgment-roll evidence.—A copy of the entry on the
judgment-roll, with the caption at the top of the page on which such entry is made,
certified by the clerk under the seal of the court, shall be competent evidence of
such enrollment.
1793 (1630). Copies of bonds of officers and others admissible.—In a suit
founded on any bond given under any law by an officer, or any collector, administra
tor, executor, or guardian, copies of the same, certified by the clerk or other officer
in whose office the bond is recorded or filed, shall be competent evidence, unless on
an issue joined upon a plea that such bond is not the deed of the defendant, the pro
duction of the original shall be necessary, in which case, the clerk or other officer,
being subpoenaed, shall attend with the bond on the trial of the issue.
1794 (1631.) Copies of writings filed in other courts.—If an action be brought
on a bond or other writing, filed in a suit brought thereon in any other court, it
shall be sufficient for the plaintifff' to file with his declaration a copy of the bond or
■writing, attested by the clerk of the court in which the original may be filed; and
such copy shall be admitted as evidence on the trial. If the defendant, by plea,
deny the execution of the original bond or writing, the clerk of the court having
such paper in his custody, shall, on being subpoenaed, attend with the same on the
trial of the issue.
1795 (1628). Certificate of officer of search in office, etc , admissible as evi
dence. —A certificate, under his hand and official seal, by the officer to whom the
legal custody of a record or paper belongs, that he has made diligent search in his
office for the record or paper, and that it cannot be found therein, shall be admissible
in evidence, and have the same effect as if the officer personally testified to the fact
stated in such certificate.
If it be shown that notes proper to be introduced at the hearing as part of the evidence should have
been filed with the papers in a pre-existing suit, the certificate of the clerk in whose office such papers should
be that the notes cannot be found in his office after diligent search for them, is sufficient to authorize the
admission of secondary evidence of their existence, contents, and genuineness. Tigner v. McGehee, 60
Miss., 185.
1796 (1620). Presumption attending certain certificates.—Any certificate,
attestation, or authentication purporting to have been made or given by any person
as an officer of any state or of the United States, shall be prima facie evidence of
the official character of such person. (See § 539.)
1797 (1633). When proof of signature, etc., unnecessary.—In suits founded
on any written instrument set forth in the pleading, it shall not be necessary to
prove the signature or execution thereof, unless the same be specially denied by a
plea, verified by the oath of the party pleading the same ; and it shall not be neces
sary in any case to prove any written signature, the execution of any instrument,
or the identity or names of persons, or description of character, or the persons
composing any firm or partnership which may be set forth in the pleadings, unless
the same be specially denied by plea, verified by oath. And the like rule shall pre
vail, as far as may be applicable, in all cases where any writing is pleaded or set up
by the defendant, or any signature, identity, or names of persons, description of
character, or partnership set forth in his pleading.
A corporation suing need not prove that it is a corporation, unless that fact be denied by plea under
oath. Reed v. Benton R. R. Co., 4 How. (Miss.), 257; Vicksburg, etc., Co. v. Washington, I Smed. & M.,536.
The general issue, accompanied by defendant's affidavit which denies the execution of the instrument
sued on, is equivalent to the plea of non est factum. Sumpter v. Gerou. 4 How. (Miss ), 263.
466

EVIDENCE.

1798-1801

Alterations after its execution of the instrument sued on may be proved without pleading under oath.
Henderson v. Wilson, 6 How. (Miss.), 65.
The general issue, accompanied by defendant's affidavit denying the character in which plaintifff sues,
meets the requirement of the statute. Vicksburg, etc., Co. v. Washington, 1 Smed. & M., 536.
The general issue sworn to is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the statute. Thornton v. Alliston,
12 Smed. & M., 124.
Where one is garnished as debtor to a company which is sued as being a corporation, and the garnishee
answers denying indebtedness, he cannot, on the trial of the truth of his answer, be heard to object that the
company is not a corporation, not having denied that fact under oath. Saflfold v. Barnes, 39 Miss. 399.
It is only when the plaintifff sues in an artificial character or representative capacitj- that a plea under
oath is required to put him to the proof of such character {explaining Moore v. Anderson, 3 Smed. & M., 321,
and Beard v. Griffin, 10 Smed. & M., 586). Anderson v. Leland, 46 Miss., 290; Hope v. Hurt, 59 Miss., 174.
The section applies to suits before justices of the peace. McBride v. Kilgore, 55 Miss., 242.
1798 (1634). When partnership need not be proved.—In suits against one or
more of several co-partners, founded on any written contract made in the co-part
nership name, it shall not be necessary to prove the co-partnership signature, or
that the defendant was a member of said partnership, unless the same be specially
denied by plea, verified by the oath of the party pleading the same; and it shall
not be necessary in any case to prove the persons composing a partnership which
may be set forth in the pleadings, unless the same be specially denied by a plea,
verified by the oath of the party pleading the same ; and this rule shall apply to all
pleas and legal proceedings to which the same may apply.
The partnership can be denied only by special plea verified 1)3' oath. Hirsch v. Shafer, 66 Miss., 439.
1799 (1635). When subscription of stock need not be proved.—In suits by
any corporation to recover an installment or call upon the capital stock subscribed
by any person, it shall not be necessary for the corporation to prove that the sub
scription was made, or that the installment or call was required to be paid, or that
publication thereof was made, if the same be distinctly averred in the pleading,
unless the defendant shall specially deny the same by plea verified by oath.
1800. When proof of notice of dishonor of bills, etc., unnecessary.—When
the drawer or indorser of any bill of exchange, or the indorser of a promissory note,
is sued thereon, it shall not be necessary to prove notice of the dishonor of the
bill or note to such drawer or indorser, or a waiver of notice, unless the same be
specially denied by plea, verified by the oath of the party pleading the same.
1801 (1627). Affidavit to account entitles to judgment—A person desiring
to institute suit upon an open account in his favor, may make affidavit to the cor
rectness of such account, and that it is due from the party against whom it is
charged ; and in any suit thereon such affidavit attached to the account shall entitle
the plaintifff to judgment at the trial term of the suit, unless the defendant make
affidavit and file with his plea that the account is not correct, particularizing
wherein it is not correct, in which event the affidavit to the account shall entitle the
plaintifff to judgment only for such part of the account as the defendant by his
affidavit shall not deny to be due; but this shall not apply to accounts against
* decedents and suits against executors or administrators. A defendant desiring
to use an open account as a set-off shall be entitled to the benefit of this section.
The statute does not alter the law of pleadings, and the defendant, without a counter-affidavit, is entitled
to have the case submitted to the jury under the plea of the general issue, notwithstanding the account be
sworn to. Reinhardt v. Carter, 49 Miss., 315; Aaron v. Podesta, 60 Miss., 82.
Where the account is sworn to, and there is no counter-affidavit, it is too late, after the introduction of
evidence without objection, and when the hearing of it is closed, for the plaintifff to demand an instruction
467

1802-1805

EVIDENCE.

to the jury to disregard the defendant's evidence denying the correctness of the account. Bloom v. McQrath,
53 Miss., 249; Covel v. Smith, 68 Miss., 296.
The sole object of the statute is to dispense with proof of the original correctness of the account when
sworn to, unless defendant shall deny it by affidavit filed with his plea. Reinhardt v. Carter, 49 Miss., 315;
Bower v. Henshaw, 53 Miss., 345.
Where the account sued on is properly sworn to, an affidavit by the defendant, filed with his plea, that
the account is not correct, does not put the plaintifff to the proof of the items thereof, but does put him to the
proof of the defendant's liability therefore. Tichenor v. Woodburn, 54 Miss., 589.
On appeal from a justice of the peace the counter-affidavit may be filed in the circuit court for the first
time, if leave be asked before plaintifff has introduced his account and affidavit in evidence and closed the
case. After that it is too late. Rose v. Watson, 54 Miss., 673.
Where the account sued on was properlv sworn to, and, without a counter-affidavit, defendant demurred to
the evidence, the supreme court, on reversing the judgment thereon in favor of defendant, for error, will
render one for the plaintifff. Ware v. McQuillan, 54 Miss., 703.
The statute is not applicable except in cases where the cause of action arose ex contractu. Illinois B.
R. Co. v. Andrews, 61 Miss , 474.
1802 (1636). Dishonor of bills and notes; how proved. —The record of the
officer protesting any promissory note or bill of exchange, or a copy thereof, shall,
when verified by the oatli of the officer, be evidence of the facts therein stated
touching the dishonor of such bill or note, and the giving or mailing of the notice
thereof to the parties thereto secondarily liable; and the statement therein that
notice was given or mailed to any of such parties, and any place mentioned therein
as the post-office address of any of such parties, shall be prima facie evidence that
notice was given or mailed, and that the place mentioned was the party's proper
post-office address.
The notarial record sworn to is not conclusive evidence. Wood v. American, 7 How. (Miss.). 609.
The statute relates exclusively to protests in this state. White v. Englehard, 2 Smed. & M., 38.
The record of protest, unless verified by the oath of the officer, is not competent evidence. Sfiles v.
Inman, 55 Miss., 409.
1803 (1637). Publication of notices; how proved.—The publication of any
notice in a newspaper, when required by law or by order of court, may be proved
by the production of a copy of the notice, with the affidavit of the printer, pub
lisher, clerk, or superintendent of the newspaper, specifying the respective num
bers and dates of the newspaper In which publication was made; and such affidavit
shall be evidence. Any officer authorized to take an affidavit who may reside in
the vicinity of or convenient to the printer, publisher, clerk, or superintendent of
the newspaper in which publication may have been made, shall, on application of a
party interested, by subpu-na or otherwise, require the printer, publisher, clerk, or
superintendent to appear before him at a time and place to be appointed ; and such
officer shall then and there take the deposition of the printer, publisher, clerk, or
superintendent to the matters required to be certified; and the affidavit or deposi
tion and certificate shall be sealed up, indorsed, and transmitted to the court where
the same is required to be used, in the same manner as required for the return of
depositions.
1804 (1639). How posting proved and effect as evidence.—The posting of
any notice required by law or the order of any court may be proved by filing a copy
of the notice, with an affidavit of posting, in the court in which the proceeding was
had in which the notice was required; and such affidavit shall be competent evi
dence in all courts, and shall be prima facie evidence of what it states.
1805 (1649). Certain papers prima facie evidence.—In all cases where land
was sold for taxes under a law which made the collector's deed or conveyance or
468

EVIDENCE.

l8o6-l8lO

list of land sold prima facie evidence of the validity of the assessment and sale of
the lands, the deed or conveyance or list shall still be such evidence, notwithstand
ing the repeal of the law.
The statute applied in Hardie v. Chriaman, 60 Miss., 671.
1806 (526). Tax-collector's deed, etc., prima facie evidence.—A conveyance
made by a tax-collector to an individual purchaser of laud at a sale for taxes, and
the list of lands sold to the state at such sale, shall be prima facie evidence that the
assessment and sale of the land were legal and valid.
The presumption in favor of the validity of the tax-sale extends to and includes, in the absence of proof
to the contrary, the filing of the deed by the collector as required by law. Wheeler v. Ligon, 62 Miss., 560.
See annotations to £3817.
1807. Transcribed records. —"Whenever the records of a county, or of any
court or office, or any part thereof, shall be transcribed by order of the board of
supervisors, in pursuance of law, the copy or transcribed record shall be evidence,
and shall prima facie have the same force and effect as the originals from which the
transcript is made. (See § 299.)
1808 (1059). Injury to persons or property by railroads prima facie evidence
of want of skill, etc. —In all actions against railroad companies for damage done
to persons or property, proof of injury inflicted by the running of the locomotives
or cars of such company shall be prima facie evidence of the want of reasonable
skill and care on the part of the servants of the company in reference to such injury.
In a suit against a railroad for killing a horse, marks of the animal on the track and the position of its
remains mav, without an eye-witness, make out a prima facie case under the statute. Chicago B. R. Co. v.
Packwood, 59 Miss., 280.
The statute does not apply to causes of action arising ex contractu. Chicago R. R. Co. v. Trotter, 60
Miss., 442.
If the proof of the damage, the plaintifff's own evidence, show that the defendant was not guilty of neg
ligence, the statute does not aid the case. Mobile R. R. Co. v. Holt, 62 Miss., 170.
If it be shown that a fire was produced by an engineer of defendant railroad throwing a burning piece of
wood from the engine on the company's right of way, whence the fire spread and destroyed plaintifff's property
sued for, a prima facie case, under the statute, is made out. Damage by fire is within the section. Mobile
R. R. Co. v. Gray, 62 Miss., 383; Louisville R. R. Co. v. Natchez R. R. Co., 67 Miss., 399.
The railroad must show the facts, if they do not appear from the plaintifff's evidence, to exonerate itself
from liability when it be shown that injury was inflicted by the running of its locomotive or cars. It cannot
rely on presumptions or conjectures. Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Hamilton, 62 Miss., 503; Kansas City R. R.
Co. v. Doggett, 67 Miss., 250.
A precedent wrong on the part of the injured person, producing the conditions which resulted in the
injury, does not prevent the application of the statute. Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Phillips, 64 Miss., 693.
Presumptions should yield to facts where they are sufficiently shown; but it is not error in such a case to
instruct a jury that the law presumes wrontr, prima facie, from the fact of injury by the running of cars, etc.
Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Phillips, 64 Miss., 693; New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Bourgeois, 66 Miss., 3.
If the plaintifff make out merely a prima facie case under the statute, and the defendant, by undisputed
evidence, show that its servants did every thing possible to prevent the injury, the court may properly direct
a verdict for defendant. Bedford v. Louisville B. B. Co., 65 Miss., 385.
1809 (2297). Private acts of legislature evidence, without being specially
pleaded.—Private acts of the legislature may be given in evidence without being
specially pleaded, and the printed acts of the legislature, published by authority
thereof, shall be competent evidence of such acts.
1810. Foregoing provisions applicable to all courts.—All things contained
in this chapter, not restricted by their nature or by express provision to partic
ular courts, shall apply to and govern all courts.
Abstracts of titles from destroyed records.—Sec § 2792.
Appeal-bond; copy of kept by clerk.— See § 68.
469

=352-2354

JOINT AND SEVERAL DEBTORS.—JURIES.

CHAPTER 67.
JOINT AND SEVERAL DEBTORS.
2352 (1003). Effect of releasing one or more joint debtors.— In all cases of
joint or joint and several indebtedness, the creditor may settle or compromise with
and release any one or more of such debtors; and the settlement or release shall
not affect the right or remedy of the creditor against the other debtors for the
amount remaining due and unpaid, and shall not operate to release any of the
others of the said debtors; and all mortgages or securities for the said indebtedness
shall remain in full force against the debtors not released, in favor of the creditor,
and also in favor of such of the debtors as may be entitled to contribution, pay
ment, or re-imbursement from others of said debtors, and the right of payment,
contribution, or re-imbursement, as among themselves, shall not be affected by this
section ; and if any debtor, so released, shall have paid more than his ratable
share of the whole debt, the whole amount paid by him shall be credited, and if
less than his ratable share, then the full amount of his ratable share shall be cred
ited, and the other debtors shall be liable for the residue.
2353 (1134). Judgment against one does not affect rights against the other.
—In any action founded on a joint or joint and several bond, covenant, bill of
■exchange, promissory note, or other contract, or on a contract or liability of copart
ners, it shall be lawful to sue any one or more of the parties liable on such bond,
covenant, bill of exchange, promissory note, or other contract or liability; and
separate suits may be brought against the representatives of such of the parties as
have died, or joint suits may be brought against the representatives of the deceased
party and those who are alive and bound therein ; and the rendition of judgment
against one or more joint or joint and several debtors shall not affect any right of
the plaintifff as to the other parties, unless satisfaction have been obtained.
This section abolishes all distinctions in remedies upon joint and joint and several obligations, and makes
them all joint and several. Steen v. Finley, 26 Miss , 535.
A judgment against one partner unsatisfied is not a bar to an action against another partner. Hyman
v. Stadler, 63 Miss., 362; Scharffv. Noble, 67 Miss., 143.

CHAPTER 68.
JURIES.
2354 (1661). Who are competent jurors. —Every male citizen, not under the
age of twenty-one years, who 'is duly registered as a voter and able to read and
write, has not been convicted of an infamous crime, and who is not a common
gambler nor an habitual drunkard, and is not nor has been within twelve months
the overseer of a public road, is a competent juror ; but the lack of any such quali
fication on the part of one or more jurors shall not vitiate an indictment or verdict.
It shall be a good cause to challenge any tales juror, that he has served as such in
584

JURIES.

2355-2358

the trial of as many as three cases at that or the last preceding term of the court;
and of an}' juror, that he has a case of his own pending in that court and for trial
at that term.
An employe of one of the parties is incompetent as a juror. Hubbard v. Rutledge, 57 Miss., 7; Louis
ville R. R. Co. v. Mask, 64 Miss., 738.
That portion of the statute relating to the service by a juror in the trial of as many as three cases, does
not apply to members of the regular panel. Louisville R. R. Co. v. Mask, 64 Miss., 738.
2355 (3072). Opinion not to render incompetent in a criminal case, when.—
Any person, otherwise competent, who will make oath that he is impartial in the
case, shall he competent as a juror in any criminal case, notwithstanding the fact
that he has an impression or an opinion as to the guilt or innocence of the accused,
if it appear to the satisfaction of the court that he has no bias of feeling or preju
dice in the case, and no desire to reach any result in it, except that to which the
evidence may conduct; but any juror shall be excluded, if the court be of opinion
that he cannot try the case impartially, and the exclusion shall not be assignable
for error.
It is the duty of the court to see that a fair, competent, and impartial jury is selected to try every case.
Ferriday v. Selser, 4 How. (Miss.), 506; Gilliam v. Brown, 43 Miss., 641.
The court mav set aside a juror who has not been challenged by either party. Lewis v. The State, 9
Smed. & M., 115; Williams v. The State, 32 Miss., 389.
The court must examine into the sufficiency of every objection to a juror. The consent of the other party
to the objection does not deprive the court of the power. McCarty v. The State, 26 Miss., 299.
The court may discharge from the panel a juror who has been accepted and sworn, before testimony is
introduced, if it.be discovered that he is incompetent. Williams v. The State, 32 Miss., 389.
A juror who has conscientious scruples about the infliction of capital punishment is incompetent when
a verdict might be followed bv the infliction of the death penalty. Lewis v. State, 9 Smed. & M., 115; Williams
Y. The State, 32 Miss., 389; Jones v. The State, 57 Miss., 684; Spain v. The State, 59 Miss., 19.
The fact that a juror had conversed with a witness does not disqualify him, if he have not a "fixed
opinion " as to the guilt or innocence of the accused. Penn v. The State, 62 Miss., 450.
2356 (1662). Who exempt; length of service of tales and grand jurors.—
All officers in the executive department of the state government, all judges aud
officers of the several state courts, all county and county district officers, all physi
cians actually in practice, all teachers and officers of public schools actually engaged
in their vocation, all keepers of public mills and ferries who personally pursue those
callings as their principal business, all ministers of the gospel and Jewish rabbis
actually engaged in their calling, all officers of the government of the United States,
all lawyers practicing their profession, all telegraph operators, one apothecary to
every store where drugs and medicines are the principal articles for sale, shall be
exempt from serving as jurors. All other persons shall be liable to serve as jurors,
unless excused by the court for the time being on cause shown; but a tales juror,
save when drawn and retained for the week, shall not be compelled to serve two
days successively, unless the case in which he is empaneled continue longer than
one day. Grand jurors shall serve until discharged by the court.
2357 (1661, 1683). Who exempt as a personal privilege.—Every citizen over
sixty years of age, and every one who has served 011 the regular panel within two
years, shall be exempt from sevice, if he claim the privilege; but the latter class
shall serve as talesmen and on special venire, and on the regular panel, if there be
a deficiency of jurors.
2358 (1681). How list of jurors procured. —The board of supervisors, at the
first meeting in each year, or at a subsequent meeting if not done at the first, shall
585

2359-2365

JURIES.

select and make a list of persons to serve as jurors in the circuit court for the next
two terms to be held more than thirty days afterwards, and, as a guide in making
the list, they shall use the registration-books of voters; and it shall select and list
the names of qualified persons of good intelligence, sound judgment, and fair char
acter, and shall take them, as nearly as it conveniently can, from the several election
districts, in proportion to the number of the qualified persons in each, excluding
all who have served on the regular panel within two years, if there be not a defi
ciency of jurors.
2359 (1682). How many jurors list to contain.—The jury-list shall contain
not less than two hundred nor more than five hundred names, unless the judge of
the district shall direct a greater number to be put on the list ; and save in a county
where there is a deficiency of jurors, the court, in its discretion, may order a less
number to be listed.
2360 (1684). List certified to circuit court.—A certified copy of the list shall
be immediately delivered by the clerk of the board of supervisors to the clerk of
the circuit court, and shall be by him carefully filed and preserved as a record of
his office; and any alteration thereof shall be treated and punished as provided in
case of the alteration of a record. (See § 959.)
2361 (1685). Names from list put in jury-box.—The names of the persons on
the jury-list shall be written on separate slips of paper by the clerk of the circuit
court, and put in a box kept for that purpose, marked "Jury-box," which shall be
securely locked and kept closed and sealed, except when opened to draw the jurors.
2362 (1688). Names of jurors not serving returned to box.—The slips con
taining the names of jurors drawn for any regular or special term shall be safely
kept by the clerk until the sitting of the court at such term, and the names of such
persons as shall fail to appear, or shall be excused by the court, or not required to
serve in consequence of the failure of the term, or other cairse, shall be returned to
the box.
2363 (1689). Jury-lists for eacb district. —In counties where there are two cir
cuit court districts, the board of supervisors shall make a list of jurors for each dis
trict, in the manner directed for a county, and .the same shall be treated in all
respects as for an entire county. In such counties a juror shall not be required to
serve out of his district, except when summoned on a special venire; and a special
venire therein shall be drawn from the two jury-boxes, if the court so direct, one
name from eacb alternately.
2364 (1690). List of jurors not serving. —After the adjournment of the second
term of the circuit court held after making a jury-list for any two terms of court,
the clerk thereof shall make a list of the names of all persons named in the list
who did not serve as jurors for the week, or as retained talesmen, at either term,
and shall deliver the list, duly certified, to the clerk of the board of supervisors
before its first meeting in the next year; and those names shall constitute a part of
the list of jurors for the ensuing two terms, unless the board of supervisors shall,
for reasons deemed good, cause some of said names to be omitted from the list.
2365. How grand and petit jurors drawn.—At each regular term of the cir
cuit court, and at a special term if necessary, the judge shall draw, in open court,
from the jury-box the slips containing the names of fifty jurors to serve as grand
586

JURIES.

2366-2370

and petit jurors for the first week and thirty to serve as petit jurors for each subse
quent week of the next succeeding term of the court; and he shall make and care
fully preserve separate lists of the names, and shall not disclose the name of any
juror drawn. The slips containing the names so drawn shall be placed by the judge
in envelopes, a separate one for each week, and he shall securely seal and deliver
them to the clerk of the court, so marked as to indicate which contains the names
of the jurors for the first and each subsequent week. If in drawing it appear that
any juror drawn has died, removed, or ceased to be qualified or liable to serve as a
juror, the judge shall cause the slip containing the name to be destroyed, the name
to be stricken from the jury-list, and he shall draw another name to complete the
required number.
2366. Envelopes opened and venire issued.—The clerk shall safely keep the
envelopes, without opening, until within fifteen days of the term for which the
jurors were drawn, and shall then, in the presence of the sheriff and clerk of the
chancery court, open the envelopes and make a list of the names in each. Each
list shall be certified by those officers to be correct, aud on each they shall certify
whether the envelope containing the names appeared to have been opened or dis
figured. The several lists of jurors, with the certificates, shall be copied into the
minutes of the first day of court. After making and certifying the lists, the clerk
of the circuit court shall forthwith issue and deliver to the sheriff a separate venire
facias for the jurors for each week, returnable on the proper day.
2367 (1687). When jurors drawn in vacation.—Whenever the jurors have
not been drawn by the judge in open court, he may draw them in vacation, if con
venient; and if he do not, and whenever jurors are required for a special term and
the judge shall so direct, the clerks of the circuit and chancery courts and the sher
iff shall, at the time they should have opened the envelopes, draw the jurors for
the term of court, and make and certify lists thereof ; and the clerk shall issue and
deliver to the sheriff the proper venire facias."
2368. Where only one clerk, coroner to act, etc.—In those counties in which
the same person holds both clerk's offices, the coroner or any justice of the peace
shall perform the duties, in proper cases, of the chancery clerk in relation to juries;
and in case of the sickness or absence of auy clerk or sheriff, the several duties
may be performed by deputy.
2369 (1692). How jurors summoned; penalties.—The sheriff shall forthwith
execute the venire facias by summoning each juror at least five days before the first
day of court, if practicable, either by personal service or by leaving a written notice
at his usual place of abode ; and he shall make return of the venire on the first day
of the term. And any juror who, being summoned, does not attend, shall be fined
not exceeding one hundred dollars ; and the fine shall be made absolute unless
' good cause for such non-attendance shall be shown at the next succeeding term, or
before final judgment on scire facias; but if good cause be shown, the fine shall be
remitted, and without costs, if the court shall so order.
2370. Contempt of court not to perform the duties as to juries.—If the
board of supervisors fail to make the list of jurors required by law or the direction
of the court; if the clerk of the board fail to duly certify the jury-list to the clerk
of the circuit court; if the latter clerk fail to preserve the jury-list without altera
587

237r-2373

JURIES.

tion, except as required by law, or to place the slips containing the names on the
jury-list in the jury-box, or to keep the jury-box securely locked and sealed save
when opened to draw the jurors, or as contemplated by law, or to carefully preserve
without opening or disfiguring the envelopes containing the names of the jurors
drawn by the judge; if either clerk or the slieritf fail to perform the duties required
of them, jointly or severally, in opening the envelopes sealed by the judge and
containing the names of the jurors drawn by him, or to make and properly verify
and certify the list of names taken from any such envelope; if the clerk of the cir
cuit court fail to issue the proper venire facias and deliver the same to the sheriff
on the same day on which the envelopes are opened; if the sheriff fail to summon
any juror named in any venire facias; if the coroner fail to perform any duty
required of him in the case provided ; or if any of such officers fail to perform any
duty required or implied in the premises, each member of the board of supervisors,
for such failure of the board, and each clerk, the sheriff, and coroner for such his
failure shall be fined fifty dollars, as for a contempt of court, and the fine shall be
made final at the same term unless good cause be shown in writing.
2371. Grand jurors; how drawn.—The number of grand jurors shall not be
less than fifteen nor more than twenty, in the discretion of the court; and they
shall be drawn from the list of persons in attendance as jurors, in the following
manner: The name of each juror shall be written on a separate slip of paper and
put in a box or hat, in open court, and there shall then be drawn out, by a person
designated by the judge, the number directed by the court, and the jurors whose
names are so drawn shall constitute the grand jury, and be empaneled and sworn as
such. (See § 2383.)
2372 (1666). Foreman appointed and all sworn.—The court shall appoint one
of the grand jurors to be foreman of the grand jury, to whom the following oath
shall be administered in open court, in the presence of the rest of the grand jurors,
to wit:
" You, as foreman of this grand inquest, shall diligently inquire into, and true
presentment make, of all such matters and things as shall be given you in charge,
or otherwise come to- your knowledge, touching the present service; the counsel
of the state, your fellows', and your own you will keep secret; you shall not present
any person through malice, hatred, or ill will ; nor shall you leave any person unpresented through fear, favor, or affection, or for any reward, hope or promise thereof;
but in all your presentments, you shall present the truth, the whole truth, and noth
ing but the truth, to the best of your skill and understanding. So help you God."
And the following oath shall be administered to the other jurors, to wit:
" The same oath that your foreman has now taken before you on his part, you,
and each of you, shall well and truly observe, and keep on your respective parts.
So help you God."
2373. Judge to charge the grand jury.—The judge shall charge the grand jury
concerning its duties and expound the law to it as he shall deem proper; and he
shall particularly give it in charge the statutes against gambling and the unlawful
selling of intoxicating liquors; those relating to gambling with minors and the giv
ing or selling them tobacco and liquors; those providing for the assessment, collec
tion, and disbursement of the public revenue, state and county; those defining the
588

JURIES.

2374-2380

duties of public officers, aucl especially those relating to the collection and paying
over of fines and forfeitures: those against gambling with public funds, drunken
ness, and other misdemeanors in office ; those providing for the working of the pub
lic roads and the building of bridges ; and in a county where there is a male high
school or college, the statute against students carrying and having deadly weapons ;
and in Hinds county, at Jackson, those defining crimes against the legislative author
ity, and those for the government of the penitentiary and public institutions ; and
all such other statutes as he shall deem proper at an}- time.
2374. All county officers to attend court and hear the charge to the grand
jury.—All county and county district officers shall attend each session of the cir
cuit court and hear the charge of the judge to the grand jury. After the grand
jury is empaneled, the roll of such officers shall be called, and each officer who is
absent shall be fined ten dollars, and the fine shall be made final at the next term of
the court, unless, upon scire facias served, the officer shall show good cause for his
absence. .
2375 (1667). Impaneling conclusive evidence of competency.—Before swear
ing any grand juror as such, he shall be examined by the court, on oath, touching his
qualification ; and, alter the grand jurors shall have been sworn and empaneled, no
objection shall be raised, by plea or otherwise, to the grand jury; but the impan
eling of the grand jury shall be conclusive evidence of its competency and qualifica
tions; but any party interested may challenge or except to the array for fraud.
This statute completely cuts off the plea in abatement challenging the fitness and qualifications of the
grand jury or of any of its members. Head v. The State, 44 Miss., 731; Durrah v. The State, 44 Miss., 789.
Unless the contrary appear from the record, the presumption is that the grand jury was legally organ
ized. Chase v. The State, 46 Miss., G83.
2376 (1669). Places of absent jurors supplied.—If, after the grand jury has
been sworn, any of the members thereof should absent themselves from any cause,
or become incompetent to sit, or be excused by the'eourt, the court shall have power
to cause others to be sworn in their places.
2377 (1670). The court may adjourn grand jury to a day; pay in such case.
—The court, in its discretion, may adjourn the grand jury to a subsequent day of
the term, and the jurors shall only receive pay for the number of days they shall
be actually engaged in the performance of their duties.
2378 (1673). Jail inspected, and sheriff punishable.—The grand jury, at each
term of the circuit court, shall make a personal inspection of the county jail, its
condition, sufficiency for the safe-keeping of prisoners, and their accommodation
and health, and make report thereof to the court ; and for any violation or neglect
of duty as to the jail, the sheriff may be punished as for a misdemeanor, or may be
fined as for a contempt, not exceeding fifty dollars.
2379 (1674). Grand jury may examine all county offices.—The grand jury
shall have free access at all proper hours to the papers, records, accounts, and books
of all county officers for all examinations which, in its discretion, it may see fit to
make, and may make report to the court in relation thereto.
2380 (1675). Grand jury to examine tax-collector's books. —It shall be the
duty of the grand jury, at every term of court, to examine the tax-collector's
books and his reports and settlements, and make report thereon.
o89

2381-2385

JURIES.

2381 (1676). Grand juror not to disclose secrets of jury-room.—A grand
juror, except when called as a witness in court, shall not disclose any proceeding or
action had by that body, in relation to offenses brought before it, within six mouths
after the adjournment of the court at which he was a grand juror; nor shall any
grand juror disclose the name or testimony of any witness who has been before it,
on pain of fine or imprisonment for contempt of court.
A member of. a grand jury which finds an indictment is a competent witness on the trial of it. Rocco v.
The State, 37 Miss., 357.
2382 (1677). Witnesses before grand jury subpoenaed and sworn.—The
foreman of the grand jury shall have power to order subpoenas for all witnesses
desired to be produced, and he shall also have power to swear all witnesses. A
record shall be kept by the foreman and returned to court, certified and signed by
the foreman, of the names of all witnesses sworn before the grand jury.
2383. How petit juries empaneled.—After the drawing of the grand jury, the
remaining jurors in attendance shall be empaneled into two petit juries for the first
week of court if there be a sufficient number left, and, if not, the juries may be
completed from the by-standers, or the court may direct a sufficient number for that
purpose to be drawn and summoned ; but if there be more than enough jurors for
the two juries, or for one jury if the court shall direct only one to be empaneled,
the excess may be discharged, or they may be retained, in the discretion of the
court, to serve as talesmen; and, if so retained, they7 shall have the privilege of
members of the regular panel, of exemption from service. (See § 2371.)
2384 (1697). Oath of petit jurors.—Petit jurors shall be sworn in the following
form :
"You, and each of you, do solemnly ^wear [or affirm] that you will well and
truly try all issues and execute all writs of inquiry that may be submitted to you,
or left to your decision by the 'court, during the present term, and true verdicts
give according to the evidence. So help you God."
The oath shall authorize the jury to try all issues and execute all writs of inquiry
which may be submitted to it during that term of the court ; and talesmen, if any
be summoned or retained, shall in like manner be sworn to tryr all issues and execute
all writs of inquiry which may be submitted to them during the day for which they
are summoned or the time for which they are retained.
It is not necessary to swear the jury for the week in each case; and talesmen will be presumed to have
been duly sworn, unless the record show the contrary. Pierce v. Tate, 27 Miss., 283.
Where the jury appeared to have been sworn "truly to try the issue joined between the parties," it was
held sufficient {confirming Dyson v. The State, 2G Miss., 362). Windham v. Williams, 27 Miss., 313.
If the record recite that the jury were "empaneled and sworn to sit as jurors in the case," it will be pre
sumed that they were legally sworn. Furniss v. Meredith, 43 Miss., 302.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, it will be presumed that the jury were sworn. Waddell v.
Magee, 53 Miss , 687.
2385 (1693). When court to order jurors drawn and summoned.—If at any
regular or special term of a circuit court it appear that jurors have not been drawn
or summoned for the term, or for any part thereof, or that the jurors have been
irregularly drawn or summoned, or that none of the jurors so drawn or summoned
are in attendance, or not a sufficient number to make the grand jury and two petit
juries, the court shall immediately cause the proper number of jurors to be drawn
590

JURIBS.

2386-2388

from the box and summoned, or, if there be not a jury-box to be drawn from, the
court shall direct the requisite number of persons, qualified as jurors, to be sum
moned to appear at such time as the court shall appoint, and the court shall there
upon proceed as if the jurors had been regularly drawn and summoned.
The statute contemplates only two juries, but does not prohibit a third jury. Barnes v. The State, 60
Miss., 355.
2386 (3058). Special venire facias in capital cases.—When any person charged
with a capital crime shall have been arraigned and the plea of not guilty entered, it
shall be the duty of the court, upon the demand of the accused or the district attor
ney, to cause to be drawn, in open court, from the jury-box not more than fifty
names; and it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a special venire facias, com
manding the sheriff*to summon the persons whose names are so drawn to attend the
court on a particular day to be named in the writ ; and in case the special venire be
exhausted without a jury being empaneled from those summoned and in attend
ance, the court shall proceed to make up the jury for the trial of the case from the
regular panel and'tales jurors who may have been summoned for the day; and if,
after exhausting said regular panel and tales jurors, a competent jury be not
obtained, the court shall direct the sherift'to summon forthwith as many tales jurors
as shall be sufficient to complete the jury. And in the event that there should be no
such box, or the same should be mislaid, or the names therein have been exhausted,
then the court may order a special venire facias to be issued by the clerk, directing
the sheriff' to summon as many jurors as may be necessary, not more than fifty, and,
after exhausting the same, to empanel the jury as hereinbefore directed; and the
slips containing the names of all jurors drawn or summoned on a special venire,
and not empaneled on the jury, shall be returned to the box from which they were
drawn immediately after the jury shall be empaneled; and if the special venire be
not demanded, the jury shall be composed of the regular venire for the week and
as many talesmen and by-standers as may be required, to be summoned under the
order of the court.
A direction in a special venire to summon a jury "residing as near as may be to the place where the
murder was committed," is erroneous. Shaffer v. The State, I How. (Miss.), 238.
,
The judge has no authority to discharge one of the special venire without sufficient cause shown. Boles
v. The State, 13 Smed. & SI., 398; Boles v. The State, 24 Miss., 445.
After the jury had been empaneled and sworn, a juror arose and informed the court that he had been of
the grand jury that found the bill. It was not error for the court to set him aside, complete the jury, and have
it resworn Jefferson v. The State, 52 Miss., 767.
It is no ground to quash a special venire that one of the jurors was not a citizen of the United States.
Durrah v. The State, 44 Miss., 780.
If, on defendant's motion, the special venire be quashed, because the box from which it was drawn
was not legally prepared, he cannot be heard to complain of the court ordering a special venire summoned.
Russell v. The State, 53 Miss., 367.
In executing a special venire, where the names are not drawn, the sheriff is not . bound to summon every
man he meets until he get the required number. Cavanah v. The State, 56 Miss., 299.
A special venire may be drawn during the pendency of another case. Penn v. The State, 62 Miss., 450.
2387 (1694). No challenge to array nor venire quashed, except.—A challenge
to the array shall not be sustained, except for fraud, nor shall any venire facias,
except a special venire facias in a criminal case, be quashed for any cause whatever.
2388 (1696). Jurors under the control of the court.—If any juror, summoned
to appear at court, should render himself unfit for service by intoxication before his
name is called in court, he shall be fined in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars,
591

2389-2392

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

and be imprisoned for a term not exceeding twenty-four hours. After grand and
petit jurors arc empaneled the}- shall be under the control of the court, and, for any
breach of duty or contempt of court, may be lined and imprisoned.
2389 (1672). Jury-laws directory. —All the provisions of law in relation to the
listing, drawing, summoning, and empaneling juries are directory merely; and a
jury listed, drawn, summoned, or empaneled, though in an informal or irregular
manner, shall be deemed a legal jury after it shall have been empaneled and sworn;
and shall ha\ye the power to perform all the duties devolving on the jury.
The supreme court will not interfere with the discretion of the lower court in empaneline the jury unless
it appear that there was a gross and injurious exercise of it. Head v. The State, 41 Miss., 731.
Where -a special venire is ordered without application by the district attorney or defendant, it may be
quashed on motion; but, after the jury is empaneled, the irregularity is cured by the statute, Gavigan v.
The State, 55 Miss., 533.
2390. Juries in condemnation proceedings.—In all cases where a jury is
required in the exercise of the right of eminent domain, the sheriff and clerks of
the circuit and chancery courts shall draw eighteen names from the jury-box, and
the slips containing the names shall be returned to the box. The sheriff shall sum
mon the jury thus drawn, and the jurors shall attend, under the same penalties as
in the circuit court, and the penalties may be enforced therein at the next term, on
complaint of the proper party or of the sheriff. (See § 1082.)
2391. Jury may view the place, etc.— When, in the opinion of the court, on
the trial of any cause, civil or criminal, it is proper for the jury to have a view of
the property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which the offense
is charged to have been committed, or in which any material fact occurred, it may
order the jurors to be conducted in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the
place, which shall he shown to them by some person appointed by the court for
that purpose. While the jurors are thus absent, a person other than the one so
appointed shall not speak to them, or either of them, on any subject connected
with the trial. The officer must be sworn not to suffer any person to speak to or
communicate with the jurors, or either of them, nor to do so himself, on any sub
ject connected with the trial, except as authorized by the court, and to return them
into court without unnecessary delay, and at a specified time.

CHAPTER 69.
JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
2392 (2185). Number and districts for election of—There shall he five dis
tricts in each county for the election of justices of the peace, the" boundaries of
which shall be the same as the boundaries of the districts for the election of mem
bers of the board of supervisors, and two justices of the peace shall be elected for
each district by the electors thereof; but the board of supervisors may subdivide
a district into not more than three districts, and cause a justice of the peace to be
elected by and for each subdivision.
592

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

2393-2395

2393 (2186). Oath of office and bond. —Every person elected a justice of the
peace shall, before he enters on the duties of the office, take the oath of office pre
scribed by section one hundred and fifty-five of the constitution, and enter into
bond in the same manner as other county officers, in the penalty of two thousand
dollars, conditioned according to law; and any party interested may proceed on
such bond in a summary way, by motion in any court having jurisdiction of the
same, against the principal and sureties, upon giving five days' previous notice; but
the boards of supervisors of the respective counties shall have power to limit the
penalty of said bonds to a sum not less than five hundred dollars.
2394 (2190). Civil jurisdiction.—Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction
of all actions for the recovery of debts or damages, or personal property, where the
principal of the debt, the amount of the demand, or the value of the property sought
to be recovered shall not exceed two hundred dollars.
>
An account, though embracing various items, cannot be divided so as to give jurisdiction. Grayson v.
Williams, Walker, 298; Pittman v. Chrisman, 59 Miss., 124.
But plaintifff need not embrace, in the same suit, independent causes of action though all may be due.
(The following cases on the subject are overruled expressly: Scofield v. Pensons, 26 Miss., 402; Mobile R.
R. Co. v. State, 51 Miss., 137; and it seems Morris v. Shryock, 50 Miss., 590). Ash v. Lee, 51 Miss., 101;
Pittman v. Chrisman, 59 Miss., 124: Drysdale v. Biloxi, 67 Miss., 534; McLendon v. Pass, 66 Miss., 110.
In computing the amount in controversy, costs, damages, and interest are excluded. New Orleans R. R.
Co. v. Evans, 49 Miss., 785; Jackson v. Whitfield, 51 Miss , 202.
The justices of the peace have jurisdiction to try a claimant's issue although the value of the property
exceed two hundred dollars. Bernheimer v. Martin, 66 Miss., 486.
The justice's jurisdiction is not limited by the constitution to actions on contracts. Bell v. West Point,
51 Miss., 262; Higgins v. Deloach, 54 Miss., 498.
•
In suits on penal bonds, jurisdiction is determined by the amount of damages honestly claimed. Shattuck v. Miller, 50 Miss., 386; State v. Luckey, 51 Miss., 528.
The demand, where honestly made, fixes and determines the amount in controversy (explaining Askew
v. Askew, 49 Miss., 301). Fenn v. Harrington, 54 Miss., 733; Ross v. Natchez R. R. Co., 61 Miss., 12;
Griffin v. McDaniel, 63 Miss., 121.
The principal of the debt at the time suit is brought, after deducting credits, if any, is the test of juris
diction. Martin v. Harden, 52 Miss., 694.
A justice of the peace cannot consolidate separate and distinct suits, if, when united, the demand exceed
two hundred dollars. Louisville Railroad Co. v. McCollister, 66 Miss., 106.
2395 (2191, 2231). Where suits to be brought.—The jurisdiction of every jus
tice of the peace shall be co-extensive with his county, and he may issue any pro
cess in matters within his jurisdiction, to be executed in any part of his county ;
but every freeholder or householder of the county shall be sued in the district in
which he resides, if there be a justice acting therein and qualified to try the suit, or
in the district in which the debt was contracted, the liability incurred, or in which
the property may be found. And whenever, by reason of interest, relationship to
one of the parties, or other like cause, any justice of the peace shall be disqualified
to preside in any case before him, the same shall be transferred to a justice of the
peace in that or an adjoining district free from such objection, in the county, who
shall hear and determine the same.
If a freeholder or householder be sued out of the proper district, the justice is without power to transfer
the cause. He must dismiss it. Cain v. Simpson, 53 Miss., 521.
A justice of the peace of a district other than the one where the defendant, a freeholder or householder,
resides, and other than the one where the property is found, has no jurisdiction of a replevin suit. Turner v.
Lilly, 56 Miss., 576.
Replevin can be brought in a county where the goods are found, even if the defendant be a freeholder
resident of another county. Ellison v. LewiB, 57 Miss., 588.
A justice of the peace has no jurisdiction of a suit alone against a freeholder or householder of another
county. Cain v. Simpson, 53 Miss., 521.
593
38

2396-2400

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

A party to a suit before a disqualified justice, who has consented to call another justice to sit in his place,
thereby setting substantially the benefit of a transfer to another justice, cannot thereafter complain of want
of jurisdiction in the justice called in. Cross v. Levy, 57 Miss., 634.
2396 (2192). If two or more defendants, where brought.—In suits or pro
ceedings against two or more defendants, jointly or jointly and severally liable, it
shall be lawful to bring the suit before any justice of the peace of the district
wherein either of the defendants reside; and such justice shall have power to issue
a summons or other process to bring in all co-defendants from any other district or
from any other county.
2397 (2193). Docket.—Every justice of the peace shall keep a well-bound book,
styled " Docket," in which he shall enter the names of the plaintifff and defendant
in any suit brought before him, and the character of the suit; the time of issuing
process and when returnable, and a copy of the return made thereon by the officer;
the time of filing the defendant's set-off, if any; the appearance or default of parties
summoned to appear; the date and amount of the judgment; the execution when
issued, and a copy of the return thereon ; the appeal, when and by whom demanded,
and all the proceedings before him touching the suit ; and he shall make like entries
of all proceedings of a criminal nature before him heard and determined. And it
shall be the duty of a justice, when required, to furnish to either party a certified
copy of such proceedings, and of all papers and process relating thereto.
It is a copy of the entries on this docket which the justice is to transmit, certified, to the circuit court
.on, appeal. Hughston v. Cornish, 59 Miss., 372.
2398 (2239). Entry to identify docket.—Each justice of the peace shall, at the
beginning and in front of all his entries in his docket, make and subscribe substantially the following entry, to wit :
"A docket of proceedings in matters civil and criminal, before
, a justice
of the peace of the county of
, in the state of Mississippi, in district No.
of said county, for the election of justices of the peace.
" "Witness my signature.
, Justice of the Peace."
2399 (2194). Courts. —Justices of the peace shall hold regular terms of their
courts, at such times as they may appoint, not exceeding two and not less than one
in every month, and at such convenient place in their district as they may designate;
and they may continue to hold their courts from day to day so long as business may
require; and all process shall be returnable, and all trials shall take place at such
regular terms, except where it is otherwise provided; but where the defendant is a
non-resident or transient person, and it shall be shown by the oath of either party
that a delay of the trial until the regular term will be of material injury to him, it
shall be lawful for the justice to have the parties brought before him at any reason
able time and hear the evidence and give judgment. Such court shall be a court of
record, with all the power incident to a court of record, including power to fine to
the amount of fifty dollars and imprison one day for contempt of court.
Justices of the peace may. by consent of the parties, postpone the trial of a cause to a particular day
between the regular terms, and then try it and give judgment. Rice v. Locke, 59 Miss., 189.
2400 (2195). Justices may sit together or separately.—The justices of the
peace may sit and act together in holding their courts, but any one may hold his
court by himself, at any point in his district which he may designate. In case of
594

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

24OI-2407

disagreement between them, when sitting together, as to the decision of a case, the
justice who issued the process shall decide.
2401 (2196, 2197). How suit begun in civil cases.—Any one desiring to sue
before a justice of the peace shall lodge with him the evidence of debt, statement of
account, or other written statement of the cause of action; and thereupon the jus
tice of the peace shall issue a summons for the defendant, returnable to the next
term of his court, which shall be executed five days before the return-day; but if
the process be executed less than five days before the return-day, the service shall
be good to require the appearance of the defendant at the term next succeeding the
one to which it is returnable. Any summons issued within five days before a term
of the court, shall be made returnable to the next succeeding term, unless a shorter
day be named, in pursuance of the provision for a trial without delay in the case of
non-resident or transient defendants.
It is sufficient to file a copy of a promissory note with the justice. Duncan v. Scott Co., 64 Miss., 38.
2402 (2198). By whom process served; not to be issued to sheriff, if, etc.,
unless, etc.—The sheriff of any county, and his deputies, shall execute any process
directed to him by any justice of the peace; but process shall not be directed to the
sheriff if there be a constable in the district duly qualified to act, unless there be, in
the opinion of the justice of the peace, good reason therefore.
2403 (2199). Person appointed to execute process.—In cases of emergency,
and where a constable or sheriff or deputy sheriff cannot be had in time, the justice
of the peace may appoint some reputable person to execute any process, the justice
to be liable on his bond for all damage which may result to a party to the cause or
other person from his appointment of an insolvent or incompetent person
2404 (2200). Property and process delivered to officer.—Property seized in
execution of any process by one appointed by a justice of the peace to execute it,
shall be immediately delivered, with the process, to the sheriff of the county, or
the constable of the district in which the seizure was made; and the person from
whom the property was taken shall be at once informed who has it; and such prop
erty shall be considered and dealt with as if it had been seized by the officer to
whom it was delivered at the time of its delivery to him.
2405 (2201). Process returned by sheriff or constable.—The process so deliv
ered to the sheriff or constable shall be returned by him to the justice who issued
it, according to its command.
2406 (2202). Witnesses to be subpoenaed. —The justice of peace before whom
any cause is pending shall issue all subpoenas for witnesses which either of the par
ties may require, and such subpoenas shall be returnable on a day certain, giving
reasonable time for attendance; and if any witness, duly subpoenaed, shall fail to
appear, in pursuance of the subpoena, he shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars, for the
use of the party in whose behalf he was subpoenaed, for which the justice may enter
judgment nisi, which shall be made final in case the witness, on being duly sub
poenaed to appear and show cause, shall fail to appear and show cause for such
default; and the justice may issue an attachment for such witness, as a circuit court
may do in like case.
2407 (2248). Form of entry on default of witness.—The judgment nisi against
a defaulting witness, may be in the following form, viz. :
595

2408-2410

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

"
, being subpoenaed to appear this day as a witness for
, the
,
in the case of
v.
, No.
, and having made default, judgment is
given against said
, the defaulting witness, for ten dollars, in favor of
,
to be made final unless said
, the witness, shall show cause against it accord
ing to law."
2408 (2249). Form of scire facias for witness.—The scire facias to be issued
by the justice for a defaulting witness may be as follows, viz.:
" The State of Mississippi.
" To any lawful officer of
county:
" This is to command you to make known to
that a judgment in favor of
for ten dollars has been given against him by me, a justice of the peace of
county, for his default in not appearing before me, at
, on the
day of
, A.D.
, to testify as a witness for
, in the case of
against
, No.
, as he had been subpoenaed to do; and unless, on the
day of
, A.D.
, before me, at
, at
o'clock
,
he shall show cause to the contrary, the said judgment will be made final; and
have there then this writ.
" Witness my hand, the
day of
, A.D.
.
, J. P."
2409 (2250, 2251). Form of an attachment for a witness.—An attachment for
a witness may be in the following form, viz. :
" The State of Mississippi.
"To any lawful officer of —■
county :
" We command you to take the body of
, and have him before the under
signed justice of the peace of
county, at
, on the
day of
,
A.D.
, at
o'clock
, to testify for the
in the case of
against
, No.
. [But if the said
;— shall furnish bail, with sureties,
to be approved by you, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for his appearance at said
time and place, you will discharge him.] And have there then this writ.
" Witness my hand, the
day of
, A.D.
."
The part in brackets should be omitted, if it be not intended that the witness
shall be discharged on bail, but shall be brought before the court by the officer.
An attachment and scire facias for a defaulting witness may be combined in one writ,
and when the witness is before the justice of the peace in pursuance of such pro
cess, the judgment nisi shall be made final, if good cause to the contrary be not
shown.
2410 (2252). Form of entry of judgment in such case.—The entry of final
judgment in such case may be in the following form, viz.:
"
, being duly summoned to appear and show causea gainst the judgment
nisi for ten dollars entered against him in favor of
, as a defaulting witness in
the case of
v.
, No.
, on the
day of
, A.D.
, and
having failed to show cause for such default, the said judgment nisi for ten dollars
is now made final, as well as judgment for costs in said matter, this the
dav
of
, A.D.
."
■596

JUSTICKS OP THE PEACE.

2411-2415

2411 (2204). Set-off filed on return-day before trial.— The defendant in any
action shall, on or before the return-day of the summons, and before the trial of the
case, file with the justice of the peace the evidence of debt, statement of account,
or other written statement of the claim, if any, which he may desire to and which
lawfully may be set off against the demand of the plaintifff, and, in default thereof,
he shall not be permitted to use it on the trial. (See annotations to § 687.)
The defendant may prove a set-off greater in amount than the jurisdiction of the justice, if the balance,
after deducting the amount of the plaintifff's demand, do not exceed his jurisdiction. Glass v. Moss, 1 How.
(Miss.), 519.
2412 (2205). Trial and judgment, and execution.—On the return-day of the
summons the justice shall hear and determine the cause if the parties appear; give
judgment by default if the defendant fail to appear and contest plaintifff's demand,
or judgment of nonsuit against the plaintifff if he fail to prosecute his claim; enter
judgment in favor of the defendant where, in case of set-off, it shall appear that
there is a balance due him, for the amount of such balance, and issue execution
against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the party against whom
judgment is rendered, for the amount of the judgment and costs, or costs alone,
as the case may require, returnable to a term of the court to be held more than
twenty days after the rendition of the judgment, and not more than six months
after the issuance of the execution ; and the execution may be directed to the proper
officer of any county in this state.
For an example of a judgment of a justice of the peace questioned and held sufficient, see Swain v.
Gilder, 61 Miss., 667.
2413 (2206). Judgment a lien if enrolled.—Judgments rendered by justices
of the peace shall operate as a lien upon the property, real or personal, of the defend
ant or defendants therein, found or situated in the county where rendered, or in any
other county where the same may be, which is not exempt by law from execution,
if an abstract of the judgment be filed with the clerk of the circuit court of the
county wherein the property is situated, and entered upon the judgment-roll, as in
other cases of enrolled judgments, the lien to commence from the date of enroll
ment; and the judgment may be enrolled and have the force and effect of a lien in
all cases where an appeal is taken, as well as in other cases. And in the event of a
reversal of the judgment of the justice's court, the clerk of the circuit court shall
.enter a memorandum to that effect on the judgment- roll.
2414 (2207). Execution not to be issued within five days.—An execution
shall not issue on any judgment of a justice of the peace until five days after its
rendition, unless the party recovering therein shall make and file an affidavit that
he believes he will be in dauger of losing his .debt or demand by such delay, in
which case execution shall issue immediately ; but the opposite party shall not be
deprived of his right of appeal within the time prescribed.
2415 (2253). Form of an execution.—An execution may be in the following
form, viz. :
" The State of Mississippi.
"To any lawful officer of
county:
" "We command you that of the real and personal estate of
you cause to
be made
dollars, adjudged by the undersigned, justice of the peace of the
597

2416-2422

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

county of
in said state, on the
day of
, A.D.
, to
,
also interest at
per centum on said sum until you shall make said money, and
costs to amount of
dollars, as taxed, and costs to accrue under this execution,
to be taxed by you ; and have said money before me on the
day of
,
A.D.
; and have there then this writ.
" Witness my hand, the
day of
, A.D.
.
, J. P."
Detailed statement of costs, giving each item separately and specifying the law
for it, the section and paragraph thereof, viz. : " Issuing summons, %
; serv
ing summons, $
," etc.
2416 (2212). Replevin, attachment, liens, etc.—Proceedings in replevin,
attachment, trial of a claim to property levied on, and for the enforcement of statu
tory liens before justices of the peace, shall be, as far as practicable, according to
those in the circuit courts, in all like cases. (See § 176, 177, 2684, 2707, 2713, 2716,
2720, 2723.)
2417 (2213). Judgment on merits res adjudicata.—When any suit brought
before a justice of the peace shall be iinally decided on its merits by the justice, it
shall be a bar to a recovery for the same cause of action or set-off in any other suit.
2418 (2214). Execution of judgment may be stayed.—If the party against
whom judgment is given, shall, within five days thereafter, procure some responsi
ble person to appear before the justice, and in writing, to be entered on the docket
of the justice and signed by such person, consent to become surety therefore, the jus
tice shall grant a stay of execution for thirty days from the date of the judgment
on all sums not exceeding fifty dollars, and for sixty days on all sums over fifty dol
lars; and in case the money be not paid at the expiration of such stay, execution
shall issue against the principal and sureties, or either of them, for the principal,
interest, and costs.
2419 (2215). Effect of stay.—A party obtaining a stay of execution shall thereby
waive all errors in the judgment and abandon the right of appeal and certiorari.
2420 (2216). Criminal jurisdiction.—Justices of the peace shall have jurisdic
tion concurrent with the circuit court of the county over all crimes occurring in
their several districts whereof the punishment prescribed does not extend beyond
a fine and imprisonment in the county jail; but if there be not a justice of the
peace in the district in which any crime is committed qualified to try the accused,
any justice of the peace of the county shall have jurisdiction thereof.
2421 (2217). Practice in criminal cases.—On affidavit of the commission ot
any crime of which he has jurisdiction lodged with a justice of the peace, he shall
issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender, returnable forthwith or on a certain
day to be named, and shall issue subpoenas for witnesses as in civil cases, and shall
try and dispose of the case according to law ; and, on conviction, shall order such
punishment to be inflicted as the law provides.
An affidavit is essential to confer jurisdiction to try and punish an offender. Bighara v. Stat?, 59
Miss., 529.
2422 (2218). Convict committed to jail.—It shall be the duty of a justice of
the peace to order any one found guilty by him who shall not immediately pay the
fine imposed upon him, and all costs, to be committed to the county jail until pay
ment of such fine and costs.
598

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

2423-2427

2423 (2220). Bail for appearance for trial may be taken. —It is lawful for any
officer having a person in custody by virtue of a warrant of a justice of the peace,
in a case of which the justice has final jurisdiction, to take bond, with sufficient
sureties, in a sum of not less than fifty dollars nor more than five hundred dollars,
conditioned for the appearance of such person, on the return-day of the writ, before
the justice of the peace before whom the warrant is returnable, and to fix the
amount of the bond, which shall be returned to the justice and be filed and pro
ceeded on by him in case of forfeiture, if for not more than two hundred dollars,
as in like cases in the circuit court, as near as may be ; and a justice of the peace
before whom any person is brought for trial may take bond or recognizance, in such
like sum as he may fix, of such person, or may authorize the sheriff or constable to
take bond of him, for his appearance on adjournment from time to time and from
day to day, or to a subsequent day, for trial, and to be proceeded on in case of for
feiture as provided above. When a bond or recognizance shall exceed in its pen
alty two hundred dollars and be forfeited, the justice of the peace shall return the
bond or a true copy of the recognizance to the circuit court, with his certificate of
the forfeiture; and the circuit court shall enter judgment nisi thereon, and there
after proceed as if the same had been for appearance in that court.
2424 (2221). Justice not finally dispose of certain cases.—If on the trial of
any criminal case the justice of the peace discover that it is a felony, and not a
misdemeanor, of which the accused has been guilty, he shall not punish the offender
nor render any judgment finally disposing of the case, but shall require him to give
bail for his appearance in the circuit court, unless the felony be not bailable, in
which case the justice shall commit him without bail.
The affidavit charging an offense serves to procure the arrest of the accused; and if the justice believe
him guilty of a felony, he must bind him over, and the mittimus will be valid, although the affidavit only charge
a misdemeanor. Ex parte Burke, 58 Miss., 50.
2425 (2222). Trial by jury.—On or before the return-day of the process either
party may demand a trial by jury, and thereupon the justice of the peace shall
order the proper officer to summon six persons, competent to serve as jurors in the
.circuit court, to appear immediately, or at such early day .as he may appoint, whether
at a regular term or not, who shall be sworn to try the case ; but each party shall be
entitled to challenge peremptorily two jurors, and as many more as he can show
sufficient cause for. If a sufficient number of jurors shall not appear, others may
be summoned until a jury is made up, to consist of six, against whom legal objec
tions shall not exist. If the jury fail to agree, it may be discharged and another
jury summoned, and so on until a verdict is obtained; and judgment shall be
entered by the justice on the verdict.
2426 (2224). The same; if more than one case.—If a justice have more jury
cases than one on the same day, he shall use the same jury for the trial of each,
subject to the right of challenge by either party and like proceedings in all respects
as in other cases. If more cases than one be tried by the same jury, the justice
shall apportion the cost of the jury among the several cases and tax it in accord
ance with justice.
2427 (2225). The same; delinquent jurors fined.—The justice of the peace
may fine any person summoned as a juror failing to attend in any sum not exceed
599

2428—2432

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

ing ten dollars; and if such person, when summoned to show cause why the fine
should not he made final, shall not appear and show cause, execution shall issue for
the fine and cost.
2428 (2226). The same; in criminal cases. —A defendant in a criminal case
before a justice of the peace may, in like manner as in civil cases, demand a jury,
and thereupon the justice shall proceed as in other cases.
2429 (3117). Subpoena to any county.—A justice of the peace may issue a
subpoena for a witness to any county, in a criminal case, and enforce obedience
thereto.
2430 (2230). To collect and report fines, etc. —It shall be the duty of every
justice of the peace to receive and account for all fines and penalties imposed by
him, and, on the first day of October and April in each year, to report in writ
ing, under oath, to the clerk of the board of supervisors all fines and penalties
imposed by him during the six months next preceding such report, giving the date,
amount, and names of persons from whom such fines and penalties were received,
and to pay so much thereof as he shall have received to the county treasurer. Any
justice of the peace who shall fail to make such report or to pay the money so
received, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in office, and, on conviction thereof, shall
be removed from office, and also may be fined and imprisoned.
2431 (2229). Remedy for money collected.—When any justice of the peace
shall have collected in his official capacity any money, fines, or penalties, and shall
fail to pay or account for the same to the person or official entitled to receive the
same, he shall be liable to be proceeded against on his official bond in a summary
way, by motion in any court having jurisdiction of the amount collected and with
held, of which motion five days' notice shall be served on the justice of the peace
and the sureties on his bond, or such of them as may be found; and judgment for
the amount illegally withheld by the justice, and ten per centum thereon, and all
costs, shall be rendered against the justice and his sureties, or such of them as
have been served with notice. (See § 647.)
2432 (2232, 2233, 2234, 2235, 2236). Docket, etc., of justice going out of
office delivered to circuit clerk; proceedings, etc. —Every justice of the peace
whose term of office shall expire, or who shall resign, remove from the district, or
otherwise go out of office, and the legal representative and next of kin of every
justice of the peace who shall die, shall, within ten days thereafter, deliver his docket,
with all process and papers and books of statutes relating to his office, to the clerk
of the circuit court of the county; and if any justice of the peace, or the legal rep
resentative and next of kin of any justice of the peace who shall die, refuse or
neglect to deliver such docket, process, papers, or books of statutes to said clerk as
required, he or they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in
the county jail not longer than six months, or by both. Said clerk shall preserve
such books of statutes and shall keep in his office such docket, process, and papers
as public records, and shall certify copies thereof, while kept by him, whenever
demanded; and whenever a successor to the justice of the peace shall be selected
and qualified, the clerk shall deliver said docket, process, papers, and books of stat
utes to such successor, who shall proceed to conclude all business pending thereon
600

LAND AND CONVEYANCES.

2433-2437

as if the proceedings had been originally instituted before him. If it be doubtful
who of several is successor to a justice of the peace whose term of office has
expired, the justice of the peace in the district who resides nearest the residence of
such justice whose term expired shall be considered his successor. "While such
docket and papers are in the custody of the clerk, if there be on said docket any
suits undetermined or any judgments unexecuted, any justice of the peace of the
county, at the request of either party thereto, and 011 five days' notice to the
adverse party, shall have access to the docket and papers, and shall hear and deter
mine such suits and execute any judgment on said docket in the same manner as
business originally begun by him.

CHAPTER 70.
LAND AND CONVEYANCES.
2433 (1187). Land conveyed to vest immediately or in future.—Any interest
in or claim to land may be conveyed, to vest immediately or in the future, by writ
ing signed and delivered; and such writing shall have the effect to transfer, accord
ing to its terms, the title of the person signing and delivering it, with all its inci
dents, as fully and perfectly as if it were transferred by feoffment with livery of
seizin, notwithstanding there may be an adverse possession thereof.
This section practically abolishes the doctrine of champerty in reference to lands. Cassedy v. Jackson,
45 Miss., 397.
2434 (1188). Land conveyed only by writing.—An estate of inheritance or
freehold, or for a term of more than one year, in lands shall not be conveyed from
one to another unless the conveyance be declared by writing signed and delivered.
(See § 4225, paragraph c.)
Real estate cannot be passed or incumbered for a longer period than one year by a mere deposit of the
title-deeds. Gothard v. Flynn, 25 Miss., 58.
A verbal lease of land to begin at a future fixed time, and to continue not more than one year, is valid.
McCroy v. Toney, G6 Miss., 233.
The section does not prevent the vesting of the title to lands by virtue of an adverse possession for the
statutory period, though the holding were begun under a parol gift or purchase. Davis v. Davis, 68 Miss., 478.
2435 (1189). Words of inheritance not necessary.—Every estate in lands
granted, conveyed, or devised, although the words deemed necessary by the com
mon law to transfer an estate of inheritance be not added, shall be deemed a feesimple if a less estate be not limited by express words, or unless it clearly appear
from the conveyance or will that a less estate was intended to be passed thereby.
2436 (1190). Estates in fee-tail prohibited.—Estates in fee-tail are prohibited ;
and every estate which, but for this statute, would be an estate in fee-tail, shall be
an estate in fee-simple ; but any person may make a conveyance or a devise of lands
to a succession of donees then living, not exceeding two, and to the heirs of the
body of the remainder-man, and, in default thereof, to the right heirs of the donor,
in fee-simple.
8ee Powell v. Brandon, 24 Miss., 343; Jordan v. Roach, 32 Miss., 481; Dibrell v. Carlisle, 48 Miss., 691.
2437 (1194). How corporation may convey land.—All bodies-politic or cor
porate may convey their lands by and under the corporate seal and the signature of
601

2727-2730

LIGHT. —LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

purchaser without notice, and is enforceable in a court of chancery. Archibald v. Citizens' Bank, 64 Miss.,
523.
2727 (1396). Duration of lien.—The lien hereby created shall expire six months
after the claim is due, unless judicial proceedings have been commenced to assert it.

CHAPTER 82.
LIGHT.
2728. Contracts for.—The board of public contracts shall make contracts
annually, or at such times and on such terms as it may deem best for the public
interest, for gas-lights or electric lights for the capitol and the public institutions,
at a price not greater than individuals or private institutions in Jackson pay for
like lights and appliances.
2729. Use of lights in the capitol. —The lights in the capitol shall not be used
by any private person, or for any secret or private purpose, party caucuses excepted,
but may be used, in the discretion of the keeper of the capitol, for any public meet
ing of citizens.

CHAPTER 83.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
2730 (2664). Actions concerning land.—A person may not make an entry or
commence an action to recover land but within ten years next after the time at
which the right to make the entry or to bring the action shall have first accrued to
some person through whom he claims; or, if the right shall not have accrued to any
person through, whom he claims, then within ten years next after the time at which
the right to make the entry or bring the action shall have first accrued to the per
son making or bringing the same ; but if, at the time at which the right of any
person to make an entry or to bring an action to recover land shall have first accrued,
such person shall have been under the disability of infancy or unsoundness of mind,
then such person or the person claiming through him may, notwithstanding the
period of ten years hereinbefore limited shall have expired, make an entry or bring
an action to recover the land at any time within ten years next after the time at
which the person to whom the right shall have first accrued shall have ceased to
be under either disability, or shall have died, whichever shall have first happened;
but when any person who shall be under either of the disabilities mentioned, at the
time at which his right shall have first accrued, shall depart this life without having
ceased to be under such disability, no time to make an entry or to bring an action
to recover the land beyond the period of ten years next after the time at which
654

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

2731-2732

such person shall have died, shall be allowed, by reason of the disability of any
other person.
It is competent to join one adverse possession to another in order to make the bar effectual, if the pos
session be continued, uninterrupted, and adverse during the whole period. Benson v. Stewart, 30 Miss., 49.
The principle upon which the statute rests, is not that the party in whose favor it is evoked has set up an
adverse claim for the period prescribed, but that the adverse claim is accompanied by such an invasion of the
rights of the opposite party as to give him a cause of action. Magee v. Magee, 37 Miss., 138.
Actual, open, and notorious possession may be shown by the acts of the occupant to have been adverse.
Davis v. Bowmar, 55 Miss., 671.
The statute commences to run from the time plaintifff's cause of action accrued, and not from the date
the title vests in him. Shaw v. Alexander, 32 Miss., 229.
What constitutes adverse possession is a question of law, but the intention of the possessor, which is
always material in determining, is a fact to be ascertained by the jury. Magee v. Magee, 37 Miss., 138.
Visible and notorious occupation, with intent to claim against the world, constitute adverse possession.
So will any visible aets of ownership exercised over land, which, from their nature, indicate notorious claim of
property in it, if continued for a longtime, with the knowledge of the owner, and without interruption or
adverse entry by him. Neither actual occupation, residence, nor cultivation is necessary to constitute adverse
possession, where the property is so situated, as not to admit of any permanent useful improvement. Ford v.
Wilson, 35 Miss , 490.
The adverse possession, to be available, must have been continuous. Tegarden v. Carpenter, 36 Miss.,
404; Nixon v. Porter, 3S Miss., 401.
A void deed is sufficient to constitute color of title. One who enters under color of title and holds
adversely may extend his possession to the whole laud embraced in his deed. But a mere intruder can extend
his possession only to the extent of his actual occupancy. Welborn v. Anderson, 37 Miss., 155; Ryan v.
Mississippi R. R. Co., 62 Miss., 162.
A defendant having color of title is not a mere intruder. Nixon v. Porter, 38 Miss., 401.
Where the right of action has descended from one dying under disability to another resting under disa
bility, ten years only is given from the death of the first person within which the second may sue. Watts v.
Gunn, 53 Miss., 502.
Unless the declaration show the character of defendant's possession and the length of time he have so
occupied the premises, the bar of the statute cannot be raised by demurrer. Tush-ho-yo-tubby v. Barr, 41
Miss., 52.
Adverse possession, though uuder a parol gift, if it continue for ten years, confers a perfect title. Davis
v. Davis, 68 Miss., 478.
2731 (2665). Same limitation as to suits in equity.—A person claiming land
in equity may not bring suit to recover the same but within the period during
which, by A'irtue of the provisions hereinbefore contained, he might have made an
entry or brought an action to recover the same if he had been entitled at law to
such estate, interest, or right in or to the same as he shall claim therein in equity;
but in every case of a concealed fraud, the right of any person to bring suit in
equity for the recovery of land, of which he or any person through whom he claims
may have been deprived by such fraud, shall be deemed to have first accrued at and
not before the time at which the fraud shall, or, with reasonable diligence might,
have been first known or discovered. (See § 2749; see also § 2762.)
2732 (2666). Mortgages and deeds of trust.—When a mortgagee, after con
dition broken, shall obtain the actual possession or receipt of the profits or rent of
land embraced in his mortgage, the mortgageor, or any person claiming through
him, may not bring a suit to redeem the mortgage but within ten years next after
the time at which the mortgagee obtained such possession or receipt, unless in the
meantime an acknowledgment of the title of the mortgageor, or of his right of
redemption, shall have been given in writing, signed by the mortgagee or the per
son claiming through him; and in such case a suit may not be brought but
within ten years next after the time at which such acknowledgment, or the last
of such acknowledgments, if more than one, was given ; but such acknowledgment
655

2733-2735

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

shall be effectual only as against, and to the extent of the interest of the party
signing it.
A husband mortgaged his lands; the mortgagee without foreclosure conveyed to the wife, who thereafter
occupied for ten years; she thereby acquired a perfect title. Little v. Teague, 60 Miss., 115.
2733 (2667). Remedy on mortgage barred when debt is.—When a mortgage
or deed of trust shall be given on real or personal estate, or when a lien shall be
given by law to secure the payment of a sum of money specified in any writing,
an action or suit or other proceeding shall not be brought or had upon such lien,
mortgage, or deed of trust to recover the sum of money so secured but within the
time that may be allowed for the commencement of an action at law upon the
writing in which the sum of money secured by such mortgage or deed of trust may
be specified ; and in all cases where the remedy at law to recover the debt shall be
barred, the remedy in equity on the mortgage shall be barred.
Where the debt is barred, the mortgage cannot be enforced. Huntington v. Bobbit, 46 Miss., 528; Mad
dux v. Jones, 51 Miss., 531.
2734 (2668). Ten years' adverse possession gives title.—Ten years' actual
adverse possession by any person claiming to be .the owner for that time of any
laud, uninterruptedly continued for ten years by occupancy, descent, conveyance, or
otherwise, in whatever way such occupancy may have been commenced or contin
ued, shall vest in every actual occupant or possessor of such land a full and com
plete title, saving to persons under the disability of minority or unsoundness of
mind the right to sue within ten years after the removal of such disability, as pro
vided in the first section of this chapter ; but the saving in favor of persons under
disability of unsoundness of mind shall never extend longer than thirty-one years.
The ten years occupation, as declared xti the statute, vests a "full and complete title," upon which the
land can be recovered in ejectment, withoutTurther evidence than the facts showing such possession. Ellis v.
Murray, 28 Miss., 129; Ford v. Wilson, 35 Miss., 490; Davis v. Bowmar, 55 Miss., 671.
And this is true under the general statute of limitation. Jones v. Brandon, 59 Miss., 585.
Adverse possession, though under a parol gift, if it continue for ten years, confers a perfect title. Davis
v. Davis, 68 Miss., 478.
2735 (539). Three years actual occupation under a tax-title bars suitActual occupation for three years, after two years from the day of sale of land held
under a conveyance by a tax-collector in pursuance of a sale for taxes, shall bar any
suit to recover such land or assail such title because of any defect in the sale of the
land for taxes, or in any precedent step to the sale, saving to minors and persons of
unsound mind the right to bring suit within such time, after the removal of their
disabilities, and upon the same terms as is provided for the redemption of laud by
such persons.
The statute cannot be availed of where the occupant could not, if his tax-title were perfect, assert it
against the claimant of the land. McGee v. Holmes, 63 Miss., 50.
The section applies as well to a purchaser from the state of tax-lands as to a purchaser from the taxcollector. Pipes v. Farrar, 64 Miss., 514.
The statute does not apply to land held under the conveyance of a clerk of the circuit court, made under
acts 1872 and 1873 (Laws 1872, p. 9, and Laws 1873, p. 91), where there is no evidence that such land is held
immediately or remotely under a conveyance by a tax-collector. Clay v. Moore, 65 Miss., 81.
The statute was never intended to defeat a subsequently acquired tax-title. Lewis v. Seibles, 65 Miss., 251.
The statute applies to sales made before as well as after its enactment, and to apparent as well as real
delinquents. Patterson v. Durfey, 68 Miss., 779.
As to the curative effect of statutes like above, see Nevin v. Bailey, 62 Miss., 433; Gibson v. Berry, 66
Miss., 515; Sigman v. Lundy, 66 Miss., 522 ; Metcalfe v. Perry, 66 Miss., 68.
656

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

2736-2742

2736. Limitations of suits by and against the state, counties, and municipal
corporations.—Statutes of limitation in civil «ases shall not run against the state, or
any subdivision or municipal corporation thereof; but all such statutes shall run in
favor of the state, the counties, and the municipal corporations therein; and the
statutes of limitation shall begin to run in favor of the state, the counties, and
municipal corporations at the time when the plaintifff first had the right to demand
payment of the officer or board authorized to allow or disallow the claim sued upon.
2737 (2669). Actions to be brought in six years.—All actions for which no
other period of limitation is prescribed shall be commenced within six years next
after the cause of such action accrued, and not after.
2738. Actions against guardians or their sureties.—All actions against a
guardian and the sureties on his bond, or either of them, by the ward, shall be com
menced within five years next after the ward shall have arrived at the age of twentyone years, and not after.
2739 (2670). Actions to be brought in three years.—Actions on an opea
account or stated account, not acknowledged in writing, signed by the debtor, and
on any unwritten contract, express or implied, shall be commenced within three
years next after the cause of such action accrued, and not after.
The section does not apply to an action against a city to recover money illegally coerced as a privilege
tax. Musgrove v. Jackson, 59 Miss., 390.
The verbal acknowledgment of the correctness of an account, making it an account stated, will not avoid
the statute applicable to open accounts. Floyd v. Pearce, 57 Miss., 140.
2740 (2671). When statute commences to run on open accounts.—In all
actions brought to recover the balance due upon a mutual and open current account,
where both parties are merchants or traders, the cause of action shall be deemed to
have accrued at the time of the true date of the last item proved in such account;
and in all other actions upon open accounts, the period of limitation shall commence
to run against the several items thereof from the dates at which the same respect
ively became due and payable.
It is competent to show, by custom of merchants, that when cash is not paid for merchandise the sale is
on a credit for a certain time. Effinger v. Henderson, 33 Miss., 449.
A local usage as to time of payment may be so well known that it will be implied into a contract unless
a different time were agreed. Hunter v. Wilkinson, 44 Miss., 721 ; Hendricks v. Robinson, 66 Miss., 694.
Cash payments upon an open account will not create a " mutual and open current account." Abbey v.
Owens, 57 Miss., 810.
If a merchant sell supplies to his customer, and receive from him cotton, which he sells for him and
credits the net proceeds of the cotton to the account against the customer for supplies, the account thus kept
will be a " mutual and open current account." (This can now only apply where both parties are merchants
or traders.) Abbay v. Hill, 64 Miss., 340.
2741 (2672). Action for penalty commenced in one year.—All actions and
suits for any penalty or forfeiture on any penal statute, brought by any person to
whom the penalty or forfeiture is given, in whole or in part, shall be commenced
within one year next after the offense was committed, and not after.
2742 (2673). Other actions commenced in one year.—All actions for assault,
battery, maiming, false imprisonment, malicious arrest, or menace, and all actions
for slanderous words concerning the person or title, and for libels, shall be com
menced within one year next after the cause of such action accrued, and not after.
(See § 2747.)
The section does not apply to actions against a railroad company for personal injuries. Bell Kansas
City R. R Co., 68 Miss., 19.
657
42

2743-2747

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

2743 (267-4). Actions on domestic judgments. —All actions founded on any
judgment or decree rendered by any court of record in this state, shall be brought
within seven years next after the rendition of such judgment or decree, and not
after ; and an execution shall not issue on any judgment or decree after seven years
from the date of the judgment or decree.
When the statute ia once pnt in motion, it is not arrested by any subsequent disability; nothing but a
positive statute will stop it. Pollard v. Eckford, 50 Miss., 631.
Where the plaiutiff in the judgment, were he living, could not revive the same or have execution on iti
the administrator cannot do so. Palmer v. Jones, 50 Miss., 657.
Where an administrator failed to plead the bar to a scire facias against him, and it is sought to subject
lands to the judgment, the heir may defend on the statute. Champion v. Cayce. 54 Miss., 695.
If a new lien be sought, a suit must be brought on the judgment within seven years. Locke v. Brady, 30
Miss., 21; Buckner v. Pipes, 56 Miss., 366; Stith v. Parham, 57 Miss., 289.
2744 (2675). Actions on foreign judgments.—All actions founded on any
judgment or decree rendered by any court of record without this state shall be
brought within seven years after the rendition of such judgment or decree, and not
after. But if the person against whom such judgment or decree was or shall be
rendered, was, or shall be at the time of the institution of the action, a resident of
this state, such action, founded on such judgment or decree, shall be commenced
within three years next after the rendition thereof, and not after.
The section is subject to the exception as to the defendant's absence from the state. (See ? 2748.) Kenard v. Alston, 62 Miss., 763.
2745 (2676). Action against executor or administrator.—An action or scire
facias may not be brought against any executor or administrator upon any judg
ment or other cause of action against his testator or intestate, but within four years
after the qualification of such executor or administrator.
The section does not apply to causes of action which accrue after the death of the decedent. Bingaman
v. Robertson, 25 Miss., 501; Pope v. Bowman, 27 Miss., 194; M'Lean v. Ragsdale. 31 Miss., 701; French v.
Davis, 38 Miss., 218; Buckingham v. Walker, 48 Miss., 609; Sivley v. Summers, 57 Miss., 712.
The six months within which executors and administrators cannot be sued {'i 1922) should not be com
puted as part of the time. West. R. R. Co. v. Stockett, 13 Smed. & M., 395; Jennings v. Love, 24 Miss.,
249; Wilkinson v. Moore, 27 Miss., 365.
The statute applies if four years have elapsed since the original grant of letters upon the estate; even if
the particular administrator or executor who is sued, have not been so long in office. Boyd v. Lowry, 53
Miss., 352.
The statute begins to run on the qualification of the administrator, and is not stopped by his subsequent
resignation. Champion v. Cayce, 54 Miss, 695.
The statute runs without regard to the publication for creditors to probate their claims. Sivley v. Sum
mers, 57 Miss., 712.
2746 (2677). Saving in favor of those under disabilities.—If any person
entitled to bring any of the personal actions before mentioned shall, at the time at
which the cause of action accrued, be under the disability of infancy or unsound
ness of mind, he may bring the actions within the times in this chapter respectively
limited, after his disability shall be removed; but the saving in favor of persons
under disability of unsoundness of mind shall never extend longer than twenty-one
years.
Where a party is under two or more disabilities when a cause of action accrues, the statute will not begin
to run until all be removed. North v. James, 61 Miss., 761.
2747. Saving in favor of convicts (Laws 1888, p. 93). —If any person entitled
to bring an action for assault, assault and battery, or maiming, shall, at the time the
cause of such action accrued, have been in custody as a convict, such person may
bring such action within one year after his release.
658

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

2748-2753

2748 (2678). Absence from the state. —If, after any cause of action have
accrued in this state, the person against whom it has accrued be absent from and
reside out of the state, the time of his absence shall not be taken as any part of the
time limited for the commencement of the action, after his return.
The reason of the exception is, that during such absence the plaintifff cannot sue If the right to sue be
unimpaired, notwithstanding the absence, the case is not within the section. French v. Davis, 38 Miss., 218.
The fact that the debtor has property liable to attachment is immaterial ; " the statute follows the person,
and not the property of the debtor." Fisher v. Fisher, 43 Miss., 212.
If the debtor have a home in this state, so that service of process can be had on him under our laws, by
leaving with a member of his family or posting a copy, his absence on a trip abroad will not be within the
section. Dent v. Jones, 50 Miss., 265.
If he have no such residence here, and be absent, the section applies, even though it be shown that the
debtor had not acquired a domicile or fixed residence abroad. State v. Furlong, 60 Miss., 839.
The statute of limitations does not run during a debtor's absence from the state as a non-resident; and
this rule is applicable, though the plaintifff be non-resident. Bower v. Henshaw, 56 Miss., 619.
A person who, after a cause of action accrues against him, removes and resides out of the state is entitled
to the benefit of the time spent here on subsequent visits which are open, notorious, and long enough for suit;
but such person cannot claim that because of such visits his subsequent absences are to be disregarded.
Withers v. Bullock, 53 Miss., 539 ; Pindell v. Harris, 57 Miss., 739.
The statute embraces all persons; there is no saving. Hodges v. Darden, 51 Miss., 199.
2749 (2679). Concealed fraud.—If a person liable to any personal action
shall fraudulently conceal the cause of action from the knowledge of the person
entitled thereto, the cause of action shall be deemed to have first accrued at, and
not be*fore, the time at which such fraud shall be, or with reasonable diligence
might have been, first known or discovered. (See § 2731.)
Where the fraud itself is the basis of the right of action, unless a relation of trust and confidence exist
between the parties, the defendant must have been guilty of some positive act of fraudulent representation or
concealment directly towards the party injured. Buckner v. Calcote, 23 Miss., 432; Edwards v. Gibbs, 39
Miss , 166; State v. Furlong, 60 Miss., 839.
Where the matter is of record, and the party complaining has the means of finding out the character of
the transaction, the statute does not apply. Fleming v. Grafton, 54 Miss., 79.
2750 (2680). Lien of judgments limited.—A judgment or decree rendered in any
court held in this state shall not be a lien on the property of the defendant therein
for a longer period than seven years from the rendition thereof, unless an action be
brought thereon before the expiration of such time; but the time during which the
execution of a judgment or decree shall be stayed or enjoined by supersedeas,
injunction, or other process, shall not be computed as any part of the period of seven
years.
The general lien of a judgment can only be kept alive by a new action based upon the judgment. Buck
ner v. Pipes, 56 Miss , 366; Stith v. Parham, 57 Miss., 289.
2751 (2681). Bills of review limited.—Bills of review in chancery shall be
filed within two years next after the date of the final decree in the cause, and not
after, saving to persons under disability of infancy or unsoundness of mind the
like period of two years after the removal of their disability.
A suit in equity to vacate a decree, on the ground that it was instituted in plaintifff's name and prosecuted
without her consent or knowledge, is analogous to a bill of review, and is barred in two years. Brooks v.
Spann, 63 Miss., 198.
2752 (2682). Appeals to the supreme court limited.—Appeals to the supreme
court shall be taken within two years next after the rendition of the judgment or
decree complained of, and not after, saving to persons under disability of infancy or
unsoundness of mind the like period after their disability shall have been removed.
2753 (2683). Death of party before bar complete.—If a person entitled to
bring any of the personal actions hereinbefore mentioned, or liable to. any such
659

2754-2757

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

action, shall die before the expiration of the time herein limited therefore, such action
may be commenced by or against the executor or administrator of the deceased
person, after the expiration of said time, and within one year after the death of
such person.
As historical and illustrative, see Clayton v. Merrett, 52 Miss., 353; Sledge v. Jacobs, 58 Miss., 194; Cook
v. Reynolds, 58 Miss., 243; Hambrick v. Jones, 64 Miss., 240; Weir v. Monahan, 67 Miss., 434.
2754 (2684). Action barred in another state barred here. —When a cause of
action has accrued in some other state or in a foreign country, and by the law of
such state or country, or of some other state or country where the defendant has
resided before he resided in this state, an action thereon cannot be maintained by
reason of lapse of time, an action thereon shall not be maintained in this state.
2755 (2685). Completion of limitation extinguishes right.—The completion of
the period of limitation herein prescribed to bar any action, shall defeat and
extinguish the right as well as the remedy; but the former legal obligation shall be
a sufficient consideration to uphold a new promise based thereon.
2756 (2686). New action after abatement, reversal, etc. —If in any action,
duly commenced within the time allowed, the writ shall be abated, or the action
otherwise avoided or defeated, by the death of any party thereto, or for any matter
of form, or if, after verdict for the plaintifff, the judgment shall be arrested, or if a
judgment for the plaintifff shall be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff may commence
a Hew action for the same caflse, at any time within one year after the abatement
or other determination of the original suit, or after reversal of the judgment therein ;
and his executor or administrator may, in case of his death, commence such new
action, within the said one year.
The section does not abridge the time of limitation, but enlarges it; a second suit may be brought after
the expiration of the year if the general statute do not bar. Lang v. Fatheree, 7 Smed. & M., 404.
The right given is to the parties to the first suit, and not to different parties. Ross v. Sims, 27 Miss., 359.
The section applies to suits in equity as well as law. Weathersly v. Weathersly, 31 Miss., 662.
The section does not apply where the judgment in favor of plaintifff is reversed, and the supreme court
re-establishes a verdict for the defendant and dismisses the suit. Wilkes v. Coopwood, 39 Miss., 348.
A suit dismissed for want of security for costs is not within the section. Memphis R. R. Co. v. Orr, 52
Miss., 541.
2756a (2687). Limitation of set-off.—AH the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to the case of any debt or demand on the contract, alleged by way of set-off
on the part of a defendant; and the time of limitation of such debt or demand
shall be computed in like manner as if an action had been commenced therefore at
the time when the plaintifff's action was commenced; and the fact that a set-off
is barred shall not preclude the defendant from using it as such if he held it against
the debt sued on before it was barred.
2757 (2688). New promise to be in writing.—In actions founded upon any
contract, an acknowledgment or promise shall not be evidence of a new or continu
ing contract whereby to take any case out of the operation of the provisions of this
chapter or to deprive any party of the benefit thereof, unless such acknowledgment
or promise be made or contained by or in some writing signed by the part}7 charge
able thereby ; and where there shall be two or more joint contractors, one or more of
them sliall not lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter so as to be charge
able, by reason only of an acknowledgment or promise made or signed by any other
or others of them. And in actions against joint contractors, if the plaintifff be barred
660

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

2758-2760

as to one or more of the defendants but be entitled to recover against any other or
others of them, by virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise, judg
ment shall be given for the plaintifff' as to any of the defendants against whom he is
entitled to recover, and for the other defendants against the plaintifff.
An acknowledgment of an indefinite balance will not save the bar as to any amount whatever. Mask v.
Philler, 32 Miss., 237.
The new promise need not express the exact amount due, but must specify the particular debt, admit its
justice, and indicate an intention to pay it; but the expression of an intent to pay is not necessary if the jus:
tice of the debt be admitted without reservation. Hart v. Boyt. 54 Miss., 547.
The indorsement of a credit on a note, though signed by both parties, is not a sufficient acknowledgment
of the balance. Davidson v. Harrisson, 33 Miss., 41.
An acknowledgment is sufficient though the writing do not embody an express promise; and an acknowl
edgment and an agreement to waive the limitation will revive the debt previously barred. Beasley v. Evans,
35 Miss., 192.
The following writings were held sufficient, viz. :
(1) "I hereby waive the statute of limitations as to the within note and the deed of trust to secure the
same; " indorsed on the back of the note. Bowmar v. Peine, 64 Miss., 99.
(2) " Credit' this on my note in the county treasury. I will be down soon to pay the balance." Written
by a debtor of the county to the treasurer. Heflin v. Kinard, 67 Miss , 522.
(3) "We do hereby agree and promise to renew the note for which this mortgage is given, and to give a
new mortgage whenever the exact amount due upon said note is ascertained ; " indorsed on the back of the
mortgage. Hart v. Boyt, 54 Miss., 547.
The following writings were held insufficient, viz.:
(1) "It will ouit my convenience to execute my note for the balance due for rent, payable July 1, 1877."
Trustees v. Gilman,*55 Miss., 148.
(2) " I wrote to Mr. M. about the 1st inst. to know how I should send the money, and have not heard from
him. I am going to Aberdeen to-morrow, and will send fifty dollars, which is all I can spare at present."
Eckford v. Evans, 56 Miss., 18.
(3) "After hands are paid, appropriate balance due on my account to yourself. I would like to come
there and do your work, so I could pay you what I owe you." Fletcher v. Gillan, 62 Miss., 8.
The verbal acknowledgment of an account's correctness, making it an account stated, will not avoid the
statute applicable to open accounts. Floyd v. Pearce, 57 Miss., 140.
2758 (2690). Not to apply to issues of moneyed corporations.—None of the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to suits brought to enforce payment of notes,
bills, or evidences of debt issued by any bank or moneyed corporation.
Notes issued by a railroad company in 1861 and 1862, made payable on demand, and which could not be
re-issued as currency after one year from the close of the then existing war, are not within the saving of the
section. Butts v. Vicksburg R. R. Co., 63 Miss., 462.
2758a (2691). Statute not to run when person prohibited to sue.—"When
any person shall be prohibited by law, or restrained or enjoined by the order, decree,
or process of any court in this State from commencing or prosecuting any action or
remedy, the time during which such person shall be so prohibited, enjoined, or
restrained, shall not be computed as any part of the period of time limited by this
chapter for the commencement of such action.
2759 (2692). When the limitation to commence.—The several periods of
limitation prescribed by this chapter shall commence from the date when it shall
take effect ; but the same shall not apply to any actions commenced, nor to any
cases where the right of action or of entry shall have accrued, before that time, but
the same shall be subject to the laws now in force ; but this law may be pleaded in
any case where a bar has accrued under the provisions thereof.
For application of like sections in former revisions of the statute, see Carothers v. Hurley, 41 Miss , 71 ;
Jacks v. Bridewell, 51 Miss., 881 ; Bridgeforth v. Payne, 62 Miss., 777; Hambrick v. Jones, 64 Miss., 240.
2760 (2693). Actions for property sold by order of court.—An action shall
not be brought to recover any property hereafter sold by order of a chancery court,
661

2761-27630

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

where the sale is in good faith and the purchase-money paid, unless brought within
two years after possession taken by the purchaser under such sale of the property.
The section applies to invalidities which have crept into sales made in good faith, where the purchasemoney has been paid. Richardson v. Brooks, 52 Miss., IIS.
The section was meant to cure all defects, no matter from what cause, whether before or after decree,
unless suit for the land be brought within the prescribed time. Morgan v. Hazlehurst Lodge, 53 Miss., 665.
And is applicable in case the court were without jurisdiction to appoint the guardian who made the sale.
Hall v. Wells, 5-1 Miss., 289; Jeffreys v. Dowdle, 61 Miss., 504.
Or even if notice were not given to the parties defendant. Summers v. Brady, 56 Miss., 10.
The burden is on the purchaser to show that the sale was made in good faith and the purchase-money
paid, etc. The good faith of a purchaser from a purchaser has nothing to do with the operation of the sec
tion. Jeffreys v. Dowdle, 61 Miss., 504.
Where the»proceedings are regular on the record, even if the sale were not in good faith, yet if the land
has passed to a bona fide purchaser, he acquires title independently of the section. Sanders v. Sorrell, 65
Miss., 288.
The section applies as well to fales made in disregard of the constitution as to those in violation of stat
utes. Brady v. Villere, 66 Miss., 399.
2761 (2694). Trustee barred; beneficiaries barred.—When the legal title to
property or a right in action is in an executor, administrator, guardian, or other
trustee, the time during which any statute of limitations runs against such trustee
shall be computed against the person beneficially interested in such property or
right in action, although such person may be under disability and within the saving
of any statute of limitations; and may be availed of in any suit or miction by such
person.
2762 (2695). Suits in equity.—Whenever there be a concurrent jurisdiction in
the courts of common law and in the courts of equity of any cause of action, the
provisions of this chapter limiting a time for the commencement of a suit for such
cause of action in a court of common law, shall applj- to all suits to be brought for
the same cause in a court of chancery. (See § 2731.)
2763 (2696). Limitation of express trusts.—Bills for relief, in case of the
existence of a trust not cognizable by the courts of common law and in all other
cases not herein provided for, shall be filed within ten years after the cause thereof
shall accrue and not after; saving, however, to all persons under disability of
infancy or unsoundness of mind, the like period of time after such disability shall
be removed; but the saving in favor of persons under disability of unsoundness of
mind shall never extend longer than thirty-one years.
A legacy which is made by the will an express charge on real estate devised, is subject to the sectionTempleton v. Tompkins, 45 Miss., 424.
The section does not run until there be a cause of action. Hence, it does not run in cases of express
trusts which are subsisting and acknowledged. Cooper v. Cooper, 61 Miss., 676.
A will which expressly charges the estate with the payment of debts, makes the debts, subject only to the
statute of limitation in relation to trusts, not cognizable in courts of law. Abbay v. Hill, 64 Miss., 340.
2763« (2689). How this chapter to be applied.—The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to any suit which is or shall be limited by any statute to be brought
within a shorter time than is prescribed in this chapter, but such suit shall be
brought within the time that may be limited by such statue.

662

MANDAMUS.

2845-2847

may compel conformity to such rules by refusing the application. All available
facts as to each case shall be carefully noted in the superintendent's register.
2845 (664). Harmless incurables and the restored, removed.—Where any
patient in an asylum shall be found to be incurable, but harmless, and such as
can be properly cared for out of the asylum, or if a patient be restored to reason,
the superintendent shall notify the sheriff of the county from which the patient
came to remove him from the asylum. On receiving such notice the sheriff shall
at once notify some near relation of the patient in his county, and, unless such rela
tion immediately remove the patient from the asylum, the sheriff shall do so. If
a patient be restored to reason, the superintendent may furnish transportation to
such patient to his home, and make requisition on the board of supervisors of the
county for the costs thereof, which shall be allowed and a warrant issued to the
superintendent of the asylum; and the board of supervisors shall proceed as herein
before provided to recover the sum so paid, but this shall not apply to pay patients.

CHAPTER 89.
. MANDAMUS.
2846 (2542). In what cases a remedy, and how obtained.—On the petition of
the state, by its attorney-general or a district attorney, in any matter affecting the
public interest, or on the petition of any private person who is interested, the writ
of mandamus shall be issued by the circuit court, commanding any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, officer, or person to do or not to do an act the performance or
omission of which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, where there is not a plain, adequate, and speedy remedy in the
ordinary course of law.
Where a discretion is left in an inferior tribunal, the writ of mandamus can only compel it to act, but
cannot control the discretion. Madison Co. v. Alexander, Walker, oT.i : Attala Co. v. Grant, i) Smed. k M., 77 ;
Swan v. Gray, -44 Miss., 383; Vicksburg v. Rainwater, 47 Miss.. 5t7; Clayton v. McWilliams, 1!) Miss., 311;
State Board v. West Point, 50 Miss., 638; Monroe Co. v. State, 03 Miss , 135.
The governor cannot be compelled by mandamus to perform any act. Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Lowry, 61
Miss., 102.
It is no defense to an application for a mandamus to compel the issuance of a patent to state land, that
there is an outstanding title in a stranger. Meyers v. Martin, 01 Miss., 138.
Mandamus is the proper remedy to enforce the payment of valid claims against counties, which have
been audited and allowed. Beard v. Lee Co., 51 Miss., 542; Klein v. Smith Co., 54 Miss.. 254; Jefferson Co.
v. Arrighi, 51 Miss., 067; Honea v. Monroe Co., 03 Miss., 171.
And of such a claim against a city. Kelly v. Wimberly, 01 Miss., 548.
A judge may be compelled by mandamus to sign a bill of exceptions. Williams v. Ramsey, 52 Miss., 851.
Two or more distinct rights cannot be joined in the same petition. Haskins v. Scott Co., 51 Miss., 406.
Officers and tribunals have no right to refuse to enforce a statute because it may be thought unwise, and
they may be forced by mandamus to act. Monroe Co. v. State, 63 Miss., 135.
The equitable assignee of a part of a claim against a count}- cannot by mandamus compel the supervis
ors to make an allowance aud issue a warrant in his favor. Foote v. Noxubee Co., 07 Miss.. 150.
2847 (2548). In what court petition to be filed.—The petition fpr mandamus
shall be filed in the circuit court of the county in which the tribunal, corporation,
board, officer, or person made defendant, or some one or more of them, shall reside
675

2848-2854

MANDAMUS.

or be found; but if tbe judge of that court be interested, the petition may be filed
in an adjoining circuit court district.
2848 (2544). What petition shall contain, and summons.—The petition for a
mandamus shall set forth the facts which constitute the plaintifff's claim for the
writ; and, upon the filing of the petition, the clerk of the circuit court shall issue
a summons for the defendant as in other actions at law, which shall be directed to
the proper officer; and served and returned as required in other actions.
2849 (2545). The pleadings and proceedings.—The petition shall stand for a
declaration, and the defendant shall plead to it as if it were an ordinary action at
law, and the same rules of" pleading and proceeding applicable to actions in the cir
cuit court shall be observed in this action ; and all issues made by the pleadings
shall be tried and disposed of as in other actions in the circuit court, and the judg
ment of the court shall be framed to meet the circumstances of the case, and costs
shall be adjudged as in other actions. The case shall be triable at the return-term.
2850 (2546). The writ; how served.—If the judgment be that a mandamus
issue, the writ shall be issued accordingly, directed to the defendant and command
ing what has been adjudged, which writ shall be executed by delivering a copy
thereof to the defendant, and the original shall be returned, with an indorsement
showing how it was executed; and it may be served by the proper officer, or by
any one who, though not an officer, shall make affidavit of the execution of such
writ.
2851 (2547). Obedience to the writ enforced.—Obedience to the judgment of
the court may be enforced by attachment, issued in term-time or in vacation by
order of the judge of the court and directed to the sheriff, returnable forthwith,
commanding him to take the body of the person in contempt by disobedience of
the writ of mandamus, and to bring him before the court or judge to be punished
for his disobedience; and the court or judge shall commit such person to the county
jail until he comply with the command of the writ, and make all such further orders
as may be necessary to compel obedience thereto, and may enforce such orders by
proper process.
2852 (2548). Orders in vacation; appeal and supersedeas.—All orders of the
judge made in vacation shall be in writing, and shall be filed among the papers in
the case and constitute a part of the record thereof, and shall be subject to review
by the supreme court 011 appeal; and any order of the court or judge may be super
seded by the judge, or by a judge of the supreme court, on such terms as may be
deemed reasonable.
2853 (2549). Act ordered done by another in certain cases.—The court may,
instead of proceeding against the defendant by attachment, except in cases of the
performance of a public duty by a public officer, direct that the act required to be
done, be done by the plaintifff or by some other person appointed by the court at
the expense of the defendant; and, upon the act being done, the amount of the
expense may be ascertained by the court, and it may render judgment for the
amount of such expense and costs and enforce the payment thereof by execution.
2854 (2550). Temporary orders.—During the pendency of the action the court,
or judge in vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing damage or injury
to the plaintifff until the case be decided. (See § 748.)
676

MARRIAGE.

2855-2860

2855 (2551). Mandamus in certain cases triable in vacation.—A proceeding
by mandamus in any matter affecting the public interest, on the petition of the
state by its attorney-general or the district attorney, ma}' be tried and determined
in vacation ; and all the provisions of law relating to the trial and proceedings in
vacation of informations in the nature of quo warranto shall apply. (See § 3540,
8541, 3542, 3543.)
2856. Applicable to writs of prohibition.—All the foregoing provisions regu
lating the proceedings on the writ of mandamus shall apply, as far as the nature of
the remedy will allow, to proceedings on writs of prohibition.

CHAPTER 90.
MARRIAGE.
2857 (1145). Unlawful marriages.—Persons shall not marry within the following
degrees : The son shall not marry his grandmother, his mother, or his step-mother ;
the brother his sister; the father his daughter, or his daughter's daughter; the son
shall not marry the daughter of his father begotten of his step-mother, or his
aunt, being his father's or mother's sister.
2858 (1146). The same. —The father shall not marry his son's widow; a man
shall not marry his wife's daughter, or his wife's daughter's daughter, or his wife's
son's daughter, or the daughter of his brother or sister; and the like prohibition
shall extend to females in the same degrees; and all marriages prohibited by this
and the preceding section are incestuous and void.
2859 (1147). The same. —The marriage of a white person and a negro or
mulatto or person who shall have one-eighth or more of negro blood, or with a
Mongolian or a person who shall have one-eighth or more of Mongolian blood, shall
be unlawful, and such marriage shall be unlawful and void; and any party thereto,
on conviction, shall be punished as for a marriage within the degrees prohibited by
the last two sections ; and any attempt to evade this and the two preceding sections
by marrying out of this state and returning to it shall be within them.
2860 (1148). Licenses and certificates of marriage.—Marriage-licenses shall
be granted and issued by the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the
female usually resides, under the following regulations and restrictions: The clerk
shall take from the person who applies for the license an affidavit that there is no
legal cause to obstruct the marriage for which such license is granted, which he
shall preserve as a record of his office; and if the male be under the age of twentyone years, or the female under the age of eighteen years, the consent of the parent
or guardian of the minor shall be personally given before the clerk, or due proof
made to him, by the oath of at least one credible witness, that the parent or guard
ian did sign a certificate there produced, giving consent to the celebration of the
marriage ; whereupon the clerk shall record the affidavit and the consent personally
given, or the certificate so proved, and issue a license and record the same, directed
677

PROCESS.

3413-3417

the tax levied as above directly to the state treasurer, and receive license from the
auditor of public accounts.
The section applies equally to municipalities incorporated at its adoption and those thereafter incorpo
rated. Smith v. Vicksburg, 54 Miss., 615.
A privilege tax levied by a municipality, which is the same on all persons pursuing the same occupation
is not violative of the constitutional provision that " taxation shall be equal and uniform." Holberg v. Macon
55 Miss., 112.
The section does not confer power; it is restrictive. Ex parte Ferguson, 59 Miss., 13.

CHAPTER 109.
PROCESS.
3413 ( 2284). Style and date, etc.—The style of all process shall be, "The State
of Mississippi," and it shall not be necessary that any process bear teste in the name
of any judge or of any term of the court, but all process, except where otherwise
provided, shall be issued and signed by the clerk of the court, with the seal of his
office affixed, and shall bear date of the day on which the same shall be issued.
If the process be issued by another, with the clerk's consent in his name, it is sufficient. Gamble v. Trahen, 3 How. (Miss.), 32.
Process without the seal of the court, or, if there be no seal, without a statement of that fact, is bad.
Pharis v. Conner, 3 Smed. & M., 87.
3414 (1523, 1848). The summons.—A summons shall not issue in any case, at
law or in chancery, until the declaration, bill, petition, or other pleading beginning
the cause shall be filed. The process to bring in defendants, at law and in chan
cery, shall be a summons, and it shall command the officer to summon the defend
ant to appear and answer on the return-day.
3415 (1853). Names in summons.—The names of all defendants who reside
in the county where the process issues shall be included in the same summons.
3416 (1524). Duplicate writs to different counties.—If any of the defendants
reside in different counties from that in which the suit is brought, original process
may issue at the same time to each county in which any of the defendants reside,
and the clerk shall indorse on each writ issued to another county than that in which
the suit is brought the names of the defendants upon whom it is to be served, and
that it is a duplicate of a writ issued to the other county for the same cause of
action; and the sheriff shall execute and return such process as in other cases, and
under the same penalties.
Where the venue depended on the residence of the defendants, the duplicate writ was returned executed
on all of them. The writ to the county in which the suit was begun was returned " not found " as to all.
The court correctly dismissed the suit, on affidavit that all the defendants resided in the county where they were
served, and none of them where the suit was pending. Bank v. Jennings, 5 How. (Miss.), 425.
But, in such cage, if one defendant reside in the county where suit is brought, and be served with process
and plead to the action, and those in other counties are served but do not plead, the plaintifff may dismiss as
to the resident defendant and take judgment against the others. Read v. Renaud, 6 Smed. & M., 79; Chris
tian v. O'Neal, 46 Miss., 669.
3417 (1525). When summons returnable, and when to be executed in
actions at law.—The summons, in actions in the circuit court, shall be made return
able on the first day of the term, and shall be executed five days before the return
767

3418-3421

PROCESS.

day thereof; and if executed within five days before the return-day, it shall be good
to require the appearance of the party at the terra next after that to which it is
returnable ; and any summons issued within five days before the return-day, shall
be made returnable to the next succeeding term of the court after that, to be held
within five days.
If the return-term to which process has been executed, fail, so that no court be held at that term, such
term will nevertheless constitute the "appearance" term of the case, and the case will stand for trial at the
next term in the same way as if the appearance-term had been regularly held. Thornton v. Fitzhugh, 10
Smed. & M., 438.
3418 (1848). The same; in suits in chancery.—The summons, in suits in the
chancery court, may be made returnable on a rule-day in vacation, or on the first
day of the term of the court, and shall be executed five days before the return-day ;
and, if not executed five days before the return-day, it shall require the defendant
to appear and plead, demur, or answer, at the next monthly rule-day, more than five
days after service of process.
3419 (1534, 1851). Alias and pluries summons, and testatum writ.—When
the defendant shall not be found, the plaintifff, complainant, or petitioner may, in
term-time or vacation, without any order of court, sue out an alias or pluries sum
mons until the defendant be served ; or he may have a testatum writ to another
county where the defendant, after commencement of suit, shall have gone into another
county ; or he may have an attachment against the estate of the defendant ; and if,
upon such attachment, the sheriff" shall seize or attach any property of the defend
ant, the same proceedings shall thereafter be had as if the suit had been originally
commenced by attachment.
When an action has been begun in accordance with the law of venue in personal actions, and the defend
ant shall not be found, the plaintifff may have an attachment under this section ; but the record must properly
show (1) that the action was rightfully commenced, and (2) that defendant cannot be "found" in the county.
McNair v. Kaiser, 62 Miss., 783.
3420 (1852). Representative of deceased party summoned.—If a party to a
suit in any court shall die, the clerk, during the recess of the court, may on appli
cation issue process to bring into court the representative of such deceased party,
or the representative may appear voluntarily, and become a party to the suit.
An amended bill or bill of revivor in chancery is not required under this statute. Mitchell r. Conner,
42 Miss., 550.
3421 (1855). Non-resident and unknown defendants summoned by publica
tion.—If a defendant in any proceeding in a chancery court be shown by bill or
petition sworn to or by affidavit filed, to be a non-resident of this state, or not to
be found therein on diligent inquiry, and the post-office of such defendant be stated
in the bill, petition, or affidavit, or it be therein stated that it is not known to the
complainant or petitioner, or, if the affidavit be made by another for him, that such
post-office is unknown to the affiant, and he believes it is unknown to the complain
ant or petitioner, the clerk, upon the filing of the bill or petition, account, or other
commencement of a proceeding, shall prepare and publish a summons to such party
to appear and defend the suit on a rule-day or on the first day of a term of the
court, sufficiently distant in time to admit of the due publication thereof. The
summons shall be in the form following, to wit :
768

PROCESS.

3422-3424

" State of Mississippi.
"To
[the defendant] :
" You are commanded to appear before the chancery court of the county of
, in said state, on the
Monday of
, A.D.
, to defend the suit
in said court of
[and others], wherein you are a defendant.
" This
day of
, A.D.
. '
, Clerk:'
Upon proof of publication of such summons for three weeks in some newspaper
published in the county, or in a convenient county, or at the seat of government of
this state, and of the mailing of a copy of the summons to the defendant at his
post-office, where that is stated, the defendant may be thereafter proceeded against
as if he had been personally served with a summons in the case in this state.
The affidavit must comply substantially with the statute. Burks v. Burks, 6tJ Miss., 494.
3422 (1856). The same; copy mailed, etc.—It shall be the duty of the clerk to
hand the summons to the complainant or petitioner, to be published, or, at his request
and at his expense, to hand it to the publisher of the proper newspaper for publica
tion ; and, where the post-office of the absent defendant is stated, to send by mail
to the address of the defendant, at his post-office, a copy of the summons, and to
note the fact of issuing the same and mailing the copy, on the general docket ; and
this shall be the evidence of the summons having been mailed to the defendant.
And for a failure to mail the copy, or to note it on the general docket, the clerk shall
be liable to be punished by the court for contempt, and shall be liable in damages
to the party injured by the failure.
3423 (1857). Publication dispensed with if summons served.—If the sum
mons shall be served on the absent part}' by delivery to him, or, if a corporation, to
some of its officers or agents, of a copy thereof, at least ten days before the returnday, and if proof of such service be made by filing the summons in the office of the
clerk who issued it, with the acknowledgment of the defendant indorsed on or
annexed to it that it was served on him, or the like acknowledgment by an officer
or agent of a corporation made defendant, and proved to be subscribed by the
defendant or officer or agent of the corporation by the affidavit of some one annexed
thereto, or shown to have been served by one who delivered the copy or knows of
the delivery and shall make affidavit of such delivery before some officer in the
state or country where the service was made authorized to administer oaths, or
before any such officer in this state, which shall be filed among the papers in the
proceedings with the summons, or proved in open court by parol or other testimony,
to have been duly served on the defendant, and recited in a decree of the court to
have been so proved, that shall be in lieu of a publication of the summons, and
shall authorize further proceedings against the defendant as if he had been duly
summoned in this state. ■
Service of the summons out of this state will not authorize a personal judgment against a defendant who
does not appear. The process of one state cannot run into another, so as to give personal jurisdiction.
Cudabac v. Strong, 67 Miss., 705.
3424 (1858). Unknown heirs and unknown defendants.— When unknown
heirs are made parties defendant in any proceeding in the chancery court, upon
affidavit that the names of such heirs are unknown, the complainant may have
publication of summons for them, and such proceedings shall be had thereupon
769
49

3425-3428

PROCESS.

in all respects as are authorized in the case of non-resident defendants; and when
the parties in interact are unknown, and affidavit of that fact he filed, they may be
made parties by publication to them as unknown parties in interest.
3425. Publication in all cases. —Publication of summons in all cases and in
every court, when authorized by law, shall be made as prescribed in this chapter for
non-resident or absent defendants in chancery, unless otherwise provided.
3426 (462). Substitute for publication. —In cases in which publication of any
notice or matter prescribed by law or the order of court to be published in a news
paper, cannot be obtained for the prescribed compensation, posting of the summons,
order, citation, advertisement, or notice in three public places in the county, one of
them being at the court-house door, for the length of time publication in a newspaper
is required, and, the filing of an affidavit of the facts, shall be sufficient to dispense
with publication in a newspaper.
3427 (1527). How summons executed. —The summons from every court shall
be served in one of the following modes:
First.— Upon the defendant personally, if to be found in the county, by handing
him a true copy of the process.
Second.—If the defendant cannot himself be found in the county, then by leav
ing a true copy of the process at his usual place of abode, with his wife or some
other person above the age of sixteen years, being one of his family, and willing to
receive such copy.
Third.—If the defendant cannot himself be found, and if no person of his family,
aged sixteen years can be found at his usual place of abode who is willing to receive
such copy, then by posting a true copy on a door of the defendant's usual place of
abode.
If the officer return that he offered a true copy of the writ to defendant, who refused to receive it, and
that he tried to read it to the party, who would not hear it, the service is good. Story v. Ware, 35 Miss., 399.
A return of "executed by leaving a copy with defendant's clerk (naming him) at defendant' store, who
is above the age of sixteen, defendant having no other place of residence and not being found," is not sufficient
to sustain a judgment by default. Ford v. Coleman, 41 Miss., 651.
A return of " executed by delivering copy to son of defendant, at his residence," is not sufficient to sustain
a judgment by default. Glenn v. Wragg, 41 Miss., 654.
A return of "executed on defendant bv leaving a copy for him with his mother, a person above the age
of sixteen years, at his usual place of abode, he not being found," is not sufficient. Bustamente v. Bescher,
43 Miss , 172.
A substantial compliance with the statute is all that is necessary. Bacon v. Bevan,44 Miss., 293; Morehead v. Chaffe, 52 Miss., 161 ; Rigby v. Lefevre, 58 Miss., 639.
A return of "executed personally on the defendant by exhibiting and reading to him the contents of this
writ" is not sufficient to sustain a judgment by default French v. The Slate, 53 Miss., 651.
3428. Form of sheriff's return.—The sheriff's return on original process may
be in one of the following forms:
1. Form of personal service:
" I have this day executed the within writ personally, by delivering to the within
named defendant,
[here state name of party summoned], a true copy of this
writ.
" This, the
day of
, A.D.
.
, Sheriff:'
2. Form of service where copy left at residence:
" I have this day executed the within writ on
, the within named defendant,
by leaving a true copy of the same at his [or her] usual place of abode in my county,
770

PROCESS.

3429-3431 .with
, his [or her] [here insert wife, husband, son, daughter, or other person,
as the case may be]
, a member of his [or her] family above the age of sixteen
years, and willing to receive such copy. The said defendant not found in my county.
" This, the
day of
, A.J).
.
, Sheriff."
3. Form of service when copy posted:
" I have this day executed the within writ on
, the within named defendant,
by posting a true copy of the same on a door of defendant's usual place of abode in
my county. The said defendant could not be found in my county, nor could I find
any member of said defendant's family, over the age of sixteen years, willing to
receive the same at his [or her] usual place of abode.
" This, the
day of
, A.D.
.
, Sheriff."
(a) The return should be signed by the sheriff, or in his name, even when executed
by a deputy, and, and in that case, should be signed thus : "
, sheriff, by
,
deputy sheriff."
(b) In case of several defendants in the same writ, the officer should make a
return for each.
(c) The first service should be made, if it can be; if not, then the second should
be made, if it can be ; and the return of the second service must negative the officer's
ability to make the first. If neither the first nor second service can be made, then
the third should be made, and the return thereof must negative the officer's ability
to make both the first and second.
3429 (1526). Sheriff to mark and return process.—The sheriff shall mark on
all process the day of the receipt thereof by him, and he shall return the same on
or before the return-day, with a written statement of his proceedings thereon, and
of bis fees for serving it; and for failing to note the time of the receipt of process,
or to return the same, the sheriff shall forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of one
hundred dollars, and shall be liable for all damages, and the court ma}- enforce return
of the process by fine and imprisonment for contempt; but whenever a sheriff of
any county shall receive from another county any writ or other process directed to
him, he shall not be liable for a failure to return the same to the county from which
the same was issued if he shall show to the court that he mailed the same in the
post-office, directed to the clerk of the court by whom the same was issued, at least
two days before the sitting of the court to which the same was returnable.
3430 (1530). Service when defendant is an infant.—If the defendant be an
unmarried infant, the process shall be served on him personally, and upon his father
or mother or guardian, if he have any in this state; but if he be married, process
may be served as on an adult.
A return showing personal service on an unmarried infant is insufficient, unless it also show that the
infant had no father, mother, or guardian in the county. (Not in state, as intimated in Ingersoll v. Ingersoll,
42 Miss., 155; Mulling v. Sparks, 43 Miss., 129; and Price v. Price, 44 Miss., 571.) But the fact that there is
110 father, mother, or guardian in the state must be shown otherwise than by the return, and should be recited
in the decree. Erwin v. Carson, 54 Miss., 282; Moody v. McDuff, 58 Miss., 751.
If the mother be co-defendant, and she and her infant child be summoned in one process, her relationship
appearing on the face of it, a return thereon showing that a cop}' was delivered to each will be sufficient.
Mcllvoy v. Alsop, 45 Miss., 3G5.
3431 (1531). Service when defendant is of unsound mind.—If the defendant
be a person judicially declared of unsound mind, service of process shall be on him
771

3432-3437

PROCESS.

and also upon his guardian, if he have any; but if such defendant be an inmate of
a lunatic asylum, and the superintendent shall certify that he is mentally incapable
of responding to process, service of process on such person shall not be required,
and the certificate of the superintendent shall be indorsed on or attached to the pro
cess for such defendant, and shall be in lieu of service thereof.
In suits against lunatics both the lunatic and his guardian, if he have one, muBt be served with process.
Potts v. Hines, 57 Miss., 735.
3432. How served on county, city, etc. —In suits against a county, city, town,
or village the summons shall be executed personally, in the case of a county, on the
president or clerk of the board of supervisors, and, in the case of a city, town, or
village, on the mayor or municipal clerk. If any such officer, when served with
process, shall fail to give notice thereof to his board, he shall be liable personally
and on his bond, if he have given one, for all damages caused by failure to make
proper defense.
3433 (1529, 1035). How served and effect of when corporation a defendant.
—If the defendant bo a corporation, process may be served on the president or
other head of the corporation, upon the cashier, secretary, treasurer, clerk, or agent
of the corporation, or upon any one of the directors of such corporation; or, if the
corporation be a sleeping-car company, upon any conductor or other employe thereof;
or, if a steam-boat company, upon the captain or other officer of a boat thereof. If
no such person or persons be found in the county, then it shall be sufficient to post a
true copy of the process on the door of the office or principal place of business of
the corporation. In suits against railroad, sleeping-car, telegraph, telephone,
express, steam-boat, and insurance companies or corporations, the process may be
served on any agent, or sent to any county in which the office or principal place of
business may be located, and there served as herein directed and authorized, or may be
served on any of the foregoing officers or agents wherever found. When any writ
or process against a corporation has been returned executed, the defendant shall be
considered in court, and the action may proceed as actions against natural persons.
3434 (1532). Service on prisoner.—If the defendant be imprisoned by the
sentence or judgment of any court, either in a county, city, town, or village jail, or
in the state penitentiary, the officer to whom the process is addressed may serve it
himself, or service by the jailer or keeper of the penitentiary shall be sufficient.
3435 (1513). Service on one executor or administrator.—If there be two or
more executors or administrators of the same estate, if process cannot be served
on all of them in suits against them, service on one shall be sufficient to authorize
a judgment against all.
3436 (1519). Service on one of several partners.—In actions against partners,
some of whom are non-residents of this state or cannot be found, service of process
on such partners as may be found in this state shall be sufficient to maintain the
suit against all the partners so as to bind the assets of the partnership, and of the
individual summoned.
A judgment against all of several partners, when only one has been summoned, is erroneous as to those
not served, unless it appear by the return or elsewhere in the record that those not summoned were non-resi
dent or could not be found. Tabler v. i>rynnt, G2 Miss., 350.
3437 (1535). Scire facias issued, executed, and returned.— Writs of scire
facias may be issued to any county, and shall be executed and returned in the same
772

PROCESS.

3438-3444

manner as a summons. If the defendant be a non-resident of the state, or cannot
be found to be served with the process, the clerk may make publication requiring
the appearance of the defendant; and, on proof of publication, the court may pro
ceed as if the writ of scire facias had been served on the defendant.
The return on a scire facias showing that the writ was executed by the officer reading it to the defendant,
as not sufficient. Thomas v. State, 62 Miss., 184.
3438 (2285). Good, though not directed.—Any process appearing to be in
other respects duly served, shall be good, though not directed to any officer.
3439 (2286). Not void for certain defects.—If any matter required to be
inserted in or indorsed on any process be omitted, such process shall not on that
account be void, but it may be set aside as irregular, or amended 011 such terms as
the court shall deem proper; and the amendment may be made upon an applica
tion to set aside or quash the writ.
Where the process is made returnable to the wrong term of the court, the defect may be amended on
motion; and the appearance of the party to the motion obviates the necessity' of the amendment. Harrison
v. Bunk, 2 Smed. & M., 307.
A writ of replevin issued without seal, may be amended even on motion to quash. Spratley v. Kitchens,
05 Miss., 578.
A writ of seizure (under law of 1876) which commanded a seizure of agricultural products, but named
no defendant and contained no personal summons, was not void. Dogan v. Bloodworth, 56 Miss., 419.
Where the name of a defendant is changed, both in the declaration and writ, by the plaintifff, the writ
will not for that reason be quashed. Maxey v. Strong, 53 Miss., 280.
3440 (2287). Sheriff kept off by force— When the sheriff shall return, on
any process, that he has been kept off by force, the plaintifff may issue an alias or
pluries, as the case may be, or he may proceed in the action against the defendant
as if the process had been returned executed.
3441 (2288). Return of alias where first writ served.—If any process be exe
cuted, and for want of a return thereof other process be issued, the sheriff or other
officer shall not execute the subsequent process, but shall return the first process by
him executed, if it be in his possession, and, if it be not in his possession, he shall
return the subsequent process, with an indorsement of the execution of the first
process, and how it was executed, on which there shall be the same proceedings as
if the said first process had been duly returned.
3442 (2289). Notices in legal proceedings; by whom served.—All notices
provided for by law appertaining to actions, suits, or proceedings of any kind in
any court, shall be served and returned by the sheriff or any coustable of the county,
or the marshal of any city, town, or village therein in which such notices are to be
served, to whom such notices may be delivered for that purpose.
3443 (2291). Persons appointed by judge to execute process.—When the
sheriff and coroner are disqualified, or vacancies exist in said offices, or for other
good cause shown, the court, or the judge in vacation, or one of the judges of the
supreme court, may order process to be directed to any disinterested and proper
person, who shall thereby be authorized to execute and return the process in the
same manner, and with the same effect in law, as if such person were the sheriff of
the county. The application and order, if made in vacation, shall be in writing
and filed with the clerk.
3444. Motions against officers; summons.—In all cases where motions are
made against officers, or officers and their sureties, for neglect of official duty under
773

3445-345°

PROCESS.

any law, five days' notice shall be given by summons, to be served as in other cases ;
and this shall apply to motions against the personal representatives of a deceased
officer.
3445 (2290). When justice of peace to execute process.—If there be not a
. sheriff or coroner in any county, or if good cause of exception exist against them,,
by reason of their being parties to or interested in the suit, or otherwise, the pro
cess may be directed -to any justice of the peace of the county, who shall be bound
to execute the same, and to do all things which the sheriff would be bound to do if
no exception existed against him. And in case of any neglect or breach of such
duty, the justice shall be liable to the same penalties and subject to the same actions
and remedies as sheriffs are subject to in like cases.
Process addressed to an officer interested in the case will be quashed on timely application. McLeod v.
Harper, 43 Miss., 42.
Neither an interested sheriff nor his deputy, whether general or special, can serve the writ. Dyson v.
Baker, 54 Miss., 24.
3446 (1533). Return of officer may be questioned by parties.—The return of
the officer serving any process may, in the same action, be shown to be untrue by
either of the parties, but the officer himself shall not be permitted to question its
truth.
The statute clearly contemplates that the party objecting to the return in a pending action should plead
the facts in the nature of a plea in abatement. A mere motion to set aside should be overruled, and testimony
thereon refused. Mayfield v. Barnard, 43 Miss., 270.
Where a judgment by default has been rendered at the return-term upon a return of personal service of
a summons, apparently regular, such judgment may, at a subsequent term, be vacated by motion showing
that the return was false, and that the summons had only been served four days before its return-day ; and the
court will direct an issue of fact to try the truth of the return. ]f the motion be sustained, the suit will be a
pending one. Mayer v. Whitehead, t!2 Miss., 387.
3447. Motion to quash process an appearance.—Where the summons or cita
tion, or the service thereof, is quashed on motion of the defendant, the case may
be continued for the term, but defendant shall be deemed to have entered his
appearance to the succeeding term of the court.
3448. When an appeal by defendant an appearance.—Where a judgment or
decree is reversed on appeal taken by the defendant for the want of service, or
because of defective service of process, a new summons or citation need not be
issued or served, but the defendant shall, without such process or service, be pre
sumed to have entered his appearance to the cause in the court from which the
appeal was taken when the mandate shall be filed therein.
(The supreme court of the United States construed a statute of Texas in the language, substantially, of
the last two sections, and held that the provisions thereof were not violative of the constitution of the United
States, and did not deprive of property without due process of law. York v. Texas, 137 U. S., 15; Kauffman v. Wootters, 138 U. S., 285.)
3449 (1586). Subpoenas for witnesses.—The first process, in all causes, civil
and criminal, and in all courts, to compel the attendance of a witness, shall be a
subpoena, directed to the sheriff or to some proper officer of the county where the
witness may reside, stating the time and place for the appearance of the witness,
the parties to the cause, and the party at whose instance the witness is subpoenaed.
The names of the witnesses, if there be not exceeding six of them, residing in the
Bame county, shall be inserted in the same subpoena.
3450 (1587, 1616). Witnesses before commissioners, etc.—The clerk of the
court in which the action may be pending shall issue subpoenas for all witnesses
774

process.

345I-3455

whose attendance may be required before masters or commissioners to take deposi
tions, or before referees, or on any survey of lands made by order of court, or the
same may be issued by the master, commissioner, referee, or surveyor.
3451 (1587). Subpoena for witness to give depositions for use in other states.—
Any commissioner or other person appointed, or to whom a commission may be
directed, by any court without the limits of this state, to take the deposition of
any witness residing or being in this state, shall have power to issue subpoenas for
the witness to be examined, returnable at such time and place as the commissioner
or other person may appoint.
3452 (1594). Process for witness in other county during term.—If, during
the session of any circuit or chancery court, there shall be wanted in any case or
matter before the court, or before the grand jury, a witness who resides or may be
found in any county, and within thirty miles of the place where the court is being
held, such court may order a subpoena or attachment for such witness, directed to
the sheriff of the county in which the court is being held, and he shall execute the
process, according to its command, in the county where such witness maybe found,
and the service shall be as valid as if effected in the county in which the court is
being held; or the court may appoint some person not an officer to execute and
return such process, whose action in executing it shall be as lawful as if done by
the sheriff, and who shall be entitled to the same fees therefore as the sheriff would
be entitled to for executing the process.
3453 (1588). How subpoenas served. —Subpoenas shall be served personally as
a summons is required to be served; and the person so subpoenaed shall appear;
and if a civil suit shall be settled in vacation, notice thereof shall be given to the
witnesses, otherwise they shall be entitled to the same compensation for their sub
sequent attendance in pursuance of the subpoena as if the suit had not been settled.
3454 (1589). Attachment for witness. —If any person subpoenaed as a witness
shall fail to appear and attend as required, an attachment shall be issued by order
of the court or other authority before which he was subpoenaed to appear, return
able at such time as the court or authority may appoint; and the court or
authority shall, on ordering the attachment, direct whether the witness shall enter
into bond for his appearance, and in what sum, and whether with or without sure
ties; which bond the sheriff, or other officer by whom the attachment is executed,
is authorized to take, payable to the state. And in case the witness shall appear in
answer to the attachment, the court may discharge him therefrom, on good cause
shown, or may require him to enter into recognizance or bond for his appearance
until discharged, to testify in the cause. In case the witness shall not appear, in
pursuance of his recognizance or bond, the same proceedings shall be had as upon
the forfeiture of a recognizance in a criminal case.
3455 (1590, 1591, 1592). "Witness to attend until discharged; scire facias for
defaulters.—Every witness subpoenaed in any case, civil or criminal, shall attend,
from day to day and from term to term, without further notice, until discharged by
the court or by the party at whose instance he was subpoenaed ; and in default
thereof, he shall be fined by the court not more than five hundred dollars, and a
scire facias shall issue thereon, requiring him to appear at the next term of the
court, to show cause why the fine should not be made absolute; and, if cause
775

3456-3460

PROCESS.

be not then shown, the fine shall be made final. In -criminal cases, the court may
cause the witnesses on either side to be bound by bond or recognizance to appear
and testify until discharged.
3456 (1678). "Witness subpoenaed in vacation to appear before grand jury. —
Any district attorney or conservator of the peace may apply to the clerk of the cir
cuit court, in vacation, for writs of subpoena for any witness to attend before the
grand jury at the next term. It shall be the duty of the clerk to issue all subpoenas
thus applied for, and it shall be the duty of all witnesses subpoenaed to attend in
obedience to the command of such subpoena ; and, if they fail to appear, the fore
man of the grand jury may apply for and obtain an attachment, as in other cases of
defaulting witnesses, and such witnesses shall be liable to all the penalties to which
any defaulting witness is subject.
3457 (1679). Attachment of defaulting witnesses before grand jury.—In all
cases where process to bring witnesses before the grand jury shall be executed, and
the witness shall fail to attend, the clerk shall, on the order of the judge or appli
cation of the district attorney or any member of the grand jury, issue an attach
ment for such 'witness, returnable immediately, or, if the court shall so direct, to
the next term ; and bond may be required, and fine imposed and proceedings had
thereon as in other cases of defaulting witnesses.
3458 (1448). How supreme court process issued and returned —The clerk of
the supreme court shall issue all process which may be ordered to issue by the court
or any judge thereof ; and all process issuing from said court or on the order of any
judge thereof, or which may be returnable therein, shall be under the seal of the
court, and be signed by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to the sheriff or
other proper officer of an}- county, who shall execute and return the same accord
ing to the command thereof; and whenever any such process shall not be executed
or not returned, an alias may be issued by the clerk on the application of the per
son who sued out the former process ; and when any party to a suit pending in said
court shall die, the clerk, in the recess of the court, upon the application of the
proper party, may issue process to bring in the representatives of the deceased parties.
3459 (1742). Of executions; within what time issued.—The clerks of all
courts of law or equity, unless otherwise ordered by the court or the owner of the
judgment or decree, shall, within twenty days after the adjournment of the court
for the term, issue executions on all judgments and decrees rendered therein, and
place the same in the hands of the sheriff' of the count}7; and, if requested by such
owner, they shall issue executions directed to the sheriff of any other county, and
shall deliver the same to the owner or his attorney.
3460 (1743). How executions issued and returned.—Writs of execution shall
bear date and be issued in the same manner as original process, and shall be made
returnable on the first day of the next term of the court in which the judgment or
decree was rendered, if there be fifteen days between the issuance and return
thereof; and, if not, on the first day of the term next thereafter; and such execu
tion may be directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of any county, who shall
serve and execute the same, and make return thereof to the court in which the
judgment or decree was rendered.
A sale of land made under an execution after its return-day does not pass title. Lehr v. Rodgers, 3
Smed. & M., 468; Williamson v. Williamson, 52 Miss., 725.
776

PROCESS.

3461-3467

If an execution, issued more than fifteen days before a terra, be made returnable to a later term, it will
be void. Lehr v. Rodgers, 3 Smed. & M., 468.
An execution issued within five days of a term, and made returnable thereto, is void. Harris v. West,
25 Miss., 156.
An execution 'issued seventeen days before the return-term, and received by the sheriff ten days after
issuance, is not void. Skinner v. Wilson, 61 Miss., 90.
3461 (1774). Several executions; death of one defendant.—If any party in
whose favor an execution has issued shall desire to take out another execution, the
clerk may issue the same at the cost of such party, if the first writ have not been
returned and have not been executed ; and when one judgment has been recovered
against several defendants, execution shall issue thereon against all the defendants,
and not otherwise; and if one or more of several defendants have died before the
issuance of the writ, and a revivor have not been had, the fact of the death shall
be noted on the writ, and the property of the survivors only shall, in such case, be
liable to the execution.
The failure to note the death of one will not vitiate the execution as to the other defendants. Wade v.
Watt, 41 Miss., 248.
The plaintifff may have execution against survivors, though it must issue against all by name, with sug
gestion of death noted on the writ. Bowen v. Bonner, 45 Miss., 10.
3462 (1449). Execution for costs of supreme court.—In cases decided in the
supreme court, or dismissed or otherwise disposed of, the clerk of the court may
issue executions for costs accrued in the supreme court, including the cost of the
transcript, and any other cost accrued on the appeal, in the same manner that the
clerks of the circuit courts are authorized to issue executions against any party
liable therefore; and such executions may be directed to the sheriff of any county,
and shall be returned in the same manner and under like penalties as in case of exe
cutions returnable to the circuit court.
3463. Executions and attachments; how levied.—Every writ of execution
or attachment shall be levied in the following manner, namely :
3464. First. When on land. —In case of a levy of an attachment on real estate
in the occupancy of any person, the officer shall go to the house or upon the land
of the defendant, and there declare that he attaches the same at the suit of the
plaintifff; but if the land be unoccupied, or if the process be an execution, he
may attach or lev}' upon the same by returning that he has attached or levied upon
the land, describing it by numbers or otherwise properl}', and, if the process be an
attachment, stating that the land is unoccupied; and in all cases the return of the
officer shall be conclusive of the facts stated therein, except on timely motion to
quash. (See § 2784 ; lis pendens.)
3465. Second. When on personalty.—If the levy be upon personal property,
the officer shall take the same into his possession and dispose of it according to law.
3466. Third. When on choses in action.—In case an attachment be levied-on
rights, credits, and choses in action, the officer shall take into his possession the
books of accounts and other evidences of debt belonging to the defendant, and he
shall summon, if the plaintifff so direct, all persons appearing to be indebted to the
defendant, or to have effects of his in their hands, as garnishees, in the manner pre
scribed by law.
3467. Fourth. When on corporate stock.—In case of the levy of an execution
or attachment on the stock, shares, or interest of the defendant in any corporation
777

PROCESS.
or joint-stock company, the officer shall go to the office or principal place of busi
ness of the corporation or company, and there declare that he attaches or levies
upon the stock, shares, or interest of the defendant therein at the suit of the plaint
iff; and he shall demand of any officer, agent, or clerk of such corporation or
company there present, and who is not the defendant, a statement in writing, under
oath, of the amount of the defendant's stock, the number of his shares, or extent
of his interest in such corporation or company, and shall leave with the officer,
agent, or clerk, a copy of the writ; but if no such officer, agent, or clerk be present,,
he shall post conspicuously at such office or place of business a copy of the writ,,
with a statement therewith that he has attached or levied upon the stock, shares,
or interest of the defendant at the suit of the plaintifff, and that he demands of the
corporation or company the statement, under oath, of the defendant's stock, share,
or interest therein. The stock, shares, and interest of the defendant in the corpo
ration or company, including all dividends that may accrue after such levy, shall be
bound by the lien of the execution or attachment. The corporation or company
shall, within a reasonable time, not longer than ten days after the levy, deliver to
the officer a statement in writing, under oath, of the particulars demanded by the
officer, and of the value of the defendant's stock, shares, or interest; and in case
the corporation or company shall neglect or refuse to do so, or shall willfully make
any false statement thereof, such corporation or company shall be liable to the
plaintifff for the full amount of the judgment or decree, or of such judgment as the
plaintifff shall recover if the process be an attachment; but the failure of the cor
poration or company to make such statement shall not affect the right of the officer
to sell the stock, shares, or interest of the defendant.
3468. Fifth. When on interest of a partner.—In case of the levy on the inter
est of a partner in the property or choses in action of any copartnership, the officer
shall, in the presence of one of the partners, or of some clerk or other employe of
theirs, declare that he makes such levy, take possession of the entire property, and
deal with the same according to law, and leave a copy of the writ with such part
ner, clerk, or employe. Whereupon, if the process be an attachment, the partners,,
or either of them, may replevy the property by giving bond, payable to the plaint
iff, in an amount to be fixed by the officer, equal to the plaintifff's demand, with
interest and probable costs, conditioned to pay whatever judgment the plaintifff may
recover of the defendant in the suit; or, if the process be an execution, conditioned
to pay to the plaintifff the full amount of the judgment or decree on which the
execution is issued, on or before the first day of the next term of the court from
which it issued. The bond shall be returned with the writ, and judgment may be
rendered against the obligors therein, as in case of other like replevy-bonds; or
one or more of the partners, or any creditor of the copartnership, may file a bill in
equity to wind up the partnership and settle the same and dissolve it, praying for a
receiver, and making the plaintifff a party thereto, but distribution shall not be
made to the plaintifff in an attachment until he shall establish his claim against the
defendant. If neither such bond be given nor such bill in equity be filed within
ten days after the levy, the property and choses in action attached or levied upon
shall be treated as the separate property of the defendant, and shall be bound for
the plaintifff's demand to the same extent as if it were really his separate property.
778

PROCESS.

3469-3473

3469. Sixth. When on interest of co-owners who are not partners.—When
the levy is on the undivided interest of the defendant in personal property other
than that of a partnership, the officer shall take the property into his possession,
and, if the process be an execution, he shall sell the property and account to the
plaintifff for the proceeds of the defendant's interest therein, and pay over to the
co-owner the proceeds of his interest; but, if the process be an attachment, he shall
safely keep the property, or the proceeds if a sale be proper, to abide the judgment
of the court, unless it be replevied by the defendant or his co-owner, who shall have
the right so to do. Judgment may be rendered against the obligors in any such
replevy-bond, in favor of the plaintifff in attachment, according to the rights of the
several co-owners.
A judgment-debtor can. be garnished. Gray v. Henby, 1 Smed. & M., 598; O'Brien v. Ledell, 10 Smcd.
& M., 371.
A constable having money collected by him under execution, which is payable to the plaintifff therein, is
subject to garnishment. Burleson v. Milan, 56 Miss., 399.
A service or levy of an attachment by an interested party is void. Dyson v. Baker, 54 Miss., 24.
The directions of the statute as to the manner of levying an attachment must be complied with. Tucker
v. Byars, 46 Miss., 549.
The officer is not required to summon as garnishees all persons shown by the books of account to be
indebted to defendant, but only such as may be alleged so to be. Boone v. Mcintosh, 62 Miss., 744.
A suggestion in the writ that a certain persou is indebted to the defendant makes it the duty of the officer
to summon that persou as garnishee, even though the writ contain no direct command that he do so. Sims v.
Patterson, 65 Miss., 6.
It is essential to the validity of the levy of an attachment on personalty that the officer take the posses
sion of the same. Gates v. Flint, 39 Miss., 365.
It is not necessary to the validity of the return that it should state that the property belonged to the
defendant. That fact will be intended. Saunders v. Columbus, 43 Miss., 583.
If the return show a substantial compliance with the Btatute, the levy will be valid. The return need not
follow the exact language used in the statute. Saunders v. Columbus, 43 Miss., 583.
3470 (1765). Money and choses in action levied on.—Money, bank-notes,
bills, evidences of debt circulating as money, and any judgment or decree belonging
to the defendant, may be taken under an execution or attachment and sold or dis
posed of according to law, or applied to the payment of the execution or in satis
faction of the judgment in attachment.
3471 (1765). Purchaser's title to choses in action, etc.—The purchaser of
any chose in action, stock, share, interest, judgment, or decree of the defendant,
sold under execution or attachment, shall become the owner thereof, in the same
manner as if it had been regularly assigned to him by the defendant.
3472 (1764). Growing crop not to be levied upon.—An execution shall not be
levied upon a growing crop, nor shall the same be seized under an attachment.
(See §761.)
3473 (1745). Lien of executions.—Writs of executions, where there is no
judgment-lien, shall bind the property of the defendant only from the time of the
levy thereof; and if two or more writs shall be delivered to the officer for execu
tion against the same person, that which was first delivered shall be the first levied
and satisfied ; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer, on receipt of
an execution, to indorse thereon the day of the month and the year and the hour
when he received the same; and for a failure to make such indorsement, the sheriff
or other officer shall be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars, to the use of the
plaintifff, recoverable by motion before the court from which the execution issued,
and shall, moreover, be liable for all damages sustained by any party aggrieved.
779

3474-3479

PROCESS.

3474 (1746). Officer to care for property, and allowed expenses. —When a
sheriff' or other officer shall levy an execution on live-stock, he shall provide for its
sustenance until sold or otherwise legally discharged from the execution ; and upon
the return of the execution, the court, in cases where the compensation is not fixed
by law, shall settle and adjust what the officer shall be allowed for his expenses
incurred by providing for the stock, and also reasonable expenses of keeping per
sonal property levied on by him, and the same shall be taxed as costs; and the
officer may retain the same out of the money arising from the sale of the property.
3475 (1747). Personal representative or successor of plaintifff to have execu
tion; how.—When the executor or administrator of a plaintifff who dies before sat
isfaction of his judgment, shall file with the clerk a copy of his letters testamentary
or of administration, duly certified, execution may be issued on the judgment as if
such death had not occurred ; and the clerk shall indorse on the execution the fact
of the death of the plaintifff*, and that the execution is at the instance of his execu
tor or administrator, stating the name of the executor or administrator; and when
an administrator, guardian, trustee, or other person acting in a fiduciary or official
capacity, who recovered a judgment, shall die, resign, or be removed without hav
ing obtained satisfaction thereof, his successor may have execution of the judgment
in the same manner, without revival of the judgment by scire facias.
The section does not apply in favor of a foreign administrator who has not complied with the statutory
requirements authorizing such administrator to act in this state. Jackson v. Scanland, 65 Miss , 481.
3476 (1748). Execution in favor of survivor of plaintifffs.—The death of one
or more of several plaintifffs in a judgment shall not prevent the issuance of execu
tion in favor of the survivors.
3477 (1749). Assignee of a judgment may have execution.—The assignee of
a judgment, where the plaintifff has died, may have execution thereof for his use as
if such death had not occurred, upon filing with the clerk his affidavit of the death
of the plaintifff and the assignment of the judgment; and, where the plaintifff has
not died, the assignee of a judgment may have an execution for his use in the same
manner.
3478 (1750). Death of party after execution issued.—The death of any plaint
iff or defendant after the issuance or the levy of an execution on personal or real
estate, shall not affect the duty of the officer making the levy to proceed and sell
as if such death had not occurred.
3479 (2751). Execution issued against dead defendant.—After one year from
the death of any defendant in a judgment for money, execution thereof maybe had
by leave of the court renderingthe judgment, or of the judge thereof in vacation, upon
cause shown, against any property upon which such judgment was a lien at the
time of the death of the defendant; and a sale of such property may be made in
the same manner and with the same effect as if the defendant were living; and, in
case of the death of the defendant in a judgment for the recovery of real or per
sonal property, execution may be had without revival, in the same manner as if the
defendant had not died.
Execution under the statute must be obtained from the court, or from the judge in vacation on cause
shown, on motion ot petition; and formal notice or process is not required. The "cause shown" relates
only to the judge in vacation. Alsop v. Cowan, 66 Miss., 451.
The petition is insufficient if it fail to show that the judgment was a lien at the time of defendant's death,
and a demurrer thereto should be sustained. Alsop v. Cowan, (it! Miss., 451.
780

PROCESS.

3480-3484

3480 (1752). Scire facias may be resorted to.—The provisions for the execu
tion of judgments without revival shall not prevent a revival in any case by scire
facias.
•
3481 (1738). Execution and garnishment on certain judgments of other
courts issued by clerk (Laws 1890, p. 66).—The clerk of the circuit court in whose
office any judgment shall be enrolled, may issue execution and writs of garnishment
thereon, directed to any lawful officer of his county, returnable before the court
which rendered the judgment.
3482 (1754). Bond of indemnity; when required.—If any officer shall levy an
execution, attachment, or writ of seizure for the purchase-money on any personal
property, and a doubt shall arise whether the right to the property be in the defend
ant or not, such officer may demand of the plaintifff a bond, with sufficient sureties^
payable to the officer, in a penalty equal to double the value of the property, con
ditioned that the obligors therein will indemnify and save harmless the officer
against all damages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of
the property, and will pay to and satisfy any person claiming title to the property all
damages which such person ma}' sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale; and if
such bond be not given on or before the day of the sale or the return-day of the attach
ment, the officer shall be justified in releasing the levy and delivering the property
to the party from whose possession it was taken; but the plaintifff, or his agent or
attorney, shall have reasonable notice, in writing, before the day of sale or returnday of the writ, that the bond is required.
The statute only provides for an indemnifying-bond after levy, though a bond taken before levy is a good
common law obligation. (Now probably good under ? 946 as a statutory bond.) Forniquet v. Tegarden, 24
Miss., 96.
The obligors in the bond are only liable for such damages as the sheriff would be liable for had bond not
been taken. Moore v. Allen, 25 Miss., 363.
Whatever would have been a defense to the sheriff, if bond had not been taken, will be a defense to a suit
on the bond. Moore v. Allen, 25 Miss., 363.
The section does not apply to an attachment for rent. Gibson v. Lock, 58 Miss., 298.
The obligors in an indemnifying-bond are bound to pay such damages as results from the seizure, and not
attorney's fees or other expenses incurred in defending the title to the property. Brinker v. Leinkauff, 64
Miss., 236.
The sureties on an indemnifying-bond are not liable for damages resulting from the negligent failure of
the officer to safely keep the property. Smokey v. Peters, 66 Miss., 471.
The statute does not confer a right of action on the bond upon one who could not at common law have
maintained an action against the officer. Moore v. Allen, 25 Miss., 363; Marshall v. Stewart, 67 Miss., 494.
3483 (1755). Remedy on bond of indemnity.—If the bond and security be
given, it shall be returned with the writ, and the person claiming the property
levied on may prosecute a suit upon the bond, in the name of the payee or his rep
resentatives, for the use of the claimant, and recover such damages as he may sus
tain by the seizure or sale of the property or levy of process; and the claimant
shall, after the due execution of the bond, be barred of any action against the offi
cer levying the process, unless the obligors in the bond shall be or become insolv
ent, or the bond be otherwise invalid.
3484 (1757). Sales under execution; where made. —All sales by any sheriff
by virtue of an execution or other process, when not issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be made at the court-house of the county ; but personal property too
cumbersome to be removed, may be sold at the place where the same may be, or at.
781

3485-3493

PROCESS.

any convenient place; and cattle, sheep, or stock, other than horses and mules,
may he sold at any public place in the neighborhood of the defendant's residence.
3485 (2208). The same; where made under execution from justice's court. —
Sales of personal property under execution or other process from a justice of the
peace may be made at any convenient point in the district where it is found, or at
the court-house of the county; but the sale of lands under executions or other
process from such courts shall be made as under execution from the circuit courts.
3486 (1759). Sales of land; how and when made.—Sales of land may be
made on the first Monday of every month, or on the first Monday or Tuesday of a
term of the circuit court of the county, and shall be advertised in a newspaper
published in the county, once in each week for three successive weeks. (See § 3295.)
3487 (1759). Sales of personalty ; how and when made. —Sales of personalty
may be made on any day except Sunday, and shall be advertised ten days before
the day of sale by posting notices of the time, terms, and place of sale in three
public places in the county, one of which shall be at the court-house.
3488 (1758). Sale of perishable goods.—But when goods and chattels are levied
on, which in their nature are perishable and in danger of immediate waste or
decay, the officer levying shall sell them at such time, and on such notice, and at
such place as a sound discretion may warrant.
Railroad cross-ties, though liable to be burned, are not " in danger of immediate waste or decay." Good
man v. Moss, 64 Miss., 303.
3489 (1759). Hours, and how sale made.—Sales under execution shall not
commence sooner than eleven o'clock in the forenoon, nor continue later than four
o'clock in the afternoon; and all such sales shall be by auction, to the highest bid
der for cash, and only so much of the property levied on shall be sold as will satisfy
the execution and costs.
3490 (1760). Sale adjourned or continued from day to day.—Whenever, from
a defect of bidders, caused by inclement weather or otherwise, the property shall
not be likely to command a reasonable price, the officer may adjourn the sale and
re-advertise the same for a subsequent day ; and whenever a sale advertised for a
particular day shall not be completed on that day, the same may be continued from
day to day.
349L. Lands to be sold in one hundred and sixty acre tracts. —All lands com
prising a single tract, sold under execution, shall he first offered in subdivisions not
exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, or one-quarter section, and then offered as
an entirety, and the price bid for the latter shall control only when it shall exceed
the aggregate of the bids for the same in subdivisions.
3492 (1761). Venditioni exponas. —If any property taken in execution shall
remain in the hands of the officer unsold, he shall so return on the execution, and
thereupon a writ of venditioni exponas shall issue, directed to the officer, upon
which the like proceedings shall be had as might and ought to have been had on
the first execution. And if property sold on a venditioni exponas shall not bring
enough to satisfy the judgment, the officer shall forthwith return the same, and
thereupon another proper execution for the balance remaining unpaid may be issued.
3493 (1771). Venditioni exponas when officer taking property dies.—
When the officer taking property under execution shall die before the sale thereof,
782

PROCESS.

3494-3496

a writ of venditioni exponas shall issue, directed to the proper officer of the county
in which the property was taken, and such officer shall, under the writ of venditioni
exponas, receive the property from the representatives of the former sheriff, or
other officer, who are required to deliver the same to the- officer having the vendi
tioni exponas, on his producing the same and executing a receipt for the property,
and the officer shall proceed to sell the same as in other cases.
3494 (1772). Property seized if not delivered by representatives.—If the
representatives of the deceased officer shall refuse or neglect to deliver the property
011 demand, or if there shall not be an executor or administrator of his estate, the
officer having the writ of venditioni exponas may seize the property taken by the
former officer wherever it may be found, and sell the same as in other cases ; or the
plaintifff may move in the court from which the execution issued against the repre
sentatives of the deceased officer and his sureties, and thereupon a judgment shall
be entered against the representatives of the deceased officer and his sureties for
the amount of the execution whicli came to the hands of such deceased officer,
with interest and costs.
3495 (1762). Duty of officer to examine judgment-roll, etc.—After the
sale of any property by the sheriff or other officer on execution, before the money
is paid over by him, he shall examine the judgment-roll to ascertain if there be
any elder judgment or judgments, decree or decrees, enrolled against the defendant
or defendants in execution, having a priority of lien ; and if there be, he shall apply
the proceeds of the sale to the judgment or decree having the priority of lien, and
return such application upon the execution. But should there be any dispute as
to which judgment or decree lias the priority of lien, the officer shall make a state
ment of the fact of the dispute, and return the same, with the execution and the
mone}' raised thereon, into the court to which the same is returnable, and the court
shall, on motion and examination of the facts, determine to whom the money so
raised on execution shall be paid. (See § 2712.)
Where, on motion of the sheriff in the court below to appropriate money made on several executions, that
court awards the sum to a particular one, from which only one of the excluded parties appeals, the supreme
court, in reversing the judgment, will order the money to be paid to that creditor entitled to it, without regard
to his not having made objection to the decision below. Ileizer v. Fisher, 13 Smed. & M., 672.
The money should be appropriated to the oldest lien, whether the judgment having the prior lien be ren
dered in a state or a United States court, Bonaffee v. Fisk, 13 Smed. & M., 68-.
The lien created by the -levy of an execution can only be defeated by a lien existing anterior to the levy;
hence the enrollment of a judgment after the levy of an execution does not create a superior lien to that cre
ated by the levy. Botters v. Edrington, 30 Miss., 580.
The statute has no application to voluntary payments made by the defendant to the sheriff. Mississippi
R. R Co. v. Harkness, 32 Miss., 203; Johnson v. Edde, 58 Miss., 664.
When two judgments against different defendants are liens upon the same property, and it is sold under
the judgment with the junior lien, the senior judgment-lien is unimpaired by the sale, and the purchaser takes
subject to the maxim, "caveat emptor." Hall v. Meridian, 56 Miss., 674.
Where judgments are recovered by different holders of several promissory notes given for land, and
secured by express lien, each judgment is in equity entitled to share in the proceeds of the land, without ref
erence to the time of their enrollment, the debtor being insolvent. Aaron v. Warner, 62 Miss., 370.
3496 (1766). Officer to restore money on injunction of execution.—When an
officer shall receive under execution the whole or any part of the money for which
the same was issued, and the defendant, before payment thereof to the plaintifff,
obtain an injunction against the execution, the officer shall pay over to the defend
ant the money received, or such part thereof as may be enjoined; and if an officer
.shall, when required, fail to pay over the money so received and enjoined to the
783

3497-35°!

PROCESS.

person having a right to demand the same, such officer and his sureties shall be
liable to the same remedies as are given by law to the plaintifff for the non-payment
of money levied on execution. (See § 4120.)
3497 (1763). How purchaser takes property at execution-sale. —The pur
chaser of any property sold at execution-sale by the sheriff or other officer shall
take the same discharged of all liens of judgments and decrees, whether the same
be sold under an execution issued upon the elder or junior judgment or decree.
The statute only applies where tlie judgments are against the same person. Hall v. Meridian, 56 Miss.,
674.
3498 (1769). Conveyance of land sold under execution.—When lauds are sold
by virtue of any writ of execution or other process, the officer making the sale shall,
on payment of the purchase-money, execute to the purchaser a conveyance which
shall vest in the purchaser all the right, title, and interest which the defendant had
in and to such lands, and which, by law, could be sold under such execution or
other process. (See, for case of failure, § 2442.)
3499 (2211). What necessary to complete title under justice's execution.—
The title to land sold under execution issued by a justice of the peace shall not be
complete in the purchaser until he shall have obtained from the justice a certified
transcript of the proceedings had before him in the suit, including a copy of the
execution and the officer's return on it, which shall be filed with the conveyance
made by the officer in the chancery clerk's office and recorded with the conveyance;
and, upon filing such transcript and conveyance for record in the chancery clerk's
office of the county where the land lies, the title of the purchaser shall be as full
and complete as if the sale had been under a judgment and execution from a circuit
court.
The "certified transcript" must include the docket entries; and, if these be correctly kept, need include
nothing else. Hughston v. Cornish, 59 Miss., 372.
3500. Process executed by an officer out of his county.—The sheriff or other
proper officer of a county may execute process out of his county, in case the person
to be served or property to be seized was in the officer's county when the writ was
received, but had removed or been carried into another county before its execution.
In such case the officer shall state the facts in his return, and the writ and return
shall have the same effect as if the process had been returned not executed and a
testatum or duplicate writ had been issued to and executed and returned by an
officer of the county where served.
3501. Provisions of chapter applicable to all courts.—The law of process as
declared in this chapter, except where its provisions are restricted to particular
tribunals in terms or by the nature of the subject-matter, shall govern in all courts.
For process in landlord and tenant matters, see § 2504, 2507, 2508, 2520,
2.349, 2550.
For process in statutory lien matters, *ee § 2685, 2686, and 2704.

784

QUO WARRANTO.

352O-3521

sum paid or any part of it, be entitled to the benefit of all the provisions for sureties
in the chapter entitled " Principal and Surety." (See § 3279.)
The party in such case becomes subrogated to the lien and rights of the plaintifff, and is entitled to exe
cution in his favor against the other defendant. And such right extends to an indoiser of a draft on which
judgment is rendered against him and the principal debtor. {Explaining Dibrell v. Dandridge, 51 Miss., 55.)
Yates v. Mead, 68 Miss., 787.

CHAPTER 111.
QUO WARRANTO.
3520 (2585, 2586, 2587). To what cases applicable.—The remedy by informa
tion in the nature of a quo warranto shall lie, in the name of the state, against any
person or corporation offending in the following cases, viz. :
First.—Whenever any person ipilawful^ holds or exercises the functions of any
public office, civil or military, or franchise, or any office in any corporation, ci,ty,
town, or village, and to try the right to any such office.
Second.—Whenever any public officer has done or suffered to be done, or has
omitted to do any act, the doing or omission of which works a forfeiture of office.
Third.—Whenever any two or more persons shall act as a corporation, or assume
so to do without being legally incorporated.
Fourth. —Whenever any corporation shall be guilty of a misuser or abuse of its
powers, or ceases to discharge the duty for which it was created.
Fifth.—Whenever any corporation willfully exercises powers not conferred by
law.
Sixth.—Whenever any corporation fails to exercise powers conferred by law and
essential to its corporate existence, or implied in its duty to the public.
Seventh.—Whenever any corporation shall be guilt}- of doing or neglecting to
do any act the doing or neglecting of which is made by law a cause of forfeiture
of franchise.
Eighth.—Whenever any corporation shall willfully and persistently violate the
law made for regulating such corporations, or the criminal law; but acts done in
good faith before adjudication ofvthe constitutionality of a doubtful statute shall
not be cause of forfeiture.
v
Ninth.—Whenever it is sought to have the right of any corporation, not created
by the laws of this state, to do business in this state forfeited because of its per
sistent refusal to comply with the laws thereof.
Tenth.—Whenever any non-resident alien or corporation shall acquire or hold
lands contrary to law.
Where a charter is repealed, and the performance of its functions is made criminal, it is no objection to
a prosecution that the franchise was not forfeited by a quo warranto proceeding. Moore v. State, 48 Miss., 147.
Where an officer fails to qualify under newly-imposed conditions, quo warranto is an appropriate remedy
to remove him. Hyde v. State, 52 Miss., 665.
3521 (2585, 2587). Proceedings; how and where.—The proceedings in such
cases shall be by information, in the name of the state, by the attorney-general or a
district attorney, on his own motion or on relation of another, and, in a case to try
789

3522-3526

QUO WARRANTO.

the right to an office, on the relation of the claimant thereof. The information
shall be filed in the circuit court of the county of the residence of the defendant!
or, in the case of an officer, where he acts as such ; or, in case of a corporation or
pretended corporation, where its principal office or place of business ma\r be or
where it may transact any business and has an agent; or, in case of an alien or
corporation acquiring or holding land contrary to law, where any of the land is
situated.
3522 (2587). Trial of right to office, etc.—In case the proceedings be on the
relation of a person claiming 'to be entitled to an office, the ground of his claim
shall be stated by proper averment, and judgment shall be rendered according to
the rights of the respective claimants; and, if it be in favor of the relator, he shall
be entitled to the office on qualifying according to law, aud may recover of the
defendant in an action all damages that may have accrued in consequence of with
holding the office from him.
3523 (2583). Form of information against corporation.—For convenience
and certainty the information, if against a corporation, shall set out briefly the
causes of forfeiture. It may be in the form following, to wit :
"State of Mississippi,!
r,..
,
.
< t.
r-i
j.
d
> Circuit court,
term, A.D.
.
County ot
, j
"The state of Mississippi, by A B, district attorney for the
judicial dis
trict of the state, of his own accord [or on the relation of C £>, as the case may be]
gives the court here to understand and be informed that the corporation of
has forfeited all right to exercise any of the franchises and privileges granted it in
this, to wit : [set out the causes of forfeiture].
" Wherefore the state of Mississippi, by said district attorney, prays judgment
of forfeiture and ouster against said corporation.''
And in all other cases the information shall be in form substantially the same as
near as may be, conforming to the state of case.
3524 (2590). Form of information against individuals. —If the information
be filed against persons exercising corporate franchises without authority, the fol
lowing language may be used after the word " informed,"' to wit:
" That certain persons [naming them] have for
mouths last past used, aud
still do use, the following liberties and franchises without lawful authority, to wit:
[set out the franchises], which said franchises and privileges the said
have
usurped, and still do usurp.
" Wherefore the state of Mississippi, by said district attorney, prays that they
may be debarred of such rights."
3525 (2589). Defense; how made. —To the information the defendant may
demur, or plead specially, or generally by plea of not guilty, with a conclusiou to
the country.
3526 (259,1). Summons, and how served. —On filing the information, the clerk
of the court shall issue a summons, directed to the defendant or defendants, requir
ing him, it, or them to appear .at the return-term thereof to answer to the infor
mation, which shall be served as in any other action.
790

QUO WARRANTO.

3527-3533

3527 (2598). Court or judge may make certain orders.—During the pendency
of the action the court, or judge in vacation, may make all proper orders for pre
venting damage or injury to the plaintifff before the case is decided. (See § 748,
2854.)
3528 (2592). Nature of proceedings and trial-term.—All such informations
shall be deemed civil proceedings, and shall be put at issue and tried at the returnterm according to the rules which govern the trials of other civil causes.
3529 (2594). Judgments against defendants.—If it be found on the trial of
an information that a corporation has forfeited its charter, judgment of ouster from
the franchises shall be given, and that it be dissolved ; and if it be found, on trial,
that persons claiming to exercise a franchise are not entitled to the same, the judg
ment shall be that such persons be debarred and excluded from the use of the fran
chise; and in both cases the state shall recover costs. If judgment be against the
defendant, finding that he has been exercising the functions of an office without
authority, he shall be removed from office and debarred therefrom, and shall pay
costs. The court shall order the defendant to deliver over all records, books, and
papers in his custody or under his control, belonging to the office, and may make
and enforce all orders proper to carry its judgment into effect.
3530 (2595). Disobedience punishable. —Any person who refuses or know
ingly neglects to obey any order of the court made as herein provided, shall be
guilty of contempt of court, and shall be fined in any sum not exceeding five thou
sand dollars, and imprisoned in the county jail until he comply with the order, and
shall be further liable for damages resulting to any person 011 account of his refusal
to obey.
3531 (2596). Private person relator, liable for costs.—When an information
is upon the relation" of a private individual, it shall be so stated in the petition and
proceedings, and such individual shall be responsible for costs as plaintifffs are
responsible in other cases.
3532 (2599). Trustees to be appointed.—When judgment of forfeiture and
ouster shall be rendered against any corporation or against any person pretending
to exercise corporate franchises, the debtors to such corporation or other body, shall
not be thereby released from their debts and liabilities, and it shall be the duty of
the judge of the court rendering the judgment to appoint one or more trustees to
take charge of the books, evidences of debt, assets, and property of such corpora
tion or body pretending to exercise corporate franchises; and such trustees are
invested with full power and authority to sue for in their own name, and to collect,
all debts due to such corporation or body pretending to exercise corporate franchises ;
and generally to maintain any action, or to revive or have revived against them any
suit or judgment for or against such corporation or other body. And the proceeds
of debts collected and property sold shall be applied by such trustees to the pay
ment of the costs in the quo warranto proceedings and in payment of debts, under
the direction of the court.
3533 (2600). Bond of trustees. —Before they enter upon the discharge of their
duties, the trustees shall execute bond in such sum as may be prescribed, and with
such sureties as may be approved by the judge, payable to the state, and conditioned
for the faithful discharge of their duties as trustees, which bond may be put in
791

3534-3539

QUO WARRANTO.

suit for a breach thereof; and the amount collected thereon, shall constitute a fund
for the benefit of creditors or stockholders, as other funds of the corporation.
3534 (2601). Property surrendered to trustees. —It shall be the duty of all
persons having possession of property or evidences of debt belonging to any cor
poration, or persons pretending to exercise corporate franchises, against which or
whom judgment of forfeiture shall have been rendered, to surrender and deliver
the same to the trustees so appointed, and, in case of failure to do so, such trustees
may maintain an action therefore.
3535 (2602). Trustees to return inventory to chancery court; vacancies
filled; new bonds, etc. —It shall be the duty of the trustees, at the next succeed
ing term after their appointment of the chancery court of the county in which the
quo warranto judgment was rendered, or at such other time as may be designated
by the said chancery court or the chancellor, to return, under oath, to the court, a
full and complete inventory of all evidences of debt, and property of every descrip
tion, which may have come to their possession or knowledge as the property of the
corporation or bod}' pretending to exercise corporate franchises, and from time to
time such further inventories as may be necessary, in case additional assets or prop
erty shall be discovered, which inventories shall be recorded by the clerk. And the
chancery court, or the chancellor in vacation, may remove trustees and appoint new
ones, or fill vacancies in case of death or resignation, and may require new bonds of
the trustees.
3536 (2599, 2603). Sales of property; proceedings; trustees not to buy.—The
chancery court, or chancellor in vacation, shall order the sale of the property, real
and personal, in the same manner and on the same terms as such property of intes
tate decedents is sold, and like proceeding shall be had as far as applicable. It shall
not be lawful for a trustee to become the purchaser of any property sold by him
in that capacity, or by his co-trustees, either directly or indirectly, or to act as agent
of any other person in making such purchase, and all purchases in violation of this
provision shall be void.
3537 (2606). Claims presented and audited; notice. —The chancery court
shall require all claims against the funds in the hands of the trustees to be presented
and audited in such manner as shall be deemed proper; and notice shall be given
to all persons holding such claims to present and have them audited in the same
manner as such notice is given in the administration of estates, and all claims not
presented and audited within twelve months after the last publication shall be for
ever barred.
3538 (2605). Compensation of trustees and others. —The- compensation of
trustees and others shall be determined by the court, and allowed out of the effects
of the corporation or other body, under the control of the court.
3539 (2606). Report of trustees, and order of paying debts.—It shall be the
duty of the trustees, at the first term of the court after the time for presenting
claims has elapsed, to make a full and complete report of all claims presented and
audited, at which time exception may be taken to the allowance or rejection of any
claim, and, if sustained, the report may be corrected ; and when the report is settled,
and the amount of indebtedness ascertained, the court shall order the trustees to
pay the debts in the following order :
792

QUO WARRANTO.

3540-3545

(a) The compensation to the trustees and others, and expenses incurred in set
tling the affairs of the corporation, including the payment of the costs in the quo
warranto proceedings in the circuit court, and the costs in the chancery court.
(6) Debts due to the state, or any county, city, town, or village for taxes or oth
erwise.
(c) A ratable distribution amongst creditors who have proved their claims, and
had them allowed.
(d) The surplus, if any, shall be ratably distributed among the stockholders,
according to their respective rights.
3540 (2607). Right to public office triable in vacation.—A proceeding by quo
warranto to try the right to any public office, may be tried and determined in vaca
tion as well as in term-time. (See § 2855.)
3541 (2608). How trial in vacation obtained.—In order to have a trial in vaca
tion, the information shall be presented to the judge of the circuit court ; and if he
think a trial should be had in vacation, he shall make an order in writing to that
effect, and when the information and order of the judge shall be filed in the office
of the clerk of the circuit court, he shall issue a summons for the defendant, return
able on such day and at such place as may be directed in the order of the judge ;
and the defendant shall be summoned five days before the day on which the sum
mons is returnable, and shall appear and plead to the information on that day; and
on that day or any day afterwards, of which the parties shall have notice, the judge
of the circuit court or the judge of any other district whom he may procure to act,
may proceed with the case as he could in term-time ; and the judge, in the trial of
such case, shall have all the powers of a circuit court, and he shall be attended by
the clerk of the circuit court, and by the sheriff; and the judge may order a jury
to be drawn, summoned, and empaneled to try the case, as a circuit court might,
and may try and dispose of the case as if presiding in a circuit court; and the judg
ment shall have the same effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, and may
be appealed from, as if rendered by a circuit court.
It is discretionary with the judge to try in vacation or not. Bowen v. Gilleylen, 58 Miss., 813.
3542 (2609). Record of proceedings made and filed.—A record of the pro
ceedings shall be made, and shall be certified by the judge, and be filed in the office
in which the information was filed, and process to enforce the judgment shall be
issued as if the judgment were rendered by the circuit court of the county.
3543 (2610). Process for witnesses. —The clerk in whose office the informa
tion is filed shall issue process for witnesses to appear at the time and place ordered
b\* the judge for the trial of such case.
3544 (2611). Fees of officers, jurors, and witnesses. —The clerk, sheriff,
jurors, aud witnesses shall have the same allowance for attendance, to be taxed in
the costs as if their attendance was upon a circuit court, and shall be compellable
to attend in like manner.
3545 (2612). Costs in such cases. —The judge, before making the order for
trial in vacation or afterwards, may impose such terms, and make such requirement
as to costs and payment thereof or security therefore, as he thinks proper, and shall
tax the costs of the case as he may deem just.
793

REPLEVIN.

3704-3707

3704. Authority to boards of supervisors* —The boards of supervisors of the
several counties, are authorized to allow compensation to the officers rendering
services in matters of registration, and elections, to provide ballot-boxes, registra
tion and poll books, and all other things required by law in registration and elec
tions ; and to allow the sheriff such reasonable sum as he may expend in supplying
voting-compartments, tables, or shelves for use at elections.
3705. Commissioners to certify to service of election officers.—The commis
sioners of election shall, after each election, make out a list of all persons who
served as managers, clerks, and election bailiffs at the election, designating for what
service each is entitled to pay, certify to the correctness of the same, and file it with
the clerk of the board of supervisors; and an allowance shall not be made to any
such officer unless his service be so certified.
3706. Pay of election officers.—The commissioners of election shall be en
titled to three dollars each for every day actually employed in the performance of
their duties, not to exceed ten days for one election; the managers, clerks, and
election bailiffs shall each be entitled to one dollar for each election ; and the man
ager or other person who shall carry to the place of voting, away from the court
house, the official ballots, ballot-boxes, poll-books, and other necessaries, shall be
allowed one dollar for so doing ; and the manager or other person who acts as
returning officer shall be allowed one dollar for that service, all to be allowed by the
board of supervisors, payable out of the county treasury.

CHAPTER 114.
REPLEVIN.
3707 (2613). How replevin commenced. —If any person, his agent or attorney,
shall make an affidavit, setting forth—
(a) A description of any personal property ;
(6) The value thereof, giving the value of* each separate article ;
(c) That he js entitled to the immediate possession thereof ;
(d) That the same is in the possession of the defendant ; and
(e) That the defendant wrongfully took and detains, or wrongfully detains the
same ;
And shall present the affidavit to a judge of the supreme court, a judge of a
circuit court, or a chancellor, or to a clerk of a circuit or chancery court, or to the
deputy of such clerk, or to any justice of the peace, or to the mayor of any city,
town, or village, it shall be the duty of the officer to issue a writ of replevin for such
personal property, returnable, as a summons, before the proper circuit court when
the value exceeds two hundred dollars, or to the court of the proper justice of the
peace if the value shall not exceed that sum ; and the affidavit shall be returned
to and filed in the proper court at once. And the above-mentioned officers of one
county may issue a writ of replevin returnable to the proper court of another
county where the property may be found. (See § 2416.) .
It is indispensable, under the statute as well as at common law, that the plaintifff must have the right to
821

3708-371 I

REPLEVIN.

lie immediate possession. Lloyd v. Goodwin, 12 Smed. &, M., 223; Frizell v. White, 27 Miss., 198; Buck v.
Payne, 52 Miss., 271.
The affidavit in replevin is a part of the record; the declaration must correspond with it Newell v.
Newell, 34 Miss., 335.
Where defendant in replevin sets up title in himself, it is unnecessary for plaintifff to make demand for
the property before suing. Dearing v. Ford, 13 Smed. & M., 269; Newell v. Newell, 34 Miss., 385.
To defeat a replevin for timber cut on the land of the plaintifff who is not in possession of the land, an
actual adverse possession in another must be shown. Phillips v. Gastrell, 61 Miss., 413.
An action of replevin will lie only against the party in possession of the property at the time the action
is instituted. McCormick v. McCormick, 40 Miss., 760; Griffin v. Lancaster, 59 Miss., 340.
The action does not lie as between joint owners. Holton v. Binns, 40 Miss., 491.
Replevin may be brought in the name of one for the use of another. In such case, however, only the
rights of the (nominal) plaintifff are considered. Pearce v. Twichell, 41 Miss., 344; Meyer v. Mosler, 64 Miss.,
610.
The owner may recover his property in replevin whenever it can be identified, unaffected by any change
in shape or form. Heard v. James, 49 Miss., 236.
Replevin lies for an unindorsed county warrant. The difficulty in taking the chose in action does not
affect the right to the remedy. Saunders v. Jordan, 54 Miss., 428.
Replevin lies against a garnishee by one claiming to be the owner of the property, notwithstanding the
garnishment. He must compel interpleader. Morin v. Bailey, 55 Miss., 570.
Replevin cannot be maintained for property which the defendant received in exchange for the plaintifff's
property. Power v. Telford, 60 Miss., 195,
The action is maintainable against a tax-collector for goods wrongfully seized. Miller v. McGehee, 60
Miss. 903.
The defendant cannot defeat the plaintifff's right by asserting a lien on the property in favor of a stranger.
McGill v. Howard, 61 Miss., 411.
If a special execution, issued on a judgment in replevin, be about to be levied on property to which one
not a party to the suit makes claim, he may bring replevin for it. Andrews v. McLeod, 66 Miss., 348.
One partner cannot maintain the action for partnership property wrongfully sold to another person by a
copartner in payment of an individual debt. Hoff v. Rogers, 67 Miss., 208.
3708 (2635). Form of affidavit.—The affidavit in replevin may be to the follow
ing effect, viz. :
"State of County.
Mississippi, }(
" Before me,
, a justice of the peace of said county,
makes affidavit
that [here describe the property and give value of each article], the property of
affiant, is wrongfully detained by
, in district No. —, for the election of jus
tices of the peace in said county, and that this affiant is legally entitled to the imme
diate possession thereof; wherefore he prays a writ of replevin for the seizure of
said property.
.
" Sworn to and subscribed before me, the
day of
, A.D.
.
"
, J. P"
3709 (2634). Venue.—The action of replevin may be instituted in the circuit
court of a county, or the justice's court of a district, in which the defendant, or one
of several, or the property, or some of it, may be found, and all proper process may
be issued to other counties or districts, as the case may be.
3710 (2614). The writ. —The writ of replevin shall command the sheriff, or
other lawful officer, to take the property specified in the affidavit, and deal with
it according to lawT; and to summon the defendant to appear in court on the
return-day of the writ to answer to the action.
3711 (2636). Form of the writ. —The writ of replevin may be to the following
effect, viz.:
822

REPLEVIN.
3712-3716
•
"The State op Mississippi.
" To any lawful officer of
county :
"We command you to take [here describe the property as in the affidavit],
alleged by
, the plaintifff', to be wrongfully detained by
, the defendant,
and to deal therewith according to law; and to summon the said defendant to
appear before
, a justice of the peace of said county, in district No. —, at
, at — o'clock —m., on
the
day of
, A.D.
, to answer
, the plaintifff, for the unlawful detention of said property.
" Witness my hand, the
day of
, A.D.
.
, J. P."
3712 (2615). How and when writ may be executed.—The writ may be exe
cuted by seizing the property and summoning the defendant as in other actions at
any time before the first day of the court to which it is returnable.
3713 (2639). Form of return of officer.—The officer's return on such writ may
be in the following form, viz. :
"Executed the within writ, by taking possession of [here describe the property,
giving the value of each article separately] found in the possession of
, and
by summoning the defendant [naming him] according to the command of said writ,
and I have delivered him a true copy of the writ [or otherwise as the case may be].
The said
having entered into bond, with
and
as his sureties,
for the sum of
dollars, conditioned according to law, I delivered said prop
erty to him, and now return said bond and writ.
, Sheriff."
If the defendant fail to give bond, and plaintifff* give a bond and receive the
property, or if neither give the required bond, and the property remain in the
hands of the officer, his return should be varied accordingly.
3714 (2622). Officer's valuation prima facie evidence.—The valuation of prop
erty by the officer in his return shall in all cases be prima facie evidence of the
value of the property.
3715 (2616). Property restored to defendant on bond.—If the defendant shall,
within two days from the seizure of the property, or at any time afterwards, and
while it is in the possession of the officer, enter into bond with sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the officer, payable to the plaintifff", in double the value of the
property, conditioned that it shall be forthcoming to satisfy the judgment of the
court, the property shall be restored to him.
The sureties on a defendant's bond are liable for costs; and a surrender of the property does not acquit
them thereof. Phillips v. Cooper, 59 Miss., 17.
Where plaintifff on the trial dismissed his suit as to one of two defendants who had joined as principals
in the bond, judgment could not rightfully be rendered against the sureties. Tyler v. Davis, 63 Miss., 345.
3716. Form of bond by defendant.—The bond to be given by a defendant in
replevin may be in the following form, viz. :
" State of County.
Mississippi, j\
" Be it known, that we,
, principal, and
and
, sureties, agree
and bind ourselves to pay
, the plaintifff, the sum of
dollars, unless
the said principal obligor and defendant shall have certain personal property, to
wit : [here describe the property specifically and fully, giving the value of each
item or article separately] before the
court of
county, to be held at
823

3717-3720

REPLEVIN.

•
, on the
day of
, A.D.
, to satisfy the judgment of said
court in the action of replevin by said plaintifff against said defendant for said
property.
" Witness our signatures, this the
day of
, A.D.
.
u
J
M
)
U
»
" The above bond is approved by me, this

day of
"

, A.D.
.
, Sheriff"

3717 (2617). Plaintiff may give bond and receive property.—If the defendant
shall not give bond within two days from the seizure of the property, the sheriff or
other officer shall deliver the same to the plaintifff, upon the plaintifff entering into
bond to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property,
to be ascertained by the valuation of the officer, conditioned that he will prosecute
the writ to effect, and without delay make return of the property to the defend
ant, if return thereof be adjudged, and pay the defendant such damages as he may
sustain by the wrongful suing out of the writ, and also such costs as may be
awarded against him, and save harmless the officer for replevying the property; but
if neither party give bond, the property shall remain in the hands of the officer,
subject to the right of either party before the trial to give bond and receive the
property.
3718. Plaintiff in certain cases has first right to bond. —But if the plaintifff
aver in the affidavit that the property was wrongfully taken from his actual posses
sion within thirty days, that fact shall be recited in the writ, and in such case the
plaintifff shall have the right for the two days in preference to the defendant to give
the replevin-bond and regain possession of the property.
3719 (2638). Form of plaintifff's replevin-bond.—The plaintifff's bond in
replevin may be in the usual form, with a condition to the following effect, viz.:
" Unless the said
, the principal and plaintifff, shall prosecute to effect his
writ of replevin against
, the defendant, for certain property [here describe
the property and give the value of each article separately], and now delivered to
the said plaintifff upon the execution of this bond; and shall, without delay, return
said property to the said
, the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
shall pay to the said
such damages as he may sustain by the wrongful suing
out of the said writ, and such costs as may be awarded against him, and save harm
less the officer who replevied said property.
" Witness our signatures, this the
day of
, A.D.
.
u
u
u
»
"Above bond is approved by me, this

day of

, A.D.

.

3720 (2626). Bond returned, and may be excepted to.—The bond directed to
be taken in either case shall be returned with the writ to the court issuing the same ;
and if the sheriff or other officer fail to take a proper and sufficient bond and return
824

REPLEVIN.

3721-3725

the same, or if the bond taken be adjudged insufficient, and the party giving it
shall, if required, fail to perfect the same, the sheriff or other officer shall be liable
to the party injured for all damages by him sustained; but the parties shall have
the same right of amendment as in cases of attachment. (See § 132.)
3721 (2627). New bond may be required.—If either party in the suit, or the
sheriff or other officer, shall at any time deem any bond taken insufficient, such
party or officer, if in vacation, may, upon application to the judge of the court
where the suit may be pending, obtain a citation, under the signature of the judge,
commanding the principal obligor in the bond to appear before the judge at such
time and place as he may designate; and, if in term-time, the party or officer may
proceed by motion; and, in either case, the judge or court shall, after hearing the
evidence of both parties, determine the sufficiency or insufficiency of the bond. And
if the bond given by the plaintifff be adjudged insufficient, he shall give a new and
sufficient bond, or restore the property to the officer within the time limited by the
court or judge; and in default thereof, the defendant shall be entitled to proceed
and enter judgment as in case the plaintifff should be nonsuited or otherwise make
default. And if the bond of the defendant be adjudged insufficient, and he fail to
give a sufficient bond within the time limited by the court or judge, the plaintifff,
on giving bond as directed, shall be entitled to a writ commanding the officer to
take the property in controversy and deliver the same to the plaintifff; and there
upon such proceedings shall be had as if the property had been delivered to the
plaintifff in the first instance. (See § 948.)
3722 (2618). Property to be sold, when.—When horses, mules, or other live
stock, or any chattels which are expensive to keep, or perishable articles, shall be
taken under a writ of replevin, for which neither party shall give bond in the mean
time, they shall be sold as provided in reference to such property when seized under
attachment ; and the proceeds of the sale, after payment of proper expenses,
shall be in lieu of the things sold. (See § 160.)
3723 (2619). When property not taken, plaintifff may elect to recover dam
ages.—If the return of the officer on the writ show a failure to take the goods and
chattels, but that the defendant has been summoned, the plaintifff may declare
and prosecute the action for the recovery of the value of property, and damages
for the taking or detention of the property, as if he had thus commenced his action.
The statute does not apply in every instance where the property is not found. It applies only where the
froperty was in defendant s possession at the beginning of the suit, and the action remains one of replevin,
t does apply to a failure to find a part of the property. Krosmopolski v. Paxton, 58 Miss., 581.
The return of the officer on the writ must show affirmatively a failure to take the property, or a part of
it, or the statute will not be applicable. Meyer v. Mosler. 64 Miss., 610.
3724 (2620). Duplicate, alias, and pluries writs, and publication.—The plaint
iff shall be entitled to duplicate writs to other counties, and alias and pluries writs to
take the property or to summon the defendant, as in other actions; and when the
property shall be taken under the writ, but the defendant cannot be found, the
defendant shall be notified by publication, as provided in case of attachment under
like circumstances. (See § 143, 144, 145, 146.)
v
3725 (2621). The pleadings. —The declaration may be filed after the issuance
of the writ, if it be filed on or before the first day of the return-term, or before any
order of dismissal be taken; and the action may be tried at the first term of the
825

3726-3728

REPLEVIN.

court. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of the premises charged
against him, and this plea shall put in issue not only the right of the plaintifff to
the possession of the property, but also the wrongful taking and detention, or
wrongful detention thereof, as the case may be.
A declaration for the recovery of the property, and for damages for the wrongful taking or detention is
divisable; hence a demurrer to the whole will be overruled, if the declaration be sufficient so far as it relates
to the recovery of the property, though defective as to the damages claimed. Newell v. Newell, 34 Miss., 385.
Where the affidavit sets out only a wrongful detention, it will be improper to allege in the declaration
both a wrongful taking and detention Newell v. Newell, 34 Miss., 385.
Under the plea of not guilty, the defendant may impeach the validity of a deed by showing his incapacity
to execute it. Odom v. Harris, 34 Miss., 410.
Not guilty is the only plea to the action. Any other plea may be stricken out on motion, or treated as a
nullity; but judgment final should not be entered on motion on account of false pleading. Bennett v. Holloway, 55 Miss., 211.
3726 (2622). Judgment for plaintifff.—If the plaintifff recover, and the defend
ant have given bond for the property, the judgment shall be against the defendant
and the sureties on his bond, that they restore the property to the plaintifff, if to be
had, or pay him the value thereof, or of his interest therein, if a limited one, as
assessed by the verdict of the jury, and that they pay to the plaintifff such damages
as shall have been assessed by the jury for the wrongful taking and detention, or
for the wrongful detention thereof ; but if the plaintifff have given boud for the
property, the judgment shall be that he retain it, aid that he recover of the defend
ant the damages assessed for the wrongful taking and detention, or wrongful deten
tion, as the case may be. If the plaintifff recover judgment by default, he may have
a writ of inquiry to assess the value of the property or the damages for the wrong
ful taking and detention, or wrongful detention, or both, as the case may be; and
judgment shall be rendered therein as upon an issue found for him.
3727 (2623). Judgment for defendant.—If the verdict be for the defendant,
and the plaintifff have given bond for the property, the judgment shall be against
the plaintifff and the sureties on his bond that they restore to the. defendant the
property, if to be had, or pay to him the value thereof and the damages for the
wrongful suing out of the writ as assessed; but if the defendant have given bond
for the property, the judgment shall be that he retain it, and that he recover of the
plaintifff the damages sustained by the wrongful suing out of the writ. In case the
plaintifff make default in prosecuting the suit, or be nonsuited, the defendant may
have a writ of inquiry to assess the value of the property or the damages sustained
by the wrongful suing out of the writ, or both, as the case may be ; and like judg
ment shall be rendered upon the finding as upon an issue found for him.
3728 (2623). Judgment where no bond is given.—If bond be not given, and
the property remain in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, the value of the
property and the damages sustained shall be assessed, and judgment shall be for
the recovery of the property, and the damages assessed against the party liable, and
the sheriff or other officer shall deliver the property to the successful party, and
execution shall issue for damages and costs of suit.
Where the successful party has a limited interest in the property, it is erroneous to assess, in his favor,
the full value of the property. The value of the interest therein should only be assessed. Lloyd v. Good
win, 12 Smed. & M , 223; Jones v. Hicks, 52 Miss., 682; Bates v. Snider, 59 Miss., 497.
Whatever are commonly understood to be parts of a whole may be assessed as one article; but where
articles are distinct, as "barouche and harness and horses," it would be erroneous to value them as a whole.
Drane v. Hilzheim, 13 Smed. & M., 336.
Where a verdict is rendered, but the jury failed to properly assess the value of the property, the verdict
'826

REPLEVIN.

3729-3731

should stand, and a writ of inquiry may be subsequently ordered to assess the value. Drane v. Hilzheim, 13
Smed. & M., 336 ; Spratley v. Kitchens, 55 Miss., 578.
A verdict for each article and assessing the value of each is correct; but the judgment must follow the
verdict, and if it state each article separately but only give the aggregate value, it is erroneous. Whitfield v.
Whitfield, 40 Miss., 352.
The measure of damages, in the absence of fraud, malice, oppression, or willful wrong, is the value of the
property with interest; but where fraud, etc., intervene, the measure of damages is a matter to be determined
from the evidence by the jury. Whitfield v. Whitfield, 40 Miss., 352; Heard v. Jones, 49 Miss., 236.
When consequential damages are claimed, which do not result necessarily and naturally from the tortious
act, they must be specially alleged. Burrage v. Melsor, 48 Miss., 237.
It is improper for the jury to allow an attorney's fee as damages where the proof fails to show willful
wrong, fraud, malice, or oppression. Cowden v. Loekridge, 60 Miss., 385; Taylor v. Morton, 61 Miss., 24.
3729 (2624). Execution.—If the party in whose favor the judgment is given
be in possession of the property in controversy, he shall retain it ; or if the property
be in possession of the officer, he shall deliver it to the successful party, and a writ
of fieri facias shall issue for the damages and cost of suit. And if the property be in
possession of the losing party, the execution shall command the sheriff to take the
property in controversy, if the same may be had, and deliver the same to the suc
cessful party, and, if not to be had, that he make the value thereof of the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of the party and his sureties against whom the judg
ment is rendered; and shall command that he so make the damages assessed and
costs of the suit ; or the successful party may have a distringas to compel the deliv
ery of the property, together with a fieri facias for the damages and costs.
One asserting ownership of property taken under special execution on a judgment in replevin, cannot
interpose a claim for it. His remedy is replevin. Andrews v. McLeod, 66 Miss., 348.
3730 (2628). Claim of property by third person.—If a third person, not a party
to the action of replevin, shall claim to be the owner or entitled to the possession
of goods or chattels taken under a writ of replevin, he shall not be allowed to insti
tute another action of replevin while the former is pending, but may make oath of
his claim, and file it with the officer taking the property, or, if he have delivered it
to either of the parties, with the clerk of the court or justice of the peace; and,
if possession of the property have not been taken by either of the parties, and four
days have elapsed since its seizure, it shall be delivered to the claimant, on his giving
bond in double the value of the property, to be fixed by the officer, with sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the officer, payable to him and conditioned to have the
property forthcoming to satisfy the judgment of the court. If the property have
been delivered to one of the parties to the action, his bond shall stand as security to
the claimant if the claim be maintained. The bond of the claimant shall stand as
security to the parties to the action, and judgment may be rendered on it according
to the exigency.
There must be an adjudication between the original parties; the issue is then to be made between the
successful party and the claimant; the latter becomes plaintifff in this contest. Ettringham v. Handy, 60.
Miss., 334.
The claim must be propounded before judgment in the suit; afterwards a new replevin can be brought
Andrews v. McLeod, 66 Miss., 348.
3731 (2629). Issue and trial and judgment.—After the trial of the action of
replevin, an issue shall be made up between the successful party and the claimant as
to the validity of his claim, and a trial shall be had ; and if the issue be found against
the claimant, and the property were delivered to him, judgment shall be given
against the obligors in his bond for the restoration of the property if to be had, or
827

3732-3737

REPORTER AND REPORTS.

its value, with such damages as may be assessed and costs. If the property were
not delivered to the claimant, and the issue be found against him, judgment shall be
given against him for such damages as may be assessed, and costs.
3732 (2630). Judgment in favor of claimant. —If the issue be found in favor
of the claimant, he shall have judgment for the property, and if a bond were given
by either party to the replevin suit, he shall recover on the bond, as if it had been
payable to him; and any judgment recovered in the trial of the action by the party
between whom and the claimant the issue may be, shall, in case of the determina
tion of such issue iu favor of the claimant, inure to his advantage, to the extent of
his rights, as if such judgment had been rendered in his favor.
3733 (2631). Claimant considered a plaintifff.—The claimant shall be consid
ered a plaintifff in the issue, and may be required to give security for costs as other
plaintifffs, and shall have the right of a party to the action in which his claim is
interposed to except to any bond given in the case.
3734 (2632). Laws applicable in case of death.—AH the provisions of law in
reference to the death of either party, and the revival of the cause in personal
actions, and the death of any of the obligors in a bond given in the progress of a
cause, and the proceedings thereon before and after judgment, shall apply in like
case to the action of replevin, and to a claim of property in such action. (See
§ 666, 667, 668, 942.)
3735 (2633). Replevin not maintainable in certain cases.—The action of
replevin shall not be maintainable in any case of the seizure of property under exe
cution or attachment when a remedy is given to claim the property by making claim
to it in some mode prescribed by law, but the .person claiming must resort to the
specific mode prescribed in such case, and shall not resort to the action of replevin.
The statute is not applicable if the officer hold the property under process from the supreme court. State
v. Booker, 61 Miss., 16.
The statute does not prevent the bringing of replevin against the purchaser of property sold under exe
cution or attachment. Armistead v. Bernard, 62 Miss., 180.
The statute does not preclude any remedy except replevin, and this is precluded only while the property
is in the hands of the officer. Woolner v. Spaulding, 65 Miss., 204; Conn v. Bernheimer, 67 Miss., 498.
If the property be seized under a writ from a justice of the peace, replevin cannot be maintained for it,
even if the property exceed two hundred dollars in value. The justice in such case has jurisdiction of a
claimant's issue. Bernheimer v. Martin, 66 Miss , 486.

CHAPTER 115.
REPORTER AND REPORTS.
3736 (1454). The reporter. —The supreme court shall appoint a reporter of its
decisions, by an order entered on the minutes of the court, who shall hold his office
for the term of six years from the date of appointment, who shall discharge the
duties and receive the compensation provided by law, and be removable at the
pleasure of a majority of the judges of the court; but the present reporter shall
continue in officer for the time for which he was appointed unless sooner removed.
3737 (262). Reporter a ministerial officer, etc.—The reporter shall be a min
isterial officer, subject to the orders of the supreme court, but shall not be removed
828

4333-4337

SUPREME COURT.

4333. Biennial reports of the commission.—The commission shall make a
report every two years to the legislature of all its acts and doings for the two pre
ceding years, ending on the prior thirtieth day of June. The reports shall give all
necessary and proper information concerning the operations of the railroads of the
state and its transportation facilities, and embrace such suggestions as the commis
sioners deem proper.
4334. Salaries and expenses of the commission ; how paid.—The salaries
of the commissioners and of the secretary of the commission, and all expenditures,
shall be paid out of the appropriations made to defray the expenses of the commis
sion; but an itemized account shall be kept of all expenditures and reported to the
legislature. All expenditures shall be certified to the auditor under the seal of the
commission.
4335. Witnesses ; how paid.—Witnesses summoned to appear before the com
mission shall be entitled to the same per diem and mileage as witnesses attending
the circuit court ;. and witnesses summoned by the commission on its behalf shall
be paid as other expenditures of the commission, upon the certificate of the com
mission showing the amount to which such witness may be entitled; and witnesses
summoned for any railroad or other carrier shall be paid by it.
4336. Terms defined.—The term "railroad"' includes and applies to every per
son, firm, association of persons, and company, whether incorporated or not, who or
which shall own or operate a railroad as a common carrier; and the term "com
pany " embraces and applies to every person, firm, association of persons, and com
pany, whether incorporated or not, who or which shall own or operate a telegraph
or telephone line, or do an express or sleeping-car business.
1

CHAPTER 13.5.
SUPREME COURT.
4337 (1397). Districts.—The state shall be divided into three supreme court
districts, as follows, to wit:
The counties of Attala, Bolivar, Hinds, Holmes, Issaquena, Kemper, Lauder
dale, Leake, Madison, Neshoba, Newton, Noxubee, Rankin, Scott, Sharkey, Sun
flower, Warren, Washington, Winston, and Yazoo shall constitute the first district.
The counties of Adams, Amite, Claiborne, Clarke, Copiah, Covington, Franklin,
Greene, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Jasper, Jefferson, Jones, Lawrence, Lincoln,
Marion, Pearl-River, Perry, Pike, Simpson, Smith, Wayne, and Wilkinson shall
constitute the second district.
And the counties of Alcorn, Benton, Calhoun, Carroll, Chickasaw, Choctaw,
Clay, Coahoma, DeSoto, Grenada, Itawamba, LaFayette, Lee, Leflore, Lowndes.
Marshall, Monroe, Montgomery, Oktibbeha, Panola, Pontotoc, Prentiss, Quitman,
Tallahatchie, Tate, Tippah, Tishomingo, Tunica, Union, Webster, and Yalobusha
shall constitute the third district.
950

SUPREME COURT.

4338-4342

4338 (1398). Terms of the court.—A term of the supreme court shall be held
twice in each year, at the city of Jacksou, to be styled " The Supreme Court;" and
the term3 shall commence on the second Monday of October and the first Monday of
March, and the court shall be kept open for the dispatch of business for at least
nine months in every year, if the business therein require.
4339 (1399). Dockets; how called.—The docket of the first district shall be
taken up at the October term, and the cases thereon shall be called and disposed of
until the first Monday of December thereafter, when the docket of the third dis
trict shall be taken up, and the cases thereon shall be called and disposed of until
the third Monday of January, when the docket of the second district shall be taken
up and called until the first Monday in March; and at the March term the dockets
of the several districts, or such of them as most require it, shall be taken up and
disposed of as may be ordered by the court, or the clerk thereof, if the court fail to
make the order; and notice of the time at which the dockets will be taken up,
according to the order, shall be published by the clerk, in a newspaper published in
Jackson, if there be one, for the period of three weeks. The supreme court shall
have power to alter the times fixed for taking up the dockets of the second and
third districts, and so to arrange the same as the public convenience may require.
4340 (1400). Adjournment, if judges are absent; special terms; discontin
uances, etc.—If at the commencement of any regular term a quorum of the judges
shall not be present, it shall be the duty of the clerk to adjourn the court from day
to day, by an entry of the fact on the minute-book, for twejve juridical days ; and if
a quorum of the judges shall not appear by the thirteenth day, the court may pro
ceed with its session; and if there should not be a clerk, or he shall not be in
attendance, any of the judges of the court in attendance may adjourn it from day
to day for twelve juridical days, but if two of the judges shall so order, the court
shall stand adjourned to a later day, and notice of the order shall be published, as for
a special term. And if there be a failure of the term, it shall be the duty of the
judges, or any two of them, to order a special term, at such time as they may
appoint, notice of which shall be published in a newspaper published in the city of
Jackson, if there be one, and, if not, in some newspaper published at some other
place in the state, for three weeks. And after a term has regularly commenced,
the court, or any of the judges, may adjourn the court from day to day or from
time to time, as may be necessary and proper; and there shall not be a discontinu
ance of any suit, process, matter, or thing, returned or pending in the court, because
a sufficient number of judges shall not attend at the commencement of the term, or
at any other day to which the court may have been adjourned ; and in case a quorum
■of judges should not be present at any day to which the court may have been
adjourned during a term, a further adjournment may be ordered.
4341 (1401). How cost of notices paid.—The cost of publishing the notices by
order of the judges shall be paid out of the appropriation for the judicial depart
ment, and the auditor shall issue a warrant therefore on the order of the supreme
-court allowing the account for making the publication.
4342 (1402). Return-days; failure to return process.—The first day of each
term, or the day designated by law or by order of the court for taking up the
docket of a district, shall be the return-day in civil cases in said court for all
951

4343-4345

SUPREME COUKT.

appeals and all process returnable before it in cases in such district, except in cases
in which an appeal is provided for at any time during the term of the court: and
all officers failing to make return of process or to pay over money which they
should pay over at that time, shall be liable for such failure, as in case of failure to
perform a like duty in the circuit court, and may be proceeded against in like man
ner in the supreme court. (For return-days in criminal cases, see § 71.)
The law fixes two return-days (in civil eases) of equal dignity. Appeals granted in open court from
decrees in chancery are returnable to the first return-day after appeal taken ; all other appeals (in civil cases),
except as provided in the next section, are returnable to the first return-day which is more than ten days after
the appeal is taken. Hospital v. Knox, 57 Miss., 600; Childs v. Rowell, 58 Miss., 512.
4343 (1403). Appeals in some cases returnable at any time, etc.—Appeals
from judgments against persons deprived of their liberty in cases of habeas corpus,
and from judgment on informations in the nature of quo warranto to try the right to
a public office, whether state, district, county, or municipal, and in actions of man
damus, in cases where the public interest is concerned, and in cases at law or in
chancery involving taxes claimed by the state, county, or municipality, may be
returnable before the supreme court immediately, without reference to the returndays for other appeals ; and when the transcript of the record of the case shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, the appellee having been sum
moned to appear and answer the appeal, ten days after service of the summons on
him or his attorney, the court shall consider such cases as entitled to be heard with
out regard to the district from which they are brought, and in preference to all
civil cases, and they shall be heard and disposed of with all convenient speed.
4344 (1404). Powers of the judges to grant appeals.—The judges of the
supreme court may severally grant appeals from interlocutory decrees in chancery,
when by such decree money is to be paid or the possession of property is to be
changed, or when the appeal is necessary to settle the principles' of the cause and
has been refused by the chancery court or by the chancellor in vacation. They
may allow an appeal, and, if necessary, a supersedeas from the final judgment of
any circuit court, or the final decree of a chancery court, or in any other case in
which an appeal is given, at any time within which an appeal may be allowed by
law.
The judges severally may grant appeals. Wilson v. Pugh, Gl Miss., 449.
4345 (1405, 1720). Jurisdiction of the court.—The supreme court shall have
such jurisdiction as properly belongs to a court of appeals, and shall hear and deter
mine all manner of pleas, plaints, motions, causes, and controversies, civil and
criminal, which are now pending therein, or which may be brought before it, and
which shall be cognizable in said court; but a cause shall not be removed into said
court until after final judgment in the court below, except in cases particularly pro
vided for by law ; and the supreme court may grant new trials and correct errors
of the circuit court in granting or refusing the same.
What properly belongs to a court of appeals depends on considerations of public policy, and is mainly to
be determined by the legislature. The legislature has the power to make a decision of a lower court final.
(Yalobusha Co. v. Carbey, 3 Smed. & M., 547, overruled.) Dismukes v. Stokes, 41 Miss., 430.
The jurisdiction of the court is only revisory. It cannot grant a writ of prohibition to the circuit courtIt may hear and determine all motions and issues necessary to the exercise of its appellate powers. Planters
v. Cramer, 47 Miss., 200; Brown v. Carraway, 47 Miss., 668.
The court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from an order granting a new trial until the case has been
finally decided. Wood v. Ins. Co., 7 How. (Miss.), 609; Bank v. Taylor, 2 Smed. & M., 27; Darr v. Watson,
28 Miss., 383; Terry v. Robbins, 5 Smed. & M., 291 ; Brown v. Carraway, 47 Miss , 668.
952

1

SUPREME COURT.

4346-4351

The supreme court has inherent power on reversing a judgment, where the facts appear of record, to
award a restitution to the party dispossessed under the judgment pending his appeal. Hall v. Wells, 54
Miss., 289, 306.
4346 (1406). May make all orders and issue process, etc.—The supreme
court may make all orders and cause to be issued and executed all process necessary
or proper to secure an appeal to it from any judgment or decree from which an
appeal may be taken to the supreme court, and to compel the production before it
of a full and perfect transcript pf the record and proceedings in any case in which
an appeal to said court is provided for by law, and of all papers necessary to the
disposition of any case or matter properly before it.
4347 (1407). Appeal not to fail for certain things.—An appeal to the supreme
court shall not be dismissed for want of jurisdiction because of a defect in the
application for appeal, or in the bond, or because of any failure by an officer to
comply with the requirements of law in reference to appeals; but all defects and
irregularities may be cured by amendment, so as to perfect the appeal and obtain
the judgment of the supreme court in the case; but the court may dismiss an ap
peal for a failure of the appellant to do, within a reasonable time, what may be
necessary to perfect his appeal.
Where the appellant failed to execute a bond, he may be permitted to supply the same, so as to perfect
the appeal. Hudson v. Gray, 58 Miss., 589.
A party will be permitted to amend in all cases so as to perfect his appeal. State v. Coahoma Co., 64
Miss., 358.
4348 (1408). May make rules and enforce them. —The supreme court shall
have power to make such rules in respect to making out records for said court, as
may be expedient, and may prescribe the form and manner in which records shall
be prepared for appeal, and cause the same to be bound, but shall not require any
record to be printed ; and may enforce its rules by proper fines or by refusal to
allow costs to be taxed to the clerks below on records not made out according to
the rules, or by refusing to permit such records to be filed. And the court may pre
scribe the mode of pleading in causes therein, civil and criminal, and the manner
of trying the same; and may also establish such rules of practice and proceedings
therein as may be deemed necessary and proper for certainty and dispatch of busi
ness, and may dismiss causes for non-compliance with any of the rules; but such
rules must be consistent with law.
4349 (1411). Allowance for books, etc.—The supreme court shall make allow
ance to the clerk for all needful sums for supplying the office with necessary
books, stationery, furniture, and presses for preserving the records and for the safe
keeping of the books and papers belonging to the office, and the allowance, being
certified to the auditor of public accounts by any of the judges, shall be paid out
of the appropriation for the judicial department.
4350 (1412). Issues of fact may be tried.—The supreme court may try and
determine all issues of fact which may arise out of any appeal before, it and be
necessary to the disposition thereof, and, to this end, may, by order in each case,
prescribe in what way evidence may be produced before it on the issue.
The supreme court has no jurisdiction to try a claimant's issue for property seized under execution from
it. The remedy is replevin. State v. Booker, 61 Miss., 16.
4351 (1413). The chief justice.—The judge of the supreme court who has been
for the longest time continuously a member of the court shall be chief justice ; and,
953

4352-4357

supreme court.

in case of his absence, the judge who has been for the next longest time continu
ously a member shall preside.
4352 (1413). What opinions to be in writing.—Iu all cases settling important
principles, in cases to be remanded, and in all cases where the judgment or decree
of the court below is reversed, the opinion of the supreme court shall be in writing,
stating the reasons upon which the decision is made; and the opinion shall be
recorded by the clerk in a well-bound book to be kept for that purpose.
4353 (1415). Cases heard at return-term; judgment.—The supreme court
shall hear and determine all cases properly brought before it at the return-term,
unless cause be shown for a continuance; and in case the judgment, sentence, or
decree of the court below be reversed, the supreme court shall render such judg
ment, sentence, or decree as the court below should have rendered, unless it be uecessary, in consequence of its decision, that some matter of fact be ascertained, or
damages be assessed by a jury, or where the matter to be determined is uncertain;
in either of which cases the suit, action, or prosecution shall be remanded for a
final decision ; and when so remanded, shall be proceeded with in the court below
according to the direction of the supreme court, or according to law in the absence
of such directions.
4354. Certain cases may be sent to the proper court.—A judgment or decree
in any chancery or circuit court rendered in a civil cause, shall not be reversed or
annulled on account of want of jurisdiction to render the judgment or decree from
any error or mistake as to whether the cause iu which it was rendered was of equity
or common law jurisdiction ; but if the supreme court shall find error in the pro
ceedings other than as to jurisdiction, and it shall be necessary to remand the case,
the supreme court may send it to the court of the county whence it was appealed
which, in its opinion, can best determine the controversy.
4355 (1416). Dismission, if record not filed on return-day.—In all cases where
an appeal has been taken to the supreme court, if the copy of the record in the
court below shall not be filed with the clerk of the supreme court on or before the
return-day to which the appeal is returnable by law or by rule of court, it shall be
lawful for the court, on motion of the appellee, to dismiss the appeal, the party
moving for the dismissal producing a copy of the citation properly served, or a cer
tificate of the clerk below that an appeal has been taken ; but the cause may be
re-instated at any time during the term if the party can show that the failure to
file the record was not the result of neglect on his part; and the court. may dispose
of cases brought up for delay out of their proper order.
If the appellant need the aid of the supreme court to get his record sent up, he must make timely appli
cation therefore. Martin v. Phelps, 53 Miss., 134.
4356 (1417). Effect of dismission.—After the dismissal of an appeal or super
sedeas by the supreme court, another appeal or supersedeas shall not be granted in
the same cause, so as to bring it again before the court. .
The statute does not apply where the dismissal is without the fault of the party, or for an irregularity
over which he had no control. Bull v. Harrell, 7 How. (Miss.), 9; Sherman v. Lovejoy, 30 Miss., 105.
A dismissal of an appeal because premature will not bar another from a final judgment in the same
cause. Stokes v. Shannon, 55 Miss., 583.
4357 (1418). Bill of exceptions may embrace matters of record.—The fact
that the verdict or judgment, or any motion or other matter of record, is certified
954

SUPREME COURT.

4358-4360

to the supreme court in a bill of exceptions, instead of in the record distinct from
the bill of exceptions, shall not cause such matter to be disregarded, but it shall
have the same effect as if contained in the record apart from the bill of exceptions.
4358 (1419). Revival on death of party; dismission, when.—It* either the
appellant or the appellee die after the case has been removed to the supreme court,
and before the decision thereof, the suit shall not abate, but the legal representa
tives of the deceased parties may voluntarily make themselves parties, and have the
cause revived; and, if they should fail to do so, they may be brought in by scire
facias; and in like manner the representatives of any co-plaintifff or co-defendant,
who may die pending the suit, may be brought in or come in, and make themselves
parties, and the cause shall proceed for or against them jointly with the surviving
plaintifff or defendant; but if two terms of the court elapse after the death of the
party shall have been suggested on the record of the court, the appeal shall be dis
missed, unless good cause be shown to the contrary; and, if there be an appealbond, judgment may, on the dismissal, be entered against the sureties, as in any
other cases.
4359 (1421). Motion to discharge supersedeas in certain cases. —A motion to
discharge a supersedeas in an appeal to the supreme court may be made before and
heard by the court on ten days' notice to the opposite party, at any time before the
day to which the appeal is returnable, and the court shall make such orders and
render such judgment as may be proper in the case.
4360 (1422). Judgment in certain states of case.—In case the judgment or
decree of the court below be affirmed, or the appellant fail to prosecute his appeal
to effect, the supreme court shall render judgment against the appellant for damages,
at the rate of five per centum and costs, as follows: If the judgment or decree
affirmed be for a sum of money adjudged or decreed against the appellant, the
damages shall be upon such sum; if the judgment or decree be for the possession
of real or personal property, the damages shall be assessed on the value of the
property; if the judgment or decree be for the dissolution of an injunction or other
restraining process at law or in chancery, the damages shall be computed on the
amount due the appellee which was enjoined or restrained; if the judgment or
decree b» for the dissolution of an injunction or other restraining process as to
certain property, real or personal, or a certain interest in property, or be a judg
ment or decree for the sale of property, or some interest in it, to satisfy a sum out
of the proceeds of sale, or to enforce or establish a lien or charge or claim upon or
some interest in property, and the only matter complained of on the appeal is the
decree as to some particular property or claim on it, the damages shall be computed
on the value of the property or the interest in it, if the value of the property or
interest in it be less than the judgment or decree against it ; but if the value of the
property or interest in it be greater than the amount of the judgment or decree
against it, the damages shall be upon the amount of the judgment or decree.
The language of the section, "if the judgment or decree be for the dissolution of an injunction or other
restraining process, at law or in chancery, the damages shall be computed on the amount due the appellee
which was enjoined or restrained," has reference to a suit instituted for the purpose of restraining payment
of a sum due the appellee, and does not apply to the restraint of a writ of garnishment. Johnson v. Devens,
60 Miss., 200.
The appellee is ensitled to damages upon affirmance, whether the decree appealed from have or have no'
been stayed by supersedeas. Tigner v. McGehee, 60 Miss., 242.
955

4361-4366

SUPREME COURT.

Damages are to be allowed only when the judgment or decree of the lower court is ( 1 ) for a sum of money,
(2) where it is for the possession of real or personal property, (3) where it is for the dissolution of aD
injunction or other restraining process at law or in chancery. Clark v. Bank, 61 Miss., 614.
4361 (1423). Where amount in controversy does not appear.—If the value
of the property or the interest in it which is in controversy do not appear in the
record, so as to fix the amount of damages by the judgment of the supreme court,
judgment shall be rendered by said court for damages at five per centum on the
value of the property or interest in dispute, or the amount of the judgment or
decree against it, whichever shall be found to be the smaller, to be ascertained in
the court below, on the remanding of the case, by a writ of inquiry in the circuit
court or reference to a master in chancery; and the case may be remanded for the
damages to be ascertained in the court below, and execution may be issued on the
judgment of affirmance as in other cases, and afterwards another execution may
be issued for the damages when ascertained.
4362 (1425). Judgment on bond for supersedeas.—In case a bond have been
given for a supersedeas, the judgment of the supreme court, on affirming the judg
ment or decree of the court below, or on a dismissal of the appeal by the appellant
or the court, shall be for the money adjudged or decreed against appellant, and
damages and costs, or for the specific property and damages and costs, or for the
damages and costs, as the case may be, against all the obligors in the bond who
may be living at that time, and execution may be issued thereon accordingly; and.
if any of the obligors be dead, his representatives may be summoned to show cause
why judgment should not be rendered against them on the bond; and if good
cause be not shown to the contrary, judgment shall be entered against them in like
manner as against the living obligors, and certified to the court below, and execu
tion may be issued thereon.
4363 (1426). Judgment for costs only in certain cases.—If the appeal-bond
be only for costs, judgment shall be given against the obligors for costs of the
appeal, in case costs be adjudged against the appellant.
4364 (1427). Judgment certified to be enforced.—On receiving the certificate
of the clerk of the supreme court of the judgment of that court in any matter, it
shall be the duty of the clerk of the court below to issue the proper process to
enforce the judgment according to its terms.
4365 (1428). Bond may be excepted to.—The sufficiency of a bond in any
respect as a security, may be excepted to before the supreme court, or a judsre
thereof in vacation, on five days' notice to the opposite party, and, if the exception
be sustained and the security be not immediately perfected, the appeal shall cease
to operate as a supersedeas, and the supersedeas shall be discharged by order of the
court or judge, and execution may be issued on the judgment or decree appealed
from; and execution may be issued for all costs accrued in the supreme court and
the court below against the obligors in the bond, not to exceed the penalty as
against the sureties; and the supreme court may give judgment on the bond asm
other cases, as if the supersedeas had not been discharged. If necessary, a uevr
execution may be issued on the judgment, although one may have been issued on
the discharge of the supersedeas.
4366 (1429). Voluntary dismission of appeal.—If an appellant shall volun
tarily dismiss his appeal after the transcript of the record has been filed in the
956

SUPREME COUKT.

4367-4371

supreme court, he shall be liable to judgment by said court as in case of an affirm
ance of the judgment or decree.
4367 (1430). Criminal cases; sentence executed; counsel may prosecute
appeal.—The sentence of the supreme court in all criminal cases brought before it,
shall be executed in like manner as if passed by the court in which the prosecution
originated; and it shall not be necessary to bring any person charged with a crimi
nal offense before the supreme court; but his appeal may be prosecuted by counsel.
4368 (1431). Full time of sentence in case of affirmance.—In case of an
affirmance by the supreme court of a judgment for imprisonment, if the appellant
have remained in prison pending the appeal, the time of imprisonment shall be
credited to him, but if he have been on bail, the supreme court shall fix the time
for the commencement of his imprisonment, under the judgment of affirmance, so
as to cause him to suffer the full time of imprisonment fixed by the judgment of the
court below.
4369 (1432). Appearance to receive judgment in felony.—If the appellant
in a case of felony be on bail, he shall appear before the supreme court to receive
judgment, and, in case of an affirmance, he shall be committed by the court to the
custody of its officer, Avho shall deliver him to the warden of the penitentiary ; and
if the judgment of the court below be reversed, the appellant shall appear before
the circuit court to answer according to the condition of his bond, failing in which
he may be proceeded against as in any case of failure to appear, as obliged to do, in
the circuit court to answer upon a criminal charge.
4370 (1433). Judgment not to be reversed for certain errors.—A judgment
in a criminal case shall not be reversed because the transcript of the record does not
show a proper organization of the court below or of the grand jury, or where the
court was held, or that the prisoner was present in court during the trial or any part
of it, or that the court asked him if he had any thing to say why judgment should
not be pronounced against him upon the verdict, or because of any error or omis
sion in the case in the court below, unless the record show that the errors com
plained of were made ground of special exception in that court.
The observance of every rule for the protection of the accused is as essential now as before the statute
was passed. Its effect is simply*a presumption that the judgment of the lower court is correct, and that all
things were rightly done. The statute is constitutional. Ex parte Phillips, 57 Miss., 357; Spivey v. State, 58
Miss", 743; Fleming v. State, GO Miss., 434.
A case will not be reversed by reason of an omission from the record of even a jurisdictional fact. Hunt
v. State, 61 Miss., 577; Lea v. State, 64 Miss., 201.
The statute does not require a prisoner to except to actions or rulings which are in his favor. Whitten
v. State, 61 Miss., 717.
The statute does not operate in any case to supply proof that an offense has been committed, where the
defendant moves for a new trial because the verdict was contrary to the law and the evidence. Bryant v.
State, 65 Miss., 435.
4371 (1434). Proceedings on affirmance of sentence of death.—If the judg
ment be affirmed, on appeal, and the offense be punishable with death, the supreme
court shall name the day of execution, and remand the prisoner to the proper
county, if necessary; and the sheriff of the county where the prisoner shall have
been convicted shall execute the sentence. If the sentence be for confinement in
the penitentiary, and the defendant be not present, but in custody, the clerk of the
supreme court shall forthwith notify the warden of the penitentiary as in cases of
957

4372-4378

SUPREME COURT.

conviction for penitentiary offenses in the circuit court, who shall send for the con
vict as provided in such cases.
4372 (1435). Copy of sentence delivered to sheriff.—It shall be the duty ot
the clerk of the court to which the mandate of the supreme court for the execution
of a prisoner punishable by death is sent, forthwith to deliver to the sheriff of the
proper county a copy of the sentence, under the seal of his office, which shall be
the warrant of the sheriff for executing the convict.
4373 (143(3). Prisoner delivered to sheriff of proper county.—If any person
found guilty of a felony shall be in the penitentiary, and the judgment sentencing
him shall be reversed and a new trial ordered, he shall be sent to the jail of the
county in which he was tried by the warden of the penitentiary, and delivered to
the sheriff of the county.
4374. Supreme court clerk to give notice of reversals.—The clerk of the
supreme court shall, within five day's after the reversal of a judgment sentencing
any prisoner to the penitentiary, notify the warden of the penitentiary of the reversal,
unless it appear of record that the person so sentenced is not in his keeping.
4375 (1437). Failure of appellant on bond to appear in felony cases.—If
the appellant in a case of felony do not appear, according to the condition of his
bail-bond, before the supreme court to receive judgment, the court shall proceed as
a circuit court is required to do in case of a failure of a party bound to appear in
like cases, and may issue the proper process, and may render judgment, and enforce
it by execution, and may issue process to any county for the arrest of the appellant,
and have him brought before the court to receive judgment.
4376 (1438). The same; in misdemeanor cases.—If the judgment in acaseot
misdemeanor be affirmed, and the appellant shall not surrender himself to the proper
sheriff, according to the condition of his bail-bond, or shall not appear before the
circuit court as the case may require, said court shall proceed as in any other case
of forfeited bail-bond ; and all proper process shall be issued to enforce the judg
ment of the supreme court in the case by the clerk of the circuit court.
4377 (1439). The sheriff of Hinds county to receive prisoners.—The sheriff
of Hinds county shall receive and safely keep, according to the order of the supreme
court, all persons ordered into his custody; and shall be paid his fees therefore out
of the treasury of the proper county, or out of the state appropriation for the
judicial department, when certified by the supreme court.
4378 (1440). Appellant not entitled to reversal for error as to another—IQ
all cases, civil and criminal, a judgment or decree appealed from mayT be affirmed as
to some of the appellants and be reversed as to others ; and one of several appellants
shall not be entitled to a judgment of reversal because of an error in the judgment
or decree against another, not affecting his rights in the case. And when a judgment
or decree shall be affirmed as to some of the appellants and be reversed as to others,
the case shall thereafter be proceeded with, so far as necessary, as if separate suits
had been begun and prosecuted; and execution of the judgment of affirmance may
be had accordingly. Costs may be adjudged in such cases as the supreme court
shall deem proper.
A defendant in a judgment in attachment has no right to complain of errors in a judgment against a
garnishee therein who does not complain. Tabler v. Mitchell, 62 Miss., 437.
Statute applied. Terry v. Curd, G6 Miss., 394; Burks v. Burks, 66 Miss., 494.
958

supreme coukt.

4379-4383

4379 (1441). Judgments affirmed in part and reversed in part.—Where the
judgment appealed from is for property, real or personal, and damages, the supreme
court, finding the judgment to be erroneous as to the damages only, may affirm it as
to the property and' reverse and remand it for a new trial as to the damages, and
may adjudge the costs as may be proper.
4380 (1442). Final judgment to be certified to court below, etc.—Every final
judgment or decree rendered in any cause by the supreme court, shall.be certified
by the clerk thereof to the clerk of the court from which the cause was brought,
or to which it is remanded, within twenty days after the rendition of the judgment,
if the costs accrued in the supreme court shall be paid to him, including all costs
for which he may issue execution. And it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
below, on receiving the certificate, to issue the proper execution on the final judg
ment or decree, if the same be for the plaintifff in the original cause, for the amount
of money or other thing adjudged to the plaintifff, and all costs accrued in the court
below; and, if the judgment be rendered for the defendant in the original cause,
then, on receipt of the certificate, execution shall issue against the plaintifff in the
cause for the defendant's costs ; and if the clerk of the supreme court fail to issue
the certificate as required, he shall forfeit to the aggrieved party one hundred dol
lars, to be recovered by motion before the supreme court on five days' notice.
4381 (1443). Copy of opinion certified to court below.—In all cases in which
the supreme court shall reverse the judgment or decree of the court below, and
remand the cause to be proceeded with in such court, or remand a cause for further
proceedings, the clerk of the supreme court shall prepare and certify a copy of the
opinion of the supreme court in the case, and send it, with the certificate of the
judgment or decree rendered in the cause by the supreme court, to the clerk of the
court from which the cause was brought, or to which it may be remanded; and the
fees of the clerk for certifying the opinion shall be a part of the taxable costs of
the case in the supreme court; and the copy of the opinion furnished shall be pre
served by the clerk to whom it is delivered, for the use of the court and parties in
the case.
4382 (1444). Successful appellant liable for costs.—The appellant and the
sureties on his appeal-bond shall be liable for the costs of the transcript of the
record, and the summons to the opposite party to answer the appeal, and the cost
of publication to a non-resident appellee, when made, and for all costs which accrue
in the supreme court, or in the execution of its process, even though the appeal be
prosecuted to effect. And if the costs taxed shall not be made out of the party
against whom they may be adjudged, execution may be issued against appellant
and the sureties on his appeal-bond for all costs.
4383 (1445). The clerk of the supreme court.—The clerk of the supreme
court, before he enters on the discharge of the duties of his office, shall take the
oath prescribed in the constitution, and enter into bond with at least two sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the court, or in vacation by two of the judges, payable
to the state, in the penalty of five thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful per
formance of the duties of his office. The bond shall be recorded in the minutes of
the court, and immediately thereafter deposited and filed in the office of the secre
tary of state.
959

4384-4388

SUPREME COURT.

4384 (1446). Duties of clerk.— The clerk shall carefully keep a minute of the
proceedings of the court for each day, drawn up at large in a record-book to be
kept by him for that purpose; he shall seasonably record the judgments, decrees,
orders, and decisions of the court ; he shall safely keep all records, files, books, and
papers committed to his charge, and also all presses and furniture belonging to his
office, and deliver such records, files, books, papers, presses, and furniture to his
successor in office ; and in case of refusal or failure to deliver whatever belongs to
his office to his successor, his bond may be put in suit by the attorney-general ; he
shall prepare for any person demanding the same a certified copy of any paper,
record, decree, judgment, or entry on file in his office, proper to be certified, for the
fees preseribed by law. The transcript filed in the supreme court, the process in
each case, and the judgment or decree of the court, thereon, shall be the final record
in the cause, and certified as such by the clerk whenever an exemplification of the
judgment or decree of the court may be required.
4385 (1447). How civil dockets kept.—It shall be the duty of the clerk of the
supreme court to make out and keep three dockets of civil cases pending in or
which may be brought to the court, one for each district, and to place 011 the docket
of each district all civil cases in the order they may be brought up from the coun
ties composing the district; but civil cases in which the state is a party shall be
placed on the docket of the district in which the seat of government is located.
4386. Criminal docket, etc. —The clerk shall keep a docket of criminal cases,
on which he shall enter all criminal Cases brought before the court iu the order in
which they may be seut up or certified; and he shall keep such other dockets as
may be deemed proper by the court.
4387 (1451). Officers to attend the court.—The supreme court may, by order
entered on its minutes, appoint a marshal and a porter, who shall hold their places
during the pleasure of the court, and shall attend its sessions, and perform all the
duties of a sheriff and deputies attending a court, and shall obey all lawful orders
of the court; aud the marshal maybe allowed by the court for his services not
exceeding forty dollars a month during the terms of the court, and the porter not
more than two hundred dollars per annum, payable monthly, or as may be ordered
by the court ; and when an allowance shall be entered on the minutes of the court,
and be certified by the clerk to the auditor of public accounts, he shall issue his
warrant therefore, payable out of the appropriation for the judicial department.
4388 (1452, 1453). Court may require sheriff of Hinds county to attend —
The supreme court may at any time require the sheriff" of Hinds county, with a
competent number of deputies, to attend and perform all lawful orders of the court;
and, for any failure in this, after notice of the requirement by the court, the sheriff
may be punished by the court for a contempt ; and for attending the court, he shall
he allowed two dollars a day for each person so attending, to be paid as the marshal
and porter are paid. And at all times, when proper, the court shall dispense with
the services of a marshal and require the said sheriff to perform all its duties.

960

TRIAL OP RIGHT OP PROPERTY.

4421-4425

4421. On lands held by the state.—All the provisions of this chapter giving a
penalty for cutting down, deadening, girdling, boxing, destroying, or taking away
trees of any kind herein mentioned, and regulating the remedy for enforcing the
same, shall apply when the injury is committed on land belonging to the state, or
which is held by the state in trust for any purpose.
4422 (989). To fences, bars, gates, bridges, buildings.—If any person shall
put down any fence or bars, or open any gate, not his own, and leave the same
down or open, without the permission of the owner, or shall in any manner injure
or deface any bridge, building, or other structure not his own, he shall pay to the
owner twenty dollars for every such offense, and shall be liable for all damages
• that may have resulted from such act.
4423 (2816). By firing woods.—If any person shall set on tire any lands of
another, or shall wantonly, negligently, or carelessly allow any fire to get into the
lands of another, he shall be liable to the person injured thereby, not only for the
injury to or destruction of buildings, fences, and the like, but for the burning and
injury of trees, timber, and grass, and damage to the range as well; and shall more
over be liable to a penalty of one hundred and fifty dollars in favor of the owner.
4424 (961, 962, 963, 964, 965, 966, 968). The remedy, when barred, and effect
of a recovery; plaintifff may claim less.-rAn action for any specific penalty given
by this chapter, may be prosecuted in any court of competent jurisdiction within
twelve months from the time the injury was committed, and not after; and a
recovery of any penalty herein given shall not be a bar to any action for further
damages, or to any criminal prosecution for any such offense as herein enumerated.
A party, if he so elect, may, under any of the provisions of this chapter, claim less
than the penalty given.
The statute runs against infants. Miller v. Wesson, 58 Miss., 831.
The remedy, under the statute, is an action of debt, and a count for the value of trees cut may be joined
with one for the statutory penalty. Miller v. Wesson, 58 Miss., 831.
The plaintifff's ownership of the trees or land may be tried in the action for the statutory penalty. Miller
v. Wesson, 58 Miss., 831.
That the defendant was in the adverse possession of the land under claim and color of title, when he
cut the trees, is of itself no defense to the demand for the statutory penalty. Miller v. Wesson, 58 Miss., 831.

CHAPTER 139.
TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.
4425 (1774). Claim of property levied on; how interposed.—When any per
son not a part}* to the execution shall claim to be the owner of or to have a lien on
any personal property levied upon, such person may make affidavit to his right or
title to the property, and may enter into bond, payable to the plaintifff" in the execu
tion, with one or more sufficient sureties, in the penalty of double the value of the
property claimed, or in double the amount of the execution, if that be less than the
value of the property, to be estimated by the officer holding the execution, and
indorsed thereon, conditioned for the' prosecution of the claim with effect, or, in
case of failure therein, for the payment to the plaintifff in the execution of all dam
967

4426-4429

TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.

ages that may be awarded against the claimant, and for the delivery of the property
to the proper officer ; and upon the making of the affidavit and bond, the officer hold
ing the execution shall receive the same, and shall deliver the property to the claim
ant, and return the affidavit and bond with the execution. The claim may be inter
posed without giving bond, and the same proceedings be had thereon, except that
the property claimed shall not be delivered to the claimant, but shall be sold, as
provided in case of property of like kind seized in replevin, or, if not such as should
be sold, shall be held by the officer. The bond of the claimant shall stand as security
to the parties to the action, and judgment may be rendered on it according to the
exigency.
If the claim be dismissed by the court for failure to file the proper affidavit, the dismissal is a determina-.
tion of the claim, and a failure to deliver the property a breach of the claimant's bond. Higdon v. Vaughn,
58 Miss., 572.
A claim cannot be maintained for an undivided interest in personalty. Willis v. Loeb, 59 Miss., 169.
The court from which the execution issued alone has jurisdiction of the claimant's issue. Clark v.
Clinton, 61 Miss., 337.
The statute does not apply to a special execution in replevin. Andrews v. McLeod, 66 Miss.. 348.
4426 (1775). Execution stayed for value of property claimed, unless, etc.—
Further proceedings on the execution shall be stayed for an amount equal to the
value of the property claimed, as returned by the officer, until final decision of the
claim ; and on all subsequent executions issued on the judgment prior to the final
decision of the claim, the clerk shall indorse the amount of the estimated value for
the government of the officer to whom the same mayT be directed; but the plaintifff
may dismiss the levy, and have execution as if it were never made.
4427 (1774). Issue to be made up.—Upon the return of the execution with the
affidavit and bond, if any, the court shall, on motion of the plaintifff in execution,
direct an issue to be made up between the parties to try the right of property at the
same term, unless good cause be shown for a continuance.
Where several executions are levied, there should be separate issues, trials, and judgments. McAnulty
v. Bingaman, 6 How. (Miss.), 382.
If an issue be made and a trial had, it will be presumed to have. been made under the direction of the
court. McAnulty v. Bingaman, 6 How. (Miss.), 382; Phillips v. Cooper, 50 Miss., 722.
After a levy upon property claimed by a third party, subsequent levies upon other property to the full
amount of the execution, though irregular, will not affect the original levy. Davis v. Netterville, 68 Miss., 429.
4428 (1776). Default in making up issue.—If by default of the plaintifff in
execution an issue for the trial of the right of property be not made up at the term
to which the execution is returnable, the court shall discharge the claimant from his
bond, and the property shall not thereafter be subject to execution on plaintifff's
judgment; but if the claimant fail to join issue when tendered at the first term, the
court, at the instance of the plaintifff in execution, shall order a writ of inquiry as
to the value of the property, and also to inquire whether or not the claim was made
for fraudulent purposes or for purposes of delay.
It is the duty of the plaintifff to see that the sheriff returns the execution with the claimant's affidavit
and bond, if any, by a day early enough to have an issue made up and tried at the return-term of the execu
tion. Sears v. Gunter, 39 Miss., 338.
4429 (1777). Burden of proof on plaintifff, and trial.—On the trial of the
issue, the burden of proof shall be on the plaintifff in execution, and the issue shall
be tried as in ordinary actions at law, and either party shall have the same rights as
in other trials; and the jury trying the issue, in case it find in favor of the plaintifff
968

TKIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.

4430-4431

in execution, shall assess the value of the property subject to the execution, and
shall certify whether the claim was made for fraudulent purposes or for delay. The
valuation of the officer taking the bond of the claimant shall be prima facie evi
dence of the valuation of the property; and in case the jury fail to find the value
of the property, the plaintifff may, at his election, take judgment for the value as
returned by the officer, or have a writ of inquiry.
The jury must assess the separate value of each article. Penrice v. Cocks, 1 How. (Miss.), 227; Walker
v. Commissioners, 1 Smed. & M., 372; Pritchard v. Myers, 3 Smed. & M., 42; Kibble v. Butler, 14 Smed. &
M., 207.
On the trial the execution and levy is a necessary part of the plaintifff's evidence. Ross v. Qarey, 7 How.
(Miss.), 47.
The affidavit is not a part of the record unless made so by a bill of exceptions. Ross v. Garey, 7 How.
(Miss.), 47.
The value is to be fixed as of the day of trial. Selser v. Ferriday, 13 Smed. & M., 698.
If the plaintifff fail to show that the properly is liable to his execution, he cannot recover, even though
claimant have no title. Ross v. Garey, 7 How. (Miss.), 47; Thornhill v. Gilmer, 4 Smed. & M., 153; Selser
v. Ferriday, 13 Smed. & M., 698.
On the trial of the issue, the judgment of the plaintifff against the defendant in attachment is a part of
the record, and need not be offered in evidence. French v. Sale, 60 Miss., 516.
It is error to instruct the jury that the judgment sustaining the attachment is prima facie evidence against
the claimant, and places the burden of proof on him t» show that he is a bona fide purchaser. The burden is
always on the plaintifff to show that the goods are liable to his attachment. Ott v. Smith, 68 Miss., 773.
4430 (1778). The judgment, etc.—If the verdict be in favor of the plaintifff,
either on an issue joined or on an inquiry by default, or in case the plaintifff take
judgment by default and elect to take the value as returned by the officer, the court
shall render judgment against the claimant and the sureties on his bond, for the
restoration of the specific property to the officer, if to be had, and, if not, for the
payment of its value, not exceeding the amount of the original judgment, to the
plaintifff', and all costs; and if the jury find that the claim was made for fraudulent
purposes, or for delay, the judgment shall also award the plaintifff ten per centum
damages on the value of the property. If the property be restored to the officer, it
shall be sold, under a venditioni exponas to be issued for that purpose, as if the
claim had not been made. If bond be not given, and the property or its proceeds
be in the hands of the officer, the judgment may be modified accordingly. If the
verdict be in favor of the claimant, he shall recover his costs, the levy shall be
amoved, the claimant shall be discharged from his bond, and the property shall
not thereafter be subject to execution on plaintifff's judgment.
The jury should not find that the claim was sued out for fraudulent purposes or delay unless there be
evidence to that effect. McAnulty v. Bingaman, 6 How. (Miss.), 382.
The sureties on a claimant's bond cannot assign errors in the suit between the plaintifff and his debtor.
Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 741; Higdon v. Vaughan, 58 Miss., 572.
If the plaintifff succeed as to a part of the property he is entitled to recover costs. Clark v. Parker, 63
Miss.. 549.
The sureties subject themselves to the authority of the court. They are parties to the suit, not in the sense
of participating in the litigation between the plaintifff and the claimant, but they may show any reason good
in law why the bond should not be forfeited. Atkinson v. Foxworth, 53 Miss., 741.
If a claim be interposed by a trustee in a deed in trust, the plaintifff may prove that the deed in trust was
satisfied pending the suit; and in that case he should have judgment for the property, without costs which
accrued before the satisfaction. Helm v. Gray, 59 Miss., 54.
4431 (1779, 1780). Laws applicable in case of death.—All the provisions of
law in reference to the death of either party, and the revival of the cause, in per
sonal actions, and the death of any of the obligors in a bond given in the progress
of a cause, and the proceedings thereon before or after judgment, shall apply to
969

4432-4436

TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.

proceedings under this chapter; but in case the claimant shall die before judgment,
and there be no representative of his estate, judgment shall be entered against the
sureties on his bond for the property, or the value thereof as assessed by the sherifl,
or to be found by the verdict of a jury empaneled to inquire of the same, at the
option of the plaintifff, with interest on such value from the date of the claimant's
bond.
4432 (1781). New bond may be required. —If the sureties on the claimant's
bond shall become insufficient, the court, on motion of the plaintifff, may require
the claimant to give a new bond or to surrender to the officer the property claimed.
If new bond be given, the sureties thereon shall be jointly liable with the sureties
on the first bond, but if the claimant fail to give a new bond and to surrender the
property, judgment shall be rendered against him and the sureties on his bond as
by default. If the claimant surrender the property as required, the sureties ou the
bond given shall thereby be discharged, and the cause shall be proceeded with as if
the officer had retained the property in the first instance.
4433 (1782). Venue changed in certain cases.—If the claimant shall not be a
resident of the county in which the execution is . issued, and the property be levied
on in the county of his residence, the venue for the trial of the issue may be
changed, on his application, to the circuit court of the county of his residence, and
the result shall be certified to the court.
4434 (2227). Proceedings in justice's court. —If the claim be interposed in a
court of a justice of the peace, on filing the affidavit and bond, or the affidavit, if
a bond be not given, the justice shall fix a day for the trial, and give notice thereof
to the parties.
The justice of the peace has jurisdiction to try the claim to property levied on under execution from his
court, although the value of the property exceed two hundred dollars. Clark v. Clinton, 61 Miss., 337; Bernheiraer v. Martin, 66 Miss , 486.
4435 (2257). Form of a claimant's affidavit.—A claimant's affidavit may be
in the following form, viz. :
" State of Mississippi,
County:
"Before me,
, a justice of the peace of said county,
makes oath
that a certain
[here describe the property], levied on by virtue of an execu
tion in favor of
against
, issued by
, a justice of the peace of
said county, on the
day of
, A.D.
, and now in the hands of
1
a
of
county, under said execution, is the property of affiant, and is
not the property of
.
•
" Sworn to and subscribed before me,
, A.D.
.
, J. P."
4436 (2258). Form of a claimant's bond.—A claimant's bond may be in the
following form, viz. :
"We,
, principal, and
and
, sureties, bind ourselves to pay
dollars, unless the said
shall prosecute with effect his claim to
a
[here describe the property], levied on by virtue of an execution issued on
the
day of
, A.D.
, by
court of
county, in favor of
against
, returnable before the
court on the
day of
■
, A.D.
, and valued at
dollars; or, in case he fail therein, shall
pay to the said
all such damages as may- be awarded against the said
■>
970

TRUSTS AND COMBINES.

4437-4439

in case his claim shall not be sustained, and shall deliver the same property to the
officer having said execution, if the claim thereto shall be determined against the
said
.
" Witness our hands, this
day of
, A.D.
.
<i _____

"I approve the foregoing bond and sureties, this the

day of

, A.D.
, Sheriff."

CHAPTER 140.
TRUSTS AND COMBINES.
4437. Definition of term; criminal conspiracy,—A trust and combine is a
combination, contract, understanding, or agreement, express or implied, between
two or more persons, corporations, or firms or associations of persons, or between
one or more of either with one or more of the others—
(a) In restraint of trade ;
(b) To limit, increase, or reduce the price of a commodity;
(c) To limit, increase, or reduce the production or output of a commodity;
(d) Intended to hinder competition in the production, importation, manufacture,
transportation, sale, or purchase of a commodity;
(e) To engross or forestall a commodity;
(/) To issue, own, or hold the certificates of stock of any trust or combine;
(g) To place the control, to any extent, of business or of the products or earn
ings thereof, in the power of trustees, by whatever name called;
(A) By which any other person than themselves, their proper officers, agents,
and employes shall, or shall have the power to dictate or control the management
of business; or
(i) To unite or pool interests in the importation, manufacture, production, trans
portation, or price of a commodity ;
And is inimical to the public welfare, unlawful, and a criminal conspiracy. But
this shall not apply to the associations of those engaged in husbandry in their deal
ings with commodities in the hands of the producer, nor to the societies of artisans,
employes, and laborers formed for the benefit and protection of their members.
4438. Contracts void.—Every contract or agreement to enter into or pursue
any trust and combine, and every contract or agreement made by another with any
trust and combine, or with any member of a trust and combine, for any purpose rela
tive to the business of such trust and combine, is void, and cannot be enforced in
any court.
4439. Corporations forfeit their charters.—Every corporation which shall
enter into, be concerned in, or share the profit or loss of any trust and combine, shall
forfeit its charter and franchise, and, if a foreign corporation, shall forfeit its right
to do business in this state.
971


