[Chap. 7.

SUPREME COURT.

102

librarian, and such other officers not pertaining to their o\ra organiza
tion, as may be elective by the legislature, shall be elected on the
third Monday of the session, when the legal term of any incumbent
has expired, or is about to expire, at a joint meeting, or convention,
of both houses, at twelve o'clock, meridian, of that day, in the hall of
the house of representatives, to be presided over by the president of
the senate ; provided, that a state printer shall be elected on the first
Monday after the approval of this chapter, for the unexpired term.
§ 398. The election shall be viva voce, and the majority of the
members present (if a quorum of both houses attend), shall elect ;
and an adjournment may be had, if necessary, to enter upon or com
plete such election ; and the person elected shall immediately proceed
to qualify, as required by law, and enter upon the discharge of his
duties, upon the expiration of the term of the incumbent.
§ 399. The state printer, keeper of the capitol, and the librarian,
shall be elected biennially, and they shall each continue in office until
their successors shall have been elected and qualified.
§ 400. Vacancies in the office of public printer, keeper of the
capitol, and the librarian, shall be filled by the legislature, in the same
manner for the unexpired term, and in vacation of the legislature, by
the governor, until such session.
§ 401. This chapter shall take effect, and be in force, from and
after its passage.
Approved May 13th, 1871.

CHAPTER

7.

AX ACT IN RELATION TO THE SUPREME COURT.

Article I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.

Districts.
Powers of the Judges.
The terms of the Court.
Jurisdiction and Practice.
The Clerk.
The Reporter.

Chap. 7.]

districts—powers op the judges.

103

ARTICLED.
DISTRICTS.
§ 402. The state shall be divided into three supreme court districts,
as follows, to-wit :
The counties of Warren, Hinds, Rankin, Scott, Newton, Lauderdale,
Kemper, Neshoba, Leake, Madison, Yazoo, Issaquena, Washington,
Bolivar, Sunflower, Holmes, Attala, Winston, and Noxubee, shall con
stitute the first district.
The counties of Claiborne, Copiah, Simpson, Smith, Jasper, Clarke,
Wayne, Covington, Jones, Perry, Greene, Marion, Hancock, Jackson,
Harrison, Adams, Jefferson, Amite, Wilkinson, Lawrence, Pike, Lin
coln, and Franklin, shall constitute the second district.
And the counties of Lafayette, Lowndes, Oktibbeha, Choctaw,
Carroll, Tallahatchie, Yalobusha, Chickasaw, Monroe, Itawamba,
Pontotoc, Panola, Coahoma, Tunica, DeSoto, Marshall, Tippah, Lee,
Tishomingo, Calhoun, Prentiss, Alcorn, Grenada, Benton, and Union,
shall constitute the third district.
§ 403. A judge for each of the districts created by this act shall
be appointed, in the manner prescribed in the constitution, whose term
of office shall commence on the day of the date of his commission,
and continue for the term prescribed by the constitution.

ARTICLE H.
POWERS OP THF JUDGES.
§ 404. The judges of the supreme court may severally grant writs
of error if applied to, to the judgment of any interior court or tribu
nal, from which a writ of error lies to the supreme court; they may
grant writs of supersedeas ; they may grant writs of certiorari / they
may grant appeals from interlocutory decrees in chancery, when by
such decree money is to be paid, or the possession of property is to
be changed, or when such appeal is necessary, to settle the principles
of the cause ; provided, such appeal shall have been refused by the
chancery court, or by the judge thereof in vacation; they may allow
a petition of appeal, and if necessary, a supersedeas from the final
decree of any chancery court, at any time within two years after the
same shall have been pronounced ; they may grant writs of habeas
corpus, returnable either before the judge granting such writ, or before
any other judge or officer authorized to try the same ; they may grant
injunctions and writs of ne exeat, and attachments, and all other

104

THE TERMS OF THE COURT.

[Chap. 7.

remedial process allowed by law, returnable to the proper court,
always imposing the proper terms and conditions on all parties apply
ing for any writ or process; they may take acknowledgments and
proofs of all deeds conveying land, and all instruments which are
necessary to be acknowledged or proved ; they may solemnize the rites
of matrimony ; they are conservators of the peace, and may issue the
proper warrants against offenders, and sit as a court of inquiry, and
take all proper recognizances; they may administer the oath of office
to any officer elect, and all other oaths necessary and proper to be
administered.

ARTICLE HI.
THE TERMS OF THE COURT.
§ 405. The judges of the supreme court shall hold a court twice
in each year, at the city of Jackson, to be styled " the supreme court,"
and the terms shall commence on the third Mondays of April and
October, and the judges are required to keep said court open for the
dispatch of business, for at least nine months in every year, if the
business therein should require.
§ 406. The docket of the first district shall be taken up at the
October term, and the cases thereon shall be called and disposed of
until the third Monday in December thereafter, when the docket of
the third district shall be taken up, and the cases thereon shall be called
and disposed of until the third Monday of February, when the docket
of the second district shall be taken up, and called until the first Mon
day in April ; and at the April term the dockets of the several dis
tricts, or such of them as most require it, shall be taken up and dis
posed of, as may be ordered by the court, or the clerk thereof, if the
court should fail to make the order ; and notice of the order in which
the dockets will be taken up, according to such order, shall be pub
lished by the clerk, in two newspapers published in Jackson, for the
period of one month ; when the business of the court will permit, the
supreme court shall have power to alter the times fixed for taking up
the dockets of the second and third districts, and so to arrange the
same as, in their opinion, the public convenience may require.
§ 407. If, at the commencement of any regular term, a quorum of
the judges shall not be present, it shall be the duty of the sheriff of
Hinds county (who is the proper officer of the court), or his deputy,
to adjourn the court from day to day, for twelve judicial days, within
which time, if a quorum of the judges should appear, the court may
go on with its session ; but if there should be a failure of the term, it
shall be the duty of the judges, or any two of them, to order a special

Chap. 7.]

JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.

105

term, at such time as they may appoint ; notice of which shall be pub
lished in two newspapers, published in the city of Jackson, for thirty
days ; and after a term has regularly commenced, the court, or any one
or more of the judges, if more than one be present, may adjourn the
court from day to day, or from time to time, as may be necessary and
proper; and there shall be no discontinuance of any suit, process,
matter or thing, returned or depending in said court, because a suffi
cient number of judges shall not attend at the commencement of the
term, or at any other day to" which the court may have been adjourned ;
and in case a quorum of the judges should not be present at any day
to which the court may have been adjourned, during any term, a fur
ther adjournment may be ordered.
§ 408. The first day of each term shall be the return day in the
said court, to which all appeals, executions, and all other process issu
ing therefrom, or by the clerk thereof, in the preceding vacation, or
during the preceding term, shall be returnable, unless otherwise
ordered by rule of court ; and all officers failing to return such execu
tions on the return day, or to pay over money collected thereon may,
on motion, be made liable for such failure, as in case of failure to
return executions, or to pay over money thereon in the circuit courts ;
and it shall be the duty of the sheriff of Hinds county, with a com
petent number of deputies, to attend said court, and perform all the
duties of officer thereof; for a failure to perform which he may be
punished by fine ; and if the sheriff or his deputies should fail to
attend at the proper time, the court may appoint a special officer to
discharge the duties.

ARTICLE IV.
JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.
§ 409. The supreme court shall have such jurisdiction as properly
belongs to a supreme court, and shall hear and determine all manner
of pleas, plaints, motions, causes and controversies, civil and criminal,
which are now pending therein, or which may be brought before it
from any circuit court, chancery court, or other inferior tribunal, from
which, by law, a cause can be removed, either by appeal or other legal
means, and which shall be cognizable in said supreme court, according
to the constitution and laws of this state; but no cause shall be
removed into said court, by appeal or otherwise, until after final
judgment in the court below, except in cases particularly provided
for by law.

106

JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.

[CHAP. 7.

§ 410. Any party, plaintifff or defendant, to any judgment of any
inferior tribunal, from which a cause may be taken to the supreme
court, desiring to have such judgment reviewed by the supreme
court, may petition the clerk of the court, where such judgment or
decree was rendered, for an appeal ; such appeal shall operate as a
supersedeas, only when the party applying for the same shall enter
into bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
clerk granting the same, payable to the adverse party, in double the
amount of the judgment, or in double th« value of the personal prop
erty recovered in the court below, conditioned for the prosecution of
the appeal to effect, or in case of failure, for the payment or perform
ance of the judgment, decree or sentence of the supreme court; and
no supersedeas shall be granted in any case abready pending in the
supreme court, unless the party applying for the same shall execute
bond, as above required; and no appeal shall be granted on a judg
ment by confession.
§ 411. Any party, plaintifff or defendant, to any judgment of any
inferior tribunal, from which a cause may be taken to the supreme
court, desiring to have such judgment reviewed by the supreme court,
may apply by petition to any judge thereof for a writ of error, or
may petition the clerk of the court, where such judgment or decree
was rendered, for the issuance of a writ of error, which writ it shall be
the duty of such clerk to issue ; such writ of error shall operate as a
supersedeas, only when the party applying for the same shall enter
into bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
judge or clerk granting the same, payable to the adverse party, in
double the amount of the judgment, or in double the value of the
personal property recovered in the court below, conditioned for the
prosecution of the writ of error to effect, or in case of failure, for the
payment or performance of the judgment, decree or sentence of the
supreme court; and no supersedeas shall be granted in any case
already pending in the supreme court, unless the party applying for
the same shall execute bond as above required ; and no writ of error
shall be granted on a judgment by confession. This section shall
only extend to civil cases.
§ 412. The sufficiency of any surety taken on any bond, for a
supersedeas, may be excepted to before the supreme court, or any
judge thereof, in vacation, on ten days' notice to the opposite party;
and if such exceptions be sustained, and the security be not immedi
ately perfected, such appeal shall cease to operate as a supersedeas,
and the supersedeas shall be discharged by order of the court, or the
judge, and execution may immediately issue on the original judg
ment ; but the supreme court may, notwithstanding, give judgment
on the bond, as in other cases, for the amount of the judgment, dam
ages, and costs, and, if necessary, a new execution may be issued
thereon, although one may have been issued on the discharge of the
supersedeas.

Chap. 7.]

JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.

107

§ 413. The supreme court shall hear and determine all cases
properly brought before it, according to law, at the return term,
unless cause be shown for a continuance; and in case the judgment,
sentence, or decree of the court below shall be reversed, the supreme
court shall render such judgment, sentence, or decree, as the court
below should have rendered, except it be necessary, in consequence of
its decision, that some matter of fact be ascertained, or damages be
assessed by a jury, or where the matter to be determined be uncer
tain ; in either of which casefs the'suit, action, or prosecution, shall be
remanded to the court from which it was brought, for a final decision.
§ 414. In case the judgment of the court below shall be affirmed,
or the appellant, or plaintifff in error, shall fail to prosecute the same
to effect, the supreme court shall enter up judgment against the
appellant for the debt, with five per cent, damages thereon, and costs ;
and in case any bond may have been given for an appeal, or superse
deas, the judgment shall be for the debt, damages, and costs, against
all the obligors in such bond, who may be living at the time ; and to
that end it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court in which the
bond may be filed, to transmit a certified copy of such bond to the
supreme court, with the record in such cause ; and if any of said obli
gors be dead, a scire facias may issue against his representatives, to
appear and show cause why the judgment should not be entered up
against them ; and on the return of such scire facias, executed, if no
sufficient cause shall be shown to the contrary, judgment shall be
entered against such representatives in like manner, as against the
obligors who may be living. And it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the court below, on the certificate of the clerk of the supreme court,
to issue execution on the judgment of affirmance, for the debt, dam
ages, and costs ; and in case any party who has given bond shall
voluntarily dismiss his appeal, or writ qf error, after the record has
been filed, if he be defendant below, he shall pay to the appellee, or
defendant in error, five percent, damages on the amount of the judg
ment below, which may be recovered by action on the bond ; and if no
bond was given, he shall be liable to the same damages, to be recov
ered by action of debt.
§ 415. In case the judgment be for specific personal property, the
damages may be assessed on the value of such property, as the same
appears in the record; and the court may render judgment against
the defendant and his sureties for the specific property, and may
remand the cause, as to the damages, to be ascertained in the court
below, on the trial of an issue, and execution may issue for the prop
erty, as in other cases, and afterwards another execution for the
damages ; and in like manner damages may be assessed on a judgment
for mesne profits of real estate.
§ 416. Every final judgment or decree, rendered in any cause by
the supreme court, shall be certified by the clerk of said court to the
clerk of the court from which the cause was brought, within twenty

108

JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.

Chap. 7.]

days after the rendition of the judgment, together with the damages,
if any ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court from which
the cause was removed, on receiving such certificate, to issue the
proper execution on such final judgment or decree, if the same be for
the plaintifff in the original cause, for the amount of money, or other
things, adjudged to the plaintifff, and all costs accrued in the court
below ; and, if the judgment be rendered for the defendant in the
original cause, then, on the receipt of the certificate as aforesaid,
execution shall issue against the plaintifff in the cause, for the defend
ant's costs; and if the clerk of the supreme court fail to issue the
certificate as herein required, he shall forfeit to the aggrieved party
one hundred dollars, to be recovered by motion before the supreme
court, on five days' notice of such motion.
§ 417. The sentence of the supreme court, in all criminal cases
brought before it, shall be executed in like manner as if such sentence
had been passed by the court in which the prosecution originated ;
and it shall not be necessary to bring any person charged with any
criminal offense, before the supreme court ; but such appeal or writ
of error may be prosecuted by the counsel of the accused.
§ 418. In all cases where an appeal has been taken, or a writ of
error issued upon the judgment of any inferior court to the supreme
court, if the copy of the record in the court below shall not be
filed with the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the first or
return day of the term, to which such appeal or writ of error was
returnable by law, or by rule of court, it shall be lawful for the court,
on motion of the appellee, or defendant in error, to dismiss such appeal
or writ of error, the party moving for such dismissal, producing a
copy of the citation properly served, or a certificate of the clerk belowj
that an appeal or writ of error has been taken ; but such cause may
be reinstated at any time during the term, if the party can show that
the failure to file the record was not the result of laches or neglect on
his part; and the court may dispose of cases brought up for delay out
of their proper order.
§ 419. After the dismissal of any appeal, writ of error, or super
sedeas, by the supreme court, no other appeal, writ of error, or
supersedeas, shall be granted in the same cause, so as to bring it again
before the court.
§ 420. The judges of the supreme court shall choose from among
themselves, a chief justice, or presiding judge, and enter the same
of record; and in case of his absence, the senior judge in commis
sion, shall preside; and in all important cases, or cases settling
important principles, and in cases to be remanded, the opinion of the
court shall be in writing, stating the reasons upon which the decision
is made, which shall be recorded by the clerk, in a well bound book,
to be kept for that purpose, for which he shall receive ten cents for
every hundred words, payable half yearly, out of the state treasury,

Chap. 7.]

jurisdiction and practice.

109

on the certificate of any one of the judges, that the service has been
performed, and that the account is just.
§ 421. For preventing errors in entering up judgments, decrees,
orders, and decisions, the court shall cause the minutes of the pro
ceedings of each day, to be drawn up at large by the clerk, and to be
read in open court the next day, except those of the last day of the
term, which shall be read the same day, and any errors may then be
corrected, and the minutes of each day shall be signed by the chief
justice or presiding judge.
§ 422. The supreme court may punish any person for contempt of
the court, by fine or imprisonment, or by both ; but imprisonment for
a contempt shall not extend beyond six days.
§ 423. The supreme court shall continue to use the seal now in use
in the said court, unless it shall become necessary to procure a new
one, in which case the court may order a new seal, with like device, to
be paid for out of the treasury of the state, on the certificate of any
one of the judges, that the account therefore is just and true, and the
seal shall be affixed to all process, records, certificates, and other
instruments issuing from said court.
§ 424. The supreme court shall make allowances to the clerk for
all needful sums for supplying the office with necessary books and
presses, for preserving the records, and for the safe-keeping of the
books and papers belonging to the office, which allowance, being cer
tified to the auditor of public accounts by any one of the judges,
shall be paid out of the treasury of the state. And the court shall,
annually, appoint one of the judges thereof to inspect the clerk's
office, and the records and papers thereof, who shall report to the next
term of the court, the condition of the office ; which report shall be
recorded.
§ 425. If either the appellant or plaintifff in error, or the appellee
or defendant in error, should die, after the case has been removed
to the supreme court, and before the decision thereof, the suit shall
not abate, but the legal representatives of such deceased parties may
come voluntarily and make themselves parties, and have the cause
revived in their names ; and if they should fail to do so, they may be
brought in by scire facias ; and in like manner may the representa
tives of any co-plaintifff or co-defendant, who may die pending the
suit, be brought in, or come in, and make themselves parties, and the
cause shall proceed for or against them, jointly with the surviving
plaintifff or defendant.
§ 426. The supreme court shall have power to make such rules in
respect to making out records for said court, as may be expedient; to
exclude unnecessary matter therefrom, so as to save costs, and may en
force such rules by proper fines, or by refusal to allow costs to be taxed
to the clerks below, on records not made out according to the rales ;
and said court may prescribe the mode of pleading in causes, civil and

110

THE CLERK.

[Chap. 7.

criminal therein, and the manner of trying the same, and may also
establish, such rules of practice and proceedings therein as may be
deemed necessary and proper, for certainty and dispatch of business,
and may dismiss causes for non-compliance with any of the rules;
provided, such rules be not inconsistent with the laws of the state.

ARTICI.E V.
THE CLERK.
£ 427. The clerk now in office shall continue to hold the same,
until the expiration of four years from the time of his appointment ;
and thereafter the supreme court shall appoint a clerk every
four years, in the following manner: In term time, the appoint
ment shall be made by an order, entered of record in the proceedings
of the court; and before the person so appointed enters on the dis
charge of the duties of his office he shall take the oath prescribed in
the constitution, in open court, and shall enter into bond, with two
sureties, to be approved by the court, payable to the State of Missis
sippi, in the penalty of five thousand dollars, conditioned for the
faithful performance of all the duties of his office required by law,
which bond shall be recorded in the minutes of the court, and imme
diately thereafter be deposited in the office of the secretary of state. In
vacation, the appointment shall be made by commission, under the
hands and seals of a majority of the judges of said court, who shall
also approve the sureties in the bond, which shall be executed by the
person so appointed, and shall endorse the approval thereon ; and the
proper oath may be administered by any one of the judges, who shall
endorse a certificate thereof on the commission; and the judges shall
cause the bond to be recorded and filed in the office of the secretary of
state, as a bond given in term time is required to be recorded and filed.
An authenticated copy of any such bond shall be received in evidence
in any court of law or equity in the state, as though the original were
produced. The clerk shall be subject to removal, at the pleasure of a
majority of the judges of said court, who shall in like manner appoint
his successor for the unexpired term.
§ 428. The clerk shall carefully keep a minute of the proceedings
of the court for each day, drawn up at large in a record book, to be
kept by him for that purpose ; he shall seasonably record the judg
ments, decrees, orders and decisions of the court ; he shall safely keep
all records, files, books and papers committed to his charge ; and also
all presses and furniture belonging to his office, and deliver such
records, files, books, papers, presses and furniture to his successor in
office ; and in case of refusal or failure to deliver whatever belongs to

Chap. 7.]

THE CLERK.

Ill

his office, to his successor, his bond may be put in suit by the attorney
general ; he shall prepare for any person demanding the same, a cer
tified copy of any paper, record, decree, judgment or entry, on file in
his office, proper to be certified, for the fees prescribed by law. The
transcript filed in the supreme court, the process in each cause, and
the judgment or decree of said court thereon, shall be the final record
in such cause, and certified as such by the clerk of said court, when
ever an exemplification of the judgment or decree of said court may
be required.
§ 429. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court to
make out and keep three dockets of cases pending in, or which may be
brought to said court—one for each district of said court—and to place
on the docket of each district, all cases, civil and criminal, in the order
they may be brought up from the counties composing the district ;
but civil cases, in which the state is a party, shall be placed on "the
docket of the district in which the seat of government is ; and crimi
nal cases shall be placed first on the dockets, to which they respect
ively belong.
§ 430. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, to
issue all writs of error, citations, attachments for contempt, and all
other process which may be ordered to issue by the court, or any
judge thereof; and all process issuing from said court, or on the order
of any judge thereof, or which may be returnable therein, shall bear
teste in the name of the chief justice, and shall be under the seal of
the court, and be signed by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to
the sheriff, or other proper officer, of any county in the state, who
shall execute and return the same according to the command thereof;
and whenever any such writ or process shall not be executed, or not
returned, an alias process may be issued by the clerk, on the applica
tion of the person who sued out the former process ; and when any
plaintifff or defendant, in any suit pending in said court, shall die, it
shall be lawful for the clerk, in the recess of the court, upon the
application of the proper party, to issue process to bring in the repre
sentatives of such deceased parties.
§ 431. The clerk of the supreme court, and the clerk of any infe
rior court or tribunal, at the time of granting an appeal, or issuing a
writ of error or supersedeas, shall issue a citation to the appellee or
defendant in error, to appear and answer such appeal or such writ, at
the return term thereof, which shall be served on the defendant or his
attorney, in fact or of record, at least ten days before the time to
which the same is returnable, and shall be sent up with the transcript
of the record, and filed among the papers in the cause ; and if such
citation be not issued and served, an alias citation may be awarded
by said court, returnable to the next term.
§ 432. When the appellee or defendant in error is a non-resident,
and has no attorney in this state, the court being satisfied thereof,

112

THE REPORTER.

[Chap. 7.

may cause notice to be published for one month, in some public news
paper printed at the seat of government ; the first of which notices
shall be published at least three months before the next succeeding
term of the court, in which the party shall be required to appear and
defend the cause ; and on due proof of such notice, the court may
proceed to hear and determine the cause in the same manner as if
citation had been served.
§ 433. In cases which have been, or which may hereafter be
decided in the supreme court, or which may be dismissed or otherwise
disposed of, the clerk of said court may issue executions, for costs in
the same manner that the clerks of the circuit courts are authorized
to issue such executions against any party- liable therefore; and such
executions may be directed to the sheriff of any county in the state,
and shall by him be returned, in the same manner and under like
penalties, as in the case of executions returnable to the circuit courts.
§ 434. The clerk of said court shall have power, with the appro
bation of the court, to appoint one or more deputies, who shall take
the oath of office, and the appointment shall be entered of record, and
thereafter such deputy shall have power to do and perform all the
official duties required of the principal ; and if both the principal and
his deputy be absent, the court may appoint some fit person to dis
charge the duties during such absence, such appointee taking the oath
of office before he acts.

ARTICLE VI.
THE REPORTER.
j: 435. The supreme court shall have power to appoint a reporter
of their decisions, by an order entered on the minutes of the court,
who shall hold his office for the term of six years from the date of his
appointment; who shall discharge the duties, and receive the compen
sation provided by law, and who shall be removable at the pleasure
of a majority of the judges of said court. But the present reporter
shall continue in office until the expiration of the time for which he
was appointed, or until his removal as aforesaid.
Approved April 22d, 1871.

CIRCUIT COVP.TS—DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.

Chap. 8.]

CHAPTER

113

8.

AX ACT IX RELATION TO CIRCUIT COURTS.

Article I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XIII.
XIV.
XV.
XVI.

Districts Established.
Time of Holding Courts.
Jurisdiction.
The Judge—His Powers and Duties.
The Clerk—His Powers and Duties.
Pleadings and Practice.
Process and Mode of Service.
Change of Venue.
Jurors—Grand and Petit.
Witnesses—who Competent and how Summoned.
Depositions—how and when taken.
Written Evidence and Copies.
Publication—how made and proved.
Judgments—how Rendered and Enrolled.
Executions—how Issued and Proceeded with.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
§ 436. The first district shall be composed of the counties
Jackson, Hancock, Harrison, Marion, and Perry.
g 437. The second district shall be composed of the counties
Amite, Lawrence, Pike, Wilkinson, Lincoln, and Franklin.
§ 438. The third district shall be composed of the counties
Adams, Claiborne, and Jefferson.
§ 439. The fourth district shall be composed of the counties
Clarke, Jones, Jasper, Green, and Wayne.
§ 440. The fifth district shall be composed of the counties
Copiah, Covington, Rankin, Simpson, and Smith.
g 441. The sixth district shall be composed of the counties
Kemper, Lauderdale, Neshoba, Newton, and Scott.
§ 442. The seventh district shall be composed of the counties
Lowndes, Noxubee, Oktibbeha, and Winston.
8

of
of
of
of
of
of
of

114

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 8.

§ 443. The eighth district shall be composed of the counties
Calhoun, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Pontotoc, and Union.
§ 444. The ninth district shall be composed of the counties
Itawamba, Lee, Monroe, and Prentiss.
§ 445. The tenth district shall be composed of the counties
Marshall, Tippah, Tishomingo, Benton, and Alcorn.
§ 446. The eleventh district shall be composed of the counties
Issaquena, Bolivar, Coahoma, Tunica, and Washington.
§ 447. The twelfth district shall be composed of the counties
DeSoto, Panola, Sunflower, Tallahatchie, and Leflore.
§ 448. The thirteenth district shall be composed of the counties
Lafayette, Yalobusha, Carroll, Grenada, and Attala.
§ 449. The fourteenth district shall be composed of the counties
Yazoo, Madison, Leake, and Holmes.
§ 450. The fifteenth district shall be composed of the counties
Hinds and Warren.

of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of

ARTICLE II.
TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.
§ 451.

A court, to be styled " the circuit court of the county of
," shall be held in each county of this state, at least twice in
each year, and shall commence at the times, and continue for the
number of judicial days hereinafter specified, to-wit:
FIRST DISTRICT.
§ 452. In the county of Jackson, on the second Monday of Feb
ruary, June, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 453. In the county of Harrison, on the first Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 454. In the county of Hancock, on the third Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 455. In the county of Perry, on the first Monday of April, and
the third Monday of September, and continue six days.
§ 456. In the county of Marion, on the second Monday of April,
and the fourth Monday of September, and continue twelve days.
SECOND DISTRICT.
§ 457. In the county of Lincoln, on the first Monday of February
and August, and continue twelve days.
§ 458. In the county of Pike, on the first Monday of March and
September, and continue twelve days.

Chap. 8.]

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

115

§ 459. In the county of Amite, on the third Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 460. In the county of Wilkinson, on the first Monday of April
and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 461. In the county of Franklin, on the first Monday of May and
November, and continue twelve days.
THIRD DISTRICT.
§ 462. In the county of Adams, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday in March, July, and November, and continue twentyfour days.
§ 463. In the county of Claiborne, on the first Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 464. In the county of Jefferson, on the third Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
FOURTH DISTRICT.
§ 465. In the county of Greene, on the first Monday of March
and September, and continue six days.
§ 466. In the county of Wayne, on the second Monday of March
and September, and continue six days.
§ 467. In the county of Clarke, on the third Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 46S. In the county of Jones, on the first Monday after the fourth
Monday in March and September, and continue six days.
§ 469. In the county of Jasper, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday in March and September, and continue twelve days.
FIFTH DISTRICT.
§ 470. In the county of Covington, on the first Monday in March
and September, and continue six days.
§ 471. In the county of Simpson, on the second Monday of March
and September, and continue six days.
§ 472. In the county of Smith, on the third Monday of March and
September, and continue six days.
§ 473. In the county of Rankin, on the fourth Monday in March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 474. In the county of Copiah, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday of March, July, and November, and continue eighteen
days.
SIXTH DISTRICT.
§ 475. In the county of Kemper, on the first Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 476. In the county of Neshoba, on the third Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.

116

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 8.

§ 477. In the county of Scott, on the first Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 478. In the county of Newton, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday of March and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 479. In the county of Lauderdale, on the first Monday of May
and November, and continue twenty-four days.
SEVENTH DISTRICT.
§ 480. In the county of Oktibbeha, on the first Monday of Feb
ruary, June, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 481. In the county of Lowndes, on the third Monday of Feb
ruary, June, and October, and continue twenty-four days.
§ 482. In the county of Winston, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday of February, June, and October, and continue twelve
days.
§ 483. In the county of Noxubee, on the fifth Monday after the
fourth Monday of February, June, and October, and continue twelve
days.
EIGHTH DISTRICT.
§ 484. In the county of Choctaw, on the first Monday in March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 485. In the county of Calhoun, on the third Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 486. In the second district, of the county of Chickasaw, on the
second Monday after the third Monday in March and September, and
continue eighteen days. In the first district, of said county of Chick
asaw, on the fifth Monday after the third Monday of March and Sep
tember, and continue twelve days.
§ 487. In the county of Pontotoc, on the third Monday of May and
November, and continue twelve days.
§ 488. In the county of Union, on the second Monday of May and
November, and continue six days.
NINTH DISTRICT.
§ 489. In the county of Monroe, on the third Monday of Feb
ruary and August, and continue thirty-six days.
§ 490. In the county of Itawamba, on the first Monday of April
and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 491. In the county of Prentiss, on the third Monday of April and
October, and continue twelve days.
§ 492. In the county of Lee, on the second Monday after the third
Monday of April and October, and continue eighteen days.
' TENTH DISTRICT.
§ 493. In the county of Benton, on the first Monday of March and
September, and continue twelve days.

Chap. 8.]

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

117

§ 494. In the county of Tippah, on the third Monday of March
and September, and continue twelve days.
§ 495. In the county of Alcorn, on the first Monday of April and
October, and continue twelve days.
§ 496. In the county of Tishomingo, on the third Monday of April
and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 497. In the county of Marshall, on the first Monday of May and
November, and continue thirty-six days.
ELEVENTH DISTRICT.
§ 498. In the county of Issaquena, on the first Monday of Febru
ary, June, and October, and continue six days.
§ 499. In the county of Washington, on the second Monday of
February, June, and October, and continue eight days.
§ 500. In the county of Bolivar, on the fourth Monday after the
first Monday in February, June, and October, and continue twelve
days.
§ 501. In the county of Coahoma, on the sixth Monday after the
first Monday in February, June, and October, and continue twelve
days.
§ 502. In the county of Tunica, on the eighth Monday after the
first Monday of February, June, and October, and continue twelve
days.
TWELFTH DISTRICT.
§ 503.
In the county of DeSoto, on the first Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue eighteen days.
§ 504. In the county of Panola, on the fourth Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 505. In the county of Sunflower, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday of March, July, and November, and continue twelve
days.
§ 506. In the county of Tallahatchie, on the fourth Monday after
the fourth Monday of March, July, and November, and continue
eighteen days.
§ 507. In the county of Leflore, on the eighth Monday after the
fourth Monday in March, July, and November, and continue twelve
days.
THIRTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 508. In the county of Lafayette, on the first Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 509. In the county of Yalobusha, on the third Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 510. In the county of Carroll, on the fourth Monday after the

118

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 8.

fourth Monday of March, July, and November, and continue eighteen
days.
§ 511. In the county of Grenada, on the second Monday of May,
September, and January, and continue twelve days.
§ 512. In the county of Attala, on the first Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue twelve days.
FOURTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 513. In the county of Yazoo, on the third Monday of January
and September, and continue twenty-four days.
§ 514. In the county of Madison, on the third Monday of February
and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 515. In the county of Leake, on the second Monday of March
and November, and continue twelve days.
§ 516. In the county of Holmes, on the first Monday of April and
December, and continue eighteen days.
FIFTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 517. In the first district of the county of Hinds, on the sixth
Monday after the fourth Monday of March, July, and November, and
continue eighteen days ; and in the second district of said county of
Hinds, on the eleventh Monday after the fourth Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue eighteen days.
§ 518. In the county of Warren, on the fourth Monday of March,
July, and November, and continue thirty-six days.

ARTICLE III.
JURISDICTION.
§ 519. The circuit courts of the several counties in this state, shall
have original jurisdiction of all suits and actions for the recovery of
money, founded on any bond, covenant, bill, promissory note, agree
ment, or other contract, or any open account, when the principal of
the sum in controversy, exceeds the sum of one hundred and fifty
dollars, and of all other civil suits and actions, real, personal, and
mixed, and of all causes, matters and things, arising under the consti
tution and laws of this state, which are not expressly cognizable in
some other court, established by law ; and also such appellate juris
diction as may, by law, be vested in such courts ; and such courts shall
also have power to hear and determine all prosecutions, in the name
of the state, and all indictments for treason, felonies, crimes, and
misdemeanors, committed within their respective jurisdictions, except
such as may be exclusively cognizable before a justice of the peace,

Chap. 8.]

JURISDICTION.

119

or in some other court of this state, or of the United States ; and also
to hear and determine all such prosecutions, by information, as may
be authorized by law ; and said courts shall have all the power
belonging to a court of oyer and terminer, and general jail delivery,
and may do and perform all other acts properly pertaining to a circuit
court of law.
§ 520. The circuit courts shall not have, or exercise, the jurisdic
tion over civil cases, which, according to the principles of equity
jurisprudence, appertain to courts of chancery.
§ 521. In the exercise of their civil and criminal jurisdiction, the
circuit courts of this state shall have and exercise all the powers and
privileges usually appertaining to circuit courts, in their proceedings
and orders, and in the execution of judgments, and in the enforce
ment of sentences in criminal matters, restricted and governed by the
laws of this state, in reference to trial, judgment, and punishment.
522. Suits shall be commenced in the circuit court of that county
in which the defendants, or any one of them, may be found, except
otherwise provided ; except that, in actions for the recovery of land,
and in actions for damages for trespass to lands, suits shall be com
menced in the county where the lands lie ; and if a citizen be sued
out of the county of his residence, in any action not local, he may
change the venue to the county of his residence, on application to the
court where the suit is brought, and on showing, to the satisfaction of
the court, that his residence is really in another county.
§ 523. The said courts shall have power to hear and determine
all motions against attorneys at law, sheriffs, coroners, clerks, and
other officers, for money collected, or received, as such, and not paid
over, on demand, to the party entitled to receive the same, and give
judgment, and award execution, after ten days' notice to the party to
be charged, of the time and place where such motion is to be heard.
§ 524. Should the judge of the circuit court be a party to, or
interested in any suit about to be commenced, such suit shall be
brought in some convenient county of an adjoining district ; and in
such case, the process may be issued to, and served in any county, or
counties, where the defendant may be found.
§ 525. The circuit courts shall have power, upon the petition
of any person within their respective jurisdictions, to alter the name
of such person, to make legitimate any of his offspring, not born in
wedlock, and to decree said offspring to be the heir, or joint heir of
the petitioner; and any person who may desire to adopt any infant,
and to change the name of such infant, may present his petition for
that purpose, to the circuit court of the county in which he resides,
or in which the infant may reside, and shall state, in such petition, the
name and age of such infant, and the names of the parents, or guar
dians, and their residence, if they be living, the name proposed to be
given to such infant, and that he has obtained the consent of the
parents, if living, or of the guardians, if any there be, and of the

120

»

THE JUDGE—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[Chap. 8.

infant, if over fourteen years of age, to the adoption and change of
name, as prayed for ; and shall also state in said petition, what gifts,
grants, bequests, or benefits, he proposes to make, or confer upon such
infant ; and the court shall hear the proofs, and if satisfied that the
allegations of the petition are true, and that the interest and welfare
of such infant will be promoted by such adoption, may decree that
such child be adopted by the petitioner, and that the name be changed
to the name proposed, and that said infant shall thereafter be called
by that name ; and that such infant so adopted, shall be entitled to
all the benefits proposed by the petitioner to be granted and con
ferred ; and thereafter the said petitioner shall have, and exercise over
such infant, all such power and control as parents have over their own
children. The infant, by next friend, and the parents or guardians,
may join in said petition, or they may voluntarily appear and become
parties thereto, otherwise the said infant, and the parents, or guard
ians, if living, and resident in this state, shall be summoned, as
required in personal actions. If the prayer of the petitioner be
granted, in whole or in part, the proceedings and decree shall be
recorded in the final record of judgments, and the costs of the pro
ceedings shall, in all cases, be paid by the petitioner.

ARTICLE IV.
THE JUDGE—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.
§ 526. That a judge shall be appointed, in the mode prescribed by
the constitution, for each of the judicial circuit court districts in this
state.
§ 527. His term of office shall commence on the day his commis
sion shall be dated, and he shall possess all the qualifications pre
scribed by the constitution.
§ 528. The judges appointed for the first term, under the consti
tution, shall, within twelve months after the date of their commission,
establish a residence within the districts for which they were
respectively appointed.
§ 529. After the expiration of the first term of office of the circuit
court judges, of this state, a preceding residence of two years in the
district for which they may be appointed, shall be required, as one of
the qualifications of all those judges afterwards to be appointed.
§ 530. No judge of the circuit court shall be allowed to practice
law in any of the courts of law or equity in this state or of the
United States, or any other state, during his continuance in office,
except that he may practice in the chancery courts of this state, so
far as to enable him to close any cases there pending, in which he
was employed as solicitor at the time of his appointment.

Chap. S.]

THE JUDGE—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

121

§ 531. The judges of the several circuit courts may alternate or
interchange temporarily, whenever the public interest and the proper
administration of justice may require it.
§ 532. The judges of the circuit courts shall be conservators of
the peace in their respective districts, clothed with all the powers
and charged with all the duties of general conservators of the peace.
§ 533. The judges of the circuit courts, in term-time and in vaca
tion, may order the issuance of writs of habeas corpus, mandamus,
certiorari, supersedeas and attachment, and grant injunctions, ne
exeat, and all other remedial writs, in all cases where the same may
properly be granted, according to right and justice, returnable to any
court in this state, whether the suits or proceedings be pending in the
district of the judge granting the same, or not. The fiat of such judge
shall authorize the issuance of the process or writ, returnable to the
proper court.
§ 534. The judge of any circuit court may take a case under
advisement, until the next term. If an issue of fact be involved, the
judge, before taking it under advisement, shall, on notice to each
party, cause the testimony on both sides to be reduced to writing
and signed by him. At the next term, the judge shall deliver his
opinion in writing ; and the testimony, so reduced to writing, and the
said opinion, shall be a part of the record, without a bill of excep
tions, and either party prosecuting an appeal or writ of error, may
avail himself of all questions arising upon the record.
§ 535. The said judges shall, at every term of the circuit court,
cause the jails in their districts to be inspected by the grand jury,
and a report to be made of the condition thereof ; and if it shall appear
that the sheriff or jailor has neglected or violated his duty in the
manner of keeping the jail, or of keeping or furnishing any prisoner
therein, or otherwise, the court may fine him as for a contempt, not
exceeding one hundred dollars.
§ 536. Whenever a judge of the circuit court shall, by reason of
interest, or other cause, be incompetent to preside in any cause in his
court, and when said judge cannot secure the services of a judge of
another district, by interchange, to try such cause, it shall be the duty
of the judge to name four able and disinterested members of the bar,
from whom one shall be selected, by lot, to preside and try such
cause. The proceedings shall be signed by the regular judge, and
the minutes shall appear as if he had presided. If the parties liti
gating in such cause, can mutually select a member of the bar to try
such cause, then the selection, by lot, may be dispensed with, and the
lawyer, so chosen by the parties, shall preside.
§ 537. The judges may, in vacation, order their clerks to issue
subpoenas duces tecum when applied for, and when a proper showing
is made for the issuance thereof.
§ 53S. The circuit court shall have power to fine any person for
contempt of court, while it is in session ; but such fine shall not, for

122

THE JUDGE—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[Chap. 8.

any one offense, exceed two hundred dollars, nor the imprisonment
extend longer than the term of the court where the contempt is offered,
and for ten days thereafter.
§ 539. If any clerk, sheriff, or other officer of a circuit court, shall
willfully refuse to execute any order or direction lawfully given, the
judge may fine such person at discretion, and imprison him until such
lawful order be complied with.
§ 540. If any person, summoned as a witness in a circuit court,
shall refuse to be sworn or affirmed, or refuse to give evidence on
any point where his evidence may properly be required, according to
the rules of law, the judge shall have power to fine such person at
his discretion, and imprison him, until he complies with his duty in
that respect.
§ 541. The judges of the circuit courts shall make allowance to
the clerks thereof, of all needful sums for supplying the office with
books, seals, presses, stationery, furniture, cases, and other things ne
cessary for the same, and the safe-keeping of the papers and records.
When such allowance shall be certified by the judge to the treasurer
of the proper county, he shall pay the same.
§ 542. The judges of the circuit courts, in term time, shall have
control over all proceedings in the clerk's office, during the preceding
vacation, and may, in term time, correct any errors or mistakes
therein, or set aside any proceedings, and make such order therein as
may be just and lawful, or reinstate any cause improperly dismissed
in vacation.
§ 543. The judge shall sign the minutes of each day's proceedings
of his court, at the meeting of his court the next morning, having
first caused them to be read in open court, and corrected, if necessary.
The minutes of the last day of the term shall be read and signed on
that day.
§ 544. The aforesaid judges shall have power to make and publish
all needful rules for the orderly and proper dispatch of the business
of their respective courts, not violative of the constitution of this state
or the laws thereof.
§ 545. After a term of the court has commenced, the failure of
the judge to sit on any other day of the term shall not operate as
a lapse of such term, but the judge may resume business on any
other day of the term ; provided, the court has been regularly opened
and adjourned each day, during the absence of the judge.
§ 546. The judges of the several circuit courts of this state may
appoint district attorneys pro tempore for their courts, when the office
of district attorney for their respective districts is vacant, in the same
manner as if said district attorneys were absent or unable to attend ;
and the compensation of the said district attorneys, so appointed, shall
be the same as that now allowed by law, in cases of the absence of
such district attorneys.

Chap. 8.]

the clerk—his powers and duties.

123

ARTICLE V.
THE CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.
§ 547. Clerks of the circuit court shall be chosen by the qualified
electors of the several counties of the state, at the times and in the
manner prescribed by the election laws ; they shall possess the quali
fications, and serve during the time prescribed by the constitution.
§ 548. In every county of the state, the clerk of the circuit court
shall keep his office at the court-house ; and in those counties where
there are or may be two circuit court districts, an office shall be kept
at each place designated for holding courts.
§ 549. Circuit clerks shall shall keep their offices open every busi
ness day during the year, at all seasonable hours, and give to all per
sons who apply, access to the books, papers and records of the court,
and furnish citizens, and others, all proper and reasonable information
in reference to the proceedings of the courts.
§ 550. Before any clerk of the circuit court shall enter upon the
discharge of his duties, he shall give a bond, with two or more good
sureties, in a penalty of ten thousand dollars, payable to the State of
Mississippi, and conditioned according to law, and shall take and sub
scribe the oath of office prescribed by the constitution, which oath
and bond shall be filed and recorded on the minutes of the court.
§ 551. The clerks of said court shall have power, in term time, or
in vacation, to appoint any number of deputies necessary for the
transaction of the office business ; but such appointments shall be in
writing, and filed and recorded on the minutes of the court, and shall
not be made without the sanction of the judge of the court.
§ 552. Such deputies, when appointed, shall take the oath of office
prescribed by the constitution ; and when qualified, according to the
provisions of this article, such deputy clerks shall have the same
power to perform all official acts as their principals have.
§ 553. Clerks of the circuit courts, who appoint deputies, may
require from those deputies a bond, with security, payable to the prin
cipal clerk, and conditioned for the faithful performance of their
duties as deputy clerks ; and such bonds, when taken, shall be as valid
as the bond of the principal clerk.
§ 554. Should monies be paid into the hands of a clerk of the
circuit court, during his continuance in office, by order of the court,
the court may, should it be deemed necessary, require, from time to
time, from such clerk, an additional bond, with security, for the safety
of such funds; and the court, in such cases, shall make to the clerk
a reasonable allowance for taking care of such monies.
§ 555. When the office of the clerk of any court shall expire, or
become vacant, the said clerk, or any person having the records,
papers, books, and stationery, or anything belonging to said office,
shall deliver the same to the successor in the office, whose duty it is

124

THE CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[CHAP. 8.

hereby declared to be, to demand and receive the same ; and in case
of a refusal, or detention of the same, or of any part thereof, after
demand made, the court may compel the delivery thereof, by fine and
imprisonment at discretion, for contempt of court ; and the court, or
judge in vacation, may order process to be issued for the seizure of
such records, papers, books, stationery, and other things, and for the
delivery thereof to the successor in the said office.
§ 556. The clerk of each circuit court in this state shall procure a
seal, at the expense of the respective counties, for the use of said
court ; the seal shall have upon it the representation of an eagle in the
center, and around it, in a circle, the name of the court neatly en
graved, viz : " Circuit court of
county, Mississippi. " The clerk
shall be the sole custodian of this seal, and it shall be legibly im
pressed on all process issuing from said courts, and on all authentications
of records ; but subpoenas and attachments for witnesses need not be
sealed.
§ 557. Before the commencement of each term of a court, the
clerk shall make out two issue dockets (one for the use of the court,
and one for the use of the bar), on which he shall enter all the causes
at issue in the court, stating the names of parties and attorneys, and
the numbers of the cases, and the orders last taken therein ; the cases
to be entered in regular order, under the control of the court, or
judge in vacation. The clerk shall apportion and set the issue cases
for special days of the term, extending as far in the term as may be
deemed most advantageous for the dispatch of business.
§ 558. Said clerk shall, also, before the beginning of each term,
make out two " appearance dockets " (one for the court, and one for
the bar), on which shall be entered, in regular order, and by num
bers, all of the appearance cases to that term, stating the names of
parties, and attorneys engaged therein, and an abstract of the return
made on the original process.
§ 559. Said clerk shall, before the commencement of each term,
make out two " state dockets " (one for the court, and one for the
bar), on which shall be entered all the cases of a criminal nature,
pending in said court, whether by indictment or presentment, stating
the style of the case, and its number, and the names of defendants'
attorneys, if known, and stating, also, the nature of the accusation.
The name of the accused, however, shall not appear on the docket,
until he has been arrested, or given a recognizance.
§ 560. The clerk of said court shall keep a suitable book, to be
marked " motion docket," on which shall be entered, by him, all such
motions as attorneys may, from time to time, furnish him for entry
thereon.
§ 561. The aforesaid clerk shall, also, keep a " subpoena docket,"
in which he shall enter, from time to time, a statement of all the
witnesses who may be summoned in civil and criminal causes, in said
court, stating the style and number of each case, the time when, and

Chap. 8.]

THE CLERK

HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

125

the county where, such subpoenas issued, and at whose instance
issued. He shall note thereon which witnesses attended, and which
were absent, and when their attendance is proven, shall note on such
docket the amounts of the certificates.
§ 562. Within three months after the final determination of any
suit, or if an appeal shall have been taken, then within three months
after receiving a certificate of the affirmance of the judgment,
the clerk shall enter, in well bound books, to be kept for the pur
pose, a full and complete record of all the proceedings in such
suit ; and on failure so to do, such clerk, on such failure being notified
to the court, may be fined twenty dollars, for each case in which he
shall have failed to make such record, to be paid into the county
treasury ; and he shall also be liable in damages to any party injured.
Parties to suits shall, at all times, have a right to inspect the books
and records, in presence of the clerk, to see if such records have been
duly made up, and the clerk shall show the said books and records,
accordingly, under the penalty of fifty dollars, to be recovered by
and for the use of the person so applying and refused. But no final
record shall be made of any suit dismissed by the parties, or by the
court, without a judgment on the merits, or abated or non-suited.
§ 563. The clerks of said courts shall keep all the papers relating
to any one cause, in the same bundle, all numbered alike, and all
bearing the style of the case.
§ 56-t. Within one month after the adjournment of each term, the
clerks of said courts shall transmit to the auditor of public accounts,
a statement, duly certified, of all the fines, amercements, and penal
ties, assessed at that term, which certificate shall remain in the audi
tors office. A similar certificate shall also be sent to the county
treasurer, and the superintendent of education.
§' 565. Said clerks shall also keep, in their offices, an " execution
docket,-' on which shall be entered the style and number of each
case, which has gone to final judgment, the name of plaintifffs' attor
ney, the date and amount of the judgment, and a statement made up
regularly of the issuance of all final process, mentioning when and
to whom issued, and also stating, briefly, the return made upon such
process.
§ 566. The clerks of said courts shall, at all times, keep their
books and papers in regular order. They shall not permit any origi
nal papers to leave the office, except that regular and reputable
attorneys may take papers to their offices and rooms, at the town
where the circuit court sits, for the purpose of preparing pleadings, or
examining the cases, on receipting to the clerk for the papers so
removed from the office. But the papers shall only be kept out of
the office for a time not exceeding six days, in vacation ; and in term
time, under the rules, or orders of the court, as to time.
§ 567. The clerks of the circuit courts shall not practice law in any
of the courts in this state, during their continuance in office.

126

THE CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[Chap. 8.

§ 56S. The clerks of said courts, within sixty days after the
adjournment of each term, shall re-issue subpoenas for all witnesses
who have been previously ordered to be summoned, in all cases, civil
and criminal, which were not disposed of, and deliver the same to the
sheriff of the county where the court sits, or forward them, by
mail, to the sheriffs of other counties, as the case may require,
returnable to a certain day of the next term, unless instructed other
wise, by the parties at whose instance the witnesses were originally
summoned.
§ 569. It shall be the duty of of the clerks of said courts, within
twenty days after the adjournment of each term, to issue final pro
cess on all the judgments of the court, at that term, both civil and
criminal, and deliver the same to the proper officer of the county, or
to the attorney of plaintifffs, or forward the same, by mail, to the
proper officers in other counties of the state.
§ 570. All marriage licenses shall hereafter be granted and issued
by the clerks of the circuit courts, according to the regulations pre
scribed by law, and they shall be the custodians of all papers relating
to licenses and marriages, heretofore kept by the probate clerk.
§ 571. The clerk of any court of record in this state may refuse to
file any bill, or declaration, or to issue any original process, in cases
where the plaintifff or complainant is a non-resident of the state, or
insolvent, unless security be first given for the payment of all costs
that may accrue in said action ; or unless the affidavit of the plaintifff,
if a citizen of this state, be filed, that he believes there is a just cause
for the action, and that he is not able to pay the cost, or give security
for the same.
§ 572. When any suit shall be commenced in any court of law or
equity, in this state, the plaintifff or complainant may be required, on
motion of the clerk, or any party interested, to give security for all
costs accrued or to accrue in such suit, within sixty days after an order
of court, made for that purpose ; provided, the party making such
motion, shall make and file an affidavit that such plaintifff or com
plainant is a non-resident of the state, and has not sufficient property
in this state, out of which the costs can be made, if adjudged against
him ; or if the plaintifff or complainant be a resident of the state, that
he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that such plaintifff or
complainant will not be able to pay the costs of such suit, in case the
same shall be adjudged against him ; and if the security be not given,
the suit shall be dismissed, and execution issued, for the costs that
have accrued, or the court may, on cause shown, extend the time for
giving such security.
§ 573. Security for costs may be given by recognizance entered
into in open court, or by a written undertaking endorsed on, or filed
with the papers in the cause ; and if the costs shall not be paid when
due, judgment shall be rendered by the court against said security, as
well as against the plaintifff or complainant, and execution issue as in
other cases.

Chap. S.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

127

§ 574. In suits brought in the name of the state, or of any officer
thereof, for the use and benefit of another person, such usee may be
required to give security for costs, in the same manner as plaintifffs in
other cases.
§ 575. It shall be lawful for the clerk of any court in the state, to
move the court to dismiss any cause pending therein, in which no step
has been taken for the two terms next preceding the term at which
the motion is made, and the court shall, unless good cause is shown,
dismiss the same, at the costs of the plaintifff or complainant.

ARTICLE

VI.

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.
§ 576. All the " fictions " heretofore employed under the rules of
common law, in conducting actions at law, are abolished, and the rules
of the common law, in reference to pleading, are hereby changed and
modified, to the extent hereinafter expressed.
§ 577. It shall not be necessary, in any action, to pursue the tech
nicalities of the common law system, in framing the declaration; but
any declaration which contains a clear statement of the cause of
action, in concise and ordinary language, and which plainly shows
sufficient matter of substance to reveal the actual cause of complaint,
and enable the court to proceecf on the merits of the case, and which
also states, in common and intelligible language, the form of action
which the pleader intends to adopt, shall, in all cases, be sufficient ;
although it shall not be urged as an objection to any declaration
(which contains no fiction), that it pursues the technical and precise
forms of the common law.
§ 57S. The declaration shall be entitled of the state and the
county where the suit is brought, and of the court where the suit is
instituted, and the term when proceedings are commenced; but it
shall not be necessary to state venue in the body of the declaration,
nor to set forth the place in which an act is alleged to have been done,
unless the place is material or traversable.
§ 579. Where the makers of written instruments use initial letters,
or contractions of their names, in signing the same, it shall be suffi
cient, if the declaration describe the defendant by the signature he
has himself used in the writing sued on.
§ 580. When an open account is sued on, there shall be filed with
the declaration, before process issues, an itemized copy of the account
sought to be recovered ; and if this be not done, plaintifff shall not be
permitted to give evidence in support thereof.
S 581. When the declaration is founded upon a promissory note,
bill single, or other written obligation, for the payment of money,

128

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 8.

the pleader shall either file the original writing, or a copy thereof,
with his declaration, when process issues ; in default of which, plain
tiff shall not be permitted to give evidence of the demand, or have
any recovery, unless such writing is alleged to have been lost or mis
laid, and cannot be found, and is sued on as a lost instrument.
§ 582. It shall not be required that the production of suit shall
be stated in the conclusion of a declaration, nor that mere formal
damages shall be laid ; but the declaration shall state the amount
really claimed, as nearly as may be, or the judgment to which the
party conceives himself entitled, and which he demands in the action.
§ 5S3. In actions of trespass, quare clausum fregit, the close or
place upon which the alleged trespass is charged to have occurred,
shall be described in the declaration, by metes, bounds, or land office
numbers, so£ar as to give the defendant full knowledge of the locality.
§ 5S4. In actions upon bonds, with a condition, the plaintifff shall
in his declaration, state the condition substantially, and assign dis
tinctly, all the breaches for which he seeks a recovery, and at the
trial, no evidence shall be given of any breach not so assigned.
§ 5S5. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent, the
plaintifff, or defendant, may aver, generally, that he duly performed
all the conditions on his part, and the opposite party shall not deny
such averment, generally, but shall specify, in his pleading, the con
dition precedent, the performance of which he intends to contest.
§ 586. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court,
or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment, or determination
may be stated to have been duly given or made ; but the facts con
ferring jurisdiction, shall be shown at the trial.
§ 587. If a private statute be pleaded, it shall be sufficient to refer
to it by its title, and the date of its passage.
§ 588. A right, by virtue of a private way, may be pleaded, gene
rally, in the same manner as in pleading a public way.
§ 589. In actions for libel, or slander, the plaintifff may aver that
the words or matter complained of, were used in a defamatory sense,
specifying such defamatory sense, without any prefatory averment, to
show how such words or matter were used in that sense ; and -such
averment shall be put in issue, by the denial of the alleged libel or
slander; and where the words or matter set forth, with or without the
alleged meaning, show a cause of action, the declaration shall be
sufficient.
§ 590. The original, or a copy of every writing, of which profert
is made, or ought to be made, in any pleading, shall be filed with such
pleading, in default of which no evidence thereof shall be given at
the trial.
§ 591. In any action by a man and his wife, for an injury done to
the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined as a party, it
shall be lawful for the husband to add thereto claims in his own right,

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

129

for injuries of ;i similar character; and in case of the death of either
plaintifff, such suit shall abate only so far as relates to the cause or
causes of action which do not survive to the survivor ; provided,
that the wife may sever, if she desires, in an action for injuries done
to herself, and have the benefit of the recovery.
§ 592. All the rules and modifications hereinbefore made, in refer
ence to the form and requisites of declarations, shall apply to pleas,
replications, and all subsequent pleadings in the cause, so far as the
same may be applicable.
§ 593. No formal defense shall be necessary in a plea. It may
commence as follows: "The said defendant, by his attorney (or in
proper person), says that
," and then proceed and set out the
defense, in plain and concise language, and conclude with a verifica
tion, or to the country, as may be proper, in reference to the rules of
pleading, established by the common law.
§ 59-t. In the second, or other plea, it shall not be necessary to
say that it is pleaded " by leave of the court,'' or " according to the
form of the statute," or any words to that effect.
§ 595. In a plea, or subsequent pleading, intended to be pleaded
in bar of the whole action, generally, it shall not be necessary to use
any allegation of actionem non, or to the like effect, or any prayer of
judgment ; nor shall it be necessary, in any replication, or subsequent
pleading, pleaded in maintenance of the action, to use any allegation
of precludi non, or to the like effect, or any prayer of judgment; and
all pleas, replications, and subsequent pleading, pleaded without such
formal parts, as aforesaid, shall be taken, unless otherwise expressed,
as pleaded respectively in bar of the whole action, or in maintenance
of the whole action.
§ 596. The defendant may plead, at the same time, as many mat
ters as he may have, to the jurisdiction of the court, to the disability
of the plaintifff, and in abatement of the writ or declaration ; and he
shall set forth the said matters in separate pleas, and in plain, intelli
gible and concise language, without regard to technical form ; and
where the matter pleaded does not appear on the record, he shall
verify such plea, by the oath, or affirmation, of himself, or some other
credible person.
§ 597. The following pleas in bar, or any two or more of them,
may be pleaded together, as of course, when appropriate to the
action, without leave of the court, or judge, to-wit: The general
issue, denial of the debt or contract sued on, tender in whole or in
part, statute of limitations, set-off, plene administravil, infancy, cov
erture, payment, accord and satisfaction, release, not guilty, a denial
of plaintifffs' property in the thing injured, leave and license, duress,
son assault demesne, performance, justification (in libel, slander, and
other actions), and any other pleas, which, by law, are allowed to be
plead together ; and if any defendant, or other party, shall, without
leave of the court, plead several pleas, replications, or other plead
9

130

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 8.

ings together, except in cases where the same is allowed by law, the
opposite party shall be entitled to judgment, as for want of the
proper pleading ; but such judgment may be set aside, on affidavit of
merits, and payment of costs, and such other terms as the court may
think fit.
§ 598. In actions for libel or slander, assault and battery, and false
imprisonment, the defendant, under the plea of not guilty, may give
in evidence, any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the damages,
notwithstanding he may have plead a justification.
§ 599. If the defendant shall desire to prove, under the general
issue, in any action, any affirmative matter in avoidance, which, by law,
may be proved under such plea, he shall give notice thereof in writ
ing, annexed to or filed with the plea, otherwise such matter shall not
be allowed to be proved at the trial ; and the defendant may, in all
cases, plead the general issue, and give written notice therewith, of
any special matter which he intends to give in evidence, in bar of the
action, and which he would be otherwise obliged to plead specially ;
and when notice shall be given to the defendant, as aforesaid, the
plaintifff shall, before the trial of the cause, file a written notice to
the defendant of any special matter which he intends to give in evi
dence, in denial or avoidance of such special matter, so given notice
of by the defendant, and to which it would have been necessary to reply
specially, had the defendants' defense been specially pleaded ; and if
notice be not given, as required by this section, no proof of such mat
ters shall be received on the trial.
§ (500. Nil debit shall be a good plea to an action on all bonds,
and other sealed instruments, for the payment of money, and shall
put in issue the alleged indebtedness.
§ 601. Where a mutual indebtedness shall exist between the
plaintifff and defendant, the defendant may plead payment, and may
prove and set-off against the demand of the plaintifff, any debt, or
demand, which he may have against the plaintifff ; and if it shall
appear that the demand of the defendant equals the demand of the
plaintifff, the jury shall find for the defendant, and judgment shall be
entered that the plaintifff take nothing by his writ, and shall pay the
costs. And if it appear that any part of the sum demanded, has been
paid, but that the plaintifffs' demand exceeds that of the defendant,
the amount paid shall be deducted, and the plaintifff shall have judg
ment for the residue of his demand only, with costs of suit. But if
it appear to the jury that the plaintifff is overpaid, and is indebted to
the defendant, they shall give in their verdict for the defendant, for
the amount due to him, and thereupon, judgment shall be entered
up against the plaintifff, in favor of the defendant, for the amount so
found, with costs, and execution may issue therefore.
§ 602. Where there shall have been mutual dealings between two
or more r>ersons, and one or more of them shall die before an ad
justment of such dealings, the lawful demands of such persons

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

131

against each other, shall be a good payment, or set-off, to the amount
thereof, notwithstanding the estate of one or more of such deceased
persons shall be insolvent, and only the balance due shall be the
debt.
§ 603. In all actions for the recovery of any debt or demand,
alleged to be due by the defendant to the plaintifff, it shall be lawful
for the defendant to plead payment of the money demanded, at or
after the time when the same became due, or at any time before
action brought ; and under such plea, to prove any payments that
have been made, in part or in full of the sum demanded.
§ 604. If the defendant shall plead, or give notice of any set-off,
or shall desire to prove any payment, or set-off, under his plea of
payment, he shall file with his plea, an account, stating distinctly the
nature of the payment or set-off, and the several items thereof, and
a copy of any writing intended to be set-off; and on failure to do so,
he shall not be entitled to prove, on the trial, such payment or set-off.
§ 605. In actions founded on any sealed instrument, the defendant
may, by a special plea, impeach the consideration thereof, in the
same manner as if such writing had not been sealed.
§ 606. In actions upon penal statutes, the defendant may plead
the general issue, and give any special matter in evidence, in the
same manner as if the same were specially pleaded, giving notice,
however, of such special matter, with his plea.
.
§ 607. In actions for trespass on land, the defendant may plead
that he disclaims any title or claim to the land in question, and that
the trespass was involuntary, or by negligence, and that he tendered,
or offered sufficient amends therefore, before suit brought ; and he shall,
thereupon, bring the amount so tendered into court, and unless the
plaintifff in such action shall recover more damages than the amount
so tendered, he shall be adjudged to pay the costs of the action.
§ 608. The plaintifff in any action, may, by leave of the court or
judge, plead in answer to the plea, or subsequent pleading of the
defendant, as many several matters as he shall think necessary to
maintain his action ; and the defendant may, by like leave, plead in
answer to any pleading of the plaintifff, subsequent to the declaration,
as many several matters as he may think necessary to his defense,
upon the affidavit of the party making such application, that he is
advised and believes, that he has just ground to traverse the several
matters proposed to be traversed by him, or that the several matters
sought to be pleaded, by way of confession and avoidance, are respec
tively true, in substance and fact.
§ 609. Whenever any pleading concludes to the country, issue shall
be considered as joined thereon, unless a demurrer be filed thereto.
§ 610. When any p^ea in abatement shall be adjudged insuffi
cient, the plaintifff shall recover full costs, to the time of overruling
the plea; and when, by an interlocutory judgment, any other part of
the pleading shall be adjudged insufficient, all costs occasioned by

132

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[CHAP. 8.

such bad pleading, shall be adjudged against him who committed the
fault.
§ 611. AVhen a demurrer shall be put in, the court shall not regard
any defect or imperfection in the proceedings, except such as shall be
assigned for causes of demurrer, unless something so essential to the
action or defense, as that judgment, according to law and the right
of the cause cannot be given, shall be omitted.
§ 612. If the demurrer of the defendant to the declaration, be
overruled, the court shall proceed to give judgment for the plaintifff,
for the amount due, and interest ; and no plea shall be admitted,
unless the defendant make oath that he hath a good and substantial
defense, setting forth fully the nature of such defense, that the court
may judge whether the plea ought to be admitted or not.
§ 613. If the plaintifff demur to the plea of the defendant, and the
demurrer be sustained, the judgment shall be, that the defendant do
answer over to the declaration ; but he shall be compelled to plead
to the merits, and the plaintifff shall not be delayed of his trial,
although reasonable time shall be allowed to plead over. And if the
second plea then filed be demurred to, and such demurrer shall
be sustained, further leave to plead shall not be granted.
§ 614. The court may refuse to receive a demurrer, manifestly
frivolous, or intended for delay, or may strike out the same, if filed,
and prpceed as if such demurrer had not been offered.
§ 615. No joinder in demurrer shall be required, in any case.
§ 616. Express color, and special traverses, shall not be necessary
in any pleadings.
§ 617. All pleadings shall be signed b.' the party, or his attorney.
§ 618. When the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or
uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not
apparent, or if any pleading shall be so framed as to prejudice,
embarrass, or delay the fair trial of the action, the court, on applica
tion of the opposite party, shall cause the same to be made definite
and certain, or may strike out or amend the same.
§ 619. Irrelevant or redundant matter, inserted in a pleading, may
be struck out, on motion of any party aggrieved thereby.
§ 620. All allegations heretofore usually inserted in declarations,
and other pleadings, which are not material or traversable, and which
the party could not be required to prove, may be omitted, unless
where they are required, for the right understanding of allegations
that are material.
§ 621. The court shall have full power and authority to allow all
amendments to be made in any pleading, or proceeding, at any time
before verdict, so as to bring the merits of the controversy between the
parties, fairly to trial, and may allow all errors and mistakes, in the name
of any party, or in the form of the action, to be corrected ; and the
court shall require all such amendments to be made on such terms, as
to costs and delay, as may seem proper, to prevent surprise or undue

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

133

advantage. Either party may except to the decision of the court, allow
ing or refusing amendments, and the same may be assigned for error.
§ 622. No judgment shall be stayed, or reversed, after verdict, for
any defect in the writ ; or from a variance in the writ from the decla
ration, or other proceedings ; or from any mispleading, insufficient
pleading, discontinuance, misjoining of issue, or failure to join issue,
or lack of warrant of attorney ; or for the appearance of either party,
being under the age of twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict
be for him, and not to his prejudice; or for not alleging any deed, let
ters testamentary, or of administration, to be brought into court ; or
for the omission of the words " with force and arms," or " against the
peace ;" or for any mistake of the christian name, or surname, of
either party, sum of money, quantity of merchandise, value, day,
month, or year, in the declaration, or pleading (the name, sum, quan
tity, value, or time, being right in any other part of the record, or
proceeding) ; or for the omission of the averment, " this he is ready
to verify," or " this he is ready to verify by the record ;" or for not
alleging " as appeareth by the record ; " or for omitting the
averment of any matter without proving which the jury ought not
to have given such verdict; or for setting forth, by way of recital,
any matter which ought to have been set forth by averment ; or for
not alleging that the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction of the
court ; or for not alleging that the property in the declaration men
tioned, is the property of the plaintifff ; or for any mistake or miscon
ception of the form of the action ; or for any other defect whatsoever,
in the declaration or pleading, whether of form, or substance, which
might have been taken advantage of by demurrer, and which shall
not have been so taken advantage of ; or for any informality in enter
ing up the judgment, by the clerk; neither shall any judgment,
entered by default, be reversed, nor a judgment, after inquiry of
damages, be stayed or reversed, for any omission, or fault, which
would not have been good cause to stay or reverse the judgment, if
there had been a verdict on issue joined.
§ 623. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof, shall be deemed material, unless it shall have actually misled
the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense
upon the merits ; and where it shall not be shown, to the satisfaction
of the court, that the party has been so misled, an immediate amend
ment of the pleading may be made without costs, and without delay
ing the cause. If the party has been so actually misled, an amend
ment may be allowed, on such terms as shall be just.
§ 624. When there are several counts, one of which is faulty, and
entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good ; but the defend
ant may apply to the gourt to instruct the jury to disregard the faulty
count.
§ 625. If in detinue the verdict shall omit price or value, the court
may, at any time, award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the same. If,

134

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 8.

on an issue concerning several things in one count in detinue, no ver
dict be found for part of them, it shall not be error, but the plain
tiff shall be barred of his title to the things omitted.
§ 626. A judgment by confession shall be equal to a release of
errors; but all powers of attorney for confessing or suffering judg
ment to pass by default, or otherwise, and all general releases of error
made, or to be made, by any person within this state, before action
brought, shall be absolutely null and void.
§ 627. When, in the record of any judgment or decree of any court
of law or equity, there shall be any mistake, miscalculation, or misrecital of any sum of money, quantity of merchandise, or other thing,
or of any name, and there shall be among the records of the proceed
ings in the suit, in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered,
any verdict, bond, bill, note, or other writing of the like nature or
kind, whereby such judgment or decree may be safely amended, it
shall be the duty of the court in which such judgment shall be ren
dered, and of the judge thereof, in vacation, to amend such judgment
or decree thereby, according to the very truth and justice of the case ;
provided, the opposite party shall have had reasonable notice of the
application for such amendment ; and if the transcript of such judg
ment or decree, at the time of such amendment, or at any time there
after, shall be removed to the supreme court, it shall be the duty of
that court, upon the inspection of such amended record, (to be brought
before it by certiorari, if need be), to affirm such judgment, if there
be no other error apparent on such record.
§ 628. When any bond, taken by virtue of any process or order, by
miscalculation or mistake, shall be conditioned for the payment of a
larger sum of money than by law ought to have been required thereby,
or where a verdict shall be rendered for more damages than the plainthT shall have demanded by his suit, and judgment shall be rendered
accordingly, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, at the same or any
future term of the court, to release, in open court, any such excess ;
or he may, in vacation, release the same, in writing under his hand,
and filed among the papers of the cause ; and such release shall cure
any error growing out of such excess.
§ 629. If the record of any such judgment be removed to an
appellate court, before such release shall be made, it shall be compe
tent for the defendant in error to make such release, as aforesaid, in
the appellate court; and, thereupon, the said court, after reversing
the judgment, shall proceed to give such judgment as the court below
ought to have given, if the release had been filed therein ; but, in
such cases, the appellee, or defendant in error, shall pay the costs,
and the judgment shall not be entered against the sureties in the
appeal bond.
§ 630. All things in this article contained, not restricted by their
nature, or by express provision to particular courts, shall be the rules
of decision and proceeding in all courts whatsoever within this state.

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

135

§ 631. The defendant shall plead on or before the third day of
the term to which the writ is returnable, or within such other time as
the court, by rule, or otherwise, shall allow; and for want of such
plea, judgment may be entered by default. All demurrers and dila
tory pleas shall be tried and disposed of at the return term, and the
court shall require that the issue of fact, if any there be, shall be made
up and joined, ready for trial at the next succeeding term ; and such
issue of fact shall not be tried at the return term, without consent of
parties, except actions commenced by attachment, and actions of
replevin, which shall be tried at the return term, unless continued by
consent or on cause shown.
§ 632. No judgment by default shall be entered at the return
term, when it shall appear that the process has not been served per
sonally on the defendant.
§ 633. In all applications for a continuance, the party shall set
forth in his affidavit, the facts which he expects to prove by his absent
witness or testimony, that the court may judge of their materiality.
§ 634. In civil suits, each party may challenge peremptorily four
of the jurors, and as many more as they can show cause for.
£ 635. Whenever there shall be a deficiency of jurors, the sheriff,
or other officer, shall, by order of the court, summon a sufficient num
ber of qualified by-standers, or others, to complete the panel ; but in
case the sheriff, or other officer, be interested, or related to either of
the parties, or not impartial, or for other good cause, the court may
appoint any disinterested person to summon and return such by
standers or others. The court may fine, in a sum not exceeding thirty
dollars, any person summoned as a talesman, who shall not appear,
or who being present, when he is called, does not appear in court, or
who after appearance, willfully withdraws himself during the day.
§ 636. A jury de mcdlcetate lingua may be directed and sum
moned, whenever, in the opinion of the court, it may be necessary.
§ 637. J urors knowing anything relative to the point in issue, shall
disclose the same, on oath or affirmation, in open court.
§ 638. No sheriff or other officer shall converse with a juror, but
by order of the court, after the jury have retired from the bar.
§ 630. All papers read in evidence on the trial of any cause, though
not under seal, may be carried from the bar by the jury.
§ 610. Interpreters may be sworn, truly to interpret, when neces
sary; and in criminal cases the court may appoint such interpreter,
and allow him a reasonable compensation, not exceeding five dollars
per day, payable out of the state treasury.
§ 611. Every plaintifff desiring to suffer a non-suit on trial, shall
be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire from the
bar.
jj 642. The plaintifff may suffer a non-suit, or dismiss any cause,
before the clerk in vacation, on paying all costs that have accrued;
and the clerk shall enter on the writ or declaration, the disposition

136

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 8.

made of the same, with the date ; and where the plaintifff has received
satisfaction of the cause of action, he shall, by himself or his attorney,
enter such satisfaction on the writ or declaration, and sign the same ;
and such entry of satisfaction shall be a bar to any suit brought
thereafter for the same cause of action; and where the plaintifff
suffers a non-suit or dismisses his suit, without having received
satisfaction, he shall stand in the same situation as though he had
never instituted such suit ; provided, that this section shall not extend
to cases in which the defendant has filed or pleaded any set-off or
payment, unless by consent of such defendant.
§ 643. No judge in any cause, civil or criminal, shall sum up or com
ment on the testimony, or charge the jury as to the weight of evidence ;
but it shall be lawful for the judge to charge the jury upon the prin
ciples of law, applicable to the case, at the request of either party ;
provided, that all instructions asked by either party, shall be in
writing, and all alterations or modifications of instructions, given by
the court to the jury, or refused, shall be in writing, and may be taken
out by the jury on their retirement, the clerk having first marked all
instructions by either party, or given by the court, as being given or
refused, as the case may be; and all instructions so marked shall be
a part of the record, on appeal or writ of error, without a bill of
exceptions. Instructions may be given either before or after the main
argument to the jury commences.
§ 644. If on the trial of any cause in the circuit court, either party
shall be aggrieved by any charge or decision of the court, such party
may tender to the judge giving such charge or decision, a bill of
exceptions to his opinion, stating therein the matters of law wherein
he is supposed to err, and the judge shall be bound to sign the same,
and the bill of exceptions so signed, shall be made and considered a
part of the record in the cause; and in case the judge shall refuse to
sign a bill of exceptions so tendered, if the facts therein be truly
stated, he shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor in office. Bills of
exception need not be sealed.
§ 645. On the trial of prosecutions for any crime or misdemeanor,
it shall be the duty of the judge to sign any bill of exceptions ten
dered by the defendant, during the progress thereof, if the truth of
the case be fairly stated therein, and the said exceptions shall be a
part of the record of such prosecution.
§ 646. If the judge shall refuse to sign any bill of exceptions to
any opinion, decision, or charge, given or made on the trial of any
cause or motion in such court, when such bill of exceptions is tendered
to such judge, in writing, it shall be lawful for any two attorneys at
law, who may have been present at the time of the giving or making
such opinion, decision, or charge, and of the refusal of such judge to
sign such bill of exceptions, as aforesaid, to sign the same ; which bill
of exceptions so signed, shall have the same force and effect as if the
same had been signed by such judge.

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

137

| 647. Every new trial granted at law, shall be on such terms as
the court shall direct ; and no more than two new trials shall be
granted to either party in the same cause.
§ 64S. When a motion for a new trial shall be granted or refused,
either party may except to the decision of the court, and may reduce
to writing the reasons offered for said new trial, together with the
substance of the evidence in the case, and also in the decision of the
court on said motion; and it shall be the duty of the judge, before
whom such motion is made, to allow and sign the same ; and such bill
of exceptions shall be a part of the record in the cause. And it shall
be lawful for the appellant, in such cause, to assign for error, that the
judge in the court below, improperly granted or refused a new trial
therein; and the supreme court shall have power to grant new trials,
or to correct any errors of the circuit court in granting or refusing the
same.
jj 649. Trial by jury may be waived by the parties to an issue of
fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of the court, in other
actions, and in cases so tried by the court, no jury tax shall be charged
in the bill of costs.
S 650. The decision of such court, on the trial of an issue, may be
stated generally, for the plaintifff or defendant ; and it shall not be
necessary to state the conclusions of fact separately from the conclu
sions of law, unless one of the parties shall request it, with a view to
except to the decision of the court on the questions of law
involved ; in which case the court shall state in writing, the conclu
sions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law.
§ 651. Either party may move for a new trial, and take bills of
exception, at any time during the term at which the decision is ren
dered, and have an appeal, as in case of trial by jury.
§ 652. All or any of the issues of an action, whether of fact or
law, may be referred to one or more referees, not exceeding three,
upon the consent of the parties.
§ 653. In all actions in which matters of account are in contro
versy, the court may, on the application of either party, direct a
reference to one or more competent persons, not exceeding three, as
referees, to state and report an account between the parties, and the
amount that may be due from either party to the other ; which report,
when confirmed by the court, shall be final and conclusive between
the parties, and judgment shall be entered thereon, and execution
issued as in other cases ; but either party may, at the time of order
ing such reference, enter on the minutes of the court his dissent
therefrom ; and at the same term in which the report is filed, may
demand a trial by jury, in which case the cause shall be tried by a
jury as heretofore—the costs of the reference to abide the result;
and upon such trial, the report of the referees shall be prima facie
evidence of all the matters therein found and reported ; and at the
time of demanding such trial by jury, the party shall file his excep

138

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[ClIAP. 8.

tions to the said report, and no other exceptions shall be considered
on the trial. Either party may move for a new trial, take bills of
exception, and have an appeal, as in other cases.
§ 654. Either party, who shall not demand a trial by jury, may file
exceptions to the report of the referees, and the court shall hear and
determine the same, and may set aside said report, and direct another
reference to the same, or other referees. Bills of exception may be
taken, and after final judgment, an appeal may be prosecuted, as in
other cases.
§ 655. Referees appointed under this act, shall have power to
administer oaths, and to issue subpoenas for all witnesses, and to com
pel their attendance.
§ 656. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before plea filed, in any
action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal property, that a
third party, a resident of this state, without collusion with him, has or
makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay
or dispose of the same, as the court may direct, the court may make
an order for the safe keeping, or payment, or deposit in court, or
delivery of the subject matter of the action, to such person as it may
direct, and an order requiring such third party to be summoned to
appear in a reasonable time, and maintain or relinquish his claim
against the defendant. If such third party, being duly summoned,
shall fail to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in
respect to the subject of the action, against the defendant therein.
If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself
defendant in the action at law, instead of the original defendant, who
shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in
respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the
order of the court, for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof. If
the claim of such third party extend only to a part of the subject
matter of the action, similar proceedings may be had, respecting the
part so claimed, and the action shall proceed as to the residue, as in
other cases.
§ 657. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to an
action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of
personal property, taken by him under execution or attachment, or
for the proceeds of such property, so taken and sold by him ; and the
defendant in any such action, shall have the benefit of the said pro
visions, against the party in whose favor the execution or attachment
issued, whether such party be a resident of this state or not, upon
exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with his
affidavit that the property for the recovery of which, or its proceeds,
the action is brought, was taken under such process.
§ 658. In an action against a sheriff* or other officer, for the recov
ery of property taken under an execution or attachment, and replevied
by the plaintifff* in such action, the court may, on application of the
defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution or attach

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

139

merit issued, permit the latter to be substituted as defendant, security
for costs being given if required.
§ 659. If the plaintifff in such execution or attachment, be a non
resident of the state, the summons may be served on his attorney, and
shall have the same effect as if served personally on the party.
§ 660. The defendant in any personal action, except actions for
assault and battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
arrest or prosecution, criminal conversation, or debauching the plain
tiff's daughter or servant, may offer with his plea, or in writing
afterwards before trial, and pay into court, a sum of money by way
of compensation or amends, and may plead that the same is sufficient
to satisfy the plaintifff in respect to the cause of action in the declara
tion mentioned. If the plaintifff accept the same, judgment shall be
entered therefore with costs. If he fails to accept the same, the offer
shall be considered withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence ;
and if the plaintifff fail to recover more than the sum so offered, he
shall pay all the costs accruing after such offer.
§ 661. In all actions in which the right to real estate, or to goods
and chattels, is in controversy, the court, or the judge thereof, may
make an order for the protection of the property in controversy, from
waste, destruction, or removal beyond the jurisdiction of the court,
upon satisfactory proof being made of the necessity of such order,
and may enforce such order by an attachment for contempt.
§ 662. Subpoenas shall be made returnable to the day for which
the cause is set, and no cause shall be tried before that day, except
by consent of parties.
§ 663. The court shall take up the causes in the order in which they
stand on the docket ; and each cause shall be tried, continued, or set
for trial on a future time or day of the term, before proceeding to
any other cause, except by consent.
§ 664. The court or judge, in vacation, may direct the clerk as to
setting the various dockets for trial, so as to facilitate business, both
civil and criminal.
§ 665. The said court may grant judgments, according to the prin
ciples and usages of law, in all cases cognizable before them, and
award executions, directed to the sheriff, or other proper officer, of
any county in the state, which shall be executed and returned accord
ing to the command thereof ; and said courts shall try all offenders
indicted or presented by the grand jury, and upon legal conviction of
the accused, by the verdict of a petit jury, or upon confession of guilt
in open court, shall proceed to judgment, and award execution
thereon, as the law directs.
§ 666. If a suit shall be brought in any circuit court for a less
sum than the court can take cognizance of, or if a greater sum than
is due shall be demanded, on purpose to evade this act, the plaintifff
shall be non-suited, and shall pay costs ; and if the plaintifff, in any
other case, shall not recover more than one hundred and fifty dollars,

140

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. S.

he shall not recover any costs of the defendant, unless the judge shall
be of opinion, and so enter on the record, that the plaintifff had rea
sonable ground to expect to recover more than one hundred and fifty
dollars, or unless the court shall have jurisdiction of the cause, with
out respect to the amount in controversy; but this section shall not
apply to penal bonds, where the penalty shall exceed one hundred
and fifty dollars.
§ 667. If the judge of the court be a party to, or interested in
any suit about to be commenced, such suit may be instituted in an
adjacent district, and the process may be issued to, and served in any
county where the defendants may be found.
§ 66S. If the court shall not be held at any term, or shall not con
tinue to sit the whole term, or during the term, shall not have heard
and determined all matters standing for trial, then all suits and pro
ceedings remaining undecided, shall stand continued, of course, until
the next term; and if the court shall not sit on any day of the term,
after it shall have commenced, there shall be no discontinuance, but
the court may proceed to business on any subsequent day, until the
end of the term.
§ 669. In any case where such [persons, as be within age, may
have cause of action, their next friend shall be admitted to sue for
them, and such next friend shall be liable for the costs.
§ 670. The assignee of any chose in action, may sue for and
recover the same, in his own name, if the assignment be in writing;
and in case where the assignment is not in writing, and the original
payee is dead, and there is no executor or administrator of the
estate, suit may be brought in the name of the assignee. In case of
a transfer of interest after suit brought, the action shall be continued
in the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person
to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in the action. No
set-off or other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of
the assignment, shall be prejudiced thereby.
§ 671. The non-joinder or mis-joinder of a plaintifff shall not be
objected to by the defendant at the trial, unless he give written notice
thereof with his plea or demurrer, stating the name of the person
alleged to have been omitted or improperly joined; and the court or
the judge, at any time before the trial of the issue, whether of law
or fact, may allow the declaration and writ to be amended, by join
ing the party so omitted, or striking out the party so improperly
joined ; provided, the party so to be joined or struck out, shall con
sent thereto, and the court or judge may impose such terms as may
be thought proper.
§ 672. The non-joinder or mis-joinder of a defendant, in any action
upon contract, shall not be objected to on the trial of the cause,
without like notice being given of the intended objection ; and upon
such notice being given, the court or judge, at any time before the
trial of the cause, may order, on such terms as may be thought proper,

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

141

that the name of one or more of the defendants be added, or struck
out, if it shall appear that injustice will not be done by such
amendment.
§ 673. Any attorney, whose name is subscribed to, or endorsed on
any declaration, shall, on demand in writing, made by or on behalf
of the defendant, declare forthwith, in writing, whether the suit has
been brought by him, or with his authority, or privity, and also the
place of abode of the plaintifff. And if such attorney shall state that
the suit was not brought by him, or with his authority or privity, or
shall refuse to declare the place of abode of the plaintifff, then no
further proceedings shall be taken in the action, without leave of the
court.
§ 674. Executors and administrators shall and may have an action
tor any trespass done to the person or property, real or personal, of
their testator or intestate, against the trespasser, and recover dam
ages, in like manner as their testator or intestate could have done if
living ; and the money so recovered shall be assets, and accounted for
as such.
§ 675. When any testator or intestate shall, in his lifetime, have
committed any trespass to the person or property, real or personal, of
any person, such person, or his executor or administrator, shall have
and maintain the same action against the executor or administrator
of such testator or intestate, as he might have had or maintained
against such testator or intestate, and shall have the like remedy and
process for the damages recovered in such action, as are had and
allowed in other actions against executors and administrators.
§ 676. Whenever the death of any person shall be caused, by any
such wrongful or negligent act or omission, as would, if death had not
ensued, have entitled the party injured or damaged thereby, to main
tain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, and such
deceased person shall have left a widow or children, or both, or hus
band, or father, or mother, the person or corporation, or both, that
would have been liable, if death had not ensued, and the representa
tives of such person, shall be liable for the damages, notwithstanding
the death ; and the action may be brought in the name of the widow
for the'death of her husband, or by the husband, for the death of his
wife, or by the father, if living, if not, by the mother, for the death
of a child ; or in the name of a child for the death of an only parent,
the damages to be for the use of such widow, husband, father or
mother, or child, except that in case a widow should have children,
the damages shall be distributed as personal property of the husband.
In every such action, the jury may give such damages as may be fair
and just, with reference to the injury resulting from such death to
the person sueing ; but every such action shall be commenced within
one year after the death of such deceased person.
£ 677. When either of the parties to any suit shall die beforejudgment. the executor or administrator of such deceased party, either

142

PLEAMNGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 8.

plaintifff or defendant, shall have full power, in case the cause of
action by law survives, to prosecute or defend such suit or action to
final judgment, and the court shall render final judgment for or
against such executor or administrator, in the same manner as if
the original party to the suit or action were in existence ; and
if such executor or administrator, having been duly served with
a scire facias or citation, five days before the meeting of the court,
shall neglect or refuse to become a party to the suit, the court
may proceed to render judgment against him, in the same man
ner as if such executor or administrator had voluntarily made himself
a party to the suit ; and the executor or administrator, who shall
become a party as aforesaid, shall be entitled to a continuance of the
cause until the next term of the court ; and for the purpose of revival
under any section of this chapter, the suit shall be considered to have
commenced and been depending, from the time of the filing of the
declaration, whether the writ was executed before the death of the
deceased party or not.
§ 67S. If any suit shall be commenced in the name of any person,
for the use and benefit of another, the same shall not abate by the
death of the nominal plaintifff, but shall progress to final judgment
and execution, in like manner as if brought in the name of the person
for whose use and benefit such suit was instituted, who shall be liable
for the costs of suit, as in other cases ; and in case a party for whose
use and benefit a suit shall be brought, shall die before final judgment,
it shall be lawful for the party representing such deceased person, as
executor or administrator, to be entered on the records and papers of
such suit in the place of such deceased person.
§ 679. If there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants in any suit,
and one or more of them should die, if the cause of action should
survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants, the suit shall proceed in the name of the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving defendant or
defendants ; and where either party shall die between verdict and
judgment, such death shall not be suggested in abatement, but judg
ment shall be entered as if both parties were living; and if, on the
death of any plaintiij, in actions which survive, before verdift, the
heir, legatee or devisee, executor, administrator, or other legal repre
sentatives of such deceased party, shall not appear and become a party
to such action,.on or before the second term of the court next after
the death of such party shall have been suggested on the record, such
action shall be discontinued, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.
§ 680. When judgment shall have been rendered against two or
more persons, and any one or more of them shall die, such judgment
shall survive as well against the representatives of the deceased par
ties as against the survivor, and a scire facias may issue against the
survivors, jointly with the representatives of the deceased parties,
and such judgment may be thereupon revived, and execution issued
in like manner.

Chap. 8.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

143

§ 681. In all suits or actions by husband and wife, touching the
separate property of the wife, or where the cause of action survives
to the wife, if the husband shall die pending the suit, his death shall
be suggested on the record, and the suit or action shall proceed to
judgment in the name of the wife. In case the wife should die pend
ing the suit, if the cause of action survives to the husband, her death
shall be suggested on the record, and the cause shall proceed in the
name of the husband ; and if the cause of action shall not survive to
the husband, but to the representatives of the wife, then, on sugges
tion of the death of the wife, the suit shall abate as to the husband,
and may be revived and prosecuted in the name of the proper repre
sentatives of the wife. And the like proceedings shall be had in suits
against husband and wife, so far as they may be applicable.
§ 682. In like manner, judgments in favor of the husband and
wife, may be revived in favor of the survivor, or the representatives
of the party to whom the cause of action would survive ; and in case
the husband or wife, shall die after judgment against them
jointly, such judgment shall survive as well against the representa
tives of the deceased, as against the survivor, and may be revived
accordingly.
§ 683. In suits founded on any written instrument set forth in the
pleading, it shall not be necessary to prove the signatures or execution
thereof, unless the same be denied by a special plea, verified by the
oath of the party pleading the same ; and in no case shall it be neces
sary to prove any written signature, the execution of any instrument,
or any identity or names of persons or description of character, or
the persons composing any firm or partnership, which may be set
forth in the pleadings, unless the same be denied by special plea,
verified by oath as aforesaid ; and the like rule shall prevail as far as
may be applicable, in all cases where any writing is pleaded or set up
by the defendant, or any signature, identity or names of persons,
description of character, or partnership set forth in his pleading.
§ 684. In suits against one or more of several copartners, founded
on any written contract made in the copartnership name, it shall not
be necessary to prove the copartnership signature, or that the defend
ant was a member of said partnership, unless ^he same be denied by
plea, verified by the oath of the party pleading the same ; and the
same rule shall apply to all pleas, and legal proceedings to which the
same may apply.
§ 685. In suits by any incorporated company in this state, to
recover any installments or calls upon the capital stock subscribed by
any person, it shall not be necessary for said company to prove that
such subscription was made, or that such installments or calls were
required to be paid, or that publication thereof was made, unless the
defendant shall deny the same by plea, verified by oath ; provided,
such subscription and such installment or call, and such publication,
be distinctly averred in the pleading.

PROCESS AND MODE OF SERVICE.

[Chap. 8.

§ 6S6. Any judge of a court of record in this state, any clerk of
such court or his deputy, any member of the board of county super
visors, and any justice of the peace, or master, or commissioner in
chancery, or any sheriff, is authorized to administer oaths and affirma
tions, and to take and certify affidavits, whenever the same may be
necessary or proper in any proceedings in any court, or under any
law of this state.
§ 687. In all cases where the oath or affirmation of the party is
required, such oath or affirmation may be made by his agent or attor
ney, and shall be as effectual for all purposes as if made by the party.
§ 688. Private acts of the legislature may be given in evidence
without being specially pleaded, and the printed acts of the legisla
ture, published by authority thereof, shall be good evidence of such
acts.

ARTICLE VII.
PROCESS AND MODE OF SERVICE.
§ 689. The style of all process issued by the circuit courts of this
state, as well as all other courts in the state, shall be, " the State of
Mississippi ; " and following this style, shall be the address of the
officer who is to execute the same.
§ 690. It is not required that any process shall bear teste in the
name of any judge, nor be entitled of the preceding, or any term of
the court to which it is returnable ; but all process emanating from a
court of record, shall be issued and signed by the clerk thereof, with
the date of its issuance.
§ 691. The date of issuance of process shall be prima facie evi
dence that it issued on that day, but may be disproved, should the
matter come in question.
§ 692. If any person shall, for any purpose, ante-date any process,
he shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the party aggrived, to be recov
ered in an action of dety, and he shall also be liable, in an action on
the case, for any damages resulting from such act.
§ 693. The first process in civil suits (except where otherwise
expressly provided), shall be a summons, directed to the sheriff, or
other proper officer of the county where the suit is pending, com
manding him to summons the defendant to appear and answer the
action on the return day.
§ 694. The clerk shall state, in the summons, with brevity, the
nature of the action, and upon what it is founded, so as to give the
defendant general information as to the nature of the proceeding.
§ 695. The summons shall be made returnable on the first day of
the next term. It shall be issued and served at least five days before

»
Chap. 8.]

process and mode of service.

145

the return day. Any summons issued within five days before the
return day, shall be made returnable to the first day of the term next
succeeding that which occurs after its issuance.
|j 696. In estimating the time within which process has been
served, the day it issued, and the day on which it is served, shall not
both be counted. One of those days shall be included in the compu
tation, and the other excluded.
§ 697. When any of the defendants reside in a different county
from that in which the suit is brought, original process may issue at
the same time to each county in which any of the defendants reside ;
but the clerk shall endorse on the process to be served in another
county, upon what particular defendants it is there to be served, and
state, also, on the process thus sent abroad, that it is a duplicate, and
that process has been issued to the proper officer of the county where
the suit is brought, for the other defendants.
§ 69S. The sheriffs of the different counties of this state, shall
execute and return all process sent to them from other counties,
according to the command thereof. For any neglect of duty in this
respect, such sheriffs shall be liable to all the pains and penalties
consequent upon any other neglect of official duty.
§ 699. If it should occur that there is no sheriff in a county, pro
cess may be directed to the coroner, whose duty it shall be to serve
the same, and return it. Should there be neither sheriff nor coroner,
in a county, then the process may be directed to any justice of the
peace of the county, whose duty it shall be to execute and return the
same, in the same manner, and under the same penalties prescribed
for sheriffs, or other officers ; and should the sheriff of a county be a
party to the suit, process may be directed to the coroner, if there be
one, and if not, to any justice of the peace.
§ 700. The sheriff shall mark, on all process, the day of the receipt
thereof by him, and he shall return the same on the return day, with
a written statement of his proceedings thereon, and of his fees for
serving the same; and for failing to note the time of the receipt of
process, or to return the same, in the manner aforesaid, the sheriff
shall forfeit to the party aggrieved, the sum of one hundred dollars,
and shall be liable for all damages ; and the said court may enforce
the return of such process, by fine, or imprisonment, for contempt ;
provided- that whenever a sheriff of any county shall receive from
another county, any writ, or other process, directed to him, he shall
not be liable for a failure to return the same to the county from which
the same was issued, if he shall show, by the certificate of any post
master of the county to which' the said process is directed, or other
competent testimony, to the satisfaction of the court, that he mailed
the same in the post-office, postage paid, directed to the clerk of the
court, by whom the same was issued, at least two days before the
sitting of the court to which the same was made returnable.
j 701. Original process from the courts of this state, shall be
10

146

PROCESS AND MODE OF SERVICE.

[Chap. 8.

served upon individuals by the officer to whom the process is directed,
in one of the following modes: 1st. Upon the defendant, personally,
if to be found in the county, by handing him a true copy of the pro
cess. 2d. If the defendant cannot be found in the county, then by
leaving a true copy of the process at his usual place of abode, with his
wife, or some other person above the age of sixteen years, being one
of his family, and willing to receive such copy. 3d. If the defendant
cannot himself be found, and if no person of his family, aged six
teen years, can be found at his usual place of abode, who is willing to
receive 'such copy, then by posting such true copy on a door of the
defendant's usual place of abode.
§ 702. If the sheriff, or other officer, to whom the original process
is addressed, shall execute the same in the mode first stated in the
preceding section, his return shall be made substantially as follows :
"Executed the within process this day upon the defendant in person,
by handing to him a true copy thereof." If the process be executed in
the manner secondly above authorized, the return shall be substantially
as follows : " Executed this process this day, by handing to the wife
of the defendant (or to A B, a person of his family, of the age of
sixteen years, as the case may be), at his usual place of abode in said
county, such person being then and there willing to receive the same,
a true copy of this process, said defendant not being found in my
county, after diligent search." If the process be executed in the man
ner thirdly prescribed, in the preceding section, the return shall be
substantially in the form following: "The within named defendant, A
B, after diligent search, cannot be found in my county, nor could I
find, after dilgent search, any person of his family, of the age of six
teen years, at his usual place of abode, who was willing to receive a
copy of this process. I thereforee executed the same this day, by
posting a true copy thereof on the door of the defendant's usual place
of abode, in my county." The returns, however made, shall be dated
with the day of service, and signed by the officer serving the process.
§ 703. If the defendant be a corporation, process may be served
on the president, or other head of the corporation, upon the cashier,
treasurer, or principal clerk, or agent of the corporation, or upon any
one of the directors of such corporation. If no such person or pei'sons
be found in the county, then it shall be sufficient to post a true copy
of the process on the door of the office, or principal place of business
of the corporation. In suits against railroad and telegraph compa
nies, brought in any county, other than that in which their office, or
principal place of business may be, the process may be served on any
station agent, or sent to any county in which such office, or principal
place of business may be located, and there served, as herein directed
and authorized.
§ 704. If the defendant be an infant, the process shall be served
on him personally, and upon his father, or mother, or guardian, if he
have any in this state.

Chap. 8.]

PROCESS AND MODE OF SERVICE.

147

§ 705. If the defendant be a person judicially declared of unsound
mind, then service of process shall be on him, and also upon his guar
dian.
§ 706. If the defendant be imprisoned by the sentence or judg
ment of any court of this state, either in a county or city jail, or in
the state penitentiary, the officer to whom the process is addressed,
may serve it himself, or service by the jailor, or keeper of the peni
tentiary, shall be sufficient.
§ 707. The officer serving process, shall not be permitted to ques
tion the truth of his return ; but either of the parties to the action
may, in the same action, show the return to be untrue.
§ 708. On motion of either party, and a suggestion that the officer
serving process has, either by mistake or omission, made a defective
return of his proceedings, the return may be amended, but only
according to the facts connected with the service.
§ 709. When the officer shall make a return of " not found, " plain
tiff may sue out alias or pluries process, from the office of the clerk,
in term-time or vacation, without any order of court for that purpose.
§ 710. In suits on the bond of any executor, administrator, guar
dian or collector, or on any bond payable to the state, or to the gover
nor, or otherwise, and conditioned for the faithful performance of any
trust, duty, or office, the clerk shall endorse on the process the name
of the person for whose use the action is brought; and if costs are
given against the plaintifff in such action, such usee shall alone be
answerable therefore, and execution may issue against him, as in other
cases against the plaintifff.
§ 711. Any process, appearing to be in other respects duly served,
shall be deemed good, though not directed to any officer.
§ 712. If any matter required to be inserted in, or endorsed on
any process shall be omitted, such process shall shall not, on that
account, be held void, but may be set aside as irregular, or amended,
on such terms as the court shall think proper ; and such amendment
may be made upon any application to set aside or quash the writ.
§ 713. When the sheriff shall return that he has been kept off by
force, the plaintifff may issue an alias or pluries, as the case may be,
or he may proceed in the action against such defendant, as if the pro
cess had been returned executed.
§ 714. If any process shall be executed, and, for want of a return
1 hereof, other process shall be issued, the sheriff shall not execute
such subsequent process, but shall return the first process by him
executed, if it be in his possession, and if it be not in his possession,
he shall return the subsequent process, with an endorsement of the
execution of such first process ; on which there shall be the same pro
ceedings as if the said first process had been duly returned.
§ 715. Writs of scire facias, for the renewal of judgments, and
for reviving suits, may be issued to any county in the state, and shall
he executed and returned in the same manner as a summons. If the

148

CHANGE OF VENUE.

[Chap. 8.

defendant is a non-resident of the state, or cannot be found to be
served with the process, the court, or the clerk in vacation, may order
publication to be made for one month, in some newspaper, requiring
the appearance of the defendant, and, on proof of such publication
may proceed as if the writ of scire facias had been returned executed.
§ 716. In actions upon penal statutes by an informer, the title of
the statute upon which the action is founded, shall be endorsed upon
the process ; and no recovery by verdict, or otherwise, obtained by
covin or collusion, in a popular action, shall be a bar to any action
prosecuted in good faith.
§ 717. In any proceeding against a sheriff or other, officer for fail
ing to return any process, mesne or final, proof that such process was
duly put in the post office, addressed to him, and that the postage was
paid thereon, shall be sufficient prima facie evidence of the receipt
thereof by such sheriff or other officer, unless he shall make oath
that he did not himself receive it, and that he verily believes it was
not received by any of his deputies.
§ 718. When the defendant shall not be found, the plaintifff may
sue out an alias or pluries summons, until the defendant shall be
served ; or he may have a testatum writ to another county, where the
defendant, after the commencement of suit, shall have gone into
another county ; or he may have an attachment against the estate of
the defendant ; and if upon such attachment, the sheriff shall seize or
attach any property of the defendant, the same proceedings shall
thereafter be had as if the suit had been originally commenced by
attachment.

ARTICLE VIII.
CHANGE OF VENUE.
§ 719. When either party to a civil action in the circuit court shall
desire to change the venue, he shall present to the court, or to the
judge of the district in vacation, a petition setting forth, under oath,
that he has good reason to believe that from the undue influence of
the adverse party, prejudice existing in the public mind, or for some
other sufficient cause, to be described in said petition, he could not
obtain a fair and impartial trial in the county where the action
may be pending, and that the application is made as soon as could
conveniently be, after being advised of such undue influence, preju
dice, or other cause, as aforesaid, and not to delay the trial, or to vex
or harrass the adverse party ; and on reasonable notice, in writing, to
the adverse party, of the time and place of making the application,
if made in vacation, the court, if in term time, or the judge in vaca
tion, shall hear the parties, and examine the evidence which either

Chap. 8.]

CHANGE OF VENUE.

149

party may adduce, and may award a change of venue to some con
venient county, where an impartial trial may be had, and if practica
ble, in which a circuit court may next be held ; and if made in vaca
tion the order shall be endorsed on the petition, and directed to the
clerk, who shall file the same with the papers in the suit.
§ 720. When any order for a change of venue shall be made, as
aforesaid, the clerk shall make out a descriptive list of all the papers
in the cause, and a certified copy of all orders made therein, with
their dates, and a bill of the costs that have accrued, and shall care
fully and safely put all said papers, with a copy of said descriptive
list, and the copy of said orders, and the bill of costs, into a package,
to be well covered and sealed up, and directed to the clerk of the
court to which the suit may be removed, and shall, (if not otherwise
ordered by the judge), take the receipt of the party obtaining the
change of venue, for the papers contained in said list, and deliver the
package to said party, to be carried to the clerk of the court to whom
it may be directed. But the court or judge may direct, in said order,
that the party applying, previously to a removal of the papers, shall
pay to the clerk the sum of five dollars for every twenty miles of dis
tance from the place where the suit is pending, to that to which it is
ordered to be removed ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk, on the
payment of said sum of money, to carry the papers, or employ some
trustworthy person to carry them to the clerk of the court to whom
they may be directed, and all costs that have accrued in the cause,
shall abide its final termination, as in other cases.
§ 721 The clerk to whom the papers may be transmitted shall open the
seal of the package and compare the papers with the descriptive list,
and shall give to the party or person delivering the same a receipt
therefore ; he shall then enter the cause on his docket as if it had been
commenced in the court of which he is clerk, and issue subpoenas for
witnesses as in other cases, and proceed with the case as if it had orig
inated in his court.
§ 722. No civil suit shall be removed more than once, or in any
other manner than that prescribed in this act, and in no case where it
shall appear that there has been any unnecessary delay or negligence
of the party in making such application : provided, That nothing here
in contained shall apply to the removal of suits commenced out of the
county of the residence and freehold of the defendant.
§ 723. The provisions of this article shall be applied to a change of
venue from one district to another, in those counties where there are
two circuit court districts.

150

JURORS—GRAND AND PETIT.

[Chap. 8.

ARTICLE IX.
JURORS—GRAND AND PETIT.
§ 724. All male citizens of the State of Mississippi, and who are
also citizens of the United States, between the ages of twenty-one
years and sixty years, and who are householders, shall be competent
jurors and liable to perform such service in the counties where they
reside, but not beyond the limits thereof, except that those persons
who have been convicted of any felony shall not be qualified as jurors ;
but any juror who is over sixty years of age, and who does not plead
an exemption, shall be a qualified juror in any case.
§ 725. The following classes, however, shall not be compelled to
perform jury service, viz: All officers in the executive department of
the state government, all judges and officers of the several state
courts, all members of the board of supervisors, all physicians actually
in practice, all teachers and officers of public schools actually engaged
in their vocation, all keepers of public mills and ferries, all ministers
of the gospel actually engaged in their calling, all officers of the gov
ernment of the United States, and all lawyers actually practicing their
profession.
§ 726. Grand jurors, in each county, shall be selected as follows:
The board of supervisors in each county, at least thirty days before
each term of a circuit court, shall select twenty persons, to be taken
as equally in numbers as may be from each supervisor's district,
possessed of the requisite qualifications, to serve as grand jurors at
the ensuing term. They shall serve as such, until discharged by the
court. In making this selection, the board of supervisors shall take
those jurors who, from their intelligence and good conduct, may seem
to be well qualified for grand jurors.
§ 727. The names of the persons so selected shall be entered on
the minutes of the board. The clerk of the board shall, without delay,
hand the sheriff of the county a certified copy of such appointment
of grand jurors, and the sheriff shall summon such jurors, by personal
service, if to be found, or, if not, by written notice left at their respec
tive places of abode, at least five days before the commencement of
the term, to appear and serve on the grand jury.
§ 728. From the persons so summoned and in attendance, the
grand jury shall be empaneled, to consist of not less than fifteen, nor
more than twenty members. But should the board of supervisors
omit to select a grand jury, from any cause, or if such jury has been
irregularly selected or summoned, the court shall, on the first day of
the term, or afterwards during the term, cause the sheriff forthwith to
summons and bring into court twenty or more good and lawful men
to compose the grand jury; and if a sufficient number of grand jurors,
selected and summoned, do not appear, the court shall direct the
sheriff to summons as many other qualified jurors as may be neces

Chap. 8.]

JURORS

GRAND AND PETIT.

151

sary. And if any of the persons selected and summoned as grand
jurors, should be excused by the court from any cause from serving as
such, the court shall order a sufficient number of other qualified jurors
to be summoned in their stead.
§ 729. Before the grand jury is empaneled, the court shall examine
each one of them, on oath, touching his qualifications as a juror.
Alter a grand jury has been sworn and empaneled, no objection
shall afterwards be urged, by plea or otherwise, to their organization.
The mere fact of empaneling a grand jury shall be conclusive evi
dence of the legality of the body ; provided, that any person inter
ested may challenge the array for fraud, at any time before the grand
jury retire from the bar.
§ 730. If, after a grand jury has been sworn, any of the members
thereof should absent themselves from any cause, or become incom
petent to sit, or be excused by the court, the court shall have power
to cause others to be sworn in their place.
§ 731. The court shall appoint, from the grand jury, some member
to act as foreman, to whom, and in the presence and hearing of the
other jurors and in open court, the following oath shall be administered
by the clerk or judge, viz : " You, as foreman of this grand inquest,
shall diligently inquire into and true presentment make of all such
matters and things as shall be given you in charge, or otherwise come to
your knowledge, touching the present service ; the counsel of the state,
your fellow's, and your own, you will keep secret ; you shall present no
person through malice, hatred or ill will, nor shall you leave any per
son unpresented, through fear, favor, or allection, or for any reward,
hope, or promise thereof, but in all your presentments you shall pre
sent the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, to the best
of your skill and understanding, so help you God." And the follow
ing oath shall be administered to the other jurors, to-wit: "The same
oath that your foreman has now taken before you on his part, you,
and each of you, shall well and truly observe and keep on your re
spective parts, so help you God.''
§ 732. It shall be the duty of every judge of the circuit court, im
mediately after organizing a grand jury, to deliver to them a suita
ble charge touching the nature of their duties, and to give them in
charge such acts of the legislature as he is specially required to call
to their attention, and to define, in general terms, the various statu
tory and common law ofi'ences which are defined by law, and which
come under their cognizance as grand jurors. He shall also instruct
those peace officers who are required by law to be present, and who
are in attendance, relative to their duties as conservators of the
peace.
§ 733. Any grand juror who shall fail to attend any term of court
to which he may be summoned, or who may be guilty of any con
tempt of court, may be fined in a sum not exceeding two hundred
ilollars, for the use of the common school fund.

152

JURORS—GRAND AMD PETIT.

[Chap. 8.

§ 734. No true bill shall be found and returned to court, unless at
least twelve of the grand jurors assent thereto.
§ 735. The foreman of the grand jury shall have power to order
subpoenas for all witnesses desired to be produced, and he shall also
have power to swear all witnesses. A record shall be kept by the
foreman, and returned to court, certified and signed by the foreman,
of the names of all witnesses sworn before the grand jury.
§ 736. The assessor of taxes in each county shall once in every
year, at the time of making his assessment, make out a list of the
names of all persons in his county qualified to serve as jurors, and
shall deliver the same to the clerk of the circuit court of the county,
at the time prescribed for the return of the tax assessment ; and such
assessor shall have power to examine any person, on oath, to be ad
ministered by him, touching the qualification of such person as a juror,
and the assessor shall annex to such list his affidavit that the same
contains a true list of all persons in his county qualified to serve as
jurors, so far as he can ascertain, and as he verily believes.
§ 737. The list of names so returned shall be transcribed by the
clerk of said court, in a book kept for that purpose, and said
names shall also be written on separate slips of paper or parchment,
and put in a box kept for that purpose, marked "jury box, No. 1;" and
when the assessor makes his return at any subsequent time, the said
clerk and assessor shall diligently compare the book in which the
names already deposited in said box are recorded, with the list so re
turned ; and the clerk shall record the names of all persons not previous
ly recorded, and shall deposit in said box slips containing such ad
ditional names, and shall erase from the book and destroy the slips
containing the names of any persons who have ceased to be qualified
jurors.
§ 738. At each regular term of said circuit courts, there shall be
drawn by the clerk and sheriff, in open court, from said box, the
names of twenty-four persons, to serve as jurors for each and every
week of the next succeeding term of said court, and the names of the
jurors so drawn shall be entered on the minutes of the court. If, at
the time of such drawing, it shall appear that any person so drawn
has ceased to be qualified and liable to serve as a juror, the said
court shall cause the slip containing such name to be destroyed, and
the name erased from said book, and other names shall be drawn to
complete the number required.
§ 739. Whenever the jurors shall not have been drawn in open
court, the clerk and sheriff, in the presence of the president of the
board of supervisors, shall, at least thirty days before the next term
of the circuit court, draw the jurors for such term, in the manner be
fore directed, and a list of the jurors so drawn shall be made out aHd
certified by the said president, and shall be recorded by said clerk
in the minutes of the court.
§ 740. The slips containing the names of jurors drawn for any

Chap. 8.]

JURORS

GRAND AND PETIT.

153

regular or special term, shall be safely kept by the clerk, until the
sitting of the court at such term, and then the names of all persons
who appear and are required to serve as jurors at such term, shall be
deposited in a box to be marked "jury box No. 2;" and the names
of all such persons who shall fail to appear, or shall be excused by the
court, or not required to serve in consequence of the failure of the
term, or other cause, shall be returned to box No. 1, and none of the
names deposited in box No, 2 shall be returned to box No. 1, until the
entire number in the last named box shall have been drawn out and
deposited in box No. 2; and if, in drawing a jury, all the names shall
he exhausted from box No. 1, before obtaining a sufficient number to
complete the panel, the clerk and sheriff shall replenish the same, by
depositing therein all the names contained in the other box of persons
then liable to serve as jurors, and the drawing of the residue of the
jurors shall then proceed as aforesaid.
§ 741. When the jurors shall have been drawn as aforesaid, the
clerk shall issue a venire facias, returnable to the -next term of the
court, containing the names of the persons so drawn ; and the sheriff
shall summon said persons at least five days before the term, either
by personal service, or by leaving a written notice at their usual places
of abode ; and he shall make return of said venire, on the first day of
the term ; and any juror summoned as aforesaid, who shall not attend,
shall be fined not exceeding one hundred dollars, and said fine shall
be made absolute, unless good cause for such non-attendance shall be
shown at the next succeeding term, or before final judgment on scire
facias; and if good cause be shown, the fine shall be remitted, with
out payment of costs, if the court shall so order; and all fines so col
lected shall be applied to common school purposes.
§ 742. If, at any regular or special term of a circuit court, it shall
appear that no jurors have been drawn or summoned for such term
or for any part thereof, or that such jurors have been irregularly
drawn or summoned, or that none of the jurors so drawn or sum
moned are in attendance, the court shall immediately direct
the proper officer, without delay, to summon the requisite num
ber of competent jurors, to appear at such time as the court shall ap
point, and the court shall thereupon proceed, as if jurors had been
regularly drawn and summoned.
§ 743. No challenge to the array shall be sustained, except for
fraud, nor shall any venire facias (except a special venire facias in
a criminal case) be quashed for any cause whatever.
§ 744. Petit jurors shall be sworn in the following form, to-wit :
" You, and each of you, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you will
well and truly try all issues, and execute all writs of inquiry that may
be submitted to you, or left to your decision by the court, during the
present term, and true verdicts give, according to the evidence : so
help you God.'" Which oath or affirmation shall authorize the said
jury to try all issues, and execute all writs of inquiry that may be

154

JURORS

GRAND AND PETIT.

[Chap. 8.

submitted to them during the term of the court; and talesmen, if
any be summoned, shall in like manner be sworn to try all issues,
and execute all writs of inquiry, which may be submitted to them
during the day for which they are summoned.
§ 745. All jurors summoned on a special venire in a capital case,
appearing and answering to their names, and regularly discharged
by the court, shall be entitled to pay, whether empaneled on the
jury or not.
§ 746. The amount of compensation of petit jurors and talesmen
shall be determined on the oath of the juror, to be administered by
the clerk, who shall thereupon give a certificate of the same to the
juror; and the amount shall be paid by the county treasurer, on pre
sentment of the said certificate ; and the treasurer shall attend at his
office for that purpose, on the last day of each week of the court ;
such certificate shall also be received by the tax collectors in pay
ment of county taxes. The clerk of the circuit court shall keep a
book, called the "jury fee book," in which he shall enter the time of
issuing such certificates, the amount thereof, and to whom issued, and
within thirty days after each term of the court, he shall file in the
office of the clerk of the board of supervisors, a certified copy of such
entries, for the inspection of the said board.
§ 747. Grand jurors shall prove their attendance, mileage, tolls and
ferriages on oath, in open court, after the discharge of said grand jury,
and sheriffs, deputy sheriffs or bailiffs, and jurors summoned on a
special venire, and regularly discharged by the court, shall in like
manner prove their attendance, whenever they shall be discharged,
and a certificate thereof shall be granted; and the court shall enter an
order on the minutes in favor of the sheriff, for the aggregate sum of
the certificates of the said grand jurors, bailiffs, or deputies, jurors on
special venire, and sheriff, payable out of the stats treasury ; and on
a copy thereof, duly certified by the clerk, being presented to the aud
itor, he shall issue a warrant for the amount, in favor of the said sheriff
or his assigns, and the sheriff shall pay the several certificates of the
jurors, bailiffs, or deputies, immediately on reception of the same
from the treasury, or in default thereof, he shall be liable individual
ly, or on his bond, for three times the amount of each certificate,
which, if he shall refuse to pay on demand made, may be recovered
by action.
§ 748 There shall be imposed on each original suit in the circuit
court, in which a plea or other defense shall be filed, a tax of three
dollars, and in all cases wherein judgment shall be rendered by de
fault at the first term, and in all cases dismissed before plea filed, or
tried on an issue of fact by the court, without a jury, no jury tax shall
be charged ; and in each case coming up by appeal or certiorari, a
tax of two dollars, to be included in the bill of costs, to constitute a
fund for the payment of petit jurors in said county ; and on the first
day of each term, the sheriff and clerk shall account for and pay to

Chap. 8.]

JURORS

GRAND AND PETIT.

155

the county treasurer, all sums of money received by either of them as
such tax, and shall make oath that the accounts thus rendered con
tain a true statement of all the jury tax received by him, and not
before accounted for and paid over ; and if any sheriff or clerk shall
fail so to account and pay over said tax, the court, on motion of the
county treasurer, shall enter judgment against such sheriff or clerk,
and their sureties, for all sums they shall have respectively received,
with thirty per cent. damages ; and the court shall cause to be pro
duced, on the hearing of said motion, all books or papers in the clerk's
or sheriffs office, which will afford evidence on such motion ; and said
judgments shall bear interest at the rate of twenty per cent, per an
num.
§ 749. Within ten days after the end of any term of the court, the
clerk shall furnish, under oath, to the county treasurer, a list of all
judgments rendered, and suits disposed of at such term, or in the pre
ceding vacation, on which a jury tax is imposed, and he shall annual
ly,^ the month of December, furnish to the said county treasurer a list
of all cases on which the jury tax has been paid during the year, noting
thereon the amount paid, and to whom ; and if any clerk shall fail to
furnish to the treasurer, the said lists, or either of them, he shall be
fined by the court, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for the use of
common schools, on motion of said treasurer, or the district attorney ;
and if any county treasurer shall fail to perform any of the duties re
quired of him by this act, in relation to the collection of the jury tax,
and the payment of juror's certificates, he may in like manner be
fined one hundred dollars, for the use of common schools.
§ 750. No juror's certificate shall be received by the county treas
urer in settlement with any clerk or sheriff, unless such clerk or sheriff
make oath that he received the same in payment of taxes due the
county, or that he paid the holder the full amount expressed on its
face, without any discount or abatement.
§ 751. The court, for good cause shown on oath, shall have power
to excuse any petit or grand juror, who may be summoned to attend,
and cause the sheriff to summons other jurors, in the place of those who
may be excused ; but jurors shall in no case be excused from service
on an agreement to procure a substitute. The practice of substitution
in such cases is absolutely prohibited.
§ 752. If any juror, summoned to appear at court, should render
himself unfit for service by intoxication, before his name is called in
court, he shall be fined in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars,
and be imprisoned for a term not exceeding twenty-four hours ; after
jurors are empaneled, they shall be under the control of the court,
and, for any breach of duty, or contempt of court, may be fined and
imprisoned to the extent of the powers conferred upon the judge in
article fourth of this chapter.
§ 753. Grand jurors, when empaneled, may regulate their own
time for meeting and adjourning ; but they shall always sit at, or con

156

WITNESSES—WHO COMPETENT—HOW SUMMONED.

[CHAP. 8.

venient to, the place where the court sits, and the presiding judge
may, if he thinks proper, regulate their sessions.
§ 754. No grand jury shall adjourn finally, except by permission
of the judge, given in open court.
§ 755. In those counties where there are two circuit court districts,
the board of supervisors shall appoint grand jurors for each district,
in the manner herein directed, taking those jurors from the different
parts of each district, in numbers as nearly equal as may be, and the
assessor when he returns the list of jurors as herein provided, shall
note, opposite each name, the district to which the juror belongs. In
drawing petit jurors for a district, when a name is drawn which be
longs to the other district, it shall be returned to the box whence
it was drawn. In the counties herein referred to, no juror shall be
required to serve out of the district of his residence.

ARTICLE X.
WITNESSES

WHO COMPETENT AND HOW SUMMONED.

§ 756. Parties to the record and persons interested in the result of
a suit, or interested in the record as an instrument of evidence, shall
not, on that account, be excluded as witnesses in any of the courts of
this state.
§ 757. In all civil cases, a plaintifff or defendant, desiring to have
the testimony of his adversary, may force him to appear and testify,
by process of subpoena or attachment, as in other cases.
§ 758. No person shall testify as a witness to establish his own
claim of any amount, for or against the estate of a deceased person,
which originated during the lifetime of such deceased person. But
such person so interested shall be permitted to give evidence in sup
port of his demand against the estate of a deceased person which
originated after the death of such deceased person, in the course of
administering the estate.
§ 759. Husband and wife may be witnesses for each other in all
criminal cases, but they shall not be required to testify against each
other, as witnesses for the prosecution. Nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to debar full cross-examination by the prose
cution, of any husband or wife of an accused party, who may be placed
on the stand for the defense.
§ 760. Husband and wife may be introduced by each other as
witnesses in all civil cases.
§ 761. The first process to compel the attendance of a witness
shall be a subpoena, directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witness may reside, mentioning the time and place for the appearance
of the witness, the parties to the suit, and the party at whose instance

Chap. 8.]

witnesses—who competent—how summoned.

15 1

the witness is summoned. The names of all the witnesses residing in
the same county shall be inserted in the same subpoena : provided, the
number shall not exceed six names in each subpoena.
§ 762. The clerk of the court in which the action may be pending,
shall, in like manner, issue subpoenas for all witnesses whose attend
ance may be required before commissioners to take depositions, or
before referees, or on any survey of lands by order of the court or ac
cording to law.
§ 763. Any commissioner appointed, or to whom a commission may
be directed by any court without the limits of this State, to take the
deposition of any witness residing or being in this State, shall have
power, in like manner, to issue subpoenas for the witnesses to be ex
amined, returnable at such time and place as such commissioner may
appoint, and such witness shall be entitled to demand and receive his
regular pay before he testifies.
§ 764. Subpoenas shall be served personally, or if the witness can
not be found, by leaving a copy at his usual place of residence, in
the hands of some person over the age of sixteen years; and the
person so summoned shall appear, and continue to attend, from day to
day, and from term to term, until discharged ; and if the suit shall be
settled in vacation, notice thereof shall be given to the witnesses ;
otherwise they shall be entitled to the same compensation for their
subsequent attendance, in pursuance of the subpoena, as if the suit
had not been settled.
§ 765. If any person summoned as a witness shall fail to appear
and attend, as herein required, an attachment shall be issued by order
of the court or other authority before which he was summoned to ap
pear, returnable at such time as the said court or authority may ap
point, and such court or authority shall, on ordering such attachment,
direct whether the witness shall enter into recognizance or bond for
his appearance, and in what sum, and whether with or without sure
ties, which recognizance or bond the sheriff or other officer by whom
the attachment is executed is authorized to take, payable to the
State. And in case said witness shall appear in answer to said at
tachment, the court may discharge him therefrom, on good cause
shown, or may require him to enter into like recognizance for his ap
pearance, from day to day, and from term to term, until discharged, to
testify in said cause. In case said witness shall not appear in pursu
ance of his recognizance or bond, the same proceedings shall be had
as upon the forfeiture of a recognizance in a criminal case.
§ 766. Any person summoned as a witness, and not appearing and
attending as required by this act, shall be fined by the court in any
sum, not exceeding one hundred dollars, for the use of the person at
whose instance he was summoned, and a scire facias shall issue
thereon, as in the case of defaulting jurors, and he shall also be liable
to the action of the party for the full damages sustained by the want
of his testimony. But if sufficient cause of his failure to attend be

158

■ WITNESSES—WHO COMPETENT—HOW SUMMONED.

[CHAP. 8.

shown by such person, before final judgment on such scire facias,
then no fine shall be incurred by such failure.
§ 767. Witnesses in criminal cases shall be liable to the same pro
cess of subpoena and attachment, and to the like penalties for failure
to appear and attend, as in civil cases. The court may cause the wit
nesses on either side to be bound by recognizance to appear and tes
tify until discharged.
§ 7 68. The number of days, and the amount of mileage, tolls, and
ferriages, shall be determined by the oath of the witness, to be ad
ministered by the clerk of the court, who shall give the witness a cer
tificate thereof; and if any witness shall swear falsely, to obtain such
certificate, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury and punished accord
ingly. Each witness in a civil case shall be entitled to demand, at the
expiration of each day, his compensation for attending on that day ;
and if the same shall not be paid, such witness shall not be obliged
to attend further, until the compensation for his previous attendance
shall be paid.
§ 769. The party paying any witness may file the certificate given
by the clerk among the papers in the cause, and if he recover costs in
the cause, the amount shall be taxed in the bill of costs.
§ 770. Any witness may sue for and recover, from the party on
whose behalf he was summoned, the amount specified in the certificate
of the clerk, before any justice of the peace, or other court having
jurisdiction, and the certificate of the clerk shall be good primafacie
evidence, in such action, of the attendance of such witness, and of the
amount of compensation he is entitled to recover.
§ 771. Witnesses in criminal cases shall be allowed the same com
pensation as in civil cases, but the prosecutor shall not be allowed
compensation as a witness, nor shall any person be allowed for his at
tendance as a witness in more than one criminal case on the same
day.
§ 772. The compensation of witnesses on behalf of the State, shall
be allowed in open court, and the order therefore entered upon the
minutes, and a certified copy made out by the clerk and delivered to
the party entitled thereto ; and the amount shall be taxed in the costs,
and collected as other costs, in case the defendant shall be convicted,
or the prosecutor be taxed with the costs.
§ 773. If, on conviction, the defendant shall be unable to pay the
costs, or, if he be acquitted, and the costs be not taxed on the prose
cutor, or, if the prosecutor, being so taxed, shall be unable to pay
said costs, the compensation of witnesses on behalf of the State shall
be paid out of the state treasury ; and, on presentation of a certified
copy of the order of allowance of such compensation, and a certificate
of the clerk, in cases where the defendant has been convicted or
the prosecutor taxed with the cost, that execution has been issued and
returned nulla bona, or that the defendant has been discharged as an
insolvent debtor, the auditor shall issue his warrant for the amount

Chap. 8.]

witnesses—who competent—now summoned.

159

jn favor of such witness, his representatives or assigns. On produc
tion of the like certificates, the sheriff or tax collector of the county
shall pay the same, out of any money in his hands, payable into the
state treasury, and shall be allowed therefore by the auditor of public
accounts in any settlement with him.
§ 774. In all criminal cases, where the defendant, after being ar
raigned, shall break jail, escape from custody, or forfeit his recogniz
ance, and in which the court shall order that process against such de
fendant shall cease, the witnesses on the part of the State may ob
tain pay for their attendance, in the same manner as if such de
fendant had been acquitted.
§ 775. No witness shall be entitled to charge for his attendance in
any case, at any term of the court, unless he shall, during the same
term, or within five days thereafter, prove his attendance and obtain
a certificate, in the manner directed by this act.
§ 776. Any witness being conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, may give testimony upon his solemn affirmation, which shall be
as good and effectual as an oath ; and the person so deposing shall
be guilty of perjury, and liable to all the penalties thereof, in all
cases where he would be guilty of perjury, if he had testified upon oath ;
and it shall be sufficient to charge in the indictment that such a per
son was sworn, or testified upon oath, and it shall not be a variance if
it appear that he was affirmed. The form of affirmation shall be in
substance as follows, to- wit : " You do solemnly and truly declare and
affirm,*' etc. In all cases where an oath or affidavit is required by
law, it shall be sufficient, if the same be made or given on the solemn
affirmation of the party.
§ 777. If any person summoned as a witness shall refuse to be
sworn or affirmed, or to give evidence, he shall be committed to
prison by the court, commissioner, referees, or other person author
ized to take his testimony, there to remain without bail, until he shall
be sworn or affirmed, and give his evidence.
§ 778. Any witness may be examined touching his interest in a
cause, or his conviction of any crime, and his answers may be con
tradicted, and his interest or his conviction of a cringe established by
other evidence ; and no witness shall be excused from answering any
question, material and relevant, unless the answer would expose him to a
criminal prosecution or penalty, or a forfeiture of his estate ; and the
court shall decide as to the effect of such evidence, after privately
hearing the witness.
§ 779. No conviction for any offense, except perjury or suborna
tion of perjury, shall exclude a witness from testifying in a cause ;
but if he has been convicted of the offenses heroin named, or either
of them, he shall not testify, although he may have been pardoned or
punished for the same.
§ 780. Any witness summoned in a cause, who disqualifies himself
from giving evidence, by intoxication, or who does not appear at the

160

WITNESSES—WHO COMPETENT—HOW SUMMONED.

[CHAP. 8.

bar of the court, when called, shall have no compensation for that
term, and the clerk shall not give him any certificate of his attend
ance.
§ 781. Any witness summoned to attend court in a civil case, be
yond the county of his residence, shall not be bound to attend, unless
there be tendered to him, by the officer serving the subpoena, or the
party at whose instance he is called, a sum of money sufficient to pay
mileage and ferriages and tolls to the court house, and one day's at
tendance.
§ 7S2. Any person desiring to institute suit upon any open ac
count in any court of this State having jurisdiction of the amount,
may go before any justice of the peace of this State, or any other
State, or the United States, authorized by law to administer oaths,,
and make affidavit to the correctness of such account, and that it is
due from the party against whom it is charged; and in any suit upon
such an account thus sworn to, the affidavit of the plaintifff, or party
in whose favor the account is stated, or his agent, made as aforesaid,
and attached to the account, shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the account and indebtedness of the defendant against
whom the sum is charged, and shall entitle the plaintifff to judgment
at the trial term of the suit, unless the defendant shall make affidavit
and file with his plea, that the account is not correct, in which event
the affidavit to the account shall not be evidence, except to entitle
the plaintifff to judgment, for such part of said account as the defend
ant by his affidavit may admit to be due : Provided, That this shall
not apply to accounts against decedents and suits against executors
or administrators.
§ 783. The circuit courts in this State are hereby vested with full
power, in all cases, to compel discoveries in aid of actions at law de
pending therein, and in aid to defenses thereto, whenever, by the
rules of equity, a discovery would be compelled in a court of chanc
ery, subject to the provisions hereinafter expressed.
§ 784. Whenever an application shall be made for a discovery,
under the provisions of this act, the party shall embody the facts in
relation to which a discovery shall be prayed, with the reason therefore,
in a petition to the court in which the action may be pending, sub
stantiated by oath, and the court, on inspecting the same, shall deter
mine whether a discovery shall be had or not; and if the said court
shall determine that a discovery shall be had, the person liable to
make the same shall forthwith, or at such other time as the court may
direct, make in writing, on oath, full and complete discovery relative
to the matters concerning which such discovery shall be ordered, and
deliver the same into the said court; and if the said person be not in at
tendance upon said court, a summons shall be ordered, commanding
him to attend the same forthwith, or at the next succeeding term, as
the court may direct, and then and there make the discovery re
quired, in manner aforesaid; and if the party from whom a dis

Chap. 8.1j

depositions-^how And
when taken.
i

161

covery is sought shall reside out of this state, or be absent therefrom,
or cannot be found, the court, or the judge thereof, in vacation, may
direct publication to be made once a week, for four consecutive weeks,
in any newspaper printed within this state, which, in the opinion of
the court or judge, is best calculated to apprise the absent party that
such petition has been filed; and if the person so rendered liable to
make discovery, on the return of a subpoena duly served, or on due
proof of publication made, shall neglect or refuse to make the same,
the facts stated in such petition, concerning which the discovery was
prayed, shall be taken as confessed, and shall go to the jury, as if the
same had been admitted by such person under oath.
§ 785. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the order of the
court allowing or refusing a discovery, a bill of exceptions may he
taken to the decision of the court, embodying the petition and pro
ceedings thereon, and the same may be assigned for error, and re
viewed by the supreme court, on appeal or writ of error, after final
judgment in said cause.
§ 786. Any person knowingly making a false statement in the pe
tition or answer required by this act, shall be deemed guilty of per
jury, and being thereof convicted, shall suffer all the pains and pen
alties thereof.
. -§ 787. A discovery made by one defendant shall not operate
against his co-defendant, who shall not be made a party to the said
petition, or who, being a party, shall, deny the same facts discovered
by such defendant ; and if one or more defendants to such petition
sshall deny the facts, or any of them therein alleged, and one or more
other defendants to the same petition shall neglect or refuse to answer
the same, the facts alleged shall be taken for confessed against the
defendant or defendants failing or refusing to answer, and shall ope
rate against them only. And if any party defendant to such petition
shall answer some of the facts alleged therein, and shall fail to answer
some of said facts, the facts not answered or denied shall be taken as
admitted to be true, and shall go to the jury accordingly.

ARTICLE XI.
DEPOSITIONS—HOW AND WHEN TAKEN.
§ 788. The depositions of witnesses residing or being temporarily
within this state,' may be taken in all civil suits in the following cases,
and no others, viz : First : when the witness shall be about to depart
from the state before the cause can be tried. Second : when, by reason
of extreme age, sickness or other cause, the witness will probably bo
unable to attend court in person. Third: when the claim or the de
fence shall depend upon the evidence of a single witness, on a point
II

162

DEPOSITIONS—HOW AND WHEN TAKEN.

[Chap. 8.

essential to the case. Fourth : when the witness shall be a female.
Fifth : when the witness shall be a judge of any court of record in
this state. Sixth : when the witness shall be an officer of the state
government, or of the government of the United States, and cannot
attend- court, without neglecting his official duties. Seventh : when
the witness is a clerk of any court of record, or a sheriff, or justice of
the peace, and is required to testify in a county different from that of
his residence. Lastly : when the witness resides more than sixty miles
from the place where the cause is to be tried.
§ 789. Either party may compel the attendance of a female wit
ness to give evidence orally in court, by making and filing an affidavit
in the case that he has good cause to believe, and does verily believe,
that her presence in court is necessary for the ends of justice. In no
other case shall a female be compelled to attend court as a witness
in a civil cause.
§ 790. Any person desiring to take the deposition of any of the
aforesaid witnesses being or residing in this state, shall first make and
file, with the papers in the case, an affidavit setting forth the particular
ground upon which the application is made. But the opposite party
shall, in all cases, have ten days written notice of the time and place
of taking such deposition, unless, in cases of emergency, the commis
sioner appointed to take the deposition shall name a shorter notice,
on sworn statements made to him by the party desiring to take the
deposition.
§ 791. When any party shall desire to take the deposition of any
witness absent from or residing out of the state, he shall file interrog
atories in the clerk's office, and serve the opposite party or his attor
ney with a copy thereof, with a notice of the day on which a commis
sion will issue, ten days before issuing the same, in which time the op
posite party shall file his cross-interrogatories ; and the clerk
shall thereupon issue a commission, and shall annex thereto a copy
of such interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, and the witness shall
be examined by the commissioner thereon.
§ 792. If the opposite party shall not reside in the state, and hath
not an agent or attorney at law or in fact within the same, to whom
notice of the time and place of taking a deposition within the state
can be given, or on whom copies of the interrogatories and notice re
quired for taking a deposition, abroad can be served, it shall be suf
ficient to file the same with the clerk among the papers in the cause
for the time required ; and this provision shall apply to all courts in
the state.
§ 793. All commissions to take depositions under this act, may
be directed to one or to several commissioners, in the alternative
by name, or to any judge of a court of record, justice of the peace,
mayor or chief magistrate of a city or town, commissioner appointed
by the governor of this state, or other person authorized to administer
oaths by the law of the place where the deposition is taken ; and the

Chap. 8.]

DEPOSITIONS—HOW AND WHEN TAKEN.

163

certificate of any such officer shall be prima facie evidence of his
official character, and of his authority to administer oaths.
§ 794. The witnesses shall be sworn or affirmed by the commis
sioner to testify the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and the
commissioners, or one or more of them, shall carefully and impartially
examine the witness, on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories
annexed to the commission ; or, if the deposition is taken within the
state, upon such interrogatories as may be put verbally or in writing,
by the parties, and shall cause the testimony to be fairly written down,
by himself or by the witness, or some disinterested person in his pres
ence, and subscribed by the witness ; and the testimony, so taken down,
with the commission and interrogatories, and every exhibit and
voucher relating thereto, and also a certificate by the commissioner of
all his proceedings therein, shall be sealed up and directed to the
clerk of the court where the action is pending, and transmitted in the
most safe and convenient manner, and the clerk shall open the same,
and, having endorsed thereon the time of the receipt and opening
thereof, shall deposit the same among the papers in the cause. The
commissioner shall endorse the style of the case and the word " deposi
tion" on the envelope.
§ 795. The depositions taken, certified and returned, in pursuance
of this act, shall be admissible as evidence in the cause : Provided,
any of the causes authorizing the taking of depositions under this
act shall exist at the time of the trial to prevent the personal attend
ance of the witness; but the questions and answers thereto shall be
liable to all legal objections.
§ 796. Subpoenas for witnesses to appear before any commissioner
within this State, to give testimony in any cause pending in a court of
this State, shall be issued by the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, or by the commissioner, and shall be executed as
in other cases, and returned to such commissioner ; and in case the wit
ness shall fail to appear, the said commissioner shall issue an attach
ment against him, returnable at such time as the commissioner shall
appoint, and the deposition may then be taken without further notice.
§ 797. The commissioner shall have power to continue the taking
of depositions from day to day, and may adjourn the taking thereof
from time to time, giving notice to the parties, unless they shall be
present when such adjournment is made.
§ 798. The sheriff, coroner and constables of each county, shall
serve copies of interrogatories and notices of issuing commissions,
and notice of taking depositions, and shall be allowed therefore the
same fee as for the service of a summons, to be charged in the bill
of costs ; they shall also execute and return all writs of subpoena and
attachments ; and for any neglect of duty imposed by this article, such
officer shall be liable to all the penalties prescribed for neglect of
duty in respect to the service of a summons.
§ 799. No exception to any deposition, other than for incompe

164

WRITTEN EVIDENCE AND COPIES.

[Chap. 8.

tency or irrelevancy, shall be regarded, unless made in writing and
filed one day before the commencement of the trial. The court, on
motion of either party, shall determine the exceptions so made and
filed, before the commencement of the trial, and if the exceptions are
sustained, may, in proper cases, allow time to retake such depositions.
§ 800. The Governor of this State shall appoint one or more com
missioners, residing in each of the states and territories of the United
States, and in the District of Columbia, who shall hold their office for
the term of two years from the date of their commissions, which com
missioners shall have full power to administer oaths and affirmations,
and to take and certify depositions and affidavits to be used in this
State, and also to take and certify the acknowledgment and proof of
deeds, and all other instruments of writing to be recorded in this
State ; and their acts shall be as effectual in law as if done and certi
fied by any officer thereunto duly authorized in this State.
§ 801. Before any commissioner, appointed as aforesaid, shall pro
ceed to perform any of the duties of his office, he shall take and sub
scribe an oath or affirmation before any justice of the peace or other
officer authorized to administer oaths in the state for which such com
missioner may be appointed, that he will faithfully discharge all the
duties of the said office, which oath or affirmation shall be filed in the
office of the secretary of state of this state, within three months after
taking and subscribing the same.
§ 802. The secretary of state shall be entitled to receive the sum
of two dollars and fifty cents for every commission, with a copy of
the two preceding articles of this section issued by him, to be paid by
the party to whom such commission shall be issued.
§ 803. The provisions of this article, as to taking depositions, shall
apply to the courts of all justices of the peace.

ARTICI.E XII.
WRITTEN EVIDENCE AND COPIES.
§ 804. The printed statute laws of the United States and of the
several states and territories thereof, published by authority of the
United States or of the respective states or territories, shall be com
petent evidence of such laws in all the courts of this state; and
where such laws shall purport to be published by the authority of the
United States or any state or territory, it shall be sufficient prima
facie evidence that they were so published.
§ 805. When any question shall arise in this state, as to the laws
of the United States or of any other state or territory of the United
States, or of the District of Columbia, the court shall take notice of

Chap. 8.]

WRITTEN EVIDENCE AND COPIES.

165

such law, in the same manner as if the question arose under the laws
of this state.
§ S06. Copies of all deeds and other instruments of writing which,
by the laws of any foreign country, may be admitted to record, upon
acknowledgment or proof thereof, and copies of all judgments, de
crees and specialties of record, rendered in any foreign country, and
of all foreign registers of birthH, marriages and deaths, shall be ad
missible in evidence in this state, when certified under the hand and
seal of office of the officer having custody of the record, and authen
ticated by the certificate of any public minister, secretary of legation,
or consul of the United States, that the officer certifying such copy is
the proper custodian of the record, and that his attestation is in due
form. The original of all such deeds and other instruments of writing,
when acknowledged or proved according to the laws of the country
where they are executed, so as to be entitled to be recorded there,
shall be evidence in this state, without further proof of the execution
thereof.
§ S07. Copies of the record of any deed, bond, or other writing,
required or permitted to be recorded by the laws of this state or of
any other state or territory of the United States, or of the District of
Columbia, shall, when certified by the clerk in whose office the record
is kept, under his seal of office, be received in evidence in all courts
in this state, without accounting for the absence of the original ; but
if the execution of such deed, bond or other writing, shall be disputed
by the opposite party on oath, the original shall be produced, or its
absence accounted for, before such copy shall be read; and such origi
nal, when acknowledged or proved, according to the laws of the
state or territory where executed, so as to be entitled to be recorded
there, shall be evidence in this state without, further proof of its
execution.
§ SOS. All certificates issued in pursuance of any act of Congress,
by any board of commissioners, register of any land office,
or any other person authorized to issue such certificate, founded
on any warrant, order of survey, entry, grant,- confirmation, dona
tion, pre-emption or purchase from the United States of any land
in this state, shall be taken to vest the full legal title to such land
in the person to whom such certificate is granted, his heirs and
assigns, so far as to enable the holder of such certificate to maintain
any action thereon, and the same shall be received in evidence as such
in any court in this state, saving the paramount rights of other per
sons.
§ 809. Copies of the records, books and files belonging to the land
offices of the United States, certified by the officer having charge
thereof, shall be competent evidence, in all cases where the originals
or sworn copies could be admitted.
§ 810. Copies from the books of entries of land, kept in any land
office in this state, or in the office of the Secretary of State, when cer

166

WRITTEN EVIDENCE AND COPIES.

[Chap. 8.

tified by the officer having charge thereof, shall be admissible in
evidence, in the same manner and with the same effect as the original
certificate of entry. And all patents issued by the Secretary of State
for lands, may be recorded in the office of the clerk of the chancery
court of the county in which the land embraced in such patent may
lie, and certified copies thereof shall be admissible in evidence, in the
same manner and with the same effect as the original patent.
§ 811. Copies of the field notes of survey, and of the township
and sectional maps of land, deposited in the office of the Secretary of
State, shall, when certified by him, be admissible in evidence.
§ 812. In any suit founded on the bond of any public officer, or
of any collector, administrator, executor, or guardian, copies of the
same, certified by the clerk, or other officer in whose office the said
bond is recorded, shall be competent evidence, unless on an issue
joined upon a plea that such bond is not the deed of the defendant or
defendants, the production of the original shall be necessary, in
which case the clerk or other officer, being summoned as a witness,
shall attend with the original bond on the trial of the issue.
§ 813. If an action be brought on a bond or other writing, filed in
any suit brought thereupon, in any other court in this state, it shall
be sufficient for the plaintifff to file with his declaration a copy of
such bond or writing, attested by the clerk of the court in which the
original may be filed; and the defendant shall plead thereto, and such
copy shall be admitted as evidence on the trial. If, however, the
defendant shall, by plea, deny the execution of the original bond or
writing, and verify the same by oath, the clerk of the court having
such paper in his custody shall, on being summoned as a witness,
attend with the same on the trial of the issue.
§ 814. All public officers in this state having charge or custody
of any public books, records, papers, or writings, are authorized to
certify copies of the same, which copies shall be received in evidence
in all cases where the original or a sworn copy would be evidence.
§ 815. The court in which any action is pending may, on good
cause shown, and after notice of the application to the opposite party,
order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, and
under such terms as may be imposed, an inspection and copy, or permis
sion to take a copy of any books, papers or documents in his posses
sion, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits
of the action or proceeding or of the defense thereto ; and if compli
ance with such order be refused, such books, papers, or documents
shall not be given in evidence in such action or proceeding by the
party so refusing, and the court may punish such party as for a con
tempt of court.
§ 816. The record of the officer, or other person, protesting any
promissory note or bill of exchange, or a copy thereof, shall, when
verified by the oath of the officer, or other person, made before any
person authorized to administer an oath, be competent evidence in

Chap. 8.]

PUBLICATION—HOW MADE AND PROVED.

167

all the courts of this state of the facts therein stated, touching the
dishonor of such bill or note ; and if such officer, or other person,
shall willfully state anything falsely in the record or copy thereof, so
sworn to, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury.
§ 817. Copies, duly certified by the proper officer having charge
of any books or papers appertaining to any revenue or collecting
office of the United States, in the state of Mississippi, or in any other
state of the Union, shall be admitted as evidence in all the courts of
this state.

ARTICLE

XIII.

PUBLICATION—HOW MADE AND PROVED.
§ 81 8. In all publications which may be made in the circuit courts,
or by the clerk in vacation, for absent or non-resident parties, or
others, in any case pending therein, the same rules, requirements,
and proceedings shall be had and observed as are prescribed in simi
lar cases in the chancery courts of this state, except where otherwise
specially directed.
§ S19. The publication of any notice in a newspaper, when re
quired by law, or by order of court, may be proved by the pro
duction of a copy of such notice, with the affidavit of the printer, pub
lisher, clerk or superintendent of a newspaper, specifying the respec
tive numbers and dates of said newspaper in which said publication
was made, together with the certificate of the person before whom the
said affidavit is taken, that the newspapers containing such publica
tion have been produced before him and compared with said copy,
and that the same is correct, and truly made ; and such affidavit and
certificate shall be competent evidence in all courts in this state.
§ 820. Any officer authorized to take such affidavit, who may re
side in the vicinity of, or convenient to the printer, publisher, clerk,
or superintendent of any newspaper in which such publication may
have been made, shall, on application of any party interested, by
subpoena or otherwise, require such printer, publisher, clerk, or su
perintendent, to appear before him, at a time and place to be appoint
ed, and to bring with him the newspapers containing the publication ;
and such officer shall then and there take the deposition of said print
er, publisher, clerk, or superintendent to the matters required to be
certified, and shall also compare the publication with the copy, and
certify the same as aforesaid ; and the said affidavit, or deposition and
certificate, shall be sealed up, endorsed, and transmitted to the clerk
of the court where the same is required for the return of depositions.
§ 821. The printer, publisher, clerk, or superintendent making
such proof, shall be allowed the sum of one dollar for making a copy

168

JUDGMENTS—HOW RENDERED.

[CHAP. 8.

of said publication, and for his attendance with the newspapers, to
compare and depose to the same ; and the officer taking the same shall
be allowed fifty cents for administering said oath or affirmation, and
certifying the same.

AETICLE XIV.
JUDGMENTS

HOW RENDERED AND ENROLLED.

§ 822. In actions of debt for a sum certain, and in actions founded
on any iustrument of writing ascertaining the sum due, or on open ac
count, where a copy of the account is filed with the declaration, if judg
ment be rendered, on demurrer, by confession, or by default, for want
of appearance or plea, the clerk shall calculate the amount due
for principal and interest, and judgment shall be entered therefore ;
and such judgment shall be final on the last day of the term, if not set
aside ; and in all actions where the sum due does not appear as afore
said, and in all actions sounding in damages, if the defendant do not
appear and plead according to law, interlocutory judgments may be
taken, on which writs of inquiry shall be awarded, which may be ex
ecuted at the same term, by the jurors attending said court, and exe
cutions may issue for the damages assessed by the jury, and costs of
suit, as in other cases.
§ 823. After a writ of inquiry shall be executed, and judgment
rendered thereon by the court, the same shall not be set aside, unless
good cause be shown therefore, on oath ; and in such case the defend
ant shall plead an issuable plea immediately, and the plaintifff shall
not thereby be delayed of his trial.
§ 824. In all actions brought upon any bond for the payment of
money, wherein the plaintifff shall recover, judgment shall be entered
for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by the payment of the
principal and interest due thereon, and the costs .of suit, and execu
tion shall issue accordingly; or if, before judgment, the defendant
shall bring into court the principal and interest due upon such bond,
he shall be discharged, and in that case judgment shall be entered
for the costs only.
§ 825. In all civil actions, the party in whose favor judgment shall
be given, or in case of non-suit, dismission, or discontinuance, the de
fendant shall be entitled to full costs, except when it may be other
wise directed by law ; and the law of costs shall not be interpreted as
penal laws.
§ 826. In actions of assault and battery, libel and slander, if the
jury find for the plaintifff under the sum of ten dollars, he shall not re
cover any costs ; and in all actions of trespass quare clausum fregit,
where the court, before whom the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied,

Chap. 8.]

JUDGMENTS—HOW RENDERED.

169

and enter upon the minutes that the freehold, title, or interest of the
land mentioned in the plaintifff's declaration was, or might have been
in question, or that the trespass was willful or malicious ; and in all
other actions of trespass, where the court before which the trial shall
be, shall not be satisfied, and enter upon the minutes that the trespass
was willful or malicious ; and in all actions upon the case, actions of
covenant, and actions of debt for a penalty intended to secure the per
formance of a covenant or condition, where the court before whom
the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied and enter upon the minutes
that the action was neither frivolous nor vexatious, if the jury find
under ten dollars, the plaintifff shall not recover more costs than the
sum so found; and if more costs are awarded, the judgment shall be
amended, upon motion, at any time; and the party injured shall be re
dressed as to such costs so wrongfully awarded, in case the same be
levied upon him ; and where several persons shall be made de
fendants in any action of trespass, assault, false imprisonment, or
ejectment, and upon trial thereof, any one or more of them shall be
acquitted by verdict, every defendant so acquitted shall recover his
costs of suit, in like manner as if a verdict had been given against the
plaintifff or plaintifffs, as to all the defendants, unless the court before
whom such cause shall be tried shall be satisfied that there was reas
onable cause for making such person or persons defendant or defend
ants to such action, and shall order it otherwise.
§ 827. Any person indebted to another, in any sum of money,
within the jurisdiction of the circuit courts of this state, on any
promise, agreement, or covenant, may sign an office confession of
judgment, in vacation, in the clerk's office of any circuit court in the
manner following, to-wit :
The creditor shall file in the clerk's office a statement, under oath,
in the form, or substantially, to the effect following, viz :
The State ofCounty,
Mississippi, |/ In the Circuit
Term,
Court
A. of
D said County,
A B states, on oath, that C D is justly indebted to him to the
amount of
, on an instrument of writing, in the following words
and figures, viz: (here copy the same), and in case of endorsement,
say endorsed as follows : (here copy the endorsement), or on open
account, of which a copy is hereunto attached, which remains due
and unpaid, and that said sumofmoney is not due or claimed upon a
fraudulent or usurious consideration.
(Signed)
A. B.
Sworn to and subscribed the
day of
, A. D
,
before me.
E. F., Clerk.
And if the evidence of said debt is in writing, the same shall be
filed with said statement ; and if not in writing, then a copy of the
open account shall be filed. And the party indebted shall sign, before
said clerk or bis deputy, an acknowledgment written upon, or an

*

170

JUDGMENTS

HOW RENDERED.

[Chap. 8.

nexed to said statement, in the form, or to the effect following,
to-wit :
I do hereby acknowledge myself indebted to the said A. B., in
the sum of
, which includes interest up to the first day of the
next term of the said circuit court, and I give my consent for judg
ment to be rendered against me in favor of the said A. B. at the next
term of the said circuit court, for said amount, and all legal cost
accruing thereon, with stay of execution until (as may be agreed
upon) ; and I do solemnly swear that this is an actual legal indebted
ness, and that there is between myself and plaintifff no fraudulent
combination as to this confession of judgment.
(Signed)
C. D.
Sworn to and subscribed the
day of
, A. D
,
before me.
E. F., Clerk.
§ 828. When such statement and acknowledgment are filed, the
clerk shall docket the cause on the appearance docket, and at the next
term, on the motion of the plaintifff, the court shall render judgment
thereon, for the amount acknowledged to be due, with interest from
the first day of the term, and with such stay of execution, if any, as
may be stipulated; and such judgment shall be final, unless set aside
during the term, and shall be as binding and obligatory as judgments
rendered in any other form, and a full and complete final record shall
be made thereof, as in other cases.
§ 829. The clerks of the several circuit courts shall procure and keep
in their respective offices, one or more books, to be styled " the
Judgment Roll" of said court, which books shall be appropriately
divided under the several letters of the alphabet, and on each page,
under the letter thereon, shall be placed the following caption:
Defendants'
Names.

Amount of
Judgment
or Decree.

Date
of
Rendition

County in
which
Rendered.

. Date
of
Enrollm't

Plaintiffs'
Names.

And the said clerk shall, within ten days after the adjournment of
each term of the court, enroll all final judgments and decrees rend
ered at said term, in the order in which they were entered on the
minutes, by entering on said judgment roll, under the proper letter
of the alphabet, the names of each and every defendant to said judg
ment or decree, the amount of such judgment or decree, the date
of its rendition, the county in which rendered, the date of the enroll
ment, and the name of the plaintifff or plaintifffs.
§ 830. All judgments and decrees so enrolled, shall be a lien upon
and bind all the property of the defendant or defendants, within the
county where so enrolled, from the rendition thereof, and shall have
priority, according to the order of such enrollment, in favor of the
judgment creditor, his representatives or assignees, against the judg
ment debtor or debtors, his, her or their representatives, and pur
chasers, or mortgagees from said judgment debtor or debtors; and no

Chap. s.]

JUDGMENTS

HOW RENDERED.

171

judgment shall be a lien on any property of the defendant or de
fendants thereto, unless the same shall be enrolled in the manner
herein directed. But the priority of lien provided for in this section,
shall not extend to judgment creditors, who fail, refuse or neglect to
sue out execution for the satisfaction of his, her or their judgment or
judgments, until a junior judgment creditor has, by due diligence,
caused his execution to be levied upon the property of the defend
ant; but in all such cases, the sale by the sheriff or other officer shall
vest the title of the defendant or defendants in the purchaser, and
the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the satisfaction of the
junior judgment creditor : provided, that before said junior creditor
shall cause a levy to be made, he shall give notice to older creditors
in execution, that unless they proceed in ten days to levy, he will
proceed ; and in that case, he shall have a preference under his levy.
§ 831. The purchaser or purchasers of any property sold at execu
tion sale by the sheriff or other officer, shall take the same discharged
of all liens of judgment and decrees, whether the same be sold under
an execution issued upon the elder or junior judgment or decree.
§ 832. After the sale of any property by the sheriff or other officer
on execution, before the money is paid over by him, he shall examine
the "Judgment Roll," to ascertain if there be any elder judgment or
judgments, decree or decrees, enrolled against the defendant or defend
ants in said execution, having a priority of lien ; and if there be, he
shall apply the proceeds of such sale to such elder judgment or decree,
so having priority of lien, and return such application upon the execu
tion on which such sale shall have been made. But should there be
any dispute as to which judgment or decree has the priority of lien,
then such officer shall make a statement of the fact of such dispute,
and return the same, with the execution and the money raised thereon,
into the court to which the same is returnable, and the court shall, on
motion and examination of the facts, determine to whom the money
so raised on execution shall be paid.
§ 833. No judgment or decree rendered in any court of the United
States, or of this state, shall be a lien upon or bind any property of
the defendants, situate out of the county in which such judgment or
decree was rendered, until the plaintifff shall file, in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the property may be
situated, an abstract of such judgment or decree, certified by the clerk
of the court in which the same was rendered, containing the names of
all the parties to such judgment or decree, its amount, and the date
of the rendition, and the amount appearing to have been paid thereon,
if any ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of any circuit court, on
receiving such abstract, and on payment of the fees allowed by law
for filing, recording and enrolling the same, to file the same and record
it in a separate book, plainly indexed, to be kept for that purpose,
and to note therein the day on which such abstract was filed for record
as aforesaid, and he shall forthwith enroll the same on the "Judgment

172

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

Roll," as in other cases ; and such judgment or decree shall, from the
date of its enrollment as aforesaid, be a lien upon and bind the prop
erty of the defendants within the county where it shall be so enrolled.
§ 834. Judgments and decrees in law or in equity, rendered in any
court of the United States, held within this state, or in the supreme
court, or the chancery court, shall not be a lien upon or bind the
property of the defendants within the county in which such judgments
or decrees may be rendered, until an abstract thereof shall be filed
and recorded in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county,
and enrolled on the "Judgment Roll," in the manner and on the terms
hereinbefore provided ; and such judgments and decrees shall bind
the proj»erty of the defendants, from the date of such enrollment, in
like manner as judgments and decrees rendered in a different county,
and so enrolled.
§ 835. A copy of the entry on the " Judgment Roll," with the
caption at the top of the page on which such entry is made, certified
by the clerk under the seal of the court, shall be competent evidence
of such enrollment.
§ 836. Judgments rendered by justices of the peace in this state,
are subject to the same rules and requirements as to enrollment as
are prescribed in this article in reference to other judgments.

ARTICLE XV.
EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED AND PROCEEDED WITH.
§ 837. The clerks of all courts of law and equity in this state, un
less otherwise ordered by the plaintifff, shall, within twenty days alter
the adjournment of the court for the term, issue executions on all
judgments and decrees rendered therein, and place the same in the
hands of the sheriff of the county; and. if requested by the plaintifff,
they shall issue executions directed to the sheriff of any other county,
and shall deliver the same to the plaintifff or his attorney ; but no exe
cution shall issue on any judgment entered with a stay of execution,
until such stay shall have expired.
§ 838. Executions may issue at any time within a year and a day
after the rendition of the judgment or decree, or within a year and
a day after the expiration of the stay of execution ordered by the
court ; and in case the issuance of execution has been prevented by
injunction or supersedeas, then execution may be issued within a year
and a day after the dissolution of such injunction, or the discharge or
expiration of such supersedeas.
§ 839. Writs of execution, from the circuit court, shall bear date
and be issued in the same manner as original process, and shall be
made returnable on the first day of the next term of the court in

Chap. 8.]

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

173

which the judgment or decree was rendered : provided, there be at
least thirty days between the issuance and return thereof; and in case
there shall not be thirty days between the issuance of such execution,
and the first day of the next term, the same shall be made returna
ble on the first day of the next term thereafter ; and such execution
may be directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of any county in
the state, who shall serve and execute the same, and make return
thereof to the court in which the judgment or decree was rendered.
§ 840. If any party at whose suit execution has issued, shall desire
to take out another execution, the clerk may issue the same at the
cost of such party, if the first writ has not been returned and has not
been executed ; and when one judgment has been recovered against
several defendants, execution shall issue thereon as if it were against
one defendant, and not otherwise ; and if one or more of several de
fendants shall have died before the issuance of such writ, and no re
vivor has been had, the fact of the death shall be noted on the writ,
and the property of the survivors only shall, in such cases, be liable to
the execution.
§ 841. Writs of execution, where there is no judgment lien, shall
bind the property of the defendant only from the time of the delivery
thereof to the officer to be executed ; and if two or more such writs
shall be delivered against the same person on the same day, that
which was first delivered shall be first satisfied. Such executions
shall only bind such property as shall be actually levied upon by the
officer, on or before the return day thereof, and of which a written de
scription shall be endorsed on or returned with such execution ; and it
shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer, on the receipt of any
execution, to endorse thereon the day of the month and the year, and
if necessary, the hour, when he received the same ; and for any failure
to make such endorsement, the sheriff or other officer shall be liable
to a penalty of one hundred dollars, to the use of the plaintifff, recov
erable by motion before the court from which the execution issued,
after five days' notice, and shall moreover be liable for all damages
sustained by any party aggrieved.
§ 842. Land shall not be levied on, if sufficient personal property
be found or surrendered by the debtor.
§ 843. When any sheriff or other officer shall serve an execution on
horses or other live stock, he shall provide sufficient sustenance for
the support of such live stock, until sold or otherwise legally dis
charged from such execution ; and upon the return of the execution,
the court, in cases where the compensation is not fixed by law, shall
settle and adjust what such officer shall be allowed for his expenses
incurred for supporting such stock ; and such officer shall be allowed
to retain the same out of the money arising from the sale of such
stock.
§ 844. If any sheriff or officer shall levy, or shall be about to levy,
an execution or attachment on any personal property, and doubt shall

174

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

arise whether the right to such property is in the defendant or not,
such sheriff or officer may demand of the plaintifff a bond, signed by
good and responsible persons, payable to such sheriff or officer, in a
sufficient penalty, conditioned that the obligors therein will indemnify
and save harmless the said sheriff or officer against all damages which
he may sustain, in consequence of the seizure or sale of the property
on which the execution or attachment shall be, or shall have been
levied, and, moreover, will pay and satisfy to any person claiming
title to said property, all damages which said person may sustain in
consequence of such seizure or sale ; and if the plaintifff shall fail to
give such bond, the sheriff or officer shall be justifiable in refusing to
levy on such property, or, if the levy be made, and such bond be not
given, on or before the day of sale, or the return-day of the process,
the officer shall be justifiable in releasing the levy, and delivering
the property to the party from whose possession it was taken : pro
vided., the plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, had reasonable notice in
writing, before the day of sale or return-day of the process, that such
bond would be required.
§ 845. If such bond and security be given, it shall be returned
with the execution or attachment, and any person claiming the prop-,
erty levied on, may prosecute a suit upon the bond, in the name of
the payee, or his representatives, for the use of such claimant, and
recover such damages as he may sustain by the seizure or sale of
said property, or levy of said process, whether the same shall exceed
the penalty of such bond or not ; and such claimant shall, after the
due execution of such bond, be barred of any action against the sheriff
or officer levying such execution, unless the obligors in said bond
shall be, or become insolvent, or the bond be otherwise invalid.
§ 846. All sales by any sheriff or other officer, by virtue of any
execution or other process, shall be made at the court house of the
county, except when personal property, too cumbersome to be re
moved, shall be levied on, which may be sold at the place where the
same may be found, or at any other convenient place, and also, except
where cattle, hogs, sheep, or stock, other than horses and mules, are
levied on, the sale of which may be made within the usual hours, on
ten days' notice, at the most public place in the neighborhood of the
defendant ; and such sales may be made on the first Monday of every
month, or on the first Monday or Tuesday of each term of the circuit
court of the county, and shall not commence sooner than eleven o'clock
in the forenoon, nor continue later than four o'clock in the afternoon.
Sales of lands shall be advertised in a newspaper published in the
county, once in each week, for three successive weeks ; and, if there
be no such newspaper, or if the publisher thereof shall refuse to pub
lish such advertisement, then such notice shall be given by putting
up advertisements, thirty days before the sale, in five public places,
one of which shall be at the court house ; and, in case of the sale of
any personal property, notice shall be given by putting up advertise

Chap. 8.]

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

175

ments ten days before the day of sale, in five public places in the
county, one of which shall be at the court house door, and the officer
shall proceed, at the time and place specified in the notice, to sell, by
auction, to the highest bidder, the property levied on, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the execution and all costs.
§ 847. Whenever, from a defect of bidders, caused by inclement
weather or otherwise, the property shall not be likely to command a
reasonable price, the sheriff or officer may adjourn the sale, and readvertise the same for a subsequent sale day ; and whenever the sales
advertised for a particular day shall not be completed on that day,
the same may be continued from day to day until completed, notice
of such continued sale being given to the assembly, at the close of the
first day's sale.
§ 848. If any property taken in execution shall remain in the hands
of the officer unsold, he shall so return on the execution, and there
upon a writ of venditioni exponas shall issue, directed to such officer,
upon which the like proceedings shall be had as might, and ought to
have been had, on the first execution. And if property sold under a
venditioni exponas shall not bring enough to satisfy the judgment,
the officer shall forthwith return the same to the clerk, who shall
thereupon issue another proper execution for the balance remaining
unpaid.
§ 849. Bank notes^ bills, or evidences of debt, circulating as
money, or any share or interest in any incorporated company, belong
ing to the defendant in execution, may be taken and sold, by virtue of
an execution, in the same manner as goods and chattels, or applied to
the payment of the execution ; and the clerk, cashier, or other officer
having the custody of the books of the company, shall, upon
exhibiting to him the writ of execution, be bound to give to the
officer having such writ, a certificate of the number of shares or
amount of the interest held by the defendant in such company, and if he
shall neglect or refuse to do so, or if he shall willfully give a false
certificate thereof, he shall be liable to the plaintifff for double the
amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect or false certificate,
to be recovered in an action on the case against him. The purchaser
of such share or interest, at such sale, shall become the owner thereof,
in the same manner as if such share or interest had been regularly
assigned to him by the defendant.
§ 850. When any officer, under any execution, shall receive the whole
or any part of the money for which the same was issued, and the de
fendant, before payment thereof to the plaintifff, shall obtain an
injunction to such execution, the officer shall repay to the defendant
the money so received, or such part thereof as may be enjoined; and
if any officer shall, when required, fail to repay the money so received
and enjoined, to the person having a right to demand the same,
such officer and his sureties shall be liable to the same remedies as
are given by law to the plaintifff, for the non-payment of money levied
on by execution.

176

'
.

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

§ 851. When the officer shall return on any execution, that no
property of the defendant is to be found in his county, and the plain
tiff shall suggest in writing, to the court which rendered the judg
ment, that the defendant hath property, but hath fraudulently con
veyed the same, for the purpose of defrauding his creditors, or to avoid
the payment of the execution, a summons shall issue to the person or
persons in whose hands such property is supposed to be, or having
such fraudulent conveyance ; and, on the return thereof, executed as
in other cases, an issue shall be made up and tried by a jury; and if
the jury shall find the conveyance fraudulent, or without valuable
consideration, the property thus fraudulently conveyed or made over
shall be subject to the plaintifff's execution.
§ 852. No goods or chattels, lying or being upon any messuage,
lands, or tenements leased for life, years at will, or otherwise, shall at
any time be liable to be taken, by virtue of any writ of fieri facias, or
other process whatever, unless the party so taking the same shall,
before the removal of the goods from such premises, pay or tender to
the landlord or lessor thereof all money due for the rent of said
premises, at the time of taking such goods and chattels in execution,
whether the day of payment, by the terms of the lease, shall have
come or not ; provided, the money due shall not amount to more
than one year's rent, and, if more be due, then the party suing out
such execution, paying or tendering to such landlord or lessor one
year's rent, may proceed to execute his judgment, and the officer
levying the same is hereby empowered and required to levy and pay
to the plaintifff, as well the money so paid for rent, as the execution
money.
§ 853. If a distringas issue in detinue, the court or judge in vaca
tion, on being satisfied that the specific thing cannot be delivered,
may order the writ to be superseded, os to the specific thing, and to
be executed for the alternative price or value ascertained by the
judgment.
§ 854. When lands or tenements shall be sold by virtue of any
writ of fieri facias or other process, the officer making the sale shall,
on payment of the purchase money, execute to the purchaser a deed
of conveyance, which shall vest in the purchaser all the right, title
and interest which the defendant had in and to such lands and tene
ments, and which by law could be sold, under execution or other pro
cess.
§ 855. When a defendant in execution shall own or be entitled to
an undivided interest in any property, not "exclusively in his own possession, such interest may be levied on, and sold by the sheriff, with
out taking the property into actual possession; and such sale shall
vest in the purchaser all the interest of the defendant in such pro
perty.
. • •
> *
§ 856. When the officer taking property under execution, shall die
before the sale thereof, a writ of venditioni exponas shall issue,

Chap. 8.]

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

177

directed to the proper officer of the county in which the propertywas taken ; and such officer shall, under the said writ of vendi
tioni exponas, receive the property from the representatives of
the former sheriff or other officer, who are required to deliver the
same to the officer having said venditioni exponas, on his producing
the same, and executing a receipt for the property, and such officer
shall proceed to sell the same, as in other cases,
| 857. If the representatives of the deceased officer shall refuse
or neglect to deliver the property on demand made, as aforesaid,
or if, after three months from the death of the officer taking such
property, there shall be no executor or administrator on his estate,
the officer having such writ of venditioni exponas may seize the
property taken by the former officer, wherever it may be found, and
sell the same as in other cases ; or the plaintifff may move, in the
court from which the execution issued, against the representatives of
the deceased officer and his sureties, giving two day's notice of such
motion, and thereupon judgment shall be entered up against the
representatives of the deceased officer and his sureties, for the amount
of the execution, which came to the hands of such deceased officer,
with interest and costs.
§ S5S. AVhen any person, not a party to an execution, shall claim
to be the owner of any personal property levied upon by virtue
thereof, such person may make oath or affirmation to his right and
title to the property so levied on, and may enter into bond, payable
to the plaintifff in the execution, with one or more good sureties, in
the penalty of double the amount of the fair value of the property so
claimed, which value shall be estimated by the officer holding such
execution, and shall be endorsed thereon, conditioned for the prose
cution of said claim, with effect, or, in case he fail therein for the
payment to the plaintifff in execution- of all such damages as may be
awarded against the claimant, in case his claim shall not be sustained,
or shall appear to have been made for fraudulent purposes, or for de
lay, and that he will well and truly deliver the same property to the
sheriff or other officer, if the claim thereto should be determined
against the claimant ; and upon the making of such affidavit and
bond, the sheriff or other officer holding the execution, shall receive
the same, and shall deliver said property to said claimant, and shall
return said affidavit and bond with the execution, and the court shall
thereupon direct an issue to be made up between the parties, to try
the right of property before a jury, at the same term, unless good
cause be shown for a continuance.
§ S59. Further proceedings on such execution shall be stayed, for
an amount equal to the value of the property so claimed, as endorsed
and returned by the officer, until the final decision of such claim ; and
on all subsequent executions issued on the same judgment, prior to
the final decision of said claim, the clerk shall endorse the amount
12

178

EXECUTIONS—UOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

of said estimated value, for the government of the officer to whom
the same may be directed.
§ 860. If, by default of the plaintifff in execution, an issue for the
trial of the right of property so levied on and claimed, be not made
up at the term to which such execution is returnable, the court shall
discharge the claimant from his bond, and the said property shall
never thereafter be subject to such an execution; but, if from the
default of the claimant, such issue be not made up at the first
term of said court, the said court shall cause a jury to be empaneled,
at the instance of the plaintifff in the execution, and sworn to execute
a writ of inquiry as to the value of the property claimed by said
claimant, and also, to inquire whether or not the claim was made for
fraudulent purposes, or for purposes of delay.
§ 861. On the trial of an issue made up on a claim of
property, the burden of proof shall be on the plaintifff in execution ;
and such issue shall be tried and governed by the same rules which
regulate and govern the trial of an issue in an action of detinue ; and
either party to such issue shall have all the rights of continuances,
new trials or appeals, in the same manner as in any action of detinue ;
and the final judgment, on any such issue, shall have the like effect on
the rights of the parties thereto as if the same had been given in an ac
tion of detinue ; and the jury trying such issue, in case they find in favor
of the plaintifff in execution, shall assess the true value of the
property so found subject to such execution, and shall also
certify whether the claim of the claimant was made for fraudulent
purposes, or for purposes of delay ; and if the jury shall omit to find
such value, a writ of inquiry may be awarded. The valuation of the
officer taking the bond of the claimant shall in all cases he primafacie
evidence of the value of the property; and in case the jury fail to
find the value of the property, the plaintifff may, at his election, take
judgment for the value assessed by the said officer, without resorting
to a writ of inquiry.
§ 862. Whenever a verdict shall be rendered in such case in favor
of the plaintifff in execution, either on an issue joined, or an inquiry
by default, the court shall pronounce such judgment as would be given
in an action of detinue, for the specific property, if to be had, and if
not, for its value as assessed by the jury, and costs of suit ; and if
the jury shall find that such claim was made for fraudulent purposes,
or for purposes of delay, the plaintifff shall also recover ten per centum
damages, on the assessed value of said property, which judgment shall
be rendered jointly against the claimant, or his executors or adminis
trators, and the surety or sureties in his bond given on said claim, or
such of said sureties as may be living at the time of said judgment,
and execution shall issue thereon accordingly; and the original execu
tion levied on said property shall be credited by the amount of the
value of said property, as assessed by the jury, and determined by the
judgment of the court thereupon, to bear date of the rendition of

Chap. 8.]

EXECUTIONS

HOW ISSUED.

179

such judgment ; and if any balance shall then remain unpaid on said
original execution, another execution may be issued therefore against
the defendant or defendants therein. And in all cases where the
value of the property so levied on and claimed, may be assessed at
an amount greater than sufficient to satisfy said original execution,
the true amount due thereon shall be endorsed by the clerk, on the
execution issued against said claimant,- and the amount of such original
execution, with interest and all costs, shall be received of said claim
ant, in lull satisfaction thereof.
§ 863. Should the plaintifff or claimants, or any one or more of
them, die before final judgment on such claims of property, the same
may be prosecuted or defended by the executors or administrators of
such deceased party, and such executors or administrators, may volun
tarily appear and become parties thereto ; and in case the executors
or administrators of such deceased claimant or claimants shall not
voluntarily appear, or shall neglect or refuse to become parties to the
said proceeding, after having been duly served with a scire facias,
five days before the meeting of the court, the court may proceed to
render judgment against such executors or administrators of the de
ceased claimant or claimants, jointly with the other parties, in the
same manner, as if such executors or administrators had voluntarily
made themselves parties thereto ; and in case of the death of a sole
plaintifff, or of all the plaintifffs in execution, before final judgment
therein, unless the representatives of the proper party or parties,
shall appear voluntarily, or on the return of a scire facias executed,
and become parties to such proceeding, on or before the second term
of the court next after the death of such party shall have been sug
gested on the record, the said claimant shall be released from his
bond, and the ievy on said property discharged. In case of the death
of one or more of the plaintifffs in execution or claimants, after
final judgment, the same proceedings shall be had by or against the
survivor or survivors, or by scire facias, and revival against the rep
resentatives of the deceased, as may be had upon other judgments in
the circuit court.
§ 864. In case the claimant shall die before judgment, and there
shall be no representative of his estate, or such representative shall
fail to appear and become a party to such issue, judgment shall be
entered against the sureties on his bond, for the property, or the
value thereof, as assessed by the sheriff, or to be found by the verdict
of a jury empaneled to inquire of the same, at the option of the
plaintifff, with interest on such value from the date of the claimant's
bond.
§ 865. In case one or more of the sureties on any such claimant's
bond shall die before final judgment, and a verdict shall be given in
favor of the plaintifff in execution, judgment shall be rendered there
on against the parties living and in court, and the said plaintifff
shall have a scire facias upon the said verdict, against the executors

IS0

;XECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

or administrators of such deceased surety or sureties, to appear and
show cause why judgment should not be rendered against them on
said verdict ; and on return of said scire facias executed, unless good
cause be shown to the contrary, the court shall give a separate judg
ment against the representatives of such deceased surety or sureties,
and execution may issue thereon.
§ 866. When the sureties on any claimant's bond shall become in
sufficient or irresponsible, the court, on motion of the plaintifff, may
require additional security to be given thereon, or a new bond, and
the said additional sureties, or the sureties on such new bond, shall be
liable equally, and to the same extent with the original sureties ; and
if the claimant shall fail to give such additional or new security, judg
ment shall be given against him, as by default, for not making up the
issue, and a writ of inquiry shall be executed.
§ 867. The clerks of the several courts in this state shall, imme
diately after the adjournment of every term, issue writs of fieri
facias, capias ad satisfaciendum, or venditioni exponas, according to
the nature of the case and the directions of the attorney general or
district attorney, for all fines, penalties, forfeitures and amercements
assessed by said courts, or which shall have accrued to the state or to
any county, and remaining due and unpaid, and shall, within thirty
days after such adjournment, transmit a list of said executions to the
auditor of public accounts and the superintendent of common schools,
noting the names of the defendants, the amounts, and the sheriff or
other officer to whom the same were delivered ; and shall, at the same
time, transmit to said auditor and superintendent a statement of the
returns made by the sheriff or other officer on executions for fines,
penalties, forfeitures and amercements, returnable to the last term of
their respective courts, with remarks thereon ; and any clerk who shall
fail to issue such executions or to transmit the list thereof as herein
required, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred dollars for
every such offense, to be recovered by motion against the said clerk and
his sureties, by and in the name of the district attorney of the district,
before the circuit court of said county, or before the circuit court of
any adjoining county, for the use of the common school fund : pro
vided, five days' notice of such motion shall be given to the said clerk
and his sureties. The auditor of public accounts and the superin
tendent of schools shall notify the district attorney of such default.
§ 86 S. If any sheriff or other other officer shall return on any
such execution that he hath levied the fine, penalty, forfeiture or
amercement therein mentioned, or any part thereof, or that he hath
taken the body of the defendant, and shall have suffered such de
fendant to escape, or if any person be committed to the custody of
such sheriff, or other officer, until the fine, penalty, forfeiture or
amercement, for which he was committed, shall be paid, and such
sheriff or officer shall permit such defendant to escape, or if such
sheriff or officer shall have received such fine, penalty, forfeiture or

ClIap. 8.]

EXECUTION'S—HOW ISSUED.

181

amercement, or any part thereof, and shall not immediately account
to the auditor of public accounts, or county treasurer, and pay the
same in the treasury of the state or county, where the same shall be
payable by law, then in either of the cases above specified, it shall be
the duty of the auditor or superintendent of schools to notify the
district attorney of the proper district of such defaulting sheriff or
other officer, who shall thereupon, on motion, at the next term of the
circuit court of the proper county, demand judgment against such
sheriff or other officer and their sureties, for the fines, penalties, for
feitures and amercements, mentioned in such writs, or for so much
thereof as he shall have received on such execution or commitment,
or for the whole amount thereof*, in case he shall have suffered such
defendant or defendants to escape as aforesaid ; and the court is
hereby authorized and required to give judgment accordingly, and
award execution thereon.
§ 869. Clerks, sheriffs and other officers, shall be liable to the same
proceedings for any neglect of duty in respect to executions for fines,
penalties and forfeitures, as in the case of executions in civil cases.
§ 870. The district attorney, at every term of a circuit court,
shall carefully examine the minutes of the preceding term, and
the execution docket, to see that executions have been issued for
all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, adjudged at such term, and that
the same have been properly proceeded on and returned, and what
fines, penalties and forfeitures, have been collected by such clerk,
sheriff or other officer; and he shall, at the close of every term,
make out a statement of all fines, forfeitures and penalties adjudged
and made final at such term, and also of all fines, penalties and for
feitures collected or received by the clerk, sheriff or other officer,
stating each case and the amount, and shall transmit the same to the
auditor of public accounts and to the superintendent of public ed
ucation, and he shall proceed against such officers and their sureties,
for any neglect of duty of which they may be guilty.
§ 871. Any person on whom any fine, forfeiture, penalty, or
amercement shall be imposed, by the judgment of any court, and who,
by such judgment, is directed to stand committed until such fine, pen
alty, forfeiture, or amercement shall be paid, or who shall be in custody
by virtue of any capias ad satisfaciendum for such fine, penalty,
forfeiture, or amercement, may require the sheriff, or other officer in
whose custody he may be, to take him before some judge of the
supreme court, judge of the circuit court, or of the chancery court, or
the president of the board of county supervisors, at a convenient place
within the county where he is detained in custody, where the said
debtor may deliver to such judge or president a full and complete
schedule, under oath, of all his money, property, and rights of prop
erty, real and personal, with all rights and credits due to him, or to
become due by any contract or service before that time made or ren
dered, or accruing to him by descent, or by any last will and testament ;

182

EXECUTIONS—HOW ISSUED.

[Chap. 8.

and such person shall thereupon, by warrant of such judge or pres
ident of the board of supervisors, be discharged out of the custody of
such sheriff or other officer: provided, the district attorney of the
district shall have ten days' previous notice of the time and place of
delivering such schedule : and providedfurther, that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to extend to cases wherein, by the judg
ment of any court, a certain period of imprisonment is imposed as a
punishment ; but, in every such case, the party shall remain in custody
until such period has expired, or until otherwise discharged by due
course of law.
§ 872. The property contained in the schedule so delivered, and all
other property of the person delivering the same, shall be bound by
the judgment, for the fine, penalty, forfeiture, or amercement, from
the time of the delivery of such schedule ; and such schedule shall be
delivered to the sheriff, or other officer having such person in custody,
and such sheriff shall forthwith seize all the property, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, contained in said schedule, or otherwise
belonging to such person, and shall advertise the same, as in the case
of property levied on by execution, and make sale thereof, for the
satisfaction of the fine, penalty, forfeiture or amercement, due by
such person, and all costs and jail fees ; and if any such property
shall be in the hands of, or any money shall be due by, any third
person or persons, he shall forthwith summon such person or persons,
to appear at the next term of the court, to answer as garnishees, and
like proceedings shall be had thereon as against garnishees in attach
ment, and such sheriff or officer shall return said schedule to the court,
with his proceedings thereon.
§ 873. If any person, being in custody as aforesaid, shall render a
false schedule, on obtaining or applying for his discharge, he shall be
deemed guilty of willful perjury, and on conviction, shall suffer the
penalty thereof.
§ 874. The clerk of any court of law or equity in this state, on
the suggestion of the plaintifff in any judgment or decree therein
rendered, that any person is indebted to the defendant therein, or has
any effects of such defendant in his hands or possession, and on filing
in his office an affidavit of such plaintifff, his agent or attorney, that
he does not believe that such defendant has in his possession visible
property, upon which a levy can be made, sufficient to satisfy such
judgment or decree, shall issue a summons of garnishment, directed
to the sheriff or proper officer of the county in which the gar
nishee may reside, commanding him to summon the said garnishee
to appear at the term of the court to which such summons or garnish
ment may be returnable, to answer on oath, whether he is indebted to
the said defendant, and in what sum, and what effects of said defendant
he has in his hands or possession, or had at the time of serving such
summons, and whether he knows of any other persons indebted to
said defendant, or who may have any of the effects of said defendant

Chap. 8.]

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

183

in their hands or possession ; and upon the return of such summons,
the like proceedings may be had, as in cases of garnishees in attach
ment.
§ 875. All property in the hands of such garnishee, belonging to
the defendant, at the time of the service of such summons shall be
bound by and subject to the lien of the judgment on which such
summons shall have been issued, and if the garnishee shall surrender
the same to the sheriff or other officer serving such summons, such
officer shall receive the same, and make sale thereof, as if levied on
by virtue of an execution, and shall return the money arising there
from, to satisfy the judgment.

ARTICLE XVI.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 876. The sheriffs of the different counties shall by themselves
and deputies and bailiffs, attend upon each term of the court. They
shall keep the court rooms clean and comfortable, and well supplied
with water, fuel, and writing materials. They shall keep strict order
during the session of court, and in all things obey all lawful orders of
the presiding judge. For a breach of duty in this respect, sheriffs
shall be liable to all the pains and penalties for contempt of court.
§ 877. When the time or place of holding any circuit or other
court shall be changed by law, all writs and process issued before the
act making such change shall take effect, shall be, and are hereby de
clared to be, returnable at the time and place to which the holding
of said court shall be changed ; and all bonds, recognizances and
other obligations for the appearance of any person, or the perform
ance of any thing before such court, shall have the same force and
effect as if the same required the appearance of such person or the
performance of such thing, at the time and place to which the term of
such court shall be changed by such act.
§ 878. When the business of any circuit court may require, the
judge, in term-time or vacation, may order a special term to be held,
and such order shall be entered on the minutes, or, if made in vaca
tion, on the minutes of such special term. No special term shall be
leld in a shorter time than thirty days from the date of the order,
and the clerk shall give twenty days notice of the time of holding the
same, in some newspaper published in the county, or if there be no
such paper, then by advertisement, for the like time, put up at the
court house door, and at three other public places in the county; but
no failure or irregularity in giving such notice shall affect the validity
of any judgment or proceeding given or had at such special term.

184

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 8On receiving such order, the clerk and sheriff shall meet at the court
house, and publicly draw the number of jurors required for a regular
term of said court, and a venire facias shall issue, and the sheriff
shall summon the jurors so drawn, to appftar at such special
term, and shall also summon a grand jury, in the manner directed
by law, if so directed in the order for the special term. The
court shall empanel a grand jury, if summoned, and shall have full
jurisdiction to hear and determine all civil and criminal business, in the
same manner as at a regular term.
Parties and witnesses shall be
bound to attend, and witnesses duly subpoenaed, or bound by recog
nizance, shall be subject to the same penalties for failure to attend, as
if such failure had occurred at a regular term.
§ 879. If the judge of the district, having ordered such special
term, shall be unable to hold the same, he shall notify the judge of
some other district, who shall thereupon attend and hold such term,
unless it shall conflict with some term in his own district.
§ 880. If the judge shall be absent, at the time appointed for
holding any regular or special term, the sheriff may adjourn the
court, from day to day, for four days, and if the judge shall not ap
pear by noon on the fifth day, the court shall stand adjourned for the
term.
§ 881. The jail of the county shall be the jail of the circuit
courts, and for all other courts in the county, and for the United
States, when necessary; and the sheriff shall be the jailor, and re
ceive and safely keep all prisoners lawfully committed, according to
the mittimus or order of committal.
§ 882. Any person who shall remain beyond seas, or absent himself
from this state, or conceal himself in this state for seven years suc
cessively, shall be presumed to be dead, in any case wherein his
death shall come in question, unless proof be made that he was
alive within that time : but any property or estate recovered in any
such case shall be restored to the person evicted or deprived thereof,
if, in a subsequent action, it shall be proved that the person so pre
sumed to be dead is living.
§ 883. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D., 1871.
Approved, May 13th, 1871.

CHANCERY COURTS—DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.

Chap. 9.J

CHAPTER

185

9.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO CHANCERY COURTS.

Article I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
vn.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XUI.
XIV.

Districts Established.
Time of Holding Courts.
Jurisdiction.
The Chancellor and his Powers.
The Clerk and his Powers and Duties.
Processs and Publication.
Pleading and Practice.
Evidence—How Taken.
Proceedings in Administering Estates.
Proceedings in Matters of Guardianship.
Proceedings in Case of Lunacy and Idiocy.
Appeals.
Judgments and Decrees.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
§ 8S4. The state shall be divided into twenty chancery court dis
tricts, as follows to-wit :
§ 885. The first district shall be- composed of the counties of Jack
son, Harrison, Greene, and Perry.
§ 886. The second district shall be composed of the counties of
Hancock, Marion, Covington, and Lawrence.
§ 887. The third district shall be composed of the counties of
Jones, Wayne, Clarke, and Jasper.
§ 888. The fourth district shall be composed of the counties of
Lauderdale, Noxubee, Kemper, and Newton.
§ 889. The fifth district shall be composed of the counties of
Neshoba, Winston, and Lowndes.
§ 890. The sixth district shall be composed of the counties of Mon
roe, Lee, and Itawamba.

186

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 9.

§ 891. The seventh district shall be composed of the counties of
Pontotoc, Chickasaw, Oktibbeha, and Union.
§ 892. The eighth district shall be composed of the counties of
Tishomingo, Tippah, Alcorn, and Prentiss.
§ 893. The ninth district shall be composed of the counties of
Lafayette, Yalobusha, Marshall, and Benton.
§ 894. The tenth district shall be composed of the counties of De
Soto, Panola, and Tallahatchie.
§ 895. The eleventh district shall be composed of the counties of
Carroll, Choctaw, Calhoun, and Grenada.
§ 896. The twelfth district shall be composed of the counties of
Holmes, Yazoo, Sunflower, and Leflore.
§ 897. The thirteenth district shall be composed of the counties of
Attala, Leake, and Madison.
§ 898. The fourteenth district shall be composed of the counties of
Warren and Issaquena.
§ 899. The fifteenth district shall be composed of the counties of
Washington, Bolivar, Coahoma, and Tunica.
§ 900. The sixteenth district shall be composed of the counties of
Hinds and Rankin.
§ 901. The seventeenth district shall be composed of the counties
of Simpson, Scott, and Smith.
§ 902. The eighteenth district shall be composed of the counties
of Amite, Adams, and Wilkinson.
§ 903. The nineteenth district shall be composed of the counties
of Franklin, Jefferson, and Claiborne.
§ 904. The twentieth district shall be composed of the counties of
Copiah, Pike, and Lincoln.

ARTICLE
.

II.

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

§ 905. That a court, to be styled the chancery court, shall be held
in each county of this state, four times in each year, and shall com
mence and continue for the number of judicial days hereinafter speci
fied, if business shall so long require, to-wit :
FIRST DISTRICT.
§ 906. In the county of Perry, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 907. In the county of Greene, on the second Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.

Chap. 9.]

time of holding courts.

187

§ 908. In the county of Jackson, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§. 909. In the county of Harrison, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.
SECOND DISTRICT.
§ 910. In the county of Lawrence, on the first Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 911. In the county of Covington, on the second Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 912. In the county of Marion, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 913. In the county of Hancock, on the fourth Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
THIRD DISTRICT.
§ 914. In the county of Wayne, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 915. In the county of Clarke, on the second Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 916. In the county of Jones, on the first Monday after the fourth
Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 917. In the county of Jasper, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue six
days.
FOURTH DISTRICT.
§ 918. In the county of Lauderdale, on the first Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 919. In the county of Noxubee, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 920. In the county of Kemper, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.
§ 921. In the county of Newton, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue six
days.
FIFTH DISTRICT.
§ 922. In the county of Neshoba, on the first Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 923. In the county of Winston, on the second Monday of Jan
uary, April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 924. In the county of Lowndes, on the third Monday of January,April, July and October, and continue eighteen days.

188

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 9.

SIXTH DISTRICT.
§ 925. In the county of Lee, on the first Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 926. In the county of Itawamba, on the third Monday of Jan
uary, April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 927. In the county of Monroe, on the fourth Monday of Janu
ary, April, July and October, and continue eighteen days.
SEVENTH DISTRICT.
§ 928. In the county of Oktibbeha, on the first Monday of Janu
ary, April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 929. In the county of Chickasaw, in the first district, on the
second Monday of April, July and October, and continue twelve days-;
and in the second district, on the fourth Monday of April, July and
October, and continue six days.
• § 930. In the county of Pontotoc, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue
twelve days.
§ 931. In the county of Union, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue
twelve days.
EIGHTH DISTRICT.
§ 932. In the county of Tippah, on the second Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 933. In the county of Tishomingo, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six
days.
§ 934. In the county of Prentiss, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six
days.
§ 935. In the county of Alcorn, on the third Monday after the fourth
Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six days.
NINTH DISTRICT.
§ 936. In the county of Marshall, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 937. In the county of Benton, on the first Monday before the
first Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue six
days.
§ 938. In the county of Lafayette, on the fourth Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 939. In the county of Yalobusha, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue six
days.

Chap. 9.]

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

189

TENTH DISTRICT.
I
§ 940. In the county of Tallahatchie, on the first Monday of Jan
uary, April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 941. In the county of Panola, on the second Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 942. In the county of DeSoto, on the second Monday after the
third Monday of January, April, and July, and on the first Monday of
December, and continue twelve daysi
ELEVENTH DISTRICT.
§ 943. In the county of Choctaw, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 944. In the county of Carroll, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 945. In the county of Calhoun, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday in January, April, July, and October, and continue six
days.
§ 946. In the county of Grenada, on the second Monday of March,
Jane, September, and December, and continue twelve days.
TWELFTH DISTRICT.
§ 917. In the county of Yazoo, on the first Monday of January
April, July and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 948. In the county of Holmes, on the fourth Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue
twelve days.
§ 949. In the county of Sunflower, on the sixth Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six
days.
§ 950. In the county of Leflore, on the eighth Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six
days.
THIRTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 951. In the county of Madison, on the first Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 952. In the county of Leake, on the first Monday after the fourth
Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 953. In the county of Attala, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue
twelve days.
FOURTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 954. In the county of Warren, on the first Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue twenty-four days.

190

TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.

[Chap. 9.

•§ 955. In the county of Issaquena, on the fourth Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July and October, and continue six,
days.
FIFTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 956. In the county of Tunica, on the first Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 957. In the county of Coahoma, on the second Monday of Janu
ary, April, July and October, ancl continue six days.
§ 958. In the county of Bolivar, on the third Monday of January,
April, July and October, and continue six days.
§ 959. In the county of Washington, on the fourth Monday of
January, April, July and October, and continue twelve days.
SIXTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 960. In the county of Rankin, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 961; In the county of Hinds, (first district), on the third Monday
of January, April, July, and October, and continue eighteen days.
In the county of Hinds, (second district), on the third Monday after
the fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.
SEVENTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 962. In the county of Simpson, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 963. In the county of Scott, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.
§ 964. In the county of Smith, on the fourth Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue six days.
EIGHTEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 965. In the county of Amite, on the second Monday of Januar}',
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 966. In the county of Adams, on the fourth Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue eighteen days.
§ 967. In the county of Wilkinson, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday in January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.
NINETEENTH DISTRICT.
§ 968. In the county of Franklin, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 969. In the county of Jefferson, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.

Chap. 9.]

JURISDICTION.

191

§ 970. In the county of Claiborne, on the fourth Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
twelve days.
TWENTIETH DISTRICT.
§ 971. In the county of Copiah, on the first Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 972. In the county of Pike, on the third Monday of January,
April, July, and October, and continue twelve days.
§ 973. In the county of Lincoln, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of January, April, July, and October, and continue
six days.

ARTICLE III.
JURISDICTION.
§ 974. Said chancery courts shall respectively have full jurisdiction
in all matters of equity, and of divorce and alimony, in all matters
testamentary, and of administration, in minors' business, in allotment
of dower, in cases of idiocy, lunacy, and of persons non compos mentis,
and of all matters properly cognizable in a court of equity, and per
taining to matters properly cognizable in a court of probate.
§ 975. When any person, not the rightful owner of any real estate,
in this state, shall have any deed or other evidence of title thereto, or
shall assert any claim, or pretend to have any right or title thereto,
which may cause doubt or suspicion in the title of the real owner,
such real owner may file a bill in the chancery court of the county in
which the real estate may be situated, to have such deed, or other
evidence of title, cancelled, and such cloud, doubt or suspicion, re
moved from said title, whether such real owner be in possession, or
be threatened to be disturbed in his possession or not, and whether
the defendant be a resident of this State or not ; and any person having
the equitable title to land in this state may, in like cases, file a bill
to divest the legal title out of the person in whom the same may be
vested, and to vest the same in the equitable owner.
§ 976. In addition to the powers and jurisdiction hereinbefore
conferred upon said chancery court, the courts in which the will may
have been admitted to probate, letters of administration granted, or
guardians may have been appointed, shall have power and jurisdiction
to hear and determine all questions in relation to the execution of the
trusts of such executors, administrators, and guardians, or other officers
appointed for the administration and management of such estates, and
of all demands against the same, and such estates, whether claimed
by heirs at law, distributees, devisees, legatees, wards, creditors, or

192

THE CHANCELLOR AND HIS POWERS.

[Chap. 9.

otherwise, and shall have power and jurisdiction in all cases in which
bonds, or other obligations, shall have been executed in any proceed
ings had in said court, in relation to such estates or other proceed
ings had in said chancery courts, to hear and determine upon proper
proceedings and proof, the liability of the obligors in such bond or
obligation, whether as principal or surety, and by decree and process
to enforce such liability.
§ 977. That suits for real or personal property may be commenced
in the chancery court of the county in which said property, or some
portion thereof, may be ; and, in all cases, suits may be brought in
any county where the defendant or any necessary party defendant
may reside or be found ; and process may issue to any county in the
state, to bring in necessary defendants, and to enforce all orders and
decrees of court : Provided, that suits against executors, administrators
and guardians, touching the performance of their official duties, and for
an account and settlement by them, and suits for the distribution of
personalty and partition of the real estate of the decedents, among
the heirs and distributees, and for the payment of legacies, and for the
determination of all other matters pertaining to a court of probate,
and for the allotment of dower, and to subject real estate of decedents
to the payment of debts and legacies, shall be commenced in the
chancery court in which the will was admitted to probate, or letters
of administration were granted, or the guardian was appointed.

ARTICLE IV.
OF THE CHANCELLOR AND HIS POWERS.
§ 978. The said courts shall be held by chancellors, nominated by
the governor and confirmed by the senate, for each of said chancery
districts, whose term of office shall commence on the day of the date
of their commissions, and who shall possess the qualifications and hold
their offices for the term provided by the constitution of the state, and
shall be chancellors for the state, and may, for sufficient cause, inter
change sittings with each other ; and in addition to the qualifications
prescribed by the constitution, said chancellors, who may be hereafter
appointed, shall, at the time of their appointment, have been two
years citizens of the state.
§ 979. Said chancellors shall have power, in term-time, or in va
cation, to grant writs of injunction, habeas corpus, ne exeat, attach
ments, and all other remedial writs, returnable to said courts, and
properly belonging to a court of chancery, or court of probate ; and
they shall, or may, make orders for bail, and for the appointment of
receivers, before or after answer filed. Such orders may also be made

Chap. 9.]

THE CHANCELLOR AND HIS POWERS.

193

by any of the circuit judges of the state, or the supreme judges of
the state.
§ 980. The chancery courts shall have power to punish, by fine and
imprisonment, any person who may be guilty of a contempt of the court
while sitting, either in the hearing or presence of the court; but such
fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars, nor such imprisonment
continue longer than the court shall then be sitting.
§ 981. The said chancery courts, in term-time, or the chancellor,
in vacation, shall have power to punish any person for breach of injunc
tion, or any other order, decree or process of the court, by fine and im
prisonment -.provided., such person shall have been first cited to appear
and answer ; but any person so punished, by order of the chancellor
in vacation, may, on five days' notice to the opposite party, apply to a
judge of the supreme court, who for good cause shown, may super
sede the same, until the meeting of said chancery court,
§ 9S2. The chancery courts, in term-time, may regulate all pro
ceedings in the clerk's offices, and, for good cause shown, may set aside
any dismissions and reinstate the cause upon such terms as may seem
right and equitable. The court shall also have power to arrange the
business therein in a convenient manner, and to make from time to
time, such rules and orders for the conducting of suits and pleadings,
the taking rules, entering decrees by default or otherwise, and respect
ing all matters to be done in term-time, or in vacation, not repugnant
to the laws or constitution of the state.
§ 983. Should the office of clerk become vacant, or the clerk be
come unable or refuse to perform any of the duties required of him,
the chancellor may appoint a clerk to perform the duties of said office,
until said clerk may be able to perform the same, or a successor elec
ted and qualified ; and that said chancellor may require of said ap
pointee to enter into bond, upon the same terms and conditions as
provided for clerks in this chapter, if said chancellor shall deem it
necessary ; and the clerk so appointed nhall be authorized to perform
the duties of clerk, and to receive the fees thereof, whilst he continues
in office.
§ 984. If the chancellor shall fail to attend, the court shall stand
adjourned from day to day, until after the fourth day. If a court
shall not be held in any term, or shall not, at any time, hear and
determine all matters ready for its decision, all suits, matters, and
things pending in court, and not decided, shall stand continued
until the next term succeeding. If the court shall not sit on any day
of the term, after it shall have opened, there shall be no discontin
uance ; but the court may meet, and resume the business on any day
of the term, and may adjourn from one time to another; or the chan
cellor may appoint any special term of the court, when the business
may so require, on giving notice thereof for twenty days, published in
some public newspaper printed in the county, if there be one, and if
13

194

THE CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[CHAP. 9.

not, by posting notices at three of the most public places in the
county, the court house being one, for the same length of time.
§ 985. Said court shall make allowance to the clerk thereof, of all
needful sums of money for supplying the office with necessary books,
stationery and furniture, and the auditor of public accounts, on such
allowance being certified to him as correct and reasonable, by the
chancellor and sheriff of the county, shall issue his warrant on the
state treasurer therefore.
§ 986. When, in any case pending in said court, the chancellor may
be related to either party, by affinity or consanguinity, within the sixth
degree, or shall have been counsel for either party, or be interested
in the result thereof, and a chancellor cannot conveniently attend
from another district, competent to try the same, the chancellor shall
designate three members of the bar, not so connected, of counsel, or
interested, of whom one shall be selected by lot, who shall preside
and try said cause ; but all the proceedings, orders and decrees therein,
shall be signed by the chancellor; or the parties may waive such
incompetency of the chancellor, or may, by mutual agreement, to be
entered on the minutes, select some member of the bar to preside and
determine said cause, or the parties may, by mutual agreement, to be
entered on the minutes, change the venue to some adjoining district.
§ 987. That said chancellors shall be prohibited from practicing
law in the courts of this state, or of any other state, or in the courts
of the United States, under penalty of being deemed guilty of a high
misdemeanor, and removed from office, upon conviction therefore ; nor
shall they in any way advise with, or counsel litigants in their courts,
under a like penalty.
§ 988. That the chancellors, appointed in pursuance of this act,
shall each receive, annually, a salary of three thousand five hundred
dollars, to be paid quarterly out of any money in the treasury of the
state, not otherwise appropriated, and it shall be the duty of the
auditor of public accounts to issue a warrant therefore.
§ 989. That the chancellor, before entering on the duties of his
office, shall take the oath of office, to be subscribed by him, and duly
certified by the officer administering the same, which said oath may
be administered by any officer authorized to administer an oath, and
shall be entered on the minutes of the first chancery court of the
proper county that may be held after his appointment, and filed by
said chancellor in the office of the clerk of said chancery court.

ARTICLE V.
THE CLERK AND HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.
§ 990. The clerk of said court shall give bond, with sureties to be
approved by the chancellor, in a sum not less than five, nor more than

Chap. 9.]

THE CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

195

twenty thousand dollars, the amount to be fixed by the chancellor ap
proving the bond, payable to the state, and conditioned for the faith
ful discharge of the duties of his office, and for the faithful receipt and
payment of all such sums of money as, by law and the orders and de
crees of said court, it shall be made his duty to receive and pay over ;
and the said court, or the chancellor, in vacation, may, for good cause
shown, require of said clerk an additional or special bond, in any case
pending in said court, which bond or bonds shall be recorded, and may
be sued on for the penalty therein imposed, in such manner as may be
provided by law. And said clerk may, by and with the consent of the
chancellor, appoint one or more deputies, who shall take an oath faith
fully to discharge their duties as such, and who shall have power and
authority, as such deputies, to transact such business as the said clerk
might properly perform, were he present and doing the same himself.
Record evidence of all such appointments shall be entered on the min
utes of the court.
§ 991. The clerk shall, by himself or deputy, attend all the ses
sions of the court ; he shall keep minute books, in which he shall
enter, at large, all the proceedings of the court, on each and every day,
which shall be read in open court at the meeting of the court on the
next day, and which when read and approved, shall be signed by the
chancellor ; and upon the last day of the term the minutes shall be
read, approved, and signed on the same day. He shall seasonably re
cord the decrees and orders of the court, and he shall, within three
months after the final termination of the suit, record all the pleadings,
proofs, exhibits, and proceedings therein, in a book to be kept for that
purpose, to be known as the " book of final records in chancery," ex
cept such portions as the chancellor, by order, may direct to be omit
ted from said record books ; and any clerk failing to perform any duty
required of him, shall be liable to the same penalties as are imposed
upon clerks of the circuit courts for non-performance of duty.
§ 992. The clerk shall keep a general docket, in which he shall
enter the names of the parties in each suit, the time of filing the bill,
answer, plea or demurrer, all other papers in the cause, the issuance
and return of process, and a note ol reference to all orders made
therein, by the book and page ; and shall mark on the papers, in every
cause, the style and number of the suit, and the time when, and the
party by whom filed ; and he shall not suffer any paper so filed to be
withdrawn, but by leave of the chancellor, and then only by retaining
a copy, to be made at the cost of the party obtaining the leave. All
the papers and pleadings filed in a cause shall be kept in the same
file, and all the files kept in numerical order.
§ 993. Said clerk shall keep an issue docket, in which he shall, at
each term, set down all causes ordered by the court, or either party,
to be set down for final hearing, or on demurrer of all the defendants,
in the order in which they are so ordered to be set down; he shall
also keep a motion docket, in which he shall set down all causes on

196

THK CLERK—HIS POWERS AND DUTIES.

[Chap. 9.

demurrer, or on plea of part of the defendants, all exparte petitions,
all motions not of course, and all exceptions to proofs, reports, plead
ings and, other matters ; and the court shall call such dockets in the
order in which the causes are set down therein.
§ 994. Whenever the clerk of said court shall vacate the office,
the records, papers, books, stationery, and everything belonging thereto,
shall be delivered to his successor in office, by any person having the
same, on demand ; and if any person having the records, papers,
books, stationery or other property of the office, shall refuse to deliver
the same, on demand, to the person entitled thereto, he shall be liable
to indictment, and on conviction, may be fined not exceeding five
thousand dollars, or imprisoned not exceeding two years, or both ;
and shall, moreover, be liable for all damages sustained by any person
aggrieved thereby.
§ 995. The clerk in person, or by deputy, shall, in vacation, have
the power, and it shall be his duty, to receive the probate of wills in
common form, to grant letters of administration and letters testa
mentary, to appoint appraisers, to make all needful orders for the
collection and preservation of decedents' estates, and the estates oj
minors and persons non compos mentis, to take the probate of claims
against decedents' estates, to receive and allow annual accounts of
administrators, executors and guardians, to make orders for the sale
of personal property, and for the rent and use of real estate, not
exceeding a term of one year; all of which proceedings had by the
clerk shall be held as the act of the court, unless set aside or altered
at the next regular term of the court held thereafter; but all such
orders and proceedings may, by order of the chancellor, in vacation,
be suspended, or vacated, upon giving to the adverse party such notice
as the chancellor may direct; and all such proceedings and orders
shall be subject to such orders and decrees as said court may deem
right and equitable, at the next term of said court. The clerk of the
chancery court, by virtue of his office, shall be the master or commis
sioner of the court, and shall have all the powers now, or that may
hereafter be conferred by law on the master or commissioner in chan
cery, and who shall receive, for services rendered, a compensation to
be fixed by law : provided, the chancellor may, for reasons or cause,
appoint and constitute any other person master or commissioner in
special causes in said court : provided, that in all such proceedings
had before the clerk, the same pleadings and proofs shall be required
and had, as though the proceedings were had before the court; and
the said chancellor shall, at the next term of court held thereafter,
examine all bonds taken by the clerk in vacation, and make such
orders in relation to the same as he shall deem necessary and proper,
for the security of the parties interested therein.
§ 996. The said clerk shall be the custodian of all records, books
and papers belonging, or in any way appertaining to the office of the
former court of probates, or which may hereafter be so required in

Chap. 9.]

PROCESS AND PUBLICATION.

197

relation to such records, papers, books and proceedings, except those
required by law to be delivered to the clerks of the circuit courts.
§ 997. Said clerk shall be the custodian of the records, papers and
books, of the former board of police, and of the board of supervisors
of the county, heretofore required by law to be kept by the clerk of
said court of probates ; and, as ex-officio clerk of the board of super
visors, said clerk shall do and perform all acts, heretofore required by
law to be done by the clerk of said board of police, in relation to the
said records, papers, books and proceedings, or which may hereafter
be so required in relation thereto.
§ 998. The clerks of the chancery courts herein established, shall
be prohibited from practicing law, during their continuance in office,
either as attorneys, advocates, or conveyancers, or from receiving any
fee or reward for any services rendered as clerk of said court, other than
the fees prescribed by law ; and upon conviction for a violation of this
section, shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and dis
missed from office.
§ 999. The clerks of the chancery courts are hereby authorized and
empowered to approve the bonds of all county officers, in their respec
tive counties, and to administer to them the oath of office.
§ 1000. Clerks of the chancery courts shall not, in any manner?
advise, counsel, or direct litigating parties in their courts, in reference
to the management of causes ; and if any such clerk shall violate this
provision, he shall be liable to be fined not exceeding five hundred
dollars. This prohibition, however, shall not be construed so as to
debar said clerks from giving all needful information as to the affairs
of their offices, and the business pending therein.

ARTICLE VI.
PROCESS AND PUBLICATION.
§ 1001. No process shall be issued until after the bill shall have
been actually filed in the clerk's office.
§ 1002. The style of all process shall be, " Ihe State of Mississip
pi," and the process to bring in defendants shall be a summons, in
the form ordinarily issued in actions at law in this state. No teste
shall be required, but process shall be signed by the clerk, stating
the true date of its issuance, and the seal of the court shall be at
tached thereto. The date of process shall be prima facie evidence
of the time of issuance.
§ 1003. The time of issuing original process shall, in all cases, be
endorsed on the bill or other pleading, and its return briefly noted on
the general docket.
§ 1004. The officer serving process, shall endorse thereon the time
when he received the same.

198

FROCESS AND PUBLICATION.

[Chap. 9.

§ 1005. Process shall be made returnable on the next rule day in
vacation succeeding its issuance, or on the first day of the regular
term of the court, to be held ten days next after the issuance thereof;
and shall, in all cases, be executed five days before the return day,
and if not executed within that time, no answer shall be required,
until the next succeeding rule day.
§ 1006. All process from the chancery courts shall be executed
in the manner required for the execution of similar process from the
circuit courts ; and any process issued, made returnable, or executed,
otherwise than is herein directed, may be set aside by the court, on
the motion of any person interested therein, and alias process awarded.
Mere defective execution of process may be amended, on motion, by
the officer who served it: Provided, he amend according to the real
facts connected with his action.
§ 1007. If, from any cause, process shall not be executed, it shall
be the duty of the clerk to issue alias process, unless directed by the
party in interest not to do so ; and any party interested may, at any
time, in vacation, or in term-time, direct the clerk to issue alias pro
cess, so as to bring the parties before the court to answer.
§ 1008. The names of all parties embraced in a cause as defend
ants, who reside within the county where the process issues, shall be
included in the same summons ; and similar process shall be issued to
any county of the state where other parties, defendants, are said to
reside, to be served on them only, and the clerk shall so endorse on
each process. The clerk of the court shall be under the direction of
complainant's solicitor, as to where, and for whom, process shall issue.
§ 1009. In case of the death of any party litigating in the court,
before the cause is determined, the clerk shall, on the suggestion of
the proper solicitor, issue appropriate process to bring in the heirs,
executors, or administrators or other representatives of such deceased
person, either in term-time or vacation. Voluntary appearance on the
part of such representative shall be as effectual, in reference to them,
as actual service of process.
§ 1010. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless satisfactory proof
be made to the chancellor that the defendant designs quickly to depart
from the State ; and, if granted, the chancellor shall direct to be en
dorsed thereon the sum in which the party shall give bond, with surety
or sureties, being freeholders in this state, and who shall be caused by
the officer to justify as to their sufficiency.
§ 1011. If a defendant shall be in custody upon process of con
tempt, and be brought into court by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus,
to answer a bill, and shall refuse to enter his appearance, or to ap
point an attorney to do the same, the court shall appoint an attorney
to enter an appearance for him, and thereupon such proceedings may
be had as if he had entered an appearance; but if such defendant,
having refused to enter an appearance as aforesaid, shall be in custody
when a decree is made, he shall be served with a copy of the decree,

Chap. 9.]

PROCESS AND PUBLICATION.

199

before any process shall be taken out to compel the performance
thereof; and if such defendant shall die in custody, before such ser
vice, then his heirs, executor or administrator, according as the property
affected by the decree shall be real or personal, shall be served with
a copy of the decree.
§ 1012. The said court, or the chancellor, in vacation, in all cases
where there shall be danger of the removal of any personal property
beyond the reach of its process, may order to be issued a writ of se
questration, directed to the sheriff or other proper officer, to seize and
take into possession the property in question, and to hold the same
until the further order of the chancellor, or until the defendant, from
whose possession the same is taken, shall enter into bond, with good
security, payable to the complainant, in the full value of the property,
to be assessed by such officer, conditioned to have the property forth
coming, to abide the decree to be made by the court in the cause ;
said bond shall be returned with the writ, and in case the property
shall not be delivered or forthcoming to abide the decree, shall have
the force and effect of a judgment, and execution may issue thereon,
against all the obligors, for the amount of the decree, or the value of
the property, according to the nature of the case. But such process
shall not be issued until the party obtaining the order therefore shall
enter into bond, with security, payable to the defendant, in such sum
as the chancellor may direct, conditioned to pay all damages which
such defendant may sustain, in case it shall appear that such process
was obtained wrongfully, or without sufficient cause. Nor shall such
writ issue, until the person applying for the same shall have made affi
davit of the fact that he has good cause to believe, and does verily
believe, that such removal is about to occur, and shall, also, have ob
tained the fiat of said chancellor for the issuance thereof; and should
the defendant, for the space of ten days, fail to give such bond, then
the complainant, at whose instance the property was seized, shall
have permission to give the same, and replevy the property ; and if
neither of the parties litigant shall give such bond, within twenty
days after the seizure, the officer having possession of such property
shall sell the same, in the mode prescribed by law for selling property
levied upon under writs of fi. fa., if the property be liable to waste or
decay, or if subject to extraordinary expense in preserving the same,
and hold the proceeds subject to the future orders of the court.
§ 1013. Whenever it shall be made to appear, to the satisfaction
of the chancellor, by affidavit or otherwise, that any defendant to a
cause in his court is a non-resident of the state, or cannot be found
therein, on diligent inquiry, such chancellor shall make an order
directing such absent defendant to appear and plead, answer or demur
to the bill, at a return day of the court therein to be named, not less
than two months after the date of such order, which order shall,
within twenty days after it is granted, be published once a week, for
four consecutive weeks, in some public newspaper, printed and pub

200

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 9.

lished in this state, and designated in such order. The person apply
ing for such order shall, if possible, state the residence and post-office
of such absent party ; and, if the post-office cannot be ascertained,
then the notice above provided for shall be adjudged sufficient publi
cation ; but if the post-office can be fixed, then the clerk of the court
shall transmit, by mail, to such post-office, properly directed, with the
postage paid, a copy of such order ; and the clerk having done so,
shall report the fact in writing, and file the same in the papers in the
cause, signing his name thereto, and stating the date of such trans
mission. In all applications for publication, under this section, the
person applying shall make affidavit to the exact residence, and postoffice of the absent party, if he can do so, and if not, then he shall so
state in the affidavit. Such orders may be entered also, at rules in
the clerk's office, in vacation, subject to the control of the court; and,
if in any case, the chancellor should, for special cause shown, consider
that publication should properly be made in some newspaper printed
in another state, or in any foreign country, he may so order and
direct.

ARTICLE

VII.

pleadings and practice.
§ 1014. Suits shall be commenced in the chancery courts by bills,
addressed to the chancellor of the district in which they may be filed,
and the address shall be followed by a statement of the names and
residence of the parties, substantially as follows :
"To the Honorable A. B, chancellor
district, sitting at
the county of
, and sole presiding therein—
C D, a citizen of
, complainant,
)
vs.
>
E F and G H, citizens of
, defendants, )

in

Complainant respectfully shows unto the honorable court as fol
lows : "
§ 1015. The bill shall contain a clear, legible, and orderly state
ment of all the facts upon which the action is founded, without repe
tition or prolixity. It shall not be necessary for the pleader to incor
porate in the bill any of the mere formal parts of a bill in chancery,
as established by the old precedents, such as the charge of confeder
acy or combination, or the insufficiency of the remedy at law, although
it shall not be urged as an objection to any bill that it is formal
throughout. Interrogatories are not required to be inserted in a bill ;
but the pleader may, at his option, address interrogatories to defend
ants. The bill shall conclude with a prayer for the issuance of process,
and for the particular relief demanded, as well as a prayer for general

Chap. 9.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

201

relief. The bill shall be written in a legible hand, and signed by the
solicitor of complainant.
§ 1016. The answer shall be responsive to all the material allegations
of the bill ; it shall contain a clear, intelligible and orderly statement
of all the facts on which the defense is founded, and it shall be signed
by defendants' solicitor, and shall not be prolix.
§ 1017. Demurrers are not required to be drawn according to the
ancient forms, but shall be adjudged sufficient if drawn substantially
as follows : " The said defendant, by his solicitor, demurs to the afore
said bill of complaint, and for causes of demurrer states the following :
[stating the causes separately] ; wherefore said defendant prays the
judgment of this honorable court whether he shall be required to make
any further answer to said bill, and he prays to be hence dismissed
with his reasonable costs."
§ 101S. Demurrers shall be signed by the solicitor interposing
them, and they shall not be filed, in any case, as a matter of course,
but there shall be attached to every demurrer a certificate of the so
licitor preparing it, that, in his opinion, the demurrer is well taken in
point of law.
§ 1019. No replication to in answer shall be required, but the
cause shall be considered at issue, whenever the answer is filed.
§ 1020. Rules shall be held in the clerk's office, under the direc
tion of the clerk, on the first on third Mondays of every month in
vacation, and on every day during the terms of the court. Process
may be made returnable on any rule day in vacation, and all decrees
nisi ; orders for taking bills as confessed ; orders for publication against
absent or unknown defendants ; orders of revivors for or against the
representatives of a deceased person ; all orders of course, and such
other matters as may be authorized by law or the rules of the court,
may be taken, entered and done at the rules, in the same manner as if
done in open court, subject, however, to the control of the court ;
and the clerk shall keep full minutes of the proceedings at the rules,
and the same shall stand as the act of the court, unless set aside or
altered.
§ 1021. When process shall be returned executed, or proof of
publication made, the defendant shall plead, answer or demur, on or
before the second day of the term, if the process of publication be
returnable to a regular term of the court ; and if the process of pub
lication require the appearance of the defendant on a rule day in va
cation, the defendant shall plead, demur or answer, on or before the
rule day next succeeding that to which such process or publication is
returnable ; and if the defendant shall fail to plead, demur or answer,
at the time required, as aforesaid, the complainant's bill may then, or
at any time afterward, before plea, demurrer or answer is filed, be
taken as confessed against such defendant ; and no pro confesso, so ta
ken, shall be set aside, without good cause shown, supported by the affi
davit of the party, or his solicitor, making the application, and to be

202

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 9.

filed in the papers of the cause, and to constitute part of the record.
If the bill be taken for confessed against all the defendants, the com
plainant may set down the cause for hearing at the same term, and the
court may make such decree therein as may be equitable.
§ 1022. Additional time to plead, demur or answer may be allowed
by the court, on cause shown, and when a plea or demurrer shall be
disallowed, the defendant shall answer within such reasonable time as
the court may require.
§ 1023. When a plea shall be filed, the complainant may set it
down for argument upon its sufficiency in law, or he may reply to it
and take issue.
§ 1024. Facts averred in the bill, and not denied by the answer,
otherwise than by the general traverse, may be taken at the hearing
as admitted.
§ 1025. If the complainant shall set down the cause for hearing,
before the expiration of the time allowed the defendant for taking
testimony, the answer shall be taken as true.
§ 1026. Exceptions to bills must be taken before answer filed, and
exceptions to answers-must be filed at or before the next term after
the answer has been filed. When exceptions shall be filed, a rule may
be entered, of course, with the clerk, to refer the same to a master,
who shall report thereon to the next term of the court. An appeal
shall be allowed to the chancellor, who shall hear and determine the
same.
§ 1027. In suits for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages or
deeds of trust, if the court shall think the complainant entitled to a
decree, a reference may ba made to the clerk, or a master, to compute
the amount due, who shall proceed, without notice to the parties, and
make his report without delay, and no motion to confirm such report
shall be necessary, but the report shall be confirmed, and a final de
cree passed, of course, unless cause be shown to the contrary.
§ 1028. Amendments shall be allowed in the pleadings and pro
ceedings, on liberal terms, to prevent delay and injustice, at anytime
before the cause has been submitted.
§ 1029. Answers of defendants out of the state may be sworn to
before any commissioner for this state, or any judge, chancellor, or
any justice of the peace, notary public, or the mayor, or alderman of
any city or town, or clerk of a court of record, in the state or county
where such defendant may be, if such officer shall be authorized to
administer oaths by the law of such state or county ; and the certifi
cate of such officer, as to his official character, and his authority to ad
minister oaths, shall be prima facie evidence thereof.
§ 1030. Any defendant in a chancery suit may make his answer a
cross-bill against the complainant, or his co-defendant or defendants, or
all of them ; and may introduce any new matter therein, material to
his defense, and may require the same to be answered ; and in the
same manner may require of the complainant, or any of the defend.

Chap. 9.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

203

ants, a discoveiy of any matter material to his defense, and he shall
have process thereon against the defendants to such cross-bill, and the
like proceedings thereon, as in other bills or cross-bills.
§ 1031. The court may appoint a guardian ad litem to any infant
or insane defendant ; but such appointment shall not be made, except
on the application of such infant, until after process shall have been
returned executed, or proof of publication made, and after the day.
appointed for the appearance of the party ; and such guardian shall
not be liable for the payment of the costs.
§ 1032. The mode of trial in the chancery courts shall be the same
as heretofore used and practiced in courts of chancery; but the court
may direct an issue of fact to be tried by a jury in the chancery
court.
§ 1033. Any sum of money, directed by the decree of the court to
be paid by any person, shall bear interest until paid, in the same
manner as judgments of the circuit courts.
§ 1031. When a bill of review shall be presented to the chancellor
in term-time, or in vacation, he may direct the proceedings on the
decree sought to be reviewed, to be stayed until further order, re
quiring of the party such security for the performance of the decree
as he may think reasonable ; but such stay of proceedings shall not
be a matter of right.
§ 1035. The chancery courts shall have power to decree that either
party shall pay the costs of any suit in equity, or that the same be
divided, as may appear equitable.
§ 1036. When the court shall refuse to set aside a pro confesso,
and permit an answer to be filed, or shall allow the same to be done,
or shall improperly refuse to allow any amendment to be made in the
pleadings or proceedings, and the same shall not appear of record, it
shall be lawful for any party aggrieved to cause the same, and all the
documents or proofs read, or offered on the hearing of the motion, to
be made a part of the record, by a bill of exceptions, and all such
matters may be assignable for error, and examinable by the supreme
court.
§ 1037. When it shall be alleged that the security on an injunc
tion or receiver's bond, or any bond taken upon any proceeding in
any court of chancery, is insufficient, the chancellor shall have
power to hear and determine the same in vacation, as well as in termtime, and may order the injunction to be dissolved, or the receiver to
be suspended or removed, or may make such other order as may be
just and equitable in the case, unless a new bond, with sufficient
securities, be given within twenty days, or such longer time as he
shall appoint ; but, if done in vacation, at least ten days' notice of
the time and place of making the application shall be given to the
opposite party.
S 1038. Sales of real estate or personalty, ordered by a decree of
any court of chancery, shall be made on a credit of six months from

204

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 9.

the day of sale, unless otherwise ordered by the court, and at such
place and on such notice as may be directed in the decree, and if no
direction shall be given, then at such place, and on such notice as is
required in case of sales under execution at law ; the officer making
the sale, if made on credit, shall take bond, with good security, in
double the amount of the purchase money, payable to the parties en
titled to receive the same under the decree, or to such person as the
court may direct, conditioned for the payment of the purchase money,
with interest, at the rate borne by the decree, to the time when the
same shall fall due ; such bond shall be returned and filed in the clerk's
office, and if not paid at maturity, shall have the force and effect of a
judgment; and the clerk shall issue execution thereon. If any of the
obligors shall be dead, the execution shall issue against the survivors,
and the representatives of the deceased, jointly. If any of the ob
ligees be dead, the execution shall be in favor of the survivors, or the
representatives of the last survivor. In taking such bond, the officer
shall cause all the sureties thereto to justify in writing, on the back
of said bond, in the usual form, as to their pecuniary ability.
§ 1039. In all suits in chancery against any non-resident, absent
or absconding debtor, and others within the state, having in their
hands effects of, or being indebted to such debtor, or against such
debtor having lands and tenements within this state, if such debtor
shall not appear, and give satisfactory security for performing the de
cree, the court shall have power to make any necessary orders, and to
require security to restrain the defendants within the state, from pay
ing, conveying away, or secreting the debts by them owing to, or the
effects in their hands, belonging to such non-resident, absent or ab
sconding defendant, and may order such debts to be paid, or such
effects to be delivered to the complainant, on his giving security for
the return thereof, in such manner as the court may direct.
§ 1040. Publication shall be made in the manner directed by this
chapter, requiring the said absent debtors to appear and give security
for the performance of the decree; but such defendant may appear,
and plead, demur or answer to the bill, without giving security ; but
the lien of the creditor upon the property attached shall not be af
fected thereby.
§ 1041. If a decree shall be rendered in such case, without the
appearance of such absent debtor, the court, before any proceeding to
satisfy said decree, shall require of the complainant to give security
for abiding such further orders as may be made for restoring the
estate or effects to the absent defendant, on his appearing and answer
ing the bill ; and if the complainant shall not give such security, the
effects shall remain under the direction of the court, in the hands
of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a time as the court shall ap
point, and shall then be disposed of as the court may direct.
§ 1042. Land shall not be sold under such decree until the per
sonal fund shall be exhausted, nor until the complainant shall have

Chap. 9.J

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

205

filed in court a bond, with security, in double the value of the land,
to be ascertained by sworn commissioners, appointed by the court, for
performing the future orders and decrees of the court in that behalf.
§ 1043. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings in any
action, or upon any judgment at law, unless the chancellor shall be
satisfied of the complainant's equity, by oath made of the truth of the
allegations of the bill, or by other means.
§ 1044. No injunction to stay proceedings at law shall be issued,
until after the party obtaining the fiat for the same shall enter into
bond to the plainthf at law in double the amount of the debt sought
to be enjoined, with two or more sufficient securities, to be approved
by the chancellor, or by the clerk issuing the injunction, condi
tioned for paying all money and costs due, or to become due to the
plaintifff in the action at law, and also such costs and damages as shall
be awarded against him, in case the injunction shall be dissolved ;
which bond shall be taken by the clerk issuing the injunction, and
shall be by him filed with the bill, and safely transmitted to the court
in which the bill is filed. If any clerk shall, in any case, issue an in
junction without having first taken bond, as required by law, he shall
forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars, to be
recovered in an action of debt; and shall, moreover, be liable on his
official bond for all damages sustained thereby.
§ 1045. Where the injunction obtained shall not be for the stay of
proceedings in an action at law, for the recovery of money, or upon a
judgment requiring the payment of money, the party obtaining the
injunction shall, before the issuance of the same, enter into bond in
the like manner, in a sufficient penalty, to be fixed by the chancellor
granting the same, conditioned for the payment of all damages and
costs which may be awarded against him, or which the opposite party
may otherwise suffer or sustain, by reason of the suing out of said
injunction, in case the same shall be dissolved.
§ 1046. When an injunction shall be granted to stay the sale of
personal property, levied on by virtue of an execution, the chancellor
may order the property to be restored to the complainant, on his
giving bond to the sheriff, with good sureties, in double the value of
the property, to be assessed by such sheriff, payable to the plaintifff in
the execution, and conditioned for the re-delivery of the property to
said sheriff, in case the injunction shall be dissolved; which bond shall
be returned by the sheriff, with the execution, and shall have the force
and effect of a judgment; and in case the property shall not be re
delivered to the said sheriff or his successor, within fifteen days after
the dissolution of such injunction, the clerk of the court to which the
bond was returned, shall issue execution thereon, for the amount of
the assessed value of said property, and all costs. But in such cases,
the lien on the property created by the judgment or decree, and the
execution and levy, shall remain in force, and the sheriff, on a writ of
venditioni exponas, or other order of sale, may seize the property so
levied on wherever the same may be found.

206

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 9.

§ 1047. When an injunction shall be granted to stay the execution
of a judgment at law, in whole or in part, the issuance of such an in
junction shall operate as a release of all errors in the judgment at
law, in the same manner as if the party had signed and sealed a re
lease of such errors.
§ 1048. When an injunction shall be wholly dissolved, the bill of
complaint shall stand dismissed, of course, with costs, unless sufficient
cause is shown against its dismission, at the next succeeding term of
the court, and the clerk shall enter such dismission on the last day of
the term.
§ 1049. Motions to dissolve injunctions may be heard by the chan
cellor in vacation, on ten days' notice to the opposite party, and if
the motion is made upon the answer of the defendant, a copy of such
answer, and the exhibits filed therewith, shall be served with the
notice. In term-time, motions to dissolve on bill and answer may be
heard ten days after answer filed, on five days' notice to the opposite
party, in writing, or by entering the motion on the docket for the like
space of time.
§ 1050. When an injunction, attachment, or other restraining
order or process, shall be granted in vacation, the bill or petition on
which the same was granted, shall be filed in the court to which such
process shall be returnable, on or before the issuance thereof.
§ 1051 When an injunction, obtained to stay proceedings on a
j udgment at law for money, shall be dissolved, in whole or in part,
damages, at the rate of five per centum, shall be added to the judg
ment enjoined, or to so much thereof as shall be found due, including
the costs ; and the clerk of the chancery court shall certify such dis
solution, to the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered,
who shall thereupon issue execution, as well for the original debt and
costs, as for the damages aforesaid. Damages, at the same rate, shall
be allowed upon the dissolution of injunctions to stay sales under
deeds of trust or mortgages, with power of sale; and such damages
may be added to the debt, and collected by the sale of the property,
or execution may issue from the chancery court for the same, together
with the costs of suit.
§ 1052. A receiver shall not be appointed, unless the party pray
ing the appointment shall have given the opposite party at least ten
days' notice of the time and place of making the application, unless
it should be made to appear that an immediate appointment is
necessary.
§ 1053. Every receiver, when appointed, shall, before being author
ized to act as such, give bond, payable to the State of Mississippi, in
such penalty, and with such sureties as may be approved by the court
or chancellor, conditioned that he will ^receive, and safely keep, all
money or property that may come to his hands as such receiver ; that
he will render full and true accounts of his receipts and disburse
ments, and of the condition and situation of the money and property
in his hands, as often as he may be required by the court, and will

Chap. 9.]

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

207

dispose of, and deliver such money and property, in such manner,
and to such persons, as the court may at any time direct, and will in
all things faithfully discharge the duties of his office as receiver ;
which bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and may be put
in suit, in the name of the state, for the use of any party aggrieved
from time to time, until the whole penalty shall be recovered.
§ 1054. Receivers shall receive such fair and reasonable compen
sation for their services, as the court shall allow, and shall have a
lien upon the property in their hands, for the payment thereof, and
of their necessary expenses. The court shall make such order, to
compel the payment thereof, as may be just and necessary, and may
decree the payment, by any of the parties, of such portion of the costs
of the suit, as may be just and equitable.
§ 1055. Receivers shall be subject to the orders and decrees of the
court, and obedience thereto may be enforced by attachment.
§ 1056. When money shall be paid into court under its order, a
receiver shall be appointed to keep the same, who shall give bond and
security, as in other cases.
§ 1057. The court may appoint two or more persons, in each
county within the district, to be masters or commissioners of the
court, who shall remain in office during the pleasure of the chancellor,
and who shall receive a reasonable compensation for services rendered
by them, to be fixed by law, or allowed by the court, and taxed in the
bill of costs, and collected in the same manner as the fees of the clerk.
The clerk shall issue to such persons a certificate of their appointment.
§ 1058. The court may also appoint a special commission in any
particular case.
§ 1059. The master or commissioner in chancery shall have power
to administer oaths ; to take the examination of witnesses, in cases
pending in any chancery court in the state ; to examine and report
upon all matters referred to him, and to execute all decrees directed
to him to be executed.
§ 1060. Masters and commissioners in chancery shall have power
to issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend before them, to testify in
any matter referred to them, or generally in the cause ; and such sub
poenas shall be executed in like manner as subpoenas issued by the
clerk of the circuit court ; and if any witness shall fail to appear, or
shall refuse to give evidence, such master or commissioner shall pro
ceed by process of attachment to compel the witness to attend and
give evidence. They shall have all other powers properly belonging
to masters and commissioners in chancery.
§ 1061. If any witness, sworn or affirmed by any master or com
missioner in chancery, shall give any evidence, under such circum
stances as would have constituted the same perjury, if given in the
presence of a court of record the same shall be deemed perjury, to all
intents and purposes.
§ 1062. Masters and commissioners in chancery shall be authorized

208

PLEADINGS AND PRACTICE.

[Chap. 9.

to charge for copies of reports, or such other papers as the parties
may require, the same fees allowed the clerk for similar services, to
be paid by the parties requiring the same.
§ 1063. The chancellor may direct an account to be taken in any
cause, in vacation, as well as in term-time ; and when the master or
commissioner shall doubt, as to the principles on which the account
shall be taken, or as to the propriety of admitting any item of debt
or credit claimed by either party, he may state, in writing, the points
on which he shall doubt, and submit the same to the chancellor, in
vacation, who shall decide the same without argument, except by
consent of parties.
§ 1061. All justices of the peace in this state shall have power to
take affidavit to bills, answers, and all other pleadings in the chancery
court.
§ 1065. Affidavits to bills, answers, and all other pleadings in the
chancery court, may also be made before the clerk of the court, the
chancellor, any commissioner in chancery, or any judge of a court of
record in this state, or any member of a board of supervisors.
§ 1066. "When a defendant shall fail to answer, within the time
required by law, the complainant, instead of taking a decree pro
confesso, may obtain from the chancellor an order for an attachment,
returnable in term-time, to compel such defendant to file his answer
in the cause ; provided, affidavit be first made and filed in the cause,
by the complainant or his solicitor, to the best of his knowledge and
belief, that such answer is necessary for the ends of justice.
§ 1067. Any defendant, attached for the purpose of coercing an
answer, who may refuse to answer, shall be committed to prison,
there to remain until he does answer ; and, in the meantime, the com
plainant may proceed with his cause, as if the bill had been taken
for confessed.
§ 1068. When a demurrer is filed at rules, the party filing the same
shall set it down for hearing, on the proper docket, on the first day of
the next term, in default of which, the same may be struck out on
motion. When a demurrer is filed in term-time, the party filing the
same shall set it down for hearing on the same day he files it, other
wise such demurrer may be struck out on motion of the adverse
party.
§ 1069. When the names of any deceased persons, or other neces
sary parties to a suit, shall be unknown to complainant, they may be
described as unknown heirs or parties, and an order of publication
may be had against them as such, as in other cases, and such proceed
ings had as against non-residents ; provided, complainant shall make
and file an affidavit that diligent exertions have been made, without
success, to ascertain their names.
§ 1070. Decrees against non-residents, absent or unknown de
fendants, rendered upon proof of publication only, without such
defendant having appeared and put in a plea, demurrer or answer,

Chap. 9.]

EVIDENCE—HOW TAKEN.

209

shall be final and conclusive, unless a re-hearing shall be applied for
within two years after the rendition of such decree ; but if the com
plainant shall serve a copy of such decree on the defendant, then the
same shall be final and conclusive, in one year after the date of such
service, unless a rehearing shall be applied for within that time ;
service of such notice to be made before some officer authorized by
the laws of Mississippi to take depositions, and certified under his
hand and seal, and filed with the papers in the cause.
§ 1071. If a defendant, against whom a decree has been rendered
as aforesaid, on publication only, shall at any time before said decree
shall have become final and conclusive as aforesaid, appear and peti
tion the court for a re-hearing, and give security for the costs, such
defendant shall be permitted to plead, demur or answer to the bill,
and to take testimony, and the cause shall be heard anew on its
merits, and such decree rendered as may be equitable, and the court
may stay all proceedings in the meantime on the original decree.
§ 1072. If the party to any suit pending or commenced in any
chancery court shall die, the clerk, during the recess of the court,
may, on application, issue process to bring into court the representa
tive of such deceased party, or such representative may appear volun
tarily, and become a party to the suit.
§ 1073. Three months, and no more, after issue joined in a cause,
shall be allowed for taking depositions, but for good cause shown,
supported by affidavit, filed in the papers, the chancellor may enlarge
the time to any reasonable extent, in any particular case.
§ 1071. All demurrers and pleas shall be disposed of at the same
term they are filed, unless good cause be shown for a continuance.
§ 1075. The records and papers of the court, connected with its
general jurisdiction, shall be kept carefully separate from the records
and papers of that branch of its jurisdiction relating to the adminis
tration of estates, matters of guardianship, and proceedings in estates
of persons non compos mentis.

ARTICLE VIII.
EVIDENCE—HOW TAKEN.
§ 1076. Evidence in the chancery courts shall, in all cases, be
taken by deposition, except that the mere execution of title papers,
or exhibits, may be proven orally in open court; and except, also,
that interested witnesses, whose depositions have been taken, shall
be examined orally in court, whenever a party to the cause shall
make and file, in the cause, an affidavit that he has good reason to
believe, and does verily believe, that such oral examination, in open
14

210

EVIDENCE

HOW TAKEN.

[Chap. 9.

court, is essential to the ends of justice, and a full and fair develop
ment of the facts of the case.
§ 1077. The complainant may, at any time after process served,
or publication duly proven and filed, proceed to take his depositions.
§ 1078. The defendant may proceed to take his depositions, at any
time after filing his answer.
§ 1079. The complainant, on making and filing an affidavit, that
any of his witnesses are sick, aged, or infirm, or about speedily to
depart from the state, or that an essential fact, in his case, depends
solely upon the evidence of a single witness, may proceed to take the
depositions of such witnesses, on giving the opposing party such reas
onable notice of the time and place of taking such depositions as the
circumstances will admit.
§ 1080. Depositions may, in all cases, be taken, up to the time of
the hearing, pursuant to the requirements contained in this article.
§ 1081. After answer filed, the complainant may admit the same
to be wholly true, and set the cause down for hearing, without any
delay for taking depositions.
'/
§ 1082. Depositions of witnesses residing in this state, may be
taken before any master or commissioner in chancery, any justice of
the peace, any judge of a court of record, or any member of a board
of supervisors, on ten days' notice to the opposing party, or his solicitor,
of the time and place of taking such deposition, such notice subject
to the modification expressed in section 1079 in this article.
§ 1083. Unless, by agreement of both parties, no commissioner
shall begin to take a deposition at an earlier hour than nine o'clock
A. M., nor continue later than sunset; but commissioners shall have
power to continue their labors from day to day, until the depositions
shall have been completed.
§ 1084. The examination may be taken on written interrogatories,
to be filed with the officer taking the same, or the witness may be
examined orally ; the testimony shall be written down by the officer
taking the deposition, or by the witness, or some disinterested person,
in the presence of the officer, and signed by the witness ; and when
duly certified and sealed up, shall be transmitted to the clerk of the
court, and shall be by him opened, and filed among the papers in the
cause, noting thereon the day when the same was received, filed and
opened.
§ 1085. If the witness be a non-resident of the state, the party shall
file his interrogatories in the clerk's office, and shall serve the opposite
party, or his solicitor, with a copy thereof, with notice of the day on
which the commission will issue, at least ten days before the same
shall issue, in which time the opposite party may file cross interrog
atories ; and thereupon the clerk shall issue a commission to take
the deposition of such witness, to be directed, executed and returned,
in all respects, as like commissions issued in a cause pending in the
circuit courts.

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

211

§ 1086. All objections to depositions, other than to the compe
tency of the witness, or of the questions or answers thereto, shall be
taken, by motion to suppress the deposition, and not otherwise. All
objections to the competency of the witness, or of the questions, or
the answers thereto, may be taken, by motion to suppress, or may
be made at the hearing ; but, if made at the hearing, the objections
shall be set down in writing, and filed with the papers in the cause.
§ 1087. The rule, requiring two witnesses, or one witness and
corroborating circumstances, to overthrow an answer, denying the
allegations of the bill, is abolished in all cases where the bill is sworn
to ; such an answer shall only have such weight and credit, as it may
fairly be entitled to, in view of the circumstances of the case, and the
interest of the party answering.

ARTICLE

IX.

PROCEEDINGS IN ADMINISTERING ESTATES.
§ 1088. The power of granting letters of administration on the
estates of intestates, and determining and hearing contested claims to
administration, shall appertain to the chancery court, when in session,
or to the clerk, in vacation, of that county of the district in which the
intestate had, at the time of his death, a mansion house, or known
place of permanent residence. If the intestate had. no such place of
residence in the state, then, letters shall be issued in that county
where the intestate died, or in that county in which his personal estate,
or the greater part of it, may be, when application is made.
§ 1089. In granting letters of administration, the court shall pre
fer first, the husband or wife, secondly, such others as may be entitled
to distribution under the statute of descents and distributions, if of
full age, selecting from amongst applicants who stand in equal degree
of relationship to the intestate, such person or persons as may, in the
opinion of the chancellor or clerk, be best qualified to settle the af
fairs of the estate. If no suitable person entitled by law to administer,
should make application for letters, within sixty days after the death
of the intestate, administration shall be confided to any creditor of the
intestate who is qualified, and may make application.
§ 1090. No person under the age of twenty-one years, or who is of
unsound mind, or convicted of any felony, shall be appointed to the
office of administrator or executor.
§ 1091. It shall be the duty of the chancellors of every district in
this state, forthwith to appoint, for each county of their respective dis
tricts, an officer, to be styled county administrator, to hold his office
for two years—such appointment to be entered on the minutes of the
courts.

212

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

§ 1092. Hereafter, when it shall be made known to the chancellor or
clerk of the chancery court of any county in this state, that any per
son has died, either in this state or out of it, and has left real or per
sonal property in such county, and no person has applied for letter*
of administration, or of executorship, within six months from and after
the death of such person, then, and in such case, it shall be the duty
of the chancellor or clerk, as the case may be, to grant letters of ad
ministration, or letters of administration with the will annexed, or let
ters of administration de bonis non, as the case may require, to the
said county administrator, whose duty it shall be to proceed to admin
ister the estates according to law, as in other cases, and under the di
rection of the court, without giving any other bond than the one here
inafter provided for ; nor shall such county administrator be bound to
incur any cost, except such as the funds of the estate in his hands, over
and above his own commissions, shall be sufficient to pay; and the
court may, on final settlement of the estate, allow such county ad
ministrator a sum not exceeding ten per cent., on the whole estate ad
ministered.
§ 1093. Before any county administrator, provided for in this
article, shall exercise or perform any of the duties or functions of said
office, and before any letters, as aforesaid, shall be granted to him, he
shall execute and file, in the office of such court, a bond, with two or
more good sureties, to be approved by the chancellor, in term-time or
vacation, in a penalty of five thousand dollars, payable to the State of
Mississippi, conditioned that he will well and truly perform and dis
charge all the duties of the office of county administrator, according
to law, or by the order of the court. He shall also take an oath, to
be indorsed on his bond, and filed in the clerk's office, well and truly
to administer, according to law and the orders of the court, each and
every estate which may be committed to his charge, and that he will
well and truly account for, and pay over, all monies in his hands, by
virtue of his said office, when thereto required by orders of the court.
§ 1094. Should such county administrator resign his office, or
otherwise vacate it, he shall forthwith file an account of his adminis
tration, so far as it has extended, for proceedings as in ordinary cases.
Should such officer die in office, his administrator or executor shall
submit, according to law, separate settlements of all estates, so far as
the deceased county administrator had progressed with the same, to
be proceeded with, according to the provisions contained in this article.
§ 1095. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of any chan
cellor in this state, that the penalty of the bond, provided for in this
article, is not sufficient in amount to secure a faithful discharge of the
duties of the county administrator, it shall be lawful for such chan
cellor, after proper notice given, to require the said administrator to
give an additional bond, in such penalty as the chancellor may deem
sufficient, to secure the rights of all parties interested ; and on a non
compliance with any such requisition, such defaulting county adminis

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

213

trator may be removed from office, as other administrators are re
moved, for similar defalcations.
§ 1096. The county administrators provided for by this article, shall
have all the remedies, by suit, in any of the courts of law or equity in
this State, which are now given by law to other executors and admin
istrators in this state, and shall likewise be subject to be sued as other
executors and administrators are liable to be sued ; and shall, more
over, be held to the same course of procedure in administering
estates, as is prescribed in this article for other administrators.
§ 1097. Said bond of the county administrator may be put in suit,
by order of the chancellor, at the instance of any person interested
therein.
§ 109S. Taking the proof of wills, and granting letters testamen
tary thereon, shall appertain to the chancery court of the county, in
which the deceased had a mansion house, or fixed place of residence ;
but if he had no fixed place of residence, and the lands be devised in
the will, it shall be proved in the county where the lands lie, or in
one of them, where there shall be lands in several counties ; and if
the testator have no fixed place of residence, and if personal estate,
only, be disposed of by the will, it may be proved either in the coun
ty where the testator died, or in that county in which the greater
part of the property may be.
§ 1099. When any last will and testament is exhibited to be
proved, the court, or clerk, in vacation, may proceed immediately to
take the probate thereof; but any person interested, may, at any time
within two years, by petition or bill, contest the validity of such will;
and an issue shall be made up and tried as other issues to determine
whether the writing produced be the will of the testator or not ; and
the verdict of the jury shall be final between the parties to the issue,
saving the right to grant new trials as in other cases; but if no party
shall appear, within two years, to contest the will, the probate shall
be final and forever binding, saving to infants, and persons non com
pos mentis and fanes covert, the period of two years to contest the
will, after the removal of their respective disabilities : provided, that
in casje of a concealed fraud, the limitation provided by this article,
shall commence to run at, and not before, the time when such fraud
shall be, or with reasonable diligence, might have been first known
or discovered.
§1100. When any will shall be exhibited for probate, and any wit
ness who attested the same, shall be absent, or reside out of the state
the court may direct a commission to issue to take his deposition, as
in other cases of non-resident witnesses, to which the will shall
be attached, or the clerk in vacation may issue such commission ;
and if the commissioner to whom the commission is directed, shall,
certify, in the manner such acts are usually authenticated, that the
witness personally appeared before him, and made oath or affirmation,
that the testator, or testatrix, signed and published the writing an

214

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

nexed to the commission, as his or her last will and testament, or
that some other person, naming him, signed it by the direction of, and
in the presence of the testator or testatrix ; that the testator, or tes tatrix was of sound and disposing mind, and that the witness sub
scribed his name thereto in presence of, and by request of the testa
tor or testatrix, such oath shall have the same operation as if th e
witness had been present in court, and the will shall be admitted to
probate. But before such original will shall be sent, abroad for proof,
the clerk shall make and certify to a true copy thereof, and file such
copy in his office.
§ 1101. If any person shall be a subscribing witness to a will,
wherein any devise or bequest is made to such subscribing witness,
and the will cannot otherwise be proved, such devise or bequest shall
be void, and the witness shall be competent, as to the residue of the
will, as if no such devise or bequest had been made, and shall be
compelled to testify. But if such witness would have been entitled
to any share of the testator's estate, in case the will was not estab
lished, then so much of said share shall be saved to said witness, as
shall not exceed the value of the devise or bequest, made to him in
the will.
§ 1102. Any creditor, whose debt is secured by express lien, or by
operation of law, shall be a competent witness to a last will and testa
ment ; but any special provision, in favor of such creditor in the will,
either by admitting the debt, or by providing for its payment, or by
giving it a preference, shall be void, and such claim shall stand as
though no such provision had been made.
§ 1103. The chancery court having jurisdiction, on being informed
that any person has the last will and testament of a testator or
testatrix, may compel such person to produce it ; and, if any person
to whom a will or codicil has been delivered for safe custody, by the
party making it, shall alter or destroy the same without authority,
or willfully secrete it for six months after the death of the testator
shall be known to him, on conviction thereof, such person so offend
ing shall be sentenced to such punishment as the law prescribes for
grand larceny.
§ 1104. All original wills, after probate thereof, shall be recorded,
and remain in the office of the clerk of the court where they were
proved, except during the time they may be removed to any other
court, under proper process, from which they shall be duly returned
to the proper office ; and authenticated copies of wills and testaments,
or codicils, which have been duly recorded in the proper office, shall
be admitted as evidence in any court of law or equity in this state.
§ 1105. Authenticated copies of wills, proved according to the
laws of any of the states of the Union, or of the territories, or any
country out of the limits of the United States, and touching or dis
posing of estate within this state, may be admitted to probate in the

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

215

proper court, but such will shall be liable to be contested, as the
original would have been, if it had been executed in this state.
§ 1106. The executors named in any last will and testament,
whether made in this state or admitted to probate here on an au
thenticated copy, shall be entitled to letters testamentary thereon, if
not legally disqualified, which shall be granted by the court before
which the probate was made, or by the clerk, in vacation. But no one
shall be capable of being executor, who, at the time when letters
testamentary ought to be granted, is under the age of eighteen years,
of unsound mind, incapable of making a contract, or convicted of a
crime rendering him infamous. A married woman shall not be ap
pointed, unless her husband, with two good and sufficient sureties,
shall give the requisite bond ; and if the executors named be not
legally qualified, by reason of any of the causes above named, or
should afterwards become disqualified, the court or clerk may proceed
to grant administration with the will annexed. On all questions
touching such qualifications, the court shall receive the like testi
mony as would be admissible in a court of law or equity in similar
cases, and the party shall be summoned ; and the husband of any
executrix, who may marry after her appointment, shall in like manner
give bond, or she shall be removed.
§ 1107. The age of eighteen shall be the age of majority of an
executor or executrix, and in case letters testamentary shall be granted
to any one above eighteen and under twenty-one years, the bond exe
cuted by such person, for the performance of the duties, shall be as
valid and binding, as if such person were of full age.
§ 110S. If there should be no executor named in any last will and
testament, or if the executors named, all renounce the executorship,
or, being required to qualify, shall all refuse or fail to do so, or shall
refuse or willfully neglect, for the space of forty days after the death
of the testator or testatrix, to exhibit such will and testament for pro
bate, then, administration of the goods and chattels, with the will an
nexed, shall be granted to the person who would be entitled to ad
minister, according to the rule prescribed for granting administration.
But before granting such administration, each executor named in such
will and testament, who has not renounced the executorship, shall be
summoned to show cause why administration should not be granted ;
and if any executor named, be absent from the state, at the time
of the probate of the will, and administration should be granted
during such absence, such executor shall be allowed forty days after
his return to make application for letters testamentary, and on his
qualifying, the letters of administration shall be revoked, and the
estate, both real and personal, shall be disposed of, according to the
will. The administrator shall deliver all the estate which has come
to his hands to the executor, and immediately settle the account of
his administration with the chancery court.
§ 1109. Every executor or administrator with the will annexed, at

216

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

the time of obtaining letters testamentary, or of administration, shall,
in open court, or before the clerk, take the following oath, viz :
" You do swear that the writing now exhibited by you, is the true
last will and testament of
, as far as you know and believe, and
that you, as executor, will well and truly execute the same according
to its tenor, and discharge the duties required by law ;" and he shall
also give bond, in such penalty as will be equal to the full value of
the estate at least, and with such sureties as may be approved of by
the court, or the clerk, payable to the State of Mississippi, with the
following condition, viz :
"The condition of this bond is, that if the above bound
, as ex
ecutor of the last will and testament of
, shall well and truly
carry out and execute the will, as far as the same may be consistent
with law, and faithfully, truly and promptly perform and discharge all
the duties required of him by law, or by the order of the court, then
this obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force." If the
obligor be administrator with the will annexed, then say that " the
above bound
, as administrator, with the will of
, annexed,
will," etc. ; which bond shall not be void on the first recovery, but may
be put in suit, from time to time, until the whole penalty is recovered,
by any party injured by a breach thereof, and at his costs ; but the
amount of recovery shall be appropriated by order of the chancery
court, unless the same be for a specific or certain legacy, or for a dis
tributive share, first ascertained and ordered to be paid ; and such bond
shall be recovered, and a certified copy shall be evidence.
§ 1110. Where the testator, by will, shall direct that his executors
shall not be required to give bond, then none shall be required, unless
the court, at any time, should have good reason to suspect the execu
tor of fraud, or mal-administration, in which event, it shall be the duty
of the chancellor to require bond with good security ; and if it be not
given, to remove the executor, and grant letters of administration with
the will annexed.
§ 1111. Every executor, who has so qualified, shall have a right to
the possession of all the personal estate of the deceased, unless other
wise directed in the will ; and he shall, and may, take all proper steps
to acquire possession of all or any portion thereof that may be with
held from him, and shall manage the same for the best interest of
those concerned, as far as he can do so, consistently with the will, and
according to law. He shall have the proper appraisements made, and
return true and complete inventories ; he shall collect all debts due
the estate, as speedily as may be, and pay all debts that may be due
from it which are properly authenticated, so far as the means in his
hands will allow ; he shall settle his accounts as often as the law may
require him to do so, and pay all the legacies and bequests, as far as
the estate may be sufficient, and shall well and truly execute the will,
if the law will permit ; and he shall also have a right to the possession

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

217

of the real estate, so far as may be necessary to execute the will, and
may have proper remedy therefore.
§ 1112. If there should be any contest about any will, before the
grant of letters testamentary, or if the executor be an infant, or be
absent, or until a will which once existed, but is lost or destroyed,
shall be established, the court or clerk may appoint any person or
persons to collect and preserve the estate of the decedent, until a pro
bate of the will, or during the infancy of the executor, or until admin
istration be granted, taking bond and security for collecting and
making an inventory of the estate, and for the safe keeping and de
livery of the same to the executor or administrator.
§ 1113. The letters so granted shall be in the ordinary form, ex
cept that they shall. express that they are granted only during the ex
istence of the controversy about the will, or during the infancy, or the
absence of the executor, as the case may be ; and the bond shall be
in the form, or to the effect, of a bond given by an administrator, with
the will annexed, except that it shall be conditioned for the discharge
of the duties of the office of collector of the goods, chattels, personal
estate, debts and money of the deceased, and for the delivery of the
same to the executor when qualified. And the person so appointed,
shall also take the following oath before the chancellor or clerk, viz :
" You do swear that you will well and truly discharge the duties of
the office of collector of the goods, chattels, personal estate, and debts
of
, deceased, according to the tenor of the letters granted to
you, and agreeably to law, to the best of your ability."
§ 1114. Every collector so appointed, shall have power to collect
the goods, chattels, personal property and debts, and to secure the
same ; and immediately after appraisement, the court may authorize
him to sell such as may be perishable, and to dispose of the crops for
cash, by shipment or otherwise, and to account for the same ; and the
court may allow such compensation as may seem just, not exceeding
five per cent, on the amount collected and administered, or not exceed
ing three per cent, on the whole inventory.
§ 1115. Every collector so appointed, shall have power to bring
suits for debts due the estate; and to give acquittances on payment :
he may also bring suits for property. And he may be sued as an ad
ministrator might be ; and suits brought by him, or against him, shall
not abate by the termination of his authority, but may be prosecuted
by, or against, the executor, and judgments recovered by, or against
such collector, may be proceeded in to collection by, or against, the
executor.
§ 1116. On the granting of letters testamentary, the powers of
such collector shall cease, and it shall be his duty to settle his accounts
with the court, and to deliver all the estate that may be in his hands,
on demand, to the person obtaining such letters ; and in case of re
fusal, the court may proceed against him by attachment, and impose
a fine, not exceeding twenty per cent, upon the amount of property

218

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[CHAP. 9.

in his hands, and his bond may be put in suit by the executor or per
son to 'whom letters may be granted. He shall furnish such executor
or administrator with a list of all judgments and suits against him.
§ 1117. In taking the ordinary probate of wills, all of the sub
scribing witnesses alive, and within the jurisdiction of the court, and
whose presence can be secured, shall be produced before the clerk, or
court, to testify as to the execution thereof. If, however, any resident
witness shall be too old or infirm to attend court, the deposition of
such witness may be taken, on motion of any person interested in
establishing the will, according to the general rules for taking evi
dence in the chancery court.
§ 1118. The person to whom administration is granted shall take
the following oath :
" You do swear that
, deceased, died without any will, so far as
you know or believe, and that you will well and truly administer all
and singular, the goods, chatties, and credits of the deceased, and
pay his debts, as far as his goods, chattels, and credits will extend,
and the law requires you ; that you will make a true and proper in
ventory of the said goods, chattels and credits, as also a just account,
when thereto required, so help you God ;" and shall also give bond, in
a penalty at least equal to the value of all the personal estate, with
such sureties as may be approved of by the court, or by the clerk in
vacation, payable to the State of Mississippi, with condition in form,
or to the effect following, to-wit :
" The condition of this bond is, that if the above bound
, as ad
ministrator of the goods and chattels, rights and credits of
, de
ceased, shall faithfully, truly and promptly perform and discharge all
the duties required of him by law, or by the order ot the court, then
this obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force ;" which
bond shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the chancery court,
and may be put in suit by any person injured by a breach thereof, at
his costs, but the amount of recovery shall be appropriated by the
chancery court, unless it be for a distributive share first ascertained.
A certified copy of such bond shall be admitted in evidence in any
court in this State.
§ 1119. If a will shall be found and proved, and letters testament
ary be granted, within sixty days after such proof, the same shall be
construed as a revocation of the administration, but acts lawfully and
previously done by the administrator shall be valid.
§ 1120. If any executor or administrator shall die, resign or be re
moved, or become incompetent, before a final settlement of the estate,
letters of administration de bonis non, shall be granted to the person
entitled, under the rules heretofore laid down, and he shall proceed
in the administration of the estate to final settlement, and the letters,
bond and oath, shall be in the common form, substituting proper words
to show the character of the administration, and in no case shall the ex
ecutor of an executor, be entitled, in right of his office, to administra

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

219

tion de bonis non on the estate of the first deceased, but such execu
tor, or the administrator of an executor, or the executor or adminis
trator of an administrator, shall settle the accounts of their testator,
or intestate, in his administration of the first estate, and for that pur
pose shall be amenable to the jurisdiction of the proper court.
§ 1121. If the sureties taken, on granting letters testamentary, or
of administration, should be discovered to have been insufficient at
the time, or should afterwards become so, the court shall, on the appli
cation of any person interested, and notice to the adverse party,
require such executor or administrator to give new sureties, and in
default thereof, within a reasonable time, the letters may be revoked,
and administration be granted to the person next entitled to it, if
such person should apply, or if not, to the county administrator ; or
the sureties, originally taken, if they apprehend danger, may petition
the court to require the executor or administrator to give a new
bond, and that they may be discharged from further responsibility;
and the court shall grant such petition, and require new sureties ; and
in case of refusal to comply, the executor or administrator may be
removed, and administration de bonis non be granted; but the exec
utor or administrator shall have the proper notice of such application,
and the acts done by the executor or administrator, and all proceedings
that may have been instituted against him, shall be treated or con
ducted, by or against his successor, as in case of the death of an
executor or administrator; and if the executor or administrator shall
give a new bond, as required, the original bond shall, from that time,
cease to be operative in future, but not as to previous liabilities.
§ 1122. Every executor or administrator may be removed, if he
should become disqualified, or for improper conduct in office, at the
instance of any person interested, on proper notice to such executor
or administrator; or they may surrender the trust, on giving the
proper notice to the distributees or legatees, and by settling with the
court, so far as they may have administered the estate ; and, in case
of removal or resignation, administration shall be granted, as in case
of the death of the executor or administrator, and with like effect on
all the proceedings by or against the executor or administrator ; but
every executor or administrator who may be removed, or who may
surrender his trust, until his final settlement, and until satisfaction
shall be made, and until that time, shall be liable on his bond ; and if
any administratrix shall marry, her husband shall give bond, as in
case of the marriage of an executrix.
§ 1123. It shall be the duty of every executor, administrator and
collector, to make out in writing, and return to the proper court,
under oath, a true and perfect inventory of the personalty of such
estate. If the property be in more than one county, and cannot be
conveniently collected together, warrants of appraisement shall be
issued to all the counties in which the same may be situate, to be pro
ceeded with as hereinafter directed.

220

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

§ 1124. On granting letters testamentary, or of administration, or
of collection, a warrant or warrants shall be issued by the clerk, under
the seal of the court, authorizing three or more discreet persons, any
three or more of whom may^act, not related to the deceased, or inter
ested in the estate, to appraise the goods, chattels and personal estate
of the deceased, which may be shown to them, or which may come to
their knowledge ; which warrant shall be in form or to the effect fol
lowing :
"The State of Mississippi, to
, Greeting:
" This is to authorize you, jointly, to appraise the goods, chattels
and personal estate of
, late of
county, deceased, so far as
the same shall come to your sight and knowledge, each of you having
first taken the oath or affirmation hereto annexed, a certificate
whereof you are to return, annexed to an inventory of the said goods,
chattels, and personal estate, by you appraised, in dollars and cents,
and in the said inventory, you are to set down, in a column or
columns, opposite to each article, the value thereof.
[Witness]
"
, Chancellor of
District.
"
, Clerk.''
And in case any appraiser so appointed should die, or refuse to act,
another warrant may forthwith be issued to some other person, and
the appraisers, before they proceed to act, shall take the following
oath or affirmation, to be endorsed on or annexed to the warrant, be
fore any person authorized to administer an oath, to-wit:
"I, A. B., swear (or affirm), that I will well and truly, without par
tiality or prejudice, value and appraise the goods, chattels, and personal
estate of
, deceased, so far as the same shall come to my sight
and knowledge, and will, in all respects, perform my duty as appraiser,
to the best of my skill and judgment, so help me, God."
§ 1125. The appraisers shall discharge their duty as speedily as
may be, and shall set down each article, and opposite to it, in a proper
column, the value thereof, in figures, and the contents of each
column shall be cast up, and set down at the bottom ; and when the
inventory shall be finished, the appraisers shall certify the same
under their hands, with a certificate of their having taken the proper
oath thereto annexed ; and they shall each receive two dollars per
day while they are so engaged, to be paid out of the estate, by the
executor or administrator.
§ 1126. Every inventory and appraisement, so made out, shall be
delivered to the administrator or executor, and, by him, shall be
returned to the proper office, within three calendar months from the
date of the letters testamentary or of administration, unless the court
should grant further time ; and if any executor or administrator should
fail to return the inventory at the time required by law, or by the
order of the court, an attachment may issue to enforce the return, and
on return of the attachment, the court shall have power to fine the
party, not exceeding fifty dollars.

Chap. 9.]

administering estates.

221

§ 1127. Every executor and administrator shall, within the time
above prescribed, return an inventory, verified by oath, of the money
belonging to the deceased, which has come into his hands, and ot the
debts due the deceased, which have come to his knowledge, specifying
the nature of each debt, setting down such as may be deemed good,
distinct and separate from those which may be deemed desperate and
doubtful.
§ 1128. The bare naming of an executor in a will, shall not operate
to extinguish any just claim, which the deceased had against him,
but it shall be the duty of every such executor, accepting the trust,
to give in such claim in the list of debts ; and, on his failure to give
in such claim, or any part thereof, any person interested in the estate
may allege the same, by petition to the court, and the court, with the
consent of parties, may decide on the validity of the claim, if it be
denied. If such consent be not given, the validity of such claim
shall, by order of the chancellor, be tested by suit, in some common
law court having jurisdiction. And when the claim is established,
the executor shall account for it as a debtor to the estate, and not
otherwise ; and in the same way, and subject to all the foregoing pro
visions, shall an administrator give in a claim against himself.
§ 1129. Whenever personal property of any kind, or assets, not
mentioned in the previous inventory, shall come to the possession
or knowledge of the executor, administrator, or collector, an account
or inventory of the same shall be returned, and shall be appraised
by sworn appraisers, as in other cases, within one calendar month
from the time of discovery.
§ 1130. In case an inventory be returned by a collector, the execu
tor or administrator who may succeed to the administration, shall
within three calendar months after the grant of his letters, either re
turn a new inventory, in place of the collector's inventory, or file a
written acknowledgment of the receipt of the articles contained in
the first inventory, and consent to be answerable for the same, in the
same manner as if the inventory had been made out after the grant
of letters testamentary, or of administration ; but if the goods, chat
tels and effects are improperly withheld from the executor or admin
istrator, then the executor or administrator shall not be answerable
for a failure to return the inventories herein required, until after the
goods, chattels, and effects have been received from the collector.
§ 1131. If any executor, administrator or collector, shall fail to re
turn proper inventories, within the time prescribed by law, or by the
order of the court, a summons shall be issued, by order of the chan
cellor, against such executor, administrator, or collector, to show cause
at the next term why such inventory hath not been returned ; and if
the summons be returned executed, or upon two citations returned not
found, by the sheriff of the proper county, if such party do not ap
pear, or appearing, shall fail to show good cause, the court shall pro
ceed to revoke the letters, and grant administration anew, as though

222

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[ClUP. 9.

such former executor, administrator or collector, had never obtained
the grant of letters ; and on such revocation, the power of such ex
ecutor, administrator or collector shall cease, and he shall deliver
over to the person appointed in his stead, all the property, goods,
chattels and effects of the deceased in his hands, or be liable to be
sued on his bond.
§ 1132. If there be more than one executor, administrator, or col
lector, they shall all join in returning the inventory ; but, if one or more
refuse to do so, the others may return the inventory, and the power
and authority of the person so refusing shall thereafter cease, and
those who return the inventory shall proceed in the administration,
unless the delinquent shall, within one month, assign a reasonable ex
cuse, which the court may deem satisfactory.
§ 1133. If any person interested in an estate, shall discover that
the inventory returned does not contain a full and perfect account of
all the property, goods, chattels, and effects of the deceased, such per
son may, on petition to the court, have the executor, administrator or
collector cited to appear and show cause why an additional inventory
should not be returned ; and if, on hearing, the court should be satis
fied that a true inventory was not originally returned, it may order the
executor, or administrator, to return a new one, and on his failure to
do so, his letters shall be revoked, and his bond put in suit.
But, if
the title to any property not inventoried, be in dispute, it shall be suf
ficient for the executor, administrator or collector so to report, and he
shall not be required to return an additional inventory, until the title
is settled in his favor ; and it shall also be the duty of every executor
and administrator, to return additional inventories, at least once in
each year, of the increase of the property of t he estate, if there be any
such increase.
§ 1134. The goods, chattels, personal estate, choses in action, and
money of the deceased, or which may have accrued to his estate, after
his death, from the sale of property, real or personal, or otherwise,
whether he died testate or intestate, shall be assets, and shall stand
chargeable with all the just debts and funeral expenses of the deceased,
and the expenses of settling the estate ; and the lands, tenements,
and hereditaments of the testator or intestate, shall also stand charge
able for the debts, over and above what the personal estate may be
sufficient to pay, and may be subjected to the payment of debts, in the
manner hereinafter directed.
§ 1135. It shall be the duty of every executor and administrator,
to proceed to pay the debts, as speedily as may be, out of the assets
which may come to his hands, if the estate .be solvent ; and, in order
that its true condition may be speedily known, it shall be the duty of
the executor or administrator, within one month after the grant of his
letters, to publish, in some newspaper, printed in the county, or in
some- adjacent county, a notice, requesting all persons having claims
against the estate of his testator or intestate, to exhibit the same

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

223

and have them registered, in the manner and within the time, pres
cribed by law, or they will be forever barred, which notice shall state
the time when the letters were granted, and shall be published for
three consecutive weeks, or longer, if the court should so direct.
§ 1136. Mere probate and registration of a claim, shall not make it
imperative on an executor or administrator to pay the same. On the
contrary, if the executor or administrator have good cause to believe
that the claim is unjust, he shall withhold payment, until the same
shall be established by suit.
§ 1137. No executor, administrator, or collector, shall discharge
any claim against the deceased, (otherwise than at his own risk), un
less the same be first passed by the chancery court, granting the ad
ministration, or unless the claim be proved, according to the following
rules, to- wit : The voucher or proof of a judgment or decree, shall
be a short copy thereof, duly certified, under the seal of the court in
which it was obtained, and attested, by the clerk, who shall also cer
tify that there is no entry, or proceeding, in said court, to show that
the judgment has been satisfied ; there shall also be endorsed on, or
annexed to, such voucher, the certificate of some officer, competent to
administer an oath, that the creditor, since the death of the deceased,
hath taken, before him, the following oath, or affirmation, to-wit:
"That he (or she) hath not received any part of the sum for which
the judgment, or decree, was passed, except such as is credited, (if
there should be a credit) ;" and if the creditor be an assignee of the
person who recovered the judgment or decree, the oath shall also
state, in addition to the foregoing, that, to the best of his (or her)
knowledge and belief, no other person has received any part of the
sum due, except such part (if any) as is credited, and an assignee
shall also produce the assignment, under the hand of the assignor, and
if there has been more than one assignment, all shall, in like manner,
be produced.
§ 1138. If a special bail shall have discharged a recognizance or
judgment, against the deceased, he shall be considered a judgment
creditor. If there be more than one creditor, the affidavit, by one,
shall be sufficient. In case the claim be a bond, specialty, note, or
bill of exchange, protested, the voucher shall be the instrument of
writing itself, or a proved copy, in case it be lost, with the certificate
of the oath or affirmation, made as aforesaid, since the death, and en
dorsed thereon, or annexed to it; and the oath shall state that no part
of the money, intended to be secured by such instrument, has been
received, or any security or satisfaction given for the same, except (if
any) what is credited, either by the party himself, or by an assignor,
if he hold by assignment ; in case of a bill of exchange, the protest,
and all other requisites, shall be necessary, to justify the administra
tor, or executor, in making payment or distribution.
§ 1139. If the claim be for rent, the lease shall be produced, or
the contract established by competent witnesses, or the written

224

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

acknowledgment of the contract by the deceased, together with a
statement of the time for which rent is in arrear, and the sum due,
verified by oath, as in case of a note or bond ; and if the creditor be
an assignee, the oath prescribed in such cases shall also be made.
§ 1140. The voucher of any claim, on an open account, shall be
the account itself, with an oath or affirmation endorsed thereon, taken
by the creditor since the death, that the account as stated is just and
true, and that no part of the money stated to be due, or any security
or satisfaction for the same has been received, except (if any) what
is credited ; and moreover, no such account shall be paid, until it is
first allowed by the chancery court in which the estate is adminis
tered, or the chancellor or clerk, in vacation ; and in addition to the
proof above required, no executor, administrator or collector shall
pay any claim against the deceased, unless it be first registered in the
register kept by the clerk of the chancery court for that purpose, as
is required by this article ; and such registration shall be a sufficient
presentation of the claim to the executor, administrator or collector.
§ 1141. All claims against the estate of a deceased person, whether
due or not, shall be registered in the court in which the letters testa
mentary or of administration were granted, within one year after the
first publication of notice to creditors to present their claims ; other
wise the same shall be barred, and no suit shall be maintained thereon
in any court.
§ 1142. The executor or administrator may contest, before the
chancellor or clerk, any claim presented against the estate, and the
chancellor or clerk may refer the same to auditors, who shall hear the
evidence on both sides, if any be offered, and report ; and thereupon
the claim may be allowed or disallowed, according to the report, but
no such proceeding shall be had without notice to the claimant.
§ 1143. In no case shall an executor or administrator be allowed
to retain, for his own claim against the deceased, except the same be
registered as other claims, and passed by the chancery court, or the
clerk, in vacation ; and every such claim shall stand upon an equal
footing with other claims of the same nature.
§ 1144. If it should-be necessary to sell personal property, for the
payment of debts, it shall be the duty of the executor or adminis
trator to present a petition, in writing, to the court, or the clerk, in
vacation, of the proper county, for an order of sale, in which it shall
be made to appear that a sale of part, or the whole of the estate, is
necessary for the payment of debts ; and if the court, or the clerk,
shall be satisfied, after hearing the merits of the petition, that a sale
is necessary, an order may be made for the sale of a part, or the
whole of the personal estate ; and if part only be ordered to be sold,
such property shall be selected as can be sold with the least detri
ment to the distributees, and the executor or administrator shall
advertise such sale, in three or more public places in the county, for
the time prescribed by law ; and, at the time appointed, shall proceed

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

225

to sell the property designated in the order, at public sale, to the
highest bidder, either for cash, or on credit, as the order of sale may
direct ; but in no case shall an administrator or executor become the
purchaser of any property, which he may be ordered to sell by the
court, either directly or indirectly ; nor shall it be lawful for any exec
utor or administrator to take the estate, or any part thereof, at the
appraised value.
§ 1145. The court, or the clerk, may order the sale of perishable
property, on such short notice as it, or he, may deem proper, whether
required for the payment of debts, or not; but, in all other cases,
thirty days" notice shall bo required. All property shall be sold on
such terms as the court may deem most advisable.
§ 1146. When any person shall die, leaving a stock of goods, wares,
and merchandise, of any description, the court may, in its discretion,
allow the executor or administrator to dispose of the same, at private
sale, the terms and conditions of said sale being first made known to,
and approved by the court ; and it shall be lawful for aR executor or
administrator to dispose of the interest of his testator, or intestate, in
any ship, vessel, steamboat, or other water craft, without the same
being present at the time and place of sale.
§ 1147. Whenever personal property shall be sold by an executor
or administrator, for any purpose, he shall make report thereof in
writing, under oath, to the next term of the court, stating the time
and place of sale, the name of the purchaser, and the amount of the
purchase money, and shall also satisfy the court that the directions
prescribed in the decree of sale, have been followed ; and thereupon
the court shall make a decree confirming the sale, unless good cause
be shown to the contrary: provided, that if such sale be not reported
at the next term of the court, the same shall not be void, but the
court may compel the making of such report at a subsequent term,
and may proceed to confirm or set aside the same, and the person fail
ing to make such report in proper time, may be fined as for a contempt,
not exceeding one hundred dollars.
§ 1148. When any executor or administrator shall discover that
the personal property will not be sufficient to pay the debts, he shall
present a petition to the court for the sale of the land of the deceased,
or so much of it as may be necessary for the payment of the debts,
and it shall be his duty to make out and exhibit to the court, at the
time of presenting the petition, a full, just, and true account of the
personal estate, and the debts due from the deceased, which petition
and account shall be presented at least three months before an order
of sale shall be made ; and when it is presented, the court shall order
citations to issue for all persons interested, residing in the state, and
publication to be made, as to all persons residing out of the state, as
herein directed ; and the citations shall be served upon the parties, or
if they be infants, then upon their guardians ; and if no guardian has
15

226

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

been appointed, the court shall appoint a guardian ad litem, who shall
attend to the interests of the infants.
§ 1149. The court, at the time specified in the summons or publi
cation, or at such other time as it may appoint, shall hear and
examine, the allegations and proofs, by the executor or administrator,
in support of the petition, and also of other persons interested ; and
if, on such hearing, the court shall be satisfied that the personal
estate is insufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, and shall be of
opinion that the land ought to be sold for that purpose, it may make
a decree for the sale of a part, or the whole, of the land of the de
ceased ; and when a part only is decreed to be sold, the decree shall
specify what part ; but if the real estate be so situated, that a part
cannot be sold, without manifest prejudice to the heirs or devisees,
the court may decree that the whole shall be sold, and the overplus
arising from such sale, after the payment of debts, shall be distributed
amongst the Heirs, according to the will ; and the heir or devisee, whose
lands shall be sold for the payment of debts of the testator or intes
tate, may compel all others, holding or claiming under such intestate
or testator, to contribute in proportion to their respective interests, so
as to equalize the burden of the loss.
§ 1150. Any executor or administrator, who may be ordered, by a
decree of the chancery court, to sell the lands, tenements, and heredi
taments, of his testator or intestate, for the payment of debts, shall
give four weeks' notice of the time and place of sale, by advertise
ments put up in three or more public places, in the county where the
lands are situated, and also by publishing such notice of sale, once a
week, for four consecutive weeks, in some newspaper published in the
county, (or if none be there published, then in a newspaper published
in the most convenient county) ; and shall, at the time and place ap
pointed, being within the county where the land is situated, proceed
to sell the lands, tenements and hereditaments designated, at public
vendue, to the highest bidder, for cash, at public outcry, or upon such
credit as the court may have directed ; and if the sale be on credit,
the purchaser shall give bond and security for the payment of the
purchase money ; and, moreover, the land shall be held liable, and
subject to a lien therefore, as if a mortgage had been executed by the
purchaser, and registered ; and if necessary, the executor or adminis
trator may adjourn the sale from day to day, or from time to time,
not exceeding forty days in the whole, so as best to promote the in
terests of the estate ; but no executor or administrator shall, either
directly or indirectly, become the purchaser at such sale.
§ 1151. When the sale has been completed, the executor or admin
istrator shall make report thereof in writing, under oath, to the court,
stating the time and place of the sale, the name of the purchaser,
and the amount of the purchase money ; and, moreover, shall satisfy
the court that the directions prescribed in the decree of sale have
been followed; and thereupon the court shall proceed to make a
decree, confirming the sale, unless good reason be shown to the con

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

227

trary ; and the court shall, moreover, order the executor or adminis
trator to make a good and sufficient conveyance to the purchaser of
the lands, tenements, and hereditaments so sold, which conveyance
shall vest in the purchaser, as good and perfect an estate, in the
premises therein mentioned, as the heirs or devisees of such testator
or intestate, were seized of, or entitled to, at the time such order of
sale was made. If the executor or administrator, who made the sale,
should die, before making such conveyance, his successor may do so.
If such sale be not reported to the next term of the court, the
samet shall not be void ; but the court may compel a proper report to
be made, at a subsequent term, and may then confirm or set aside
the same, and the person failing to make such report in proper time,
may be fined by the court, as for a contempt, not exceeding one hun
dred dollars.
§ 1152. No sale, by an executor or administrator, shall commence
before the hour of eleven o'clock a. m., on the day appointed, nor be
continued longer than three o'clock of the same day ; but if the time
be insufficient to complete the sale of the estate, it may be continued
from day to day, until the whole has been sold, by giving public notice
to the company present, at the conclusion of each day's sale ; and such
sale, on the succeeding day, shall commence and end as directed for
the first day ; and any sale, conducted in any other manner, than as
herein directed, shall be null and void.
§ 1 1 53. When the estate of any deceased person shall consist of
real estate, and personal property, and it shall be necessary to sell
any portion thereof, for the payment of debts, the chancery court of
the proper county, on petition of the executor or administrator, and
full investigation of the matter, and being satisfied that it would be
to the interest of the distributees to sell the real estate, in preference
to the personal estate, may accordingly decree a sale of the real
estate, or so much as may be necessary, and shall set forth, in the
decree, the reasons on which it was made; and the sale, in such cases,
shall be conducted and made according to all the rules, directions
and provisions contained in this article, and the pr.rties interested
shall be summoned, as required herein.
§ 1154. Executors and administrators m°y either ship to market,
or sell for cash, the cotton raised on the plantation of the deceased, or
any other commodity raised for market, and shall account for the
proceeds thereof, as assets ; but the court may instruct them as to the
disposition of cotton crops.
§ 1155. The court may, by decree, authorize any executor or
administrator to sell, or compromise, any claims due the estate, which
cannot be readily collected, if the executor or administrator shall
petition the court for that purpose, and shall show in such petition,
supported by his affidavit, or other evidence, that such sale or compro
mise will promote the interests of the estate ; but no such order of
sale shall be made, until six months have elapsed from the grant of

228

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

the letters, and not until the next succeeding term after the petition
has been presented; and at the time appointed, the court may hear
the merits of the application, and make the proper decree, and if a
sale be ordered, it shall be made at the court house door, at public
outcry, for cash, to the highest bidder ; but the executor or adminis
trator shall first give twenty days' notice of the time and place of
such sale, by advertising the same, in at least three of the most public
places of the county; and the executor or administrator shall make a
report, in writing, of sales and compromises, made according to the
provisions of this section, to the next succeeding term of the court,
which may then be confirmed, unless good cause be shown for setting
the same aside.
§ 1156. If it shall be deemed proper, by an executor or adminis
trator, that the crop, growing at the time of the death of the testator
or intestate, be disposed of, the court, on application for that purpose,
may decree the sale thereof, either at public or private sale, on a
credit of not less than six months, the purchaser giving good and
sufficient security for the payment of the purchase money; but if the
court should be of opinion that the interest of the estate would be
best promoted, by cultivating and completing the crop, it shall
order and direct the executor or administrator to take charge of the
plantation, and proceed to manage the same, until the crop be com
pleted, retaining, for that purpose, all the supplies and property
employed thereon, and the proceeds shall be assets in his hands, the
necessary expenses of taxes, farming utensils, and of feeding stock
and laborers, the wages of laborers, and other necessary expenses,
being first deducted ; and, in either case, the executor or adminis
trator shall render to the court a true account of the crop; and, in
like manner, it shall be competent for the court to authorize the exec
utor or administrator to continue to cultivate the farm of the deceased,
until the final settlement of the administration accounts, if, in the
opinion of the court, the interests of the estate would be promoted
thereby, and if it can be done without prejudice to the rights of heirs,
legatees, or distributees.
§ 1157. In all cases, where the value of an estate shall not be
more than five hundred dollars, the court shall dispense with all news
paper notices, and order notices to be posted, for thirty days, at the
court house door, and two other of the most public places in the
county.
§ 1158. Every executor or administrator shall take all proper steps,
speedily to ascertain whether the estate be solvent or insolvent; and,
if it be ascertained that the estate, both real and personal, will be
insufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, the executor or adminis
trator shall exhibit to the court, under oath, in writing, a just and true
account of all the personal estate, and assets of every description or
kind, and also a true list, or account, of the lands, tenements, or here
ditaments of the deceased: and shall al*o exhibit to the court, at the

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTEItlXG ESTATES.

229

same time, a schedule of all the debts duo from the deceased ; and,
if it shall appear to the court that the estate is insolvent, it shall
make an order for the sale of all the property ; and the proceeds of
such sale, and all other assets, shall be equally distributed among all
the creditors, in proportion to the sums to them respectively due and
owing, the expenses of the last sickness, and for the funeral and court
costs, being first paid ; but, before any such decree of sale is made,
the court shall direct a summons to issue to the heirs or devisees,
residing in the state, and publication to be made as to the heirs or de
visees residing out of the state, returnable at the next succeeding term
after the order for such process is made ; and if any of the distributees
or devisees be infants, the process shall be served upon their guardians,
and if no guardian has been appointed, the court shall appoint a
guardian ad litem, who shall attend to the interests of the infants.
And, at the time specified in the summons or publication, or at such
other time as may be appointed, the court shall proceed to hear the
allegations, and examine the proofs, of the executor or administrator,
and also of other persons interested; and if, on such hearing, the
court shall be satisfied that the estate is insolvent, it may make a
decree for the sale of the estate, both real and personal.
§ 1159. The lands, tenements and hereditaments of an insolvent
estate, decreed to be sold, shall be sold by the executor or adminis
trator, in the same manner, in all respects, as prescribed in this article,
for the sale of real estate, to pay the debts, when the personal estate
is insufficient; and the lands shall be liable, in the same way, for the
payment of the purchase money, and when the sale has been com
pleted, the executor or administrator shall make report thereof, in
writing, and under oath, and the court shall make its decree, in the
same manner, and with like effect, as prescribed for the sale of lands
to pay debts, on a deficiency of personal es,tate.
§ 1160. It shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to
sell the personal property of an insolvent estate, in the same manner
that such property is sold by executors or administrators in other
cases for the payment of debts.
§ 1161. When an estate is decreed insolvent, the court shall order
the executor or administrator to give three months' notice thereof, by
publishing such notice, in some newspaper printed in the county, or
in some convenient county, for four consecutive weeks, in which notice,
creditors shall be notified to come forward, and have their claims duly
probated and registered, in the register kept by the clerk ; and any
creditor who shall not register his claims, by the day stated in the order
of publication, not to be more than three months from the date of the
first publication, shall be forever barred ; and when the time for pre
senting claims has elapsed, the clerk shall make out a statement of
all the claims registered, specifying each claim, and the amount
thereof, for which service the court may make him a reasonable allow
ance, to be paid out of the estate; and the court shall thereupon

230

ADMINISTERING ESTATK3.

[Chap. 9.

cause notice to be published, in some newspaper printed in the state,
for at least three successive weeks, that at the next term, the claims
will be taken up, for examination and allowance, and that all creditors
are requested to attend ; and at the time appointed, the court shall pro
ceed carefully to examine into the validity of each claim, and may
require such as may seem doubtful, to be established by competent
evidence, and may reject, in whole or in part, any claim which is not
well founded ; and the executor or administrator, or any creditor, may
object to the allowance of any claim; and in case any such objections
be made, or if a claim be rejected, in whole or in part, by the court,
either party may claim to have referees appointed, whereupon the
court shall appoint three competent persons, to decide and re
port upon the validity of such claims, and the referees, so ap
pointed, may summon witnesses, and hear the parties and the
proof, and decide on the validity of the claim, for which service
the referees shall each receive three dollars per day, to be paid out of
the estate, if appointed at the instance of the administrator or execu
tor, or other creditor, and by the claimant, if appointed at his instance ;
and the witnesses shall be paid in the same way, the same fees and
mileage, that are allowed in the circuit courts. The referees shall re
port at the same term, if practicable, and if not, at the next succeed
ing term ; and their report shall be final and conclusive, unless it be
set aside for good cause shown, in which case a new reference shall be
made : provided, that creditors who have failed to present their
claims shall not be barred as to any surplus that remains after the
other debts, registered and allowed, have been fully paid.
§ 1162. When the claims are all registered and allowed, or estab
lished, and the amount of assets ascertained, the court shall proceed
to ascertain, through the clerk of the court, the pro rata share of each
creditor, deducting first the expenses incurred in the last sickness,
and funeral expenses, and court costs, and deducting from debts not
due the legal interest, from the time of payment up to the time of
their maturity ; but such deduction shall only be made on the amount
of the distributive share ; and when the distributive share of each
creditor is ascertained, the executor or administrator shall immediately
proceed to distribute all money in his hands amongst the respective
creditors, in proportion to their respective demands, and shall there
after continue to make such distributions, as money may come into
his hands from the estate, until the whole is distributed.
§ 1163. No suit or action, which may be pending against an exec
utor or administrator, at the time the estate is reported insolvent,
shall, on that account, abate, but may be prosecuted to final judg
ment; and the judgment shall constitute a claim against the estate,
though not registered as other claims, but shall have no priority over
general creditors ; and if any such suit be undetermined, when the
claims are to be examined and allowed by the court, and the distrib
utive shares ascertained and declared, such examination and allow
ance may be postponed until the suit is finally determined.

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

231

§ 1164. It shall be the duty of every executor and administrator,
within one year after the date of his appointment, and at least once
in each year thereafter, or oftener, if required by the court, to pre
sent to the court, or clerk in vacation, under oath, an account of his
administration, which account shall show the disbursements of the
executor or administrator, every item of which, and the amount
thereof, shall be distinctly stated, supported by a legal and proper
voucher, and it shall show the receipts of money, and from what
sources ; and the failure to account, annually, shall be a breach of the
administration bond, for which it may be immediately put in suit, or
the executor or administrator may be removed ; but the court may,
on application for that purpose, made within the year, and on good
cause shown, extend the time of accounting ; and it shall be the duty
of the chancery court, or the clerk in vacation, carefully to examine
all such accounts and accompanying vouchers, to see that they are
lawful and proper ; and if, on such examination, the court, or the
clerk, shall be satisfied that the account is just and true, it shall be
approved and allowed, as a correct annual settlement.
§ 1165. It shall be the duty of the court, at every term, to cause
a list to be made of all executors and administrators, who have failed
to settle their accounts within the year preceding ; and if there be
any such, the court shall order a summons to issue for such defaulter,
returnable forthwith, or at any subsequent term, or before the clerk,
in vacation, and on the return thereof, may proceed against such
executor or administrator, for a contempt, should he fail, promptly, to
make the required settlement.
§ 1166. When the estate has been fully administered, by payment
of all the debts, and the collection of all the money due, so far as the
same can be collected, it shall be the duty of the executor or admin
istrator to make a final settlement of the administration, by making
out, and filing in the office of the clerk, under oath, his final account,
which shall contain a distinct statement of all the balances of the
annual accounts, either as debits or credits, and also other charges,
disbursements and amounts received, and not contained in any pre
vious annual account.
§ 1167. The final account, so presented, shall be filed, and remain
subject to the inspection of any person interested ; and when the said
account is filed, the clerk shall issue citations, and make orders of
pubUcation, according to law, to all persons interested in the estate,
to appear at a term of the court, not less than one month from the
service of such notice, or the making of such publication, and show
cause, if any they can, why such account shall not be allowed, and
the administrator or executor discharged. Final accounts may also
be filed before the chancellor in term-time, and process and publica
tion ordered to the next term.
§ 1168. If any of the distributees or legatees be minors, or insane,
the process shall be served upon their guardians, and if they have no

232

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

guardian, the court shall appoint a guardian ad litem, who shall have
full power to protect the interest of the minor.
§ 1169. If all process be returned executed, or if publication has
been made, and due proof thereof filed, the court shall, at the time
appointed, proceed to examine the final account so filed, and to hear
the proofs in support of it, and the objections and proofs against it;
and if the court shall, after full investigation, be satisfied that it is
just and true, it shall proceed to make a final approval and allowance,
satisfying and confirming the administration, and shall, at the same
time, order the executor or administrator to make immediate distribu
tion of all property in his hands.
§ 1170. If the court shall discover, either by the petition of any
person interested, or otherwise, that any executor or administrator
improperly delays making a final settlement, the court may order the
party to be summoned, to show cause why a final settlement should
not be made ; and, on the return of such summons executed, if a final
settlement be not made, or good cause shown why it cannot then be
made, the court may fine such delinquent, in any sum not exceeding
five hundred dollars, and imprison him, for a contempt, not exceeding
three months.
§ 1171 On the final settlement, the court shall make an allowance
to the executor or administrator, for property of the estate which has
been lost, or has perished, or decreased, without fault of the party,
and no profit shall be made by him in consequence of increase.
§ 1172. The court shall also allow to each executor or adminis
trator, as compensation for his trouble, either on partial or final settle
ments, not less than one, nor more than seven per centum, in the
whole, on the amount of the estate administered.
§ 1173. When any personal property of a deceased person, shall
not be susceptible of an equal division in kind, on account of the
nature of the property, the court may, on petition for that purpose,
by the executor or administrator, or other person interested, decree a
sale of such property, and order a distribution of the money arising
from such sale ; and such sale may be for cash, or on credit, as the
court may think best ; but all parties, interested as distributees or
legatees, shall be summoned before such decree is made, or cited by
publication, if non-residents of the state ; and such sale shall, in all
respects, be made as a sale of property, for the payment of debts,
and in like manner confirmed.
§ 1174. When any person, by last will and testament, shall devise
real estate to two or more devisees, not ascertaining or defining the
metes and bounds of each devisee's share, and one or more of the
devisees shall be under age, such devisees, or any of them, may apply
to the chancery court of the county in which the last will and testa
ment was proved and recorded, for a division of the real estate, to be
made according to the true intent of the will ; and the court may
order a division to be made, and the shares ascertained, by three or

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

233

five disinterested freeholders, to be appointed for that purpose, who
shall discharge the duty, and make report to the court, which report,
or the report of a majority, made under their hands and seals, may be
approved by the court, and entered of record, and shall be final and
conclusive on all the parties concerned. And when the real estate of
any person dying intestate, shall descend to two or more children, or
other heirs, one or more of whom being under age, the court, on appli
cation, may order and direct a division of such real estate, agreeably
to the law of descents, the metes and bounds of each heir's share
to be ascertained and determined, by three or five disinterested free
holders of the county, to be appointed by the court for that purpose,
whose report, or the report of a majority of them, made under their
hands and seals, may be approved by the court, and entered of record,
and shall be conclusive on all parties concerned ; and, in either case,
the report of the freeholders shall bo made under oath ; but the de
visees, or heirs, or the guardians of such as are under age, residing in
this state, shall be first summoned, before any such decree and dis
tribution is made, and if any of them be non-residents, publication
shall be made, as in other cases.
§ 1175. Any person entitled to the distribution of an intestate's
estate, or to any legacy under the last will and testament, may at any
time after the expiration of twelve months from the time of granting
letters testamentary, or of administration, petition the chancery court
of the proper county, setting forth his claim ; whereupon, it shall be
the duty of the court, if, in its opinion, the same would be just and
proper, and for the best interests of all concerned, to grant a rule upon
the executor or administrator, to make the distribution according tolaw, or to pay the legacy, the executor or administrator having been
first summoned ; but no executor or administrator shall be compelled
to make distribution, or to pay any legacy, until bond and security
be given by the party applying therefore, to refund a due proportion
of any debts or demands which may afterwards appear against the
estate, and the costs attendant upon the recovery of such debts. But
the legatee or distributee shall not be required to give such bond,
after a final settlement of the estate by the executor or administrator,
and the distribution of personal estate shall be ordered and made in
the same manner, and subject to the same regulations, as real estate
which has descended ; and the commissioners appointed to divide the
land may also divide the personalty, and when there are no debts due
from the deceased, or if the court shall be satisfied that all debts have
been paid, distribution may be ordered, without administration.
§ 1176. Executors, administrators, and collectors, shall have full
power and authority to commence and prosecute any personal action
whatever,, at law or in equity, which the testator or intestate might
have commenced and prosecuted. And they shall also be liable to be
sued, in any court of law and equity, in any personal action which
might have been maintained against the deceased, and they shall be

234

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

entitled to, or be answerable for costs, in the same manner as the
deceased would have been, and shall be allowed for the same in their
accounts, if the court awarding costs against them shall certify that
there were probable grounds for instituting, prosecuting or defending
the action on which the judgment or decree shall have been given
against them. And they may also maintain any action or suit, which
may accrue to them in due course of administration, on any contract
which they are authorized to make as such, or for the recovery of
the personal property, or for injuries thereto.
§ 1177. When there are two or more administrators on an estate,
and one or more of them takes all or the greater part of such estate,
and refuses to pay the debts or funeral expenses of the deceased, or
to account with the other administrators, in such case, the aggrieved
administrator may have his action of account against the other, and
recover such proportionate share of the estate as he may be entitled
to. And any executor, being a residuary legatee, may have an action
of account against his co-executor, to recover his part of the estate
and any other residuary legatee may have a like remedy against the
executors. And any person having a legacy bequeathed, in any last
will and testament, may sue for, and recover the same, by action
at law.
§ 1178. All personal actions which have been commenced and
prosecuted, for or against the executor or administrator of such testa
tor or intestate, shall survive, for or against the executor or administra
tor of such testator or intestate, with the same effect that they might or
could have been had or maintained, for or against the testator or intes
tate ; provided, that in assessing damages, the jury shall only render
a verdict for the amount the plaintifff may prove that he or she ac
tually sustained, and vindictive damages shall not be given.
§ 1179. If any bond, given by an executor, administrator or col
lector, under this article, be forfeited, the chancellor shall cause the
same to be put in suit, and prosecuted, at the request of any party
aggrieved by such forfeiture ; and the money recovered on such bond,
shall be applied towards making good the damages sustained by the
breach of the condition, in such manner as the court, by its sentence
or decree, shall direct.
§ 1180. Any parties interested in an estate, either as legatees, dis
tributees or creditors, may, either jointly or severally, institute pro
ceedings, upon the bond of the executor or administrator, for a de
vastavit, against the principal and his sureties, in the first instance,
without first having instituted suit against the executor or adminis
trator, to establish a devastavit.
§ 1181. No suit or action, commenced by or against an adminis
trator ad colligendum, shall abate by the termination of his authority,
but the executor or administrator may come in, voluntarily, and by
proper suggestion, make himself a party, or if he fail to do so, he may
be brought in by the opposite party, by scire facias, and all judgments

Chap. 9.]

administering estates.

235

recovered by or against such administrator ad colligendum, may bo
revived for or against his successor, in the same way.
§ 1182. If any executor or administrator should die, resign or be
removed, or his functions should cease from any cause, before the es
tate is finally settled, suits or actions commenced by or against such
executor or administrator shall not for that reason abate, but the same
may be prosecuted by or against his successor in the administration,
who may come in and make himself a party to suits or actions com
menced by or against his predecessor, by proper suggestion, or if he
fail to do so. he may be brought in by the opposite party by scire
facias, and all judgments recovered by or against any executor or
administrator who has died, resigned, or been removed, may be revived
for or against his successor, in the same way.
§ 1183. Executors, administrators and collectors shall not be
bound to plead specially to any action or suit at law, brought against
them in their representative capacity, but they may give any special
matter in evidence under the general issue, and no executor or adminis
trator, or the sureties on their bonds, shall be chargeable beyond the
amount of the assets of the testator or intestate, by reason of any
mistake or omission, or false pleading of such executor or adminis
trator.
§ 1184. No suit or action shall be brought against any executor or
administrator, in such capacity, until after the expiration of six months
from the date of the letters testamentary or of administration.
§ 1185. If any person shall alienate or embezzle any of the goods, chat
tels, personal property, or money of a person deceased, before taking
out letters testamentary or of administration, and before a true in
ventory is exhibited, such person shall stand chargeable, and be liable,
to the action of the creditors and other persons aggrieved, as being
executor in his own wrong.
§ 1186. No executor or administrator shall remove any of the
property of the estate of which he has charge, out of the limits of this
state. And in case of any such removal, it shall be the duty of the
chancellor forthwith to cause the bond to be sued on, for the use of
the distributees or creditors, against such executor or administrator
and his sureties; and the jury trying such cause, on satisfactory evi
dence of the removal of property out of the state, shall render a ver
dict against the defendants, for the full value thereof, and such other
damages as the parties shall have sustained.
§ 1187. If any chancellor shall be satisfied, by petition or other
wise, in term-time or vacation, that any executor or administrator,
within his jurisdiction, is about to remove the property of the estate,
out of this state, it shall be the duty of such chancellor to issue a pre
cept to the sheriff of the proper county, commanding him to seize the
property about to be removed, and to hold the same in his possession,
until legally disposed of, and the letters of such executor or adminis

236

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

[Chap. 9.

trator, shall be revoked, unless, after due notice, such executor or ad
ministrator shall show that such removal was not in fact designed.
§ 1188. If letters testamentary, or of administration, should be
granted by any chancery court in this state, to any person not a resi
dent thereof, or if any executor or administrator, after his appoint
ment, should remove out of this state, and if such executor or admin
istrator, residing or removing out of the state, shall refuse or neglect
to settle his accounts, annually, or neglect the due administration
thereof, in other respects, the court, after publication made, and proof
thereof, as in other cases, shall revoke the letter of such executor or
administrator, and proceed to grant administration de bonis non, as if
such executor or administrator had died or resigned.
§ 1189. Executors and administrators, who have qualified in other
states, may sue, as such, in the courts of this state, if they shall file their
letters and bond, or duly certified copies, in the chancery court of
the proper county, and shall also file therewith, a certificate from the
court in which the letters were granted, that the property or debt to
be sued for in this state, is included in the inventory of such executor
or administrator, in the court where the letters were granted, or that
he is there liable for the subject matter of such suit.
§ 1190. When costs are adjudged against an executor or adminis
trator, in any suit of law or in equity, and he shall obtain the certifi
cate of the court before which the suit was tried, that there was
probable cause for bringing or defending the same, he shall not be in
dividually liable for costs, although the estate may be insufficient to
pay them.
§ 1191. The executor or administrator of an executor, de son tort,
shall be liable to a recovery, to the extent of the value of the prop
erty received, or held by such executor de son tort, if sufficient assets
shall have been received to pay the same ; and any one who may
have become liable as executor de son tort, in any other state, and
has established his residence in this state, shall be liable to be sued
in this state, as such, by any creditor, legatee or distributee, either at
law or in equity, as the nature of the case may require.
§ 1192. When there are two or more executors or administrators,
if process cannot be -served on all of them, in suits against them,
service on one shall be sufficient to authorize a judgment against all ;
and, if necessary, a special administrator may be appointed, to insti
tute and conduct suits, whose power shall cease when the litigation
is entirely closed, and who shall only account for the proceeds of
the suit.
§ 1193. Every administrator de bonis non shall be entitled to all
choses in action, taken or held by any former executor or adminis
trator, in his official capacity, and may institute suit for the same,
and, if necessary, enjoin the previous executor or administrator from
collecting the same.
§ 1194. Whenever any last will and testament shall empower and

Chap. 9.]

ADMINISTERING ESTATES.

237

direct the executor, as to the sale of property, the payment of debts
and legacies, and the management of the estate, the directions of the
will shall be followed by the executor; aud no provision herein con.
tained shall so operate as to require the executor to pursue a different
course from that prescribed in the will, if it be lawful ; and if land be
devised to be sold, the sale shall be made, and the proper conveyance
executed, by the executors, or such of them as shall undertake the
execution of the will, or by the person appointed by the will to exe
cute the trust ; and if the executor should fail to qualify, or should
die before he executes the will, and if the person appointed should
fail to execute the trust, the sale shall be made by the administrator
with the will annexed.
§ 1195. If any person shall sell lands, tenements, or heredita
ments, and enter into bond, or other agreement, to make title at a
future day, and shall die before the title is made, then the person to
whom the bond was given, or his heirs or assigns, may petition the
chancery court, which granted the letters on the estate of the obligor,
for an order on the executor or administrator of the obligor, to make
title agreeably to the bond or other instrument ; and it shall be the
duty of the court, to order a summons for the parties interested, or
publication, if they be non-residents, which process shall be served,
or publication made, as in other cases ; and on the return of the pro
cess, the court shall proceed to hear the petition and proofs, and if
satisfied that the title should be made, shall make a decree that the
executor or administrator make title, according to the bond or agree
ment, which title, the executor or administrator shall accordingly
make, or on refusal to do so, may be punished for a contempt, provided
that either party dissatisfied with the decree of the court, may take
an appeal, as in other cases.
§ 1196. Whenever any person shall have purchased land, and shall
die before the payment therefore is completed, the chancery court of
the proper county, may order and direct the sale of personal property,
as in other cases, for the payment of the debt due for the land, on
such terms as the court may prescribe, the proceeds to be applied to
such payment. Or, if in the opinion of the court, the personal
property will njot be sufficient, if sold, to pay for the land, or if it should
be deemed advisable that the interest of the deceased, in the land,
be sold, in preference to selling personal property, to make payment
therefore, then, in either case, the court may order the sale of such land
or the interest of the deceased therein, on such terms and conditions
as it may think proper, all parties interested being first summoned.
§ 1197. Whenever a chancery court, in settling the affairs of an
estate, shall order an executor or administrator to sell lands for the
payment of debts, or for division of the proceeds amongst heirs or
legatees, or for any other purpose, the court shall, before such decree
is entered, take from the person ordered to make such sale, a bond,
with good security, in a penalty at least equal to the estimated value

238

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

[Chap. 9.

of the land ordered to be sold, and conditioned that the proceeds of
such sale shall be faithfully applied, according to law and the decree
of the court, such bond to be payable as administrators' bonds are,
and carefully preserved in the clerk's office.
§ 1198. It shall be the duty of executors and administrators
speedily to settle the affairs of the estates in their hands, and as soon
as possible submit their final settlements; and if there be any default
in this respect, the court shall cite the defaulter to appear and show
cause why he does not close the administration. If he fail to obey
the orders of the court, he shall be dealt with, as in other cases of
contempt.
§ 1199. In contests, in reference to the establishment of wills, the
chancellor shall have power, and it is made his duty, to cause the
proper issue to be formed, and to cause a jury to be summoned and
empaneled in his court to try the same, such jury to be summoned
from the citizens of the county where the issue is tried, and to be
empaneled, sworn and paid, according to the rules established in civil
proceedings in the circuit court.

ARTICLE X.

PROCEEDINGS IN MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.
§ 1200. The chancery courts of this state shall have sole and exclu
sive jurisdiction to grant letters of guardianship over the persons and
estates of all minors residing in said state.
§ 1201. Letters of guardianship shall be applied for and granted
in that county in which the minor may actually reside, at the time of
such application.
§ 1202. Minors whose parents, or either of them, may be alive,
and who are possessed of property, real or personal, in their own
right, shall have guardians appointed for them over their estates (but
not over their persons), by the chancellors of the counties in whicli
such minors reside. In making appointments of guardians, the court
shall, in all cases, prefer the father, if living, and if he be dead, the
mother, unless it should appear that such parents are disqualified or
unfit for the office of guardian, in which event some other suitable
person shall be selected.
§ 1203. Any father, whether twenty-one years of age or not, may,
during his life time, appoint a guardian over the person and estate of
his unmarried minor child, by writing, or by his last will and testa
ment, executed according to law. He may do this, although the child
be not born.
§ 1204. Such an appointment of guardian shall confer all the

Chap. 9.]

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

239

powers, duties and responsibilities upon the guardian which arise
under the common law and this article, in reference to other guar
dians, after such guardian shall have qualified according to law, and
received his letters ; but when the deed or will expressly dispenses
with bond and security, or either, none shall be required by the court.
§ 1205. The clerks of the chancery courts, in the different counties,
in vacation, shall have power to issue letters of guardianship accord
ing to the directions and requirements of this article, subject, as in
other cases, to the control of the court in term time.
§ 1206. Every guardian, appointed by the chancellor or clerk,
before letters are issued to him, shall execute and file in the proper
office a sufficient bond, payable to the State of Mississippi, with good
and sufficient security, to be approved by the court or clerk, in such
penalty as the court or clerk may fix, in view of the condition and
value of the estate, the condition of which bond shall be in substance
as follows:
" The condition of the above obligation is, that if the above bounden
, as guardian to
, of
county, shall faithfully discharge all
the duties required of him by law, and shall faithfully account with
the chancery court of
county, for the management of the prop
erty and estate of the minor under his care, and shall also deliver up
said property, with its increase and profits, agreeably to the order of
said court, or the directions of law, and shall, in all respects, perform
the duty of guardian to the said
, then the above obligation shall
cease, otherwise it shall remain in full force and virtue in law."
§ 1207. Such bond may be sued upon, by order of the proper chan
cellor, for any breach of the condition thereof, by the guardian whilst
acting, or by the minor after attaining the age of majority.
§ 1208. Every guardian, before his appointment, shall take an oath
in open court, or before the clerk in vacation, that he will faithfully
execute his duties, as guardian, according to law and the directions of
the court.
§ 1209. On the guardian's qualifying as above directed, the court
shall have power, and it shall be its duty, to make a decree or order
that the land, distributive shares, or other property belonging to such
ward, be delivered to the guardian immediately, or at such time as
shall appear reasonable ; in case of a legacy or bequest, the court
shall direct the delivery to be made as soon as it may appear that the
same may be delivered without prejudice to the person administering
the estate, and in case of a distributive share, the court shall direct a
delivery as soon as the same shall be ascertained, and distribution be
made according to law, the guardian to execute a refunding bond, if
the estate has not been finally settled. And on failure of any former
guardian or of an executor or administrator to comply with such order
or decree, his bond may be put in suit, or he may be attached, fined
and imprisoned for a contempt, process being first served on him, as in
other cases.

240

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

[Chap. 9.

1210. The chancery court of any county, by which a guardian was
appointed, may, for good and sufficient cause, remove any guardian,
after having given him five days' notice to appear at court, and show
cause against such removal.
1211. Should the sureties of any guardian become insufficient at
any time, or be in failing or dubious circumstances, and the chan
cellor have knowledge thereof, it shall be his duty at once to summon
the guardian to appear and give a new bond with good security. If
the guardian fail to comply with such order, within a reasonable time,
to be named by the chancellor, his letters shall be revoked, and the
guardianship conferred upon some suitable person who will accept
the trust and qualify.
1212. The sureties of any guardian, who apprehend danger of
pecuniary loss by reason of such suretyship, may apply to the chan
cellor having jurisdiction, by petition, and on convincing the chan
cellor, in term-time, that such danger really exists, an order shall be
made requiring such guardian to give another bond, within a reasona
ble time, to be named by the court, in default of which, he shall
be removed from office, and another guardian appointed. If the
new bond be given, the sureties on the former bond shall not be liable
thereon, except as to all acts of the guardian up to the time of exe
cuting the new bond ; provided, that such guardian shall have five
days7 notice in writing, of the time and place of such application.
§ 1213. If the chancellor should, at any time, in term-time or
vacation, be satisfied by petition, verified, or have good reason to
believe, on information, that any guardian is about to remove the
property of his ward, unlawfully, out of this state, the said chancellor,
having jurisdiction over the guardian, shall forthwith cause to be
issued to the proper officer a precept, directing him to seize such
property and safely keep the same until another order to the contrary,
and to summons the guardian, if to be found, to appear before the
court and answer such charge. When the guardian appears, or if he
make default, the chancellor may, in his discretion, revoke his letters,
and appoint another guardian in his place.
§ 1214. Every guardian in this state shall return inventories of
money, debts, and the property of his ward, (both real and personal),
and make settlements with the court, according to the requirements
made in this chapter, in reference to the settlements and inventories
of administrators, executors and collectors ; and he shall annually re
port to court, any increase in the stock or property of his ward, and
any loss therein.
§ 1215. The annual settlements of a guardian, shall show his ex
penses, in detail, in supporting his ward, and all his receipts, and shall
be supported by proper and satisfactory vouchers ; and his annual
settlements may be made before the clerk, in vacation, subject to the
supervision and control of the chancellor, in term-time; and such

Chap. 9.J

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

241

settlements shall be made at the times, and in the manner directed
herein, in reference to executors and administrators.
§ 1216. The expenditures of a guardian, in supporting and edu
cating his ward, shall not exceed, in any year, the annual income of
the estate, unless by authority of the chancellor, on a showing that
the income of the ward will not properly support and educate him ;
when an order shall be made, authorizing the income to be trans
cended, to any extent necessary for the proper support and education
of the ward.
§ 1217. For no balance of money in his hands, necessary for the
support and education of his ward, during the year, shall a guardian
be chargeable with interest; but when funds accumulate, over and
above the requirements for the support of the ward, the court shall
order such surplus funds to be loaned at interest, on good mortgage
or personal security ; and the chancellor shall, in all cases, see that
the security is ample and undoubted.
§ 1218. The powers and duties of every testamentary, or other
guardian, over the person and estate of his ward, shall cease and be
determined, when such ward shall either arrive at the age of twentyone years, or be lawfully married ; and in either event, the guardian
shall forthwith deliver to the ward, or to the husband, as the case may
require, all the property, of every description, of said ward, in his
hands, and on failure, shall be liable to an action on his bond; and
the guardian shall also make a final settlement of his guardianship,
by making out, and presenting to the clerk in vacation, or to the
court, his final account, under oath, containing a statement of all the
balances of his preceding accounts, debit and credit, and also all the
receipts and expenditures not contained in any preceding account.
When the final account is presented to the clerk in v acation, he shall
issue a summons for the ward, to the next term, or make publication
as the case may be, returnable to the next term: provided, there be
one month between such service and publication, and the commence
ment of such term, and the account shall remain on file, for inspection,
until the same is finally settled. If the account be filed in term-time,
it shall be heard at the next succeeding term, if the ward has been
summoned, or publication made, unless good cause be shown for a
continuance. The summons or publication, shall notify the ward of
the filing of the account, and state when it comes up for hearing, and
inform him of his right to appear and contest the same. At the
appointed time, unless continued for cause, the court shall proceed to
examine the account, and to hear all the parties interested ; and if,
after examination, the court should find the amount correct, it shall
decree that the same be confirmed. The court may allow, or disallow,
such parts of the account as may seem just and proper. The court
shall also allow the guardian fair compensation for his services, not to
exceed seven per centum on the value of the estate ; and shall also
decree that the property and effects of the ward be delivered to him,
16

242

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

[CHAP. 9.

if that has not been done, and that the guardian be discharged.
Guardians may resign their trusts, in the same manner in which
administrators and executors may resign.
§ 1219. No guardian shall commit waste on the lands, tenements or
hereditaments of his ward ; but the court may allow him to sell wood
or timber, and account for the same, in case it shall be deemed neces
sary or advantageous for the ward's education or maintenance, and
any guardian, having real estate under his care, shall either cultivate
the same with the stock and utensils belonging to the ward, or to be
purchased with his money, with the permission of the court, or he
may lease the same from year to year, or for any time not exceeding
three years, if the ward will not sooner be of age ; but no guardian
shall be answerable for any loss or decrease sustained without his
fault.
§ 1120. The chancery court shall, at discretion, settle the sum to
be expended in the maintenance and education of minors, having re
gard to the future situation, prospects and destination of the minor;
and if it shall deem it advantageous to the ward, may allow the guar
dian to exceed the income of the estate, or if necessary, may order a
sale of so much of the personal estate as may be requisite for the
purposes aforesaid ; and if the personal estate and the rents and
profits of the real estate, be not sufficient for the maintenance and
education of the ward, the court may, on full investigation, authorize
and order the guardian to sell such part of the lands, tenements and
hereditaments of the ward, as may be necessary for his maintenance
and education ; the sale to be made as hereinafter provided for other
sales of land by guardians, or if it should be deemed most advan
tageous to the interests of the ward, the court may order the sale of
real estate, in preference to the sale of personal estate, in the first
instance.
§ 1121. When any guardian shall think that it would be for the
interest of his ward to sell a part, or the whole, of the real or personal
estate of his ward, such guardian may present a petition to the chan
cery court, of the proper county, setting forth fully, the reason why a
sale of the lands would be beneficial to the ward, which shall be veri
fied by oath, and shall be presented to the court, at least one month
before a decree of sale can be made, and the court shall appoint a day
at the next term, for hearing the petition, and shall order a summons
to issue for co-heirs, if there be any, and also, to at least two of the
nearest relations of the minor, if there be any in the state ; and if
the process be served, the court, at the time appointed, shall proceed
to hear and examine the allegations and proofs of the guardian, and
also those who may appear and object, if there be any such ; and if,
on such hearing, the court shall be satisfied that the interests of the
minor would be promoted by a sale of the lands mentioned in the
petition, and that there is no valid objection to such sale, it may pro
ceed to make a decree of sale, in which shall be stated the reasons on
which it was made, and the court may also prescribe the terms and

Chap. 9.]

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

243

conditions of sale, the notice which shall be requisite, and shall also
require the guardian to give an additional bond and security, faithfully
to account for the proceeds of sale.
§ 1222. At the time appointed, the guardian shall proceed to sell
the land, in the manner and on the terms prescribed in the decree of
the court, and shall make a report thereof, in writing, stating the time
and place of sale, the name of the purchaser, and the amount of the
purchase money ; and shall also satisfy the court, that the directions
prescribed in the decree of sale, have been followed ; and thereupon,
the court may proceed to make a decree confirming the sale, unless
good cause be shown to the contrary ; and the court shall, moreover,
order the guardian to make title to the purchaser of the lands, tene
ments and hereditaments so sold ; and the conveyance shall vest in
the purchaser, as good and perfect an estate, in the premises therein
described, as the ward had ; but the land, and all personal property
sold by guardians, shall be held liable, and subject to a lien, for
the payment of the purchase money, as if a mortgage had been exe
cuted by the purchaser, and had been duly registered ; and such lien
shall continue, until an acknowledgment of satisfaction be entered of
record, in the chancery court ; and no guardian shall, either directly
or indirectly, become a purchaser at his own sale.
§ 1223. When lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall descend,
or be devised to heirs or devisees jointly, one or more of whom are
minors, and an equal division thereof cannot conveniently be made,
the guardian of such minor may apply, by bill or petition, to the chan
cery court of the county in which the letters were granted, for an
order to sell his ward's share or interest in the land, and the court,
after summoning the co-heirs, or co-devisees, may proceed to hear
such application, and if it should deem it proper, may make a decree
of sale of the ward's interest, as in other applications for the sale of
real estate by guardians, and the sale and report thereof shall be
made in like manner, subject to all provisions of other sales made by
guardians, or the court may order the whole of such real estate to be
sold, and the proceeds to be divided among, and secured to, the per
sons entitled thereto.
§ 1224. The chancery courts may, on the application of guardians
appointed by them respectively, authorize such guardian to purchase
real estate for his ward out of any surplus funds in hand belonging to
the ward, if the court shall be of opinion that it will promote the
interests of the ward ; and in such case the guardian shall be required
to take good and sufficient titles, in the name of the ward, to be
approved by the court, and recorded in the proper county. Said court
may, also, in like manner, cause to be completed the payment due on
any lands descended to a minor, by the sale of real or personal
property of the minor, or, if deemed advisable, the ward's interest
in lands not fully paid for may be sold.
§ 1225. Should a non-resident minor own real or personal property

244

MATTERS OF GUARDIANSHIP.

[Chap. 9.

in this state, and if a guardian has been appointed for such minor iir
the state of his residence, such foreign guardian shall be entitled to
receive letters of guardianship in the chancery court of any county in
this state, in which such property may be situate : provided, he
exhibits a duly certified copy of the record of his appointment
abroad, and gives bond here, as in other cases of guardianship.
§ 1226. If any such non-resident guardian should desire to remove
the personal property of his ward out of this state, he shall present
his petition for that purpose to the chancery court by which he was
appointed, and on making a final settlement of his guardianship
* accounts, the court may, if it should deem it proper, make an order
to that effect ; but the guardian shall first give bond, with two good
securities, residing in this state, in the full value of the ward's personal
estate, conditioned that he will present to the court, in the state of his
residence, by which he was originally appointed, a full and complete
inventory of the property and effects of the ward, to be removed from
this state ; and on failure to comply with the condition, the bond may
be put in suit, for the benefit of the ward, and a certified copy shall
be admissible in evidence.
§ 1227. When such guardian shall present to the court here, a duly
certified copy of an inventory, filed in the county where letters
were originally granted, showing that all the property and effects
received here have been duly reported and accounted for, the court
here shall cause his bond to be canceled, and himself discharged from
further accountability.
§ 1228. If any guardian shall desire to remove the person, or per
sonal property of his ward, to any county in this state, other than that
in which he was appointed guardian, he may, on his petition for that
purpose, be allowed to do so, if the court should deem it proper, and
it may make an order to that effect, on condition that the guardian
will qualify as such in the county to which he removes ; and the court
of that county, on production of the order authorizing the removal,
may appoint him guardian ; and when ho shall produce to the court,
which originally appointed him, the letters of guardianship from the
court of the county to which he has removed, and shall also make a
final settlement of his guardianship accounts, he may be discharged
from his original bond; and thereafter he shall present his inventories
and accounts to, and be under the control of, the court of the county
to which he has removed ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
court where such final settlement is made, to send a certified copy of
the record of such settlement, at the cost of the guardian, to the
court where such guardian was last appointed, together with a certified
copy of all proceedings, up to the time of changing the guardianship.
§ 1229. Should any guardian desire to remove the person and per
sonal property of his ward out of this state into any other state, on his
petition for that purpose, and on his making final settlement of his
guardianship accounts, the court which appointed him, may, if it

Chap. 9.]

matters' of guardianship.

245

should deem it proper, make an order to that effect; but the guardian
shall first give bond, with two good securities residing in this state, in
the full value of the ward's personal estate, conditioned that he will
qualify as guardian to the ward in the state to which he intends re
moving, and will there present and file in the proper court, a full and
complete inventory of his ward's property and effects of every descrip
tion ; and on failure to comply with the condition, the bond may be
put in suit for the benefit of the ward, and a certified copy shall be
evidence. But if the guardian shall comply with the condition, and
shall produce to the court in this state, a certificate to that effect, from
the court in whic"h he qualified, duly authenticated, and shall also pre
sent to the court here, a duly certified copy of the inventory presented
and filed, then the court, if satisfied of the correctness of the invent
ory, may cause satisfaction of the bond to be entered of record, and
may also then make an order discharging him from his original bond,
if the ward had none other than personal estate, or if the real estate
has been sold.
§ 1230. Whenever a minor residing out of this state shall be en
titled to receive any legacy or distributive share of an estate admin
istered here, or any debt of any description, his guardian, appointed
abroad, shall be entitled to receive or sue for the same in this state,
on producing to the chancery court of any county in this state,
where the person may be who holds such funds or effects in his hands,
or owes such debts, record of evidence of the appointment of such
person as guardian in the state or county where such minor resides,
with evidence that such guardian hath given bond and qualified ac
cording to the laws of the state where he was appointed. The court
hereafter receiving such proof, and having .duly cited the person hold
ing such money or effects to appear and contest the authority of such
guardian, may order the same to be paid or delivered ; and this order
shall be a good acquittance to the person thus paying such funds or
delivering such effects. A voluntary payment of a debt or legacy, or
distributive share, made by the person owing or holding the same in
this state, on the exhibition of the documentary evidence above
named, shall be good, but shall, in all cases, be at the risk of the per
son making such payment or delivering such legacy or distributive
share.
§ 1231. Guardians of minors and persons non compos mentis, may
be empowered by the court to sell or compromise claims due their
wards, on the same terms prescribed in article IX of this chapter in
reference, to claims due estates of deceased persons.
§ 1232. Minors over the age of fourteen years, shall have power
to choose guardians for themselves. This shall be done by a written
petition, signed and acknowledged before the chancellor, or the clerk
of the court, or some justice of the peace of the state. The guar
dian may be appointed by the clerk in vacation, or by the chancellor
in term-time, according to the general mode for qualification pre

246

IN CASE OF IDIOCY AND LUNACY.

[Chap. 9.

scribed in other cases of guardianship. Should such minors elect any
guardian other than the natural guardian, the chancellor or clerk shall
have power to appoint the natural guardian, if he is more suitable
for the trust. Should a minor aged fourteen years and upwards select
a guardian manifestly unfit for the place, the chancellor or clerk shall
not be bound to make the appointment; and if any minor aged four
teen years, having property or effects in the county, shall fail to ap
pear and choose a guardian, the chancellor shall summons him to
appear and make the selection, and if he fail to do so, the court shall
appoint some suitable person, preferring the next of kin, if qualified.

ARTICLE XI.
PROCEEDINGS IN CASE OF IDIOCY AND LUNACY.
§ 1233. The chancery courts, sitting in each county of this state,
and the chancellors in vacation, shall have sole power to grant letters
of guardianship over the person and property of lunatics, idiots, and
persons non compos mentis, of said counties respectively. Applica
tion for such purpose shall be made in the county in which such per
son of unsound mind actually resides at the time.
§ 1234. On the application to such court, or the chancellor in
vacation, of any relative or friend of such person, or on the applica
tion of the board of supervisors, made in writing, and filed, it shall
be the duty of the court or chancellor, to direct the clerk forthwith to
issue to the sheriff of the proper county, a writ, commanding him to
summons, without delay, a jury of twelve good and lawful men, to
assemble at some convenient point in the county, to make inquiry as
to the existence of such alleged unsoundness of mind ; none of the
members of such jury shall be of kin to the party alleged to be men
tally incompetent, nor shall any of them be interested in the estate
of such person.
§ 1235. When the jury are empaneled by the sheriff, some com
petent officer shall administer to them an oath, well and truly to
inquire, on all the evidence brought before them, whether the party
named in the writ be mentally incapable of taking proper care of
himself or his estate, or not.
§ 1236. The jury may, if they wish, have the party alleged to be
of unsound mind brought before them. They shall take the state
ment, under oath, of such friends and neighbors as can be conveniently
produced. They shall also take the opinion, under oath, of such
medical men of the vicinage, as can conveniently be brought before
them.
§ 1237. The sheriff, by himself or deputy, shall attend upon such

Chap. 9.]

IN CASE OF IDIOCY AND LUNACY.

247

juries, and execute and return all subpoenas or attachments for wit
nesses, which subpoenas or attachments, the foreman of the jury shall
have power to issue.
§ 1238. It shall not be required that the whole jury shall concur
in a verdict, but a majority of them shall decide the question; but if
the jury should be equally divided, they shall be discharged, and
another jury empaneled, as hereinbefore provided.
§ 1239. The verdict of the jury shall be written on the process,
and signed by all the jury who concur therein ; and the writ and ver
dict, and all the papers in the cause, shall be immediately returned to
the clerk who issued the writ.
§ 1240. If the jury, or a majority of them, find that the person
inquired of is of sound mind, and capable of managing his business,
then all further proceedings shall cease, and the person causing the
inquiry to be made shall be taxed with all the costs, for which the
clerk of the court may issue process offi. fa., according to law.
§ 1241. If the jury, or a majority of them, should pronounce such
person unsound in mind, and incapable of managing his affairs, the
court, or chancellor in vacation, shall appoint some discreet and
qualified person guardian of the person and estate of such lunatic or
idiot, or person non compos mentis; the nearest relations of such
person, if competent, shall have preference, and such appointment
shall be made, in all respects, as guardians to minors are required by
this chapter to be appointed.
§ 1242. The guardians, when appointed, shall proceed in adminis
tering and managing the estate of such person, in reference to inven
tories, settlements, and all other matters, as guardians to minors are
required by law to proceed.
§ 1243. The respective chancery courts shall have the same power
and control of guardians appointed under this article as they have
over guardians to minors ; they shall have the same powers in refer
ence to sales of property, compromising claims, regulating expenses,
and the general management of the estates of persons non compos
mentis, which they have over the estates and guardians of minors, and
shall, whenever it may be necessary and proper, apply those laws to
the management of the estates of persons non compos mentis.
§1244. It shall be the duty of such guardians, under the direction
of the court, to provide for the comfortable support of the idiot,
lunatic, or person non compos mentis, and his family; to preserve and
manage the estate carefully and frugally; to see that the children be
educated; to pay all just pre-existing debts, contracted whilst he was
sane, and if the product of the estate will not suffice for such pur
poses, so to report to the court, and to ask for orders to sell property.
§ 1245. Such guardians shall have the same power to prosecute
and defend suits at law, and in equity, which would appertain to the
person committed to their charge, were he sound in mind.
§ 1246. The powers and duties of such guardian shall cease, when

248

APPEALS.

[Chap. 9.

ever the person committed to his charge shall have been restored to
reason, and this shall be ascertained, by the chancellor taking evi
dence and investigating the matter; and whenever it shall be made
clear to the chancellor, that reason has been restored, and that the
party is capable of managing his own affairs, he shall cause the guar
dian to make his final settlement, as guardians to minors are required
to settle ; and after allowing such guardian fair and reasonable com
pensation, for his labor and services, cause the letters of guardianship
to be surrendered, and all the property and effects, and all the net
profits, to be restored to the party entitled to the same.
§ 1247. The clerks of the chancery courts, in the respective coun
ties of the state, shall have power, in vacation, on the order of the
chancellor, to issue letters of guardianship, and warrants of appraise
ment, under the provisions of this article, and receive and examine
the annual accounts of such guardians, and grant orders for the sale
of personalty, where it may be necessary to sell the same, subject, as
in other cases, to the supervision of the chancellors.
§ 1248. Should the chancellor become satisfied that it is necessary
and advisable to confine such person to the lunatic asylum of the
state, he shall so order and direct, and provide, if possible, from the
estate of such person, a sufficient sum to defray the expenses ; and
the certificate of the clerk of the chancery court, with the seal of the
court attached, shall be sufficient evidence to the superintendent of
the asylum to receive such person.

ARTICLE

XII.

APPEALS.
§ 1249. Any person may prosecute an appeal from any final order,
judgment or decree, of the chancery court, to the supreme court,
within one year after the rendition thereof.
§ 1250. Applications for appeals shall be made, by petition, to the
clerk, in vacation, or to the chancellor, in term-time.
§ 1251. Before an appeal shall be granted, the person applying
shall give bond and security, to be approved by the chancellor or
clerk, as the case may be, in a penalty at least equal to the judg
ment or decree, and a sum sufficient to cover costs and accumulating
interest, in all cases, where the judgment or decree is for a specific
sum of money, and where the collection of such judgment or decree
is superseded by the appeal.
§ 1252. In those cases where no supersedeas is applied for, the ap
peal bond shall be in a sum sufficient to cover all the costs likely to
accrue in the case, together with damages on affirmance, if any; such
sum to be fixed by the clerk in vacation, or by the chancellor in term

Chap. 9.]

APPEALS.

249

time, and conditioned for the payment of all costs which have accrued
in the case, or which may accrue in the prosecution of the appeal.
§ 1253. Appeal bonds, where the payment of money, decrees or
judgments is superseded, shall be signed, as sureties, by at least two
citizens of this state, of sufficient pecuniary ability, jointly, to pay the
penalty of the bond. The clerk of the court shall cause all sureties on
appeal bonds to justify as to their ability to meet the bond, which
justification shall be written on the bond, and signed by the sureties,
and carefully filed.
§ 1254. The condition of appeal bonds, where supersedeas is
granted, shall be that the appellant shall well and truly pay, satisfy
and perform the original decree, and also such final decree as the
supreme court may render, and all the costs which have accrued, or
may accrue, should such decree be affirmed.
§ 1255. On filing such petition and executing such bond, the clerk
shall, without delay, make out and transmit to the supreme court, at
its next term, a duly certified copy of the record in the cause, and
issue to the sheriff a summons to the opposite party thereto, to appear
and defend the case.
§ 1256. Appeals may be taken from the chancery court to the
supreme court, on overruling a demurrer, without waiting for other
proceedings in the cause, to review the action of the court below over
ruling the demurrer, and if the decree be affirmed, the cause shall be
remanded to be proceeded in according to the regular course.
§ 1257. Appeals may be granted by the chancellor, in vacation or
term-time, from interlocutory orders or decrees, whereby money is re
quired to be paid, or the possession of property changed, whenever the
chancellor shall deem such appeal proper, to save expense and delay,
and to settle the principles of the case : provided., such appeal is ap
plied for in twenty days after the order or decree has been rendered,
and bond and security executed, as in other cases of appeal. The
chancellor in such cases shall direct whether such appeal shall operate
as a supersedeas.
§ 1258. All parties in interest shall not be required to join in ap
peals from the chancery courts : any one of them may appeal. Those
who do not join in the appeal shall be summoned to appear and be
come parties to the appeal ; if they fail to do so, after ten days notice,
the appeal shall be prosecuted without them, and they shall not after
wards have a right of appeal.
§ 1359. If a decree, appealed from, be for a money demand, or for
the dissolution of an injunction, or other restraining process, and the
same be affirmed, damages shall be awarded against the appellant, at
the rate of five per centum on the amount due the appellee, including
the costs, and a judgment shall be entered in the appellate court, on
such affirmance, against the sureties in the appeal bond, jointly with
the appellant, for the amount decreed to the appellee in the court be
low, with interest, and also for the damages and costs awarded in the

250

JUDGMENTS AND DECREES.

[Chap. 9.

appellate court, and a copy of such judgment shall be certified to the
court below, and the clerk thereof shall issue execution thereon.
§ 1260. If the sureties in an appeal bond, or any of them, shall
be dead, at the time of the affirmance of the decree, the judgment of
affirmance shall be entered against the survivors, and the representa
tives of the deceased parties shall be summoned to appear at the next
term, to show cause why a similar judgment should not be rendered
against them ; and if no sufficient cause shall then be shown, such
judgment of affirmance shall be entered against the representatives
of such deceased parties, which shall in like manner be certified in
the court below.
§ 1261. Appeal bonds shall be sufficient, if signed by one or more
of several appellants, with sureties, as required by law, and in case of
the affirmance of the decree or judgment complained of, the judgment
of affirmance shall be entered against all the appellants, in the same
manner as if all had signed such bond.
§ 1262. Should an appeal be prosecuted from an order appointing
an administrator, executor, guardian, or collector, the clerk, in vacation,
or the chancellor, in term time, whenever there is no person qualified
to carry on the administration, shall grant letters, according to the
general provisions of this chapter, to operate until such appeal shall
be decided, when a certificate of such decision shall be filed from the
supreme court, and the proper party is regularly in office as adminis
trator, executor, or guardian, the chancery court shall divest the party
temporarily appointed of all further power, and cause him to deliver
all the estate in his hands to the party entitled to the same.

ARTICLE XIII.
JUDGMENTS AND DECREES.
§ 1263. All judgments and decrees, rendered by the chancery
courts shall be a lien on the property of the defendants as judgments
in the circuit courts, and may be enforced in all cases by final process,
returnable to the first day of the second term next after the date of
their rendition. They shall be enrolled as circuit court judgments are
required to be enrolled.
§ 1264. Decrees and judgments in the chancery court, rendered
against absent, non-resident and unknown defendants, on proof of
publication only, without an appearance on their part, shall not be
final and conclusive, if such parties appear within two years and apply
for a re-hearing, which re hearing shall be granted on application, and
a satisfactory showing to the chancellor. If no such application be
made within that time, the decrees and judgments shall be final.

Chap. 9.]

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

251

§ 1265. No decree of any kind, affecting the interest of a minor,
shall be binding and conclusive, until one year after such minor shall
have attained the age of twenty-one years, unless such infant, being
served with a copy of such decree, after attaining the age of majority,
shall neglect, for six months after such service, to apply for a re-hear
ing of the case : provided, that this section shall not apply to decrees
and sales of the property of deceased persons, and the sales of land
by guardians, acting under order of the chancery court.
§ 1266. Decrees may be executed by any general or special com
missioner of the court, to be named in the decree. If none should be
named, then the sheriff of the proper county shall execute decrees,
according to law and the requirements of the decree.
§ 1267. The clerk shall issue all final process of every kind known
to the law, which may be necessary, to execute the decrees and judg
ments of the court.
§ 1268. The clerk shall keep a docket, on which he shall enter all
chancery judgments, and decrees for money, and on which he shall
enter the final returns, which may be made thereon by the sheriff or
commissioners.
§ 1269. Decrees for money, in which no rate of interest is named,
shall bear interest after their rendition, according to the general inter
est laws of the state.

ARTICLE XIV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 1270. The courts of chancery in this state, shall have power to
entertain bills of review, according to the general principles of chan
cery practice, to review any final decree rendered in said courts, at
any time within one year after the rendition of such decree, saving to
minors having no guardian, or whose guardians have not been served
with process, a like period of one year, to file such bill, after such
minor shall have attained the age of majority.
§ 1271. In all proceedings in the chancery courts, either party may
file bills of exceptions, to constitute part of the record, at any stage of
the proceedings, and they shall be signed by the chancellors, when
fairly written and settled.
§ 1272. In all issues of facts tried in the chancery courts, instruc
tions shall only be given to the jury by the chancellor, when such in
structions are written and asked for by the parties, substantially in
accordance with the rules prescribed for the circuit courts.
§ 1273. Each court shall have a seal, with the representation of
an eagle
county,
in the
Mississippi,)
center, and
around
the name
the same,
of the incourt
circular
(chancery
form. court,
The

252

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 9.

clerks of each district shall be custodians of such seal ; and it shall be
legibly impressed on all process emanating from the courts, except
that subpoenas and attachments for witnesses need not be sealed.
§ 1274. Should the chancellor of any district have an interest in
an estate in any county of his district to be administered, or be re
lated to the decedent or testator, in the first, second, or third degree,
such chancellor shall certify such fact to the chancellor of some ad
joining district, who shall grant letters and settle such estate; but if
all parties interested shall assent, in writing, to the general jurisdic
tion remaining, then there shall be no change of administration ; and
the mere fact that a chancellor may hold an unlitigated claim against
an estate shall not cause a transfer of the administration.
§ 1275. Should any chancellor in this state be informed that any
person hath died in his district, having minor children unprovided for,
and without the appointment of any guardian, by will or otherwise,
and that such minor children are in want of the common necessaries
of life, the chancellor may, in term-time or vacation, authorize the ad
ministrator or executor of the estate to provide such necessaries to
such minors, under the directions of the chancellor, until such time as
a guardian can be appointed ; and such needful sums so advanced, by
order of court, shall be allowed, on proper vouchers, in the administra
tion accounts.
§ 1276. All the sections and articles of this chapter, relating to
persons and parties, shall apply to such persons and parties in the
singular, as well as the plural number, and to the feminine as well
as to the male gender. When the singular number is expressed,
it shall apply also to the plural, and vice versa, whenever such appli
cation can be properly made. The term " administrator " shall em
brace an administrator ad colligendum.
§ 1277. The sheriffs of the different counties of the state, shall
attend upon the chancery courts in their respective counties, in per
son or by deputy, during the whole of every term. They shall keep
strict order in court, at all times ; provide for the comfort and cleanli
ness of the court rooms ; promptly and seasonably execute and return
all process, mesne or final, emanating from the court, and obey all
the lawful orders and commands of the chancellors.
§ 1278. The chancellors of the state shall have power to approve
the bonds of the clerks of their respective courts, and administer to
them the oath of office.
§ 1279. That from and after the eleventh day of October, A. D.
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-one, the chancellors of this
state shall all be required to reside in their respective districts.
§ 1280. That the prohibition contained in this chapter, forbidding
chancellors, and the clerks of those courts, from practicing law, shall
not be so construed as to debar those officers from conducting to a
final conclusion, all cases in the courts of the state (except the present

Chap. 9.]

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

253

chancery court), in which they had been actually retained as counsel,
at the date of their appointment to office.
§ 1281. When any person shall die intestate, or shall make a last
will and testament, and not make therein any express provision for
his wife, by giving and devising unto her such part or parcel of his
real and personal estate as shall be fully satisfactory to her, such
widow may signify her dissent thereto, in the chancery court of the
county in which such last will and testament was proved and recorded,
at any time within six months after the probate of such will, and
then, either in case of intestacy or of unsatisfactory devise or bequest,
the widow shall be entitled to dower in the following manner, to-wit :
One third part of all the lands, tenements or hereditaments of which
her husband died seized and possessed, or which he had before con
veyed, otherwise than in good faith, and for a valuable consideration,
and whereof said widow had not relinquished her right of dower, as
provided for by law ; which third part shall be and inure to her proper
use, benefit and behoof, for and during the term of her natural life, in
which said third part shall be comprehended, the dwelling-house in
which her husband shall have been accustomed most generally to
dwell, next before his death, together with the offices, out-houses,
buildings and other improvements thereunto belonging or pertaining.
But if there be no child or children of such testator or intestate, nor
descendant of them, then the widow shall have, as her dower, one
half of his real estate as aforesaid, in fee simple ; but if it should
appear to the chancery court to which application is made, that the
whole of the dwelling-house, out-houses, buildings and other improve
ments thereunto belonging, cannot be applied to the use of the widow,
without manifest injustice to the children or other heirs, then, and in
that case, the widow shall be entitled to such part only of said build
ings and other improvements as the court may deem reasonable and
just.
§ 1282. When a husband dies intestate, or shall make his last will
and testament, and not make satisfactory provision therein for his
wife, as aforesaid, she shall be entitled to share in his personal estate
in the following manner, to-wit: If there be no children, or if there
be but one child, in that case she shall be entitled, out of the residue
left, after paying the debts of the deceased, to one-half ; but if there
be more than one child, in that case she shall be entitled to a child's
part, in either case in fee simple, and she may claim distribution
thereof at the time and in the manner that other distributees may
have distribution of estates; provided, that any widow entitled to the
provisions of this article shall, at her election, be entitled to take and
receive one third of the personal property of her deceased husband
for life, in lieu of a child's part.
§ 1283. When the estate of any testator or intestate, shall be
represented insolvent, and shall not be sufficient, both real and per
sonal, to pay the just debts, the widow of such testator or intestate

254

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 9.

shall, though there be no children of such testator or intestate, or
descendants of them, be endowed with one third only of the lands,
tenements and hereditaments, of her deceased husband.
§ 1284. When any person shall die, possessed of lands purchased,
the payment for which has not been completed, and no title has been
made, such lands shall be subject to the dower of the widow, but only
according to the value of the interest of the deceased, unless she will
contribute her proportion of the purchase money to complete the
payment.
§ 1285. When any person to whose use, or in trust for whose
benefit, another is seized of lands, tenements and hereditaments, hath,
or shall have such inheritance, in the use or trust, as that if it had
been a legal right, the husband or wife of such person would thereof
have been entitled to curtesy or dower, such husband or wife shall
have and hold, and may, by the remedy proper in such cases, recover
curtesy or dower of such lands, tenements and hereditaments.
§ 1286. Every devise of lands, or any estate therein, or bequest of
personal estate, to the wife of the testator, shall be construed to be
intended in bar of her dower in land, or share of the personal estate,
respectively, unless it be otherwise expressed in the will.
§ 1287. A widow shall be barred of her right of dower in land,
and her share in personal estate, by any such devise or bequest, unless
within six months after the authentication or probate of the will hath
been made, a written renunciation, in the following form, or to the effect,
be made and filed by her, in the court in which the will was proved :
" I, A. B., widow of
late of
, deceased, do hereby renounce
and quit all claims, to any bequest or devise made to me, by the late
will of my husband, exhibited and proved, according to law. And I
elect to take, in lieu thereof, my dower, or legal share of the estate of
my said husband, A. B." But by renouncing all claim to a bequest,
or bequest of personal property, made to her by the will of her hus
band, she shall only be entitled to her legal share of the personal
estate of her husband, which shall remain after the payment of his
just debts, and claims against him.
§ 1288. If the will of the husband devise a part of both real and
personal estate, the widow shall renounce the whole, or be otherwise
barred of her right to both the real and personal estate ; but if the
will only devise a part of the real estate, and no part of the personal
estate, or if it devise only a part of the personal estate, and no part
of the real estate, the devise shall bar her only of the personal or
real estate, as the case may be : provided, that if the devise of the
real or personal estate, or both, shall be expressly in lieu of her legal
share, in one or in both, she shall accordingly be barred, unless she
renounce, as aforesaid ; but if, in effect, nothing shall pass by such
devise, she shall not be thereby barred, whether she shall, or shall
not renounce as aforesaid, it being the intent of this act, and conso
nant to justice, that a widow accepting, or abiding by a devise in lieu

Chap. 9.]

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

255

of her legal right, shall be considered as a purchaser for a fair consid
eration.
§ 1289. If a widow commit waste on the lands of the deceased,
she shall be liable to an action by the heir of the devisee, or his or
her guardian ; and if she marry again, her separate estate shall alone
be liable to make satisfaction therefore ; and if any subsequent hus
band shall commit any waste on the said lands, he shall, in like manner,
be answerable therefore.
§ 1290. The widow shall be allowed to retain, and hold to her own
use, all the personal estate of her deceased husband, which is by law
exempted from sale, under execution or distress, for any debt con
tracted by her husband, and from sale for any debt or demand which
she may contract after his death. It shall be the duty of the apprais
ers of an estate, to set apart, out of the stock, provisions or effects of
her deceased husband, on hand, one year's provision for the widow
and children ; and if there be no provisions or effects on hand, an
allowance of money, to purchase provisions, shall be made in lieu
thereof, and said appraisers shall report their proceedings to the chan
cery court.
§ 1291. Any widow claiming dower, may file her petition in the
chancery court of the county, where her husband shall have usually
dwelt, next before his death, setting forth the nature of her claims, and
particularly specifying the lands, tenements and hereditaments, of
which she claims dower, and praying that her dower may be allotted
to her ; whereupon the court shall order a summons to issjie for the
executor or administrator, and the heirs and devisees, or their guardians,
if they be minors, returnable to the next term of the court ; and upon
the return of the process executed, shall proceed to hear the petition;
and if the petition be granted, the court shall issue a writ, directed to
the sheriff of the county, commanding him to summons three discreet
freeholders, as commissioners, not connected with the party by con
sanguinity or affinity, and entirely disinterested, who, upon oath, to
be administered by the sheriff, shall allot and set off, by metes and
bounds, to the said widow, her dower in the lands, tenements and
hereditaments of her deceased husband, to which she may be entitled,
under this act; and the sheriff shall put her in possession of the same,
which possesion shall vest in her such estate as she may be entitled
to under this act. And when she has claim to dower in lands lying
in different counties, she may proceed in the same way, in the chan
cery court of the county in which such lands lie, and may recover, in
the manner hereinbefore directed. In case the widow should be exe
cutrix or administratrix, and also guardian to the children, if there be
any, then no summons shall be necessary, unless there be adult heirs
or devisees also. And the sheriff and commissioners shall make their
report to the court, which shall be recorded.
§ 1292. It shall be lawful for the widow to retain full possession
of the dwelling-house in which her husband most usually dwelt, next

256

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 10.

before his death, together with the out-houses, offices and improve
ments, and the plantation thereunto belonging, free from molestation
or rent, until her dower shall be assigned her.
§ 1293. Any heir or other person, having an interest or share in
any lands, tenements or hereditaments, of a deceased person, may, in
like manner, petition the chancery court of any county in which such
lands lie, to have the widow's dower assigned her, in case she shall
refuse or fail to make application therefore in a reasonable time ; and
in such cases, a summons shall be served on the widow, as well as
other persons interested, and the court shall hear the petition, and
order the allotment of dower, as though the widow had applied.
§ 1294. Nothing herein contained shall give to any widow, who
had, whilst married, a separate property, any right of dower, beyond
what is provided in the law in regard to the separate property of
married women, but the two acts shall be construed together, in this
respect, as one law.
§ 1295. That this act take effect from and after the first day of
October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, May 13th, 1871.

Chap. 10.]

ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION.

CHAPTER

257

10.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

Article I.
II.
ITI.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XIII.

Election and Qualification.
Their Civil Jurisdiction.
Their Criminal Jurisdiction.
Practice in Civil Cases.
Practice in Criminal Casen.
Trial by Jury.
Appeals in Civil Cases.
Appeals in Criminal Case.-s.
Certiorari.
Garnishment.
Claim of Property Levied On.
Remedies for Money Collected.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
KLECTION AND QUALIFICATION.
§ 1296. There shall be chosen at the next general election, and
biennially thereafter, by the qualified electors of each district, two
justices of the peace, who shall be commissioned by the governor,
and shall hold their offices for the term of two years, and until their
successors are qualified ; and in case there be a tie between the two
highest voted for, the president of the board of supervisors shall
immediately determine said election by lot.
§ 1297. The districts in each county, for the election of justices
of the peace, shall be the same as those laid oil for the election of
members of the board of supervisors, except when otherwise directed
by said board, or by law.
§ 1298. Every person elected a justice of the peace shall, before
he enters on the duties of the office, take the oath of office, and enter
into bond, in the same manner as other county officers, in the penalty
of two thousand dollars, conditioned that he will well and truly per
17

258

ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION.

[Chap. 10.

form the duties of his office, and pay over all monies collected by
him, or which may come into his hands by virtue of his said office, to
the party or parties entitled to receive the same ; and any party inter
ested may proceed on such bond, in a summary way, by motion, in
any court having jurisdiction of the same, against the principal and
sureties, upon giving ten days' previous notice : provided-, that the
boards of supervisors of the respective counties, shall have power to
limit the penalty of said bonds, to a sum not less than one thousand
dollars.
§ 1299. In case a vacancy shall happen in the office of justice of
the peace, the board of supervisors, or the president thereof in vaca
tion, shall order an election to be held in the proper district, to fill
such vacancy, not more than twenty days after the date of such order,
and shall appoint three commissioners, residents of the district, to
hold the same, and receive and Count the votes, any two of whom
may act, having first taken an oath to conduct the same fairly and
impartially, and to make due return thereof. The said commissioners
shall give ten days' notice of the time and place of holding said elec
tion, by posting up a notice in three or more public places in the
district, and shall hold the same at the regular place of holding
elections in such district ; and if there be more than one such place,
then three commissioners shall be appointed for each precinct ; and if
there be no such regular place of holding elections in such district,
then at such public place therein as may be most convenient. The
said commissioners shall make due return of said election, to the
president of the board of supervisors, who, at the expiration of five
days after the receipt thereof, shall certify and transmit the result to
the governor, and shall give a certificate of election to the person
having the highest number of votes.
§ 1300. Any person desiring to contest such election shall, within
five days after the return thereof as aforesaid, file his petition to the
board of supervisors, signed by at least ten voters of the district, set
ting forth the particular causes for which said election should be set
aside, and thereupon a special meeting of said board shall be called, if
necessary, and the said board shall hear the allegations and proofs of
the parties, and may set aside the election, or declare the contestant
to be duly elected ; and, in case the election shall be set aside, they
shall immediately order a new election to be held as before : provided,
the party whose election is contested shall have ten days notice of the
time of trial. And if the said election be confirmed, it shall be cer
tified to the Governor, as aforesaid.
§ 1301. When any justice of the peace shall remove out of the
district for which he was or shall be elected, all his powers as such shall
cease and determine, and his office shall become vacant, and the
vacancy shall be filled, as provided in other cases.

Chap. 10.J

THEIR CIVIL JURISDICTION.

259

ARTICLE II.
THEIR CIVIL JURISDICTION.
§ 1302. Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction of all actions
for the recovery of debts or damages, or personal property, where the
principal of the debt, the amount of the demand, or the value of the
property sought to be recovered, shall not exceed one hundred and
fifty dollars.
§ 1303. The jurisdiction of every justice of the peace shall be co
extensive with his county, and he may issue any process in matters
within his jurisdiction, to be executed in any part of his county , but
every freeholder or householder of the county, shall be sued in the
district in which he resides, if there be a justice acting therein, and
qualified to try such suit, or in the district in which the debt was con
tracted, the liability incurred, or in which the property may be found.

ARTICLE

ID.

TnEIR CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.
§ 1304. Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction concurrent
with the circuit court of the county, of all cases of offenses against
the laws of this state, occurring in their several counties, where the
punishment prescribed does not extend beyond a fine and imprison
ment in the county jail; and they shall be conservators of the peace
for the whole county.

ARTICLE IV.
PRACTICE IN CIVIL CASES.
§ 1305. Any one desiring to sue before a justice of the peace, shall
lodge with him the evidence of debt, statement of account, or other
written statement of the cause of action, and thereupon the justice of
the peace shall issue a summons for the defendant, returnable to the
next term of the court of said justice of the peace, which shall be
executed five days before the return day thereof ; and any summons
issued within five days before its return day, shall be made returnable
to the next succeeding term of the court after that, to be held within
five days.
§ 1306. The defendant, in any such action shall, on or before the

260

PRACTICE IN CIVIL CASES.

[Chap. 10.

return day of the summons, and before the trial of the case, file with
the justice of the peace the evidence of debt, statement of account,
or other written statement of the claim which he may desire to set off
against the demand of the plaintifff, and in default thereof, he shall
not be permitted to use it on the trial.
§ 1307. On the return day of the summons, issued as aforesaid,
the justice, before whom the complaint has been made, shall proceed
to hear and determine the same, if the parties appear; give judgment
by default, if the defendant fail to appear and contest plaintifff's
demand, or judgment of non suit against the plaintifff, if he fail to
appear and prosecute his claim ; to enter judgment in favor of the
defendant, where, in cases of mutual debts, or set off, it shall appear
that there is a balance due him, for the amount of such balance, and
issue execution against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the party against whom judgment is rendered, for the amount of
such judgment and costs, or costs alone, as the case may require,
returnable to the first term of the court to be held more than twenty
days after the rendition of the judgment, and such execution shall con
tinue in force for one year without being renewed unless sooner satisfied.
§ 1308. livery justice of the peace shall keep a well bound book,
styled " a docket," in which he shall enter in full the names of the plaint
iffs and defendants in any suit brought before him, the nature of the suit
or action, and the sum demanded, the time of issuing process, and when
returnable, and the return made thereon by the officer, the time of filing
the plaintifff's demand, and the defendant's set off; the names of wit
nesses sworn, the date and amount of the judgment, the execution,
when issued, and the return thereon, the appeal, when and by whom
demanded, and all the proceedings before him had touching the said
suit ; and he shall make like entries of all proceedings of a criminal
nature before him heard and determined ; and it shall be the duty of
such justice, when required, to grant to either party a certified copy
of such proceedings, and of all papers and process relating thereto.
§ 1309. Justices of the peace shall hold regular terms of their
coui-ts, at such times as they, or either, may appoint, not exceeding two,
and not less than one in every month, and at such convenient place in
their districts as they, or either, may designate; and they may continue
to hold their courts from day to day, so long as business may require,
and all process shall be returnable, and all trials shall take place at
such regular terms : provided, that where the plaintifff or defendant, or
both, are non-resident or transient persons, and it shall be shown, by
the oath of either party, that a delay of the trial until the regular term
would be of material injury to him, it shall be lawful for the justice
to have the parties brought before him at any reasonable time, and
hear the evidence and give judgment. Such court shall be a court of
record, with all the power incident to a court of record, including
power to fine, to the extent of fifty dollars, and imprison one day for
contempt of court.

Chap. 10.]

practice in civil cases.

261

§ 1310. All civil process issued by a justice of the peace, shall be
under his hand and seal, and shall be directed to the officer, whose
duty it is to execute the same ; and every summons shall be issued
five days before the return-day thereof, unless a shorter day shall be
directed by the justice, in pursuance of the preceding section. If
such process shall be executed less than five days before the returnday, except as aforesaid, such service shall be good to require the
appearance of the defendant, at the term next succeeding the one to
which it is returnable.
§ 1311. The sheriff of any county, and his deputies, shall execute
any process directed to such sheriff, by any justice of the peace ; and
in case of emergency, such justice may authorize and depute some
reputable person to execute any process, although he be not com
missioned as a constable ; and the sheriff, or person so deputed, shall
be entitled to the same fees as constables for similar services, and be
liable to the same penalties.
§ 1312. The justices of the peace, in their respective districts, may
sit and act together, in holding their courts, but any one may hold his
court by himself, at any point in his district which he may designate.
In case of disagreement between them, as to the decision of a case,
the justice who issued the process shall decide.
§ 1313. The justice of the peace before whom any cause is pend
ing, shall issue all subpoenas for witnesses, residing in his county,
which either of the parties may require, and such subpoenas shall be
returnable on a day certain, giving reasonable time for attendance ;
and if any witness, duly summoned, shall fail to appear, in pursu
ance of the subpoena, he shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars, for the
use of the county, for which the justice shall immediately enter judg
ment, nisi., which shall be made final, in case such witness, on being
duly summoned to appear and show cause, shall fail to appear and
show cause for such default, on oath or affirmation, to the satisfaction
of said justice; and the justice may issue an attachment for such
witness,. as a circuit court may do in such cases.
§ 1314. If any witness, in any civil cause before a justice of the
peace, shall reside without the limits of his county, such justice may
issue a commission to some officer of the county where such witness
resides, authorized to take depositions in chancery, to take the depo
sition of such witness, on five days' notice of the time and place of
taking the same, to the opposite party; and such deposition so taken,
and returned under the hand of the justice taking the same, shall be
read in evidence. Depositions of witnesses, in other cases, may be
obtained in the same manner, and under the same circumstances, as
in other courts of law.
§ 1315. Justices of the peace may examine the parties, or either
of them, on oath, when required by the opposite party, and either
party shall be admitted to testify in his own behalf. And on cause
shown by either party such justice shall have power to postpone the
trial, from time to lime, not longer than three months in all.

262

PRACTICE IN CIVIL CASES.

[Chap. 10.

§ 1316. When any suit brought before a justice of the peace shall
be finally decided on its merits by such justice, it shall be a bar to a
recovery for the same cause of action or set-off before any other jus
tice of the peace or other court ; and a transcript of the record of such
judgment shall be sufficient evidence to bar such second recovery.
§ 1317. No execution shall issue on any judgment of a justice of
the peace, until five days after rendering the same, unless the party re
covering therein will make oath that he hath reason to believe he will
be in danger of losing his debt or demand by such delay, in which
case execution shall issue immediately ; but the opposite party shall
not be deprived of his right of appeal, within the time prescribed.
§ 1318. All judgments rendered by justices of the peace shall
operate as alien upon the property, real and personal, of the defend
ant or defendants therein, found or situated in the county where
rendered, or in any other county where the same may be, which is not
exempt by law from execution: provided, that an abstract of the
judgment shall be filed with the clerk of the circuit court of the county
wherein the property is situated, and entered upon the judgment roll, as
in other cases of enrolled judgments; said lien to commence from the
date of the enrollment and continue until the payment or satisfaction
of said judgment, and said judgment may be enrolled as aforesaid,
and have the force and effect of a lien, as aforesaid, in all cases where
. an appeal is taken from said judgment, as well as in other cases; and
in the event of a reversal of the judgment of the justice's court, the
clerk of the circuit court shall enter a memorandum to this effect, on
the judgment roll.
§ 1319. In all cases in which lands and tenements shall be levied
upon by execution or attachment, returnable to a justice's court, it
shall be the duty of the officer making the levy, to endorse his return
on the writ, by virtue of which the levy is made, at or before the
term of the court to which the same is returnable ; and it shall be
the duty of such justice of the peace, thereupon to make out, and
certify to the clerk of the circuit court of the county, a complete
transcript of the proceedings had before such justice, together with a
copy of the writ of attachment or execution, as the case may be, and
the sheriff's return thereon; and said transcript shall be filed, by said
justice, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in
which said lands or tenements are situated. It shall be the duty of the
clerk of the said circuit court, and he is hereby required, to issue a writ
of venditioni exponas, directed to the sheriff of his county, who shall
advertise and make sale of said lands and tenements, and make re
turn of the said writ, in the same manner as provided by law for the
sale of lands and tenements, under and by virtue of a judgment of
the circuit court ; except that return of said writ, and the proceeds of
said sale, shall be made to the justice of the peace by whom judgment
was rendered, at or before the term of his court held next succeeding
said sale ; and it shall be the duty of said justice to tax the fees and
commissions due the sheriff and clerk of the circuit court, in all such

Chap. 10.]

PRACTICE IN CRIMINAL CASES.

263

cases, and when collected, to pay them over to said officer, who shall
be entitled to a summary remedy for the same, by motion against said
justice, in case of his refusal to pay over said money to the parties
entitled thereto, before any other justice of the county, upon giving
him ten days' notice of the time and place fixed for the hearing of
such motion ; and a copy of such notice shall be served on the justice
of the peace against whom the motion is made.
§ 1320. In all suits or proceedings against two or more defendants,
jointly, or jointly and severally liable, it shall be lawful to bring such
suit before any justice of the peace of the district wherein either of
the defendants shall reside; and such justice shall have power, and
he is hereby authorized, to issue a summons or other process, to bring
in all co-defendants, from any other district in the county where the
suit is brought, or from any other county in this state ; and upon
service of process, as required in other cases, before justices of the
peace, the justice before whom the suit is pending, shall have full
jurisdiction, as to all of the defendants, in as full and ample a manner
as in cases where all the defendants reside within the district where
the suit is brought ; and if the process for such co-defendant be not
returned executed, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to dismiss his
action as to such co-defendant.
§ 1321. Proceedings in replevin, attachment, and for the enforce
ment of mechanics' liens, before justices of the peace, shall be, as far
as practicable, according to those in the circuit courts, in like cases.

ARTICLE

V.

PRACTICE IN CRIMINAL CASES.
§ 1322 On affidavit of the commission, within his district, of any
criminal offense of which he has jurisdiction, lodged with any justice
of the peace, he shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender,
returnable forthwith, or on a certain day to be named, and shall issue
subpoenas for witnesses, as in civil cases, and shall proceed to try and
dispose of said case, according to law ; and on conviction, shall order
such punishment to be inflicted as the law provides.
§ 1323. It shall be lawful for a justice of the peace to order any
one found guilty by him, who shall not immediately pay any fine im
posed on him, and all costs, to stand committed to the county jail,
until payment of such fine and costs.
§ 1324. The keeper of the jail of any county, shall receive and
keep, any prisoner committed by a justice of the peace, according to
the order of commitment.
§ 1325. It shall be lawful for any officer, having any person in
custody, by virtue of the warrant of a justice of the peace, in the

264

TRIAL BY JURY.

[Chap. 10.

cases hereinbefore provided for, to take bond or recognizance, with
good and sufficient sureties, in a sum not less than fifty, nor more than
five hundred dollars, conditioned for the appearance of such person,
at the day named in the warrant, before the justice of the peace before
whom it is returnable, and to fix the amount of the bond or recogniz
ance, which bond or recognizance, shall be returned to such justice,
and proceeded on, in case of forfeiture, as in like cases in the circuit
court, as far as may be, with the difference in the constitution of the
courts ; and so, any justice of the peace, before whom a prisoner is
brought, on adjourning from day to day, or to a subsequent day, for
the hearing of such case, may take bond or recognizance, in such sum
as he may prescribe, not less than fifty, nor more than five hundred
dollars, with sufficient sureties, properly conditioned for the appear
ance of such prisoner ; which bond shall be filed by the justice, and
may be proceeded on by him, as in like cases in circuit courts. But
when the bond or recognizance, taken as above, by the justice, or any
officer, shall exceed in its penalty one hundred and fifty dollars, it
shall be returned to, and filed in the clerk's office of the circuit court
of the county, by the justice of the peace, with his certificate of the
breach that occurred, in the non-appearance of the prisoner before
him ; and judgment nisi shall be entered by the circuit court, on such
bond or recognizance and certificate ; and thereupon, such other pro
ceedings shall be had, as in case of a bond or recognizance, conditioned
for the appearance of a party in the circuit court.

ARTICLE VI.
TRIAL BY JURY.
§ 1326. On or before the return day of the process, either party
may demand a trial by jury, and thereupon the justice of the peace
shall order the proper officer to summons six persons, competent to
serve as jurors in the circuit court, to appear immediately, or at such
early day as he may appoint, whether at a regular term or not, who
shall be sworn to try the case; but each party shall be entitled to
challenge peremptorily two of said jurors, and as many more as he
can show sufficient cause for. If a sufficient number of jurors shall
not appear, by standers may be summoned until a jury is made up, to
consist of six, against whom no sufficient legal objection shall exist. If
the jury fail to agree, they may be discharged and another jury sum
moned as before, and so on until a verdict, and until judgment shall
be entered by the justice on the verdict.
§ 1327. Each juror summoned and attending a justice's court, shall
be entitled to one dollar per day, to be taxed in the bill of costs, and
collected and paid over by the justice to such juror.

Chap. 10.]

APPEALS IN CIVIL CASES.

265

§ 1328. If a justice has more jury cases than one on the same day,
he shall use the same jury for the trial of each, subject to the right
of challenge by either party, and like proceedings in all respects, as
in other cases. If more cases than one shall be tried by the
name jury, it shall be the duty of the justice to apportion the costs of
the jury among the several cases, and tax them in accordance with
what he may decide to be a just apportionment.
§ 1329. The justice of the peace shall have power to fine any per
son summoned as a juror and failing to attend, in any sura not exceed
ing ten dollars ; and if such person, when summoned to appear and
show cause why such fine should not be made final, shall not appear
and show sufficient cause, execution shall issue for such fine and costs.
§ 1330. Any defendant in a criminal case before a justice of the
peace, may, in like manner as in civil cases, demand a jury, and there
upon the justice shall proceed as in other cases where a jury is de
manded.
§ 1331. A justice of the peace shall not, on the trial by jury of any
case, civil or criminal, express any opinion, or give any instruction or
charge to the jury, except that justices may, in such cases, respond
to any inquiries by the jurors, or any of them, as to the law of the case.

ARTICLE

VII.

APPEALS IN CIVIL CASES.
§ 1332. Either party may appeal to the circuit court of the county
from the judgment of any justice of the peace ; provided, such appeal
be demanded, and bond given, within five days after the rendition of
the judgment, and an affidavit filed that such appeal is not made for
delay, nor to vex, harass or oppress his adversary, but that justice may
be done. The party praying such appeal, shall give bond, with
security, to be approved by said justice, payable to the opposite party,
in the penalty of two hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of
such judgment as the said circuit court may render against him, and
such appeal, when demanded, and bond given, as aforesaid, shall
operate as a supersedeas of execution on such judgment.
§ 1333. The justice of the peace, from whose decision an appeal
shall be prayed, shall, on or before the first day of the next term of
the circuit court, to which the same is returnable, transmit to the
clerk of such court a certified copy of the record of the proceedings,
with all the original papers and process in the case, and the original
appeal bond and affidavit given by the appellant, and said clerk shall
docket the same, and shall be entitled to the same fees, upon such
appeals, as for similar services in suits originating in said court. The
justice shall, at all times, be allowed to amend his return according

2(3 G

APPEALS IN CRIMINAL CASES.

[Chap. 10.

to, the facts, and, if the appeal bond shall be defective, the appellant
shall be permitted to give a new bond, which shall have the same
effect as if given, originally, before the justice, on demand of an
appeal.
§ 1334. Appeals to the circuit court shall be tried anew, in a sum
mary way, without pleadings in writing, at the first term, unless cause
can be shown for a continuance; provided, that, if it shall appear on
the trial of such appeal, that the suit was brought before a justice of
the peace not having jurisdiction thereof, the circuit court shall re
verse the judgment of the said justice, if rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, and shall dismiss the case at the costs of the plaintifff in the
court below. If the defendant be the appellant, and judgment be
rendered for the plaintifff in the original suit, ten per cent, damages
upon the amount thereof, shall be included in such judgment and
costs ; and such judgment shall be rendered against the principal and
his sureties jointly. If the judgment be for the defendant in the
original suit, he shall recover full costs, in like manner ; provided,
that on such appeals, where the amount in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the parties, or either of them, shall be entitled to a
trial by jury ; and in all such cases, where the amount in controversy
exceeds the sum of fifty dollars, either party shall be entitled to an
appeal or writ of error, to the supreme court, as in cases originating
in the circuit courts.

ARTICLE VIII.
appeals in criminal cases.
§ 1335. Any one convicted of a criminal offense, by the judgment
of a justice of the peace, shall have the right of appeal to the next
term of the circuit court of his county, upon his entering into bond
or recognizance, in a sum, to be prescribed by the justice, not less
than fifty, nor more than five hundred dollars, with good and approved
security, conditioned for the payment of all costs, and for the appear
ance of the defendant, at the next term of said circuit court; and on
his appearance in said court, such case shall be tried anew, on its
merits, and disposed of, as other cases pending in said court ; and on
default of such defendant, a forfeiture shall be entered against him
and his sureties.

ARTICLE IX.
CERTIORARI.
§ 1336.

All cases decided by a justice of the peace may, within

Chap. 10.]

GARNISHMENT.

267

six months thereafter, on good cause shown by petition, supported by
affidavit, be removed to the circuit court of the county, by a writ of
certiorari, which shall operate as a supersedeas, the party, in all cases,
giving bond, with security, as in cases of appeal from justices of the
peace ; and in any cause removed by certiorari under this act, the
court shall be confined to the examination of questions of law, arising
or appearing on the face of the record and proceedings. In case of
an affirmance of the judgment of the justice, the same judgment shall
be given as on appeals. In case of a reversal, the circuit court shall
enter up such judgment as the justice ought to have entered, if the
same is apparent, or may then proceed to try the cause anew on its
merits.

ARTICLE X.
GARNISHMENT.
§ 1337. When sufficient property cannot be found to satisfy the
execution, and the plaintifff shall suggest that any other person is in
debted to the defendant, or has effects of such defendant in his hands,
the justice shall issue a summons of garnishment, against such person,
in like manner, and like proceedings shall be had thereon, in all re
spects, so far as may be applicable, as in the case of garnishments
upon judgments rendered in the circuit courts. Such summons may
be issued to any county where the party may reside.

ARTICLE XI.
CLAIM OF PROPERTY LEVIED ON.
§ 1338. When an execution or attachment, issued by, and return
able before a justice of the peace, shall be levied on property which
is claimed by a third person, not a party to the execution or attach
ment, such claimant shall make oath and give bond, as required where
the execution or attachment issues from a circuit court, and the officer
shall immediately return the execution or attachment, with the affi
davit and bond, to the justice who issued the same; and thereupon
the said justice, at the request of either party, shall cause a jury to
be summoned and empaneled, as directed by this act, to consist, when
sworn, of six persons ; and the claim shall thereupon be tried, and
like proceedings had, as far as applicable, as directed in cases of claim
to property levied on by virtue of an execution or attachment, from
a circuit court ; jrrovided, that where the claimant shall not desire to

268

REMEDIES FOR MONEY COLLECTED.

[Chap. 10.

replevy the property, he shall not be required to give bond, and the
property shall remain in the hands of the officer, to abide the result
of the trial.

ARTICLE XII.
REMEDIES FOR MONEY COLLECTED.
§ 1339. When any justice of the peace shall fail to pay over to
the person authorized to receive the same, any money collected by
him in his official capacity, or shall fail to account for and pay into
the state or county treasury, as the case may be, according to law, all
fines and penalties which may be assessed by and paid to him, or which
shall come into his hands, by any other means whatsoever, on com
plaint of any such failure, to any other justice of the peace of the
county, such justice shall issue his summons, commanding the justice
so failing to appear before him ; and if it appear that such justice of
the peace has failed to pay over the money collected by him, as afore
said, the justice trying the same shall enter judgment against such
delinquent, for the money so detained, with costs and ten per cent,
damages, and no stay of execution shall be given on such judgment,
and in addition thereto, such defaulting justice of the peace shall be
liable to indictment, and to fine in double the sum collected by
him and not accounted for, and imprisonment not more than six
months, and such justice shall be removed from office.

ARTICLE XIII.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 1340. Whenever the office of justice of the peace, in any county,
is vacant, suit may be brought before any justice of an adjoining dis
trict ; and whenever, by reason of interest or other cause, any justice
of the peace shall be incompetent to sit in any case before him, the
same shall be transferred to the nearest justice of the peace, free from
such objection, in said county, who shall hear and determine the same.
§ 1341. In case any justice of the peace shall resign, or remove
from the district, or otherwise go out of office, he shall, within ten days
thereafter, deliver his docket, with all process and papers relating to
his said office, to the clerk of the circuit court of the county, to be by
him kept as public records, and who shall be authorized to certify
copies thereof; and if any such justice of the peace shall die, it shall

Chap. 10.]

miscellaneous provisions.

269

be the duty of his executors or administrators to deliver his docket
and papers to the clerk of said circuit court; and if any justice of
the peace, vacating his office as aforesaid, or the executors or admin
istrators of any such j ustice who shall die, shall neglect or refuse to
deliver said docket and papers, to the clerk of the circuit court of the
proper county, on demand made, he or they shall forfeit and pay the
sum of one hundred dollars; and on such failure, an action for the
recovery of said forfeiture shall be brought by the district attorney,
in the name and for the use of the county in which such failure occurs,
on complaint, verified by affidavit, of any person aggrieved ; and such
ex-justice of the peace shall, in addition thereto, be liable, on convic
tion, to imprisonment, not exceeding six months, in the county jail.
If there shall remain on said docket, any suits undetermined, or any
judgments unexecuted, any justice of the peace of the same county,
at the request of the plaintifff therein, may have access to said docket
and papers, and may hear and determine such suits, or issue execu
tion on such judgments, in the same manner as business originally
commenced by him ; and when a successor to the justice who may
have resigned, removed, or died, shall be elected and qualified, the
clerk shall deliver the docket so deposited with him, to such successor,
and the justice so receiving the docket may proceed to conclude all
business pending thereon, as if the proceedings had been originally
instituted before him, and he shall preserve the docket and records
delivered to him, as in other cases, and deliver them to his successor.
§ 1342. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace in this
state, on the first Monday of January, in each year, to make a return
to the auditor of public accounts, of all fines and penalties, which he
shall have assessed during twelve months preceding such return, and
to pay so much thereof as he shall have received, where the same is
directed by law to be paid; and any justice of the peace, who shall
fail to make such return, or to pay the money by him received, as
aforesaid, in addition to the remedy prescribed in section number 1339,
article twelve, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office,
and, on conviction thereof, shall be removed from office, and may be
fined not more than five hundred dollars, and imprisoned, in the county
jail, not more than six months.
§ 1343. If the party against whom judgment shall be given, shalli
within five days thereafter, procure some responsible person to appear
before the justice, and consent to become surety for a stay of execu
tion, the justice shall enter the name of such person on his docket, as
surety for a stay of execution on said judgment; and thereupon, such
justice shall grant a stay of execution for thirty days, from the date of
such judgment, on all sums not exceeding fifty dollars, and for sixty
days, on all sums over fifty dollars ; and in case the money be not
paid at the expiration of such stay, execution shall issue against the
principal and sureties, or either of them, for the principal, interest
and costs, on which execution no surety shall be taken. And all

270

BOARDS OF SUPERVISORS—ELECTION OF MEMBERS.

[CHAP. 11.

judgments of justices of the peace, shall bear legal interest from their
dates until paid.
§ 1344. Any defendant obtaining a stay of execution, shall thereby
waive all errors in the judgment, and abandon the right of appeal or
certiorari.
§ 1345. Sales of personal property, under executions from justices
of the peace, may be made at any convenient point in the district
where it is found, or at the court-house of the county, on ten days'
written notice, posted at two or more places in the district best calcu
lated, in the opinion of the officer making the levy, to give public
notice, or at the court-house door.
§ 1346. When any property shall be seized under execution, and
before a sale, the execution shall expire, or when from any cause
property seized shall remain unsold in the hands of an officer, the
justice shall issue a venditioni exponas for the sale of such property.
§ 1347. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, April 24, 1871.

CHAPTER

11.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO BOARDS OF SUPERVISORS.

Articlb I.
II.
HI.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.

Election of Members.
Meetings of the Board.
The Clerk of the Board.
Jurisdiction and Powers of the Board.
County Taxes.
County Funds and their Disbursement.
Suits by and against the Board.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
ELECTION OF MEMBER8.
§ 1348. Each county shall be divided into five districts, with
dQ3 regard to equality of population, and convenience of situation.

280

HABEAS CORPUS—TO WHAT CASES IT EXTENDS.

[CHAP. 12.

authorize any one or more members of such board, or other person,
to let or make contracts for the building or erection of public works,
of any description, in vacation, or during the recess of said board ;
but all such contracts shall be made and approved by said boards in
open session, and it shall be the duty of all boards of supervisors to
accept the lowest responsible bid for the erection or construction of
all public buildings, bridges, or other public works ; and any bidder
shall be deemed responsible, who will enter into bond, with good and
sufficient sureties, according to law, to be approved by said boards, in
double the amount of the bid made by such bidder, for the prompt,
proper and efficient performance of his contract ; and all contracts
made in violation of any of the provisions of this act shall be void.
[Act of 13th February, 1871.]
§ 1395. That it shall be the duty of all circuit judges in this state,
to give this act particularly in charge to the grand jury, at each term
of their respective courts, and it shall be the duty of all courts to
give such liberal construction to this act as will entirely suppress and
punish all fraudulent and corrupt letting of contracts, for the purposes
aforesaid. [Act of 13th February, 1871.]

CHAPTER

12.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO HABEAS CORPUS.

Article I. To What Cases it Extends.
II. By Whom to be granted.
III. How Obtained.
IV. How Served and Returned.
V. The Trial.
VI. Appeals.

ARTICLE I.
TO WHAT CASES IT EXTENDS.
§ 1396. The writ of habeas corpus shall extend to all cases of
illegal confinement or detention, whatever, by which any person is
deprived of his liberty, or in which the rightful custody of any person

Chap. 12.]

BY WHOM TO BE GRANTED

HOW OBTAINED.

281

is withheld from the person entitled thereto, except in the cases ex
pressly herein excepted.
§ 1397. Nothing in this act shall authorize the discharge out of
prison, of any person convicted of any offense, or charged with any
offense committed in any other part of the United States, and who,
agreeably to the constitution of the United States, or the laws of this
state, ought to be delivered up to the executive power of the state or
territory, where the offense is charged to have been committed ; nor
of any person suffering imprisonment, under lawful judgment.

ARTICLE II.
BY WHOM TO BE GRANTED.
§ 1398. The writ of habeas corpus may be granted by any judge
of the supreme court of this state, or any circuit judge or chancellor,
in term-time, or in vacation : provided, the judges of the supreme
court shall not be compelled to grant said writ during term-time.
§ 1399. The several chancellors of this state shall have authority,
and it shall be their duty, to issue and try writs of habeas corpus, as
fully, and to the same extent, as judges of the circuit courts of this
state are now authorized and required to do. [Act of 10th March,
1871.]

ARTICLE III.
HOW OBTAINED.
§ 1400. Application for such writ shall be by petition, in writing,
sworn to by the person for whose relief it is intended, or by some one
in his behalf, describing where, and by whom he is unlawfully de
prived of his liberty, and the circumstances of the restraint, with the
ground relied on for relief ; and such application shall be made to the
judge or chancellor of the district in which the relator is imprisoned,
unless good cause shall be shown in the petition, to the contrary.
§ 1401. The judge granting the writ, may order it to be issued by
the clerk of the supreme court, or any circuit or chancery clerk, who
shall immediately issue it, on receiving such order ; or when not con
venient to a clerk, the judge himself shall issue the writ; and any
judge or chancellor, who shall willfully refuse or neglect to grant, or
to issue and try, the writ of habeas corpus, when required by law to
do so, shall be liable to impeachment; and any clerk who shall not,
when ordered, immediately issue the writ, shall be liable, on convic

282

HOW SERVED AND RETURNED.

[Chap. 12.

tion thereof, to be removed from office ; and such judge or clerk shall,
in case of such neglect or refusal, be liable, civilly, to the party
aggrieved.
§ 1402. The writ may be, in substance, as follows, to-wit :
" The State of Mississippi to
:
" We command you to have the body of
, by you detained, as
it is said, before
, a judge of our
court, at
, forthwith,
(or on a given day), to do and receive, what may be then and there
considered concerning him.
" Witness my hand, etc."
And it may be served by such officer, or other person, as the
judge granting it may direct.
§ 1403. When it shall be shown to the judge to whom application
is made for the writ, that there is reasonable ground to apprehend
that the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, will be con
cealed or removed, so as not to be brought up with the writ, it shall
be the duty of the judge to order, or issue the writ, to be directed to
the sheriff, or other officer or person designated to execute it, com
manding him to seize the person to be relieved by the writ, and bring
him, forthwith, before the judge, and to summon the person alleged to
have illegally detained him ; in which case the form of the writ shall
be in substance as follows, to-wit :
" The State op Mississippi :
" To the sheriff or any lawful officer of
county :
" We command you to take and have the body of
restrained of
his liberty, it is said, by
, before
, a judge of our
court,
at
forthwith, to do and receive what shall be then considered ;
and do you summon the said
to appear, then and there, to show
the cause of detaining the said
, and have you then and there this
writ, with your doings thereon.
Witness, my hand etc."
Which writ shall be executed according to its tenor and effect.
§ 1404. The writ of habeas corpus shall be returnable forthwith,
or on a particular day, within a reasonable time, to be named by the
judge granting the writ.

ARTICLE IV.
HOW SERVED AND RETURNED.
§ 1405. The writ of habeas corpus shall be served by delivery of
the original to the person to whom it is directed, and return shall be
made by the person serving it, of a true copy of the writ, with a state
ment of the service ; but when tho writ commands the seizure of the

Chap. 12."]

THE TRIAL.

283

person, it shall be executed according to its tenor, and it shall be re
turned with an endorsement of service by the officer or person who
served it.
§ 1406. Whenever such writ shall bo served upon the officer,
sheriff, jailor, or any other person to whom the same may be directed,
by being brought to him, or left with any of his under officers, at the
place where the prisoner or other person is detained, the person to
whom the same is directed shall bring, or cause to be brought, the
body of such prisoner or person detained in custody, before the judge
who is to try the same, at the time and place directed by the writ, or,
incase of the absence of such judge, then before any other judge,
and shall make return of said writ by truly certifying the cause of
commitment and detainer of the prisoner, or other person, accom
panied by the written authority, if any, under which such prisoner or
other person is held in custody.
§ 1407. Any person failing to return the writ of habeas corpus so
served on him, together with the cause of the commitment and de
tainer of the prisoner or other person, or to bring the body of the
person named in such writ, before the judge, according to the com
mand of such writ, shall forfeit and pay to the prisoner, or other per
son injured by such failure, the sum of one thousand dollars, to be
recovered by action of debt, before any court having jurisdiction; the
right to recover which, shall not cease by the death of either party;
and the judge, before whom the writ was made returnable, may also
punish the person failing to obey the command of the writ, and the
duty herein prescribed, or such order as the judge may make, as for
a contempt, and compel obedience thereto by process of attachment.
| 1408. No person committed, or in custody on a criminal charge,
shall be removed from the place of his confinement, into the custody
of any other officer, unless it be by habeas corpus, or some other
legal writ, except for trial, or in case of fire or infection, or other ne
cessity ; and if any person, after such commitment, shall make out or
issue any warrant or process for such removal, except as above au
thorized, such person may be indicted therefore, and on conviction shall
be fined not less than two hundred dollars.

ARTICLE V.
TUB TRIAL.
§ 1409. The judge, before whom the prisoner or other person
may be brought, shall immediately proceed to inquire into the cause
of imprisonment or detention, and shall either discharge, admit to
bail, or remand the prisoner, or award the custody to the party
entitled thereto, as the law and the evidence shall require ; and may

284

APPEALS.

[Chap. 12.

also award costs and charges, for or against either party, as may seem
right, not, however, exceeding twenty cents per mile for transporta
tion. And the clerk of the court, in whose office the proceedings
may be filed, shall issue execution for the costs and charges so awarded,
against the party bound therefore, and his surety, in case there be a
bond. But every judge may continue the trial, from day to day, as
the case may require.
§ 1410. The return made on any such writ shall not be conclusive,
as to the facts therein stated, but evidence may be received to con
tradict the same.
§ 1411. The judge shall have such power to order subpoenas for wit
nesses and to compel their attendance, as a court would have in termtime, and to fine witnesses or others for a contempt ; and whenever
the personal attendance of a witness cannot be procured, his affidavit,
taken on reasonable notice to the adverse party, may be received in
evidence.
§ 1412. The proceeding and judgment shall in all cases be entered
of record. If the trial be in vacation, the proceedings shall be written
out, and signed by the judge, and deposited with the clerk of the cir
cuit court of the county where the case is pending or triable, and shall
be recorded by him in a book to be kept for that purpose ; and when
ever either party shall require it, the facts proved shall be made a
part of the record, by bill of exceptions, as in other cases. The clerk
shall be allowed the same fees for issuing the writ and subpoenas, and
for making out the records as for like services in his court, which may
be taxed in the bill of costs.
§ 1413. The judgment rendered on the trial of any writ of habeas
corpus, shall be conclusive until reversed, as hereinafter provided ;
and whilst so in force, shall be a bar to another habeas corpus in the
same cause, or to any other proceedings, to bring the same matter
again in question, except by appeal, or by action for false imprison
ment ; nor shall any person so discharged be afterwards confined for
the same cause, except by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 1414. The sheriff, when required by the judge, shall attend in
person, or by deputy, upon the trial of habeas corpus, to keep order,
and execute the mandates of the judge, and shall be subject to the
orders of the judge during his sitting in such cases, in vacation, in
the same manner as in term-time ; and the judge trying a habeas cor
pus in vacation, shall have the same power to fine and imprison for
contempt, as in term-time.

ARTICLE VI.
APPEALS.
§ 1415. Any party aggrieved by the judgment, on the trial of a
habeas corpus, shall have an appeal, on petition to the judge who

Chap. 12.]

APPEALS.

285

rendered such judgment, or to the clerk of the court in whose office the
record is filed, returnable instanter, before the supreme court, which
shall consider such cases as preference cases, in whole or in part, and
cause Buch other judgment or order to be entered, as the right of the
case may require.
§ 1416. If any person, held in service by this state, or by the
United States, should be discharged by any judge, in vacation, or by
any circuit court, on habeas corpus, the attorney general, or any dis
trict attorney, or any attorney, duly authorized by the United
States, may, in like manner, obtain an appeal to reverse the judgment
by which such person was discharged.
§ 1417. The application for an appeal shall be by petition, in
writing, and the judge shall endorse on the petition, an allowance of
the appeal, and the clerk of the court, where the record is filed, shall
immediately make out and certify, and transmit to the supreme court,
a complete record of the proceedings in such habeas corpus, including
the petition for appeal, and the supreme court shall try and decide
such case.
§ 1418. That this act shall take effect from and after the 1st day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, May 15th, 1871.

286

ATTACHMENTS AGAINST DEBTORS.

CHAPTER

[Chap. 13.

13.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO ATTACHMENTS AGAINST DEBTORS.

Article I. Extent of Remedy and Ground for Attachment
II. Preliminary Affidavit of Creditor.
III. Attachment Bond.
IV. Writ—how Issued and Returnable.
V. Mode of Levying and" Serving Writ.
VI. How Property may be Replevied.
VII. Proceedings by and against Garnishees.
VIII. Attachments for Debts not Due.
IX. Claim by Tlprd Party.
X. Alleged Ground for Attachment Contested.
XI. Sale of Perishable Property.
XII. Attachments by and against Non-Residents.
XIII. Publication and Notice,
XIV. Final Judgment and Sales.
XV. General Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
extent op remedy and ground for attachment.
§ 1419. The remedy, by attachment, shall apply for the enforce
ment of all liquidated or ascertained debts, of every name and de
scription, whether due by bond, note or open account, or otherwise.
It shall extend to all claims for damages, for the breach of any con
tract, express or implied, nnd whether written or unwritten, and to
all demands or claims founded upon any of the penal laws of this
state.
§ 1420. All attachments shall be predicated upon one or more of
the following grounds, and no others : 1st, that the defendant is a for
eign corporation, or is a non-resident of this state ; or, 2d, that he has
removed, or is about to remove himself, or his property, out of this
state; or, 3d, that he so absconds, or conceals himself, that he cannot
be se:ved with a summons ; or, 4th, that he has property or rights in

Chap. 13.]

affidavit of creditor—attachment bond.

287

action, which he conceals, and unjustly refuses to apply to the pay
ment of his debts ; or, 5th, that he has assigned or disposed of, or is
about to assign or dispose of, his property or rights in action, or some
part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors, or give an unfair
preference to some of them; or, 6th, that he hath converted, or is
about to convert his property into money, or evidences of debt, with
intent to place it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, 7th, that he
fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation, for which
suit has been, or is about to be brought.

ARTICLE II.
affidavit op creditor.
§ 1421. Before any writ of attachment shall issue, the creditor, or
his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit, before a judge of the
supreme court, a justice of the peace, a clerk of the circuit court, a
clerk of the chancery court, or the mayor or chief magistrate of an
incorporated city or town, of the amount of his debt or demand, to
the best of his knowledge and belief, stating how the same is due,
whether by note, open account, or bond, or claimed as damages for
breach of contract, or claimed under a penal law of the State.
§ 1422. The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the existence
of one or more of the seven grounds for attachment set forth in
section 1420 of this act, not stated disjunctively, but conjunctively,
except where one of thp distinct grounds for attachment contains,
within itself, two disjunctive matters.
§ 1423. If the affidavit purport to be made by an agent, or attorney
in fact, of the attaching creditor, the statement thereof, in the body
of the affidavit, shall be prima facie evidence of such character and
authority.
§ 1424. The officer taking such affidavit shall carefully preserve
the same, and return it to the court having jurisdiction of the case,
on or before the return day of the writ of attachment.

ARTICLE III.
ATTACHMENT bond.
§ 1425. Every officer granting an attachment shall, before he issues
the same, take a bond, with good and sufficient security, from the
attaching creditor, or his agent or attorney in fact, in double the
amount of the principal sum alleged in the affidavit to be due, pay

28S

WRIT—HOW ISSUED AND RETURNABLE.

[Chap. 13.

able to the defendant in attachment, and his heirs, executors, and
.administrators, with a condition thereto in the form, or to the effect
following :
" The condition of the above obligation is such that, whereas, the
above bound,
, hath, on the day of the date hereof, prayed an at
tachment, at the suit of
, against the estate of the above named
, for the sum of
, and hath obtained the same returnable to
the
court, of the
, of
, to be held at
, on the
day of
next.
Now if the said plaintifff, in the said attachment, shall well and
truly pay and satisfy to the said defendant, all such damages as he
shall sustain, by reason of the wrongful sueing out of the said attach
ment, and shall also pay all costs which may be awarded against the
said plaintifff, in said suit, then the above obligation to be void, other
wise to remain in full force and effect."
§ 1426 If such bond purport to be executed by an agent or
attorney in fact of the attaching creditor, a statement thereof, in the
bond, shall be prima facie, evidence that the agent or attorney in
fact, had due authority to act.
§ 1427. The attachment bond shall be carefully preserved, by the
officer taking the same, and by him returned to the court having
jurisdiction of the case, on or before the return day of the writ of at
tachment, and he shall endorse thereon his approval ot the same.

ARTICLE
WRIT

IV.

HOW ISSUED AND RETURNABLE.

§ 1428. The writ of attachment may be issued by any officer
herein authorized to take affidavits for attachments. If issued by a
clerk of a court of record, the writ shall be signed by such clerk, with
the seal of the court attached. If issued by any other of the officers
authorized, it shall be under the hand of such officer, and shall be
made returnable to the first day of the next term of the court having
jurisdiction of the case.
§ 1429. Attachments shall be in the form, or to the effect fol
lowing :
" The State of Mississippi :
"To the sheriff, coroner or any constable of
, county, greeting:
" Whereas, A. B. (or C. D., agent and attorney in fact of A. B., as
the case may be), hath this day complained by affidavit before me,
(describing the character of the officer,) that E. F. is justly indebted
to the said A. B. in the sum of
dollars, or thereabout, due by
, (describing the nature of the claim), and oath having been also
made before me that (here recite the ground or grounds for attach

Chap. 13.]

writ—how issued and returnable.

289

ment contained in the affidavit), and bound with security having been
given to me pursuant to the statute, you are thereforee hereby com
manded to forthwith attach the estate, real and personal, of the afore
said E. F., in your county, to the full value of said demand, and the
probable cost of this proceeding, and that you safely keep the prop
erty so attached or levied upon in your hands, unless replevied accord
ing to law, so as to compel the aforesaid E. F. to appear before the
court of said county, to be held at
, on the .... of . ,18 . ., to
answer unto the complaint of the aforesaid A. B., and that you sum
mons the said defendant, if to be found in your county, to be and per
sonally appear at the court aforesaid, on the first day of the term
above named, then and there to answer accordingly.
Witness, (officer issuing the writ) this the
day of
18 "
§ 1430. If, at the time of issuing the writ of attachment, the
attaching creditor shall suggest, that any person is indebted to the
debtor, or has property of his in his hands, or knows of any other
person so indebted, or who has effects or property of the debtor in his
hands, the officer issuing the writ of attachment shall insert therein a
command to the officer, to summon such person to appear on the
return-day of the attachment, and answer, in writing, as garnishee of
the defendant in attachment.
§ 1431. When two or more persons, not residing in this state, are
jointly indebted, the writ of attachment may be issued against such
debtors, or any of them, by their proper names, or by the name of the
partnership, or by whatever other name such debtors may be called,
or known in this state, or against the heirs, executors or administra
tors of them, or any or either of them, and may be levied upon the
separate or joint estate, or both, of such debtors, and the lands, tene
ments, money, goods, chattels, effects, rights and credits of such
debtors, or any or either of them, shall be liable to be seized and
taken, for the satisfaction of any debt or demand, for which an attach
ment will lie by this chapter.
§ 1432. The officer granting an attachment, may issue duplicate
writs to any other county in which the defendant may have property,
or debts due him, which writs shall be returnable to the court to which
the original is returnable, and shall be executed and returned in like
manner ; and where the attachment has not been executed, or where
no property has been found, or not sufficient to satisfy the debt, or
where the plaintifff desires to garnishee other persons, the clerk of the
court, to which the same is returnable, may issue alias writs, to the
same or other counties, without a renewal of the bond or affidavit.
§ 1433. Affidavits for attachment, and writs of attachment may be
made and issued on the Sabbath day ; and attachments may be served
and executed on that day, if necessary.

19

290

MODE OF LEVYING AND SERVING WRIT.

[Chap. 13.

ARTICLE V.
MODE OF LEVYING AND SERVING 'WRIT.
§ 1434. The officer who shall receive such attachment, shall forth
with serve and levy the same, upon the lands and tenements, money,
goods, chattels and debts of the defendants, wherever the same may
be found, or in the hands of any person indebted to, or having effects
of the defendant, and shall summon such person as garnishee, to
appear at the court to which the attachment is returnable, there to
answer on oath what-he is indebted, or was indebted, to the defend
ant, at the time of the service of the attachment, or what effects of
the defendant he hath in his hands, or had at the time of the service
of the attachment, and what effects or debts of the defendant there
are in the hands of any other person, to his knowledge or belief;
and such officer shall have power to seize the books of account, and
other evidences of indebtedness, belonging to the defendant, and to
summons, as garnishees, all persons appearing thereby to be indebted
to the defendant, and to levy on the stock, share or interest which the
defendant may have or own in any copartnership or incorporated
company; and all property, debts and choses, in action attached, shall
be bound by such attachment from the date of the service thereof;
if the defendant can be found, the said officer shall also summon him
to appear and answer the action.
§ 1435. Every writ of attachment shall be executed in the fol
lowing manner, that is to say, in case of a levy on real estate, the
officer shall go to the house or land of the defendant, or to the person
or house of the person in whose possession the same may be, and
then and there shall declare that he attaches the same, at the suit of
the plaintifff in the said writ named. But in the event the land is
wild, uncultivated or unoccupied, a return upon the writ, by the
proper officer, that he has attached the land, giving a description there
of by numbers, metes and bounds, or otherwise, shall be a sufficient
levy, without going upon the land. In case of a levy on the stock,
share or interest of the defendant in any copartnership or incorpor
ated company, the officer shall go to the office or place of business of
such partnership or company, and in the presence of such officers,
clerks, or agents thereof as may be present, shall make a similar
declaration as in the case of real estate. In case of a levy on the
rights, credits, and choses in action of the defendant, the officer shall
seize and take into possession the books of account and all other evi
dences of indebtedness, if the same can be had, and shall summon all
persons alleged to be indebted to the defendant, or to have effect of
said defendant in their hands, to appear and answer as garnishees ;
and in case of a levy on money, goods or chattels of the defendant,
the officer shall take the property into possession, and safely keep the
same, to answer and abide the judgment of the court, unless such

Chap. 13.]

HOW PROPERTY MAY BE REPLEVIED.

291

third person as may have the same in possession shall enter into bond
with security to he approved by the said officer, payable to the plaintifff
in attachment, in double the value of the property attached, condi
tioned to have said property forthcoming to answer and abide the
judgment of the court in said suit.
§ 1436. The officer serving an attachment, shall make a full re
turn thereon of all his proceedings, on or before the return day of the
writ. He shall deliver to the court or clerk all bonds which he may have
taken pursuant to law.
§ 1437. If a writ of attachment, returnable to the circuit court,
be served by a constable or coroner, or marshal of a city, or by any
other person specially appointed for that purpose, the writ of attach
ment, with the return thereon, and all property and effects levied on,
shall forthwith be handed to the sheriff of the proper county, who
shall be responsible for the property so seized, unless such sheriff
should be a party, in which event, the officer serving the attachment,
shall make the return, and likewise retain the property, unless the
court, or judge, in vacation, shall make some order for the safe
keeping and forthcoming thereof.
§ 143S. Any officer to whom a writ of attachment may bo de
livered, may, either before or after serving the same, demand of the
plaintifff, or his agent or at torney, a bond of indemnity, to save him
harmless from all claimants of the property seized, or to be seized,
under such writ.

ARTICLE

VI.

U0W PROPERTY MAY BE REPLEVIED.
§ 1439. The defendant, at any time before final judgment, may re
plevy the personal property seized, and taken into possession by the
officer serving an attachment, by giving to such officer a bond, with
sufficient security, to be approved by him, payable to the plaintifff, in
double the value of such property, conditioned to have said property
forthcoming, to answer and abide the judgment of the court in said
suit, or in default thereof, to pay and satisfy the judgment to the ex
tent of the value of said property ; and on the execution of such
bond, the said officer shall restore to the defendant, the property so re
plevied, and shall return the bond so taken, with the said writ of attach
ment, and all his proceedings thereon. Such replevin shall not affect
the lien of the attachment, or the proceedings thereon, as to any
rights, credits, or choses in action, of the defendant.
§ 1440. If any defendant in attachment shall, at any time before
the return thereof, execute and deliver to the officer serving the same,
a bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by said

292

PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST GARNISHEES.

[ClIAP. 13

officer, payable to the plaintifff in attachment, in a penalty double the
amount claimed by said plaintifff, conditioned to pay and satisfy any
judgment which may be recovered by the plaintifff in said suit, with
all costs, the said attachment shall be thereby discharged ; and all the
property of every kind levied on, attached, or seized by virtue thereof,
shall be released and restored to such defendant. The said bond shall
be returned with the attachment; and in case of any recovery by the
plaintifff in said suit, judgment shall be entered up against the defend
ant and the sureties in the said bond. After the return of said attach
ment, the bond herein provided for may be given, at any time before
final judgment, and mai? be taken by the sheriff, or officer by whom
the attachment was served, in case any of the attached property re
mains in his hands, or otherwise, by the clerk of the court in which
the attachment is pending.
§ 1441. If the plaintifff shall be dissatisfied with the bond or secu
rity, given by the garnishee or the defendant, as hereinbefore provided,
he may, within sixty days after the return day of said attachment and
bond, by petition to the judge of the court, or to one of the judges of
the supreme court, obtain a citation to the sheriff, or other officer
taking such bond, to appear before such judge, at such time and place
as he may appoint, not less than five days after the service thereof,
and show cause, if he can, why the said bond or the security shall not
be adjudged insufficient; and such judge shall, then and there, examine
said bond, and hear such testimony as either party may offer; and in
case such judge shall consider the said bond, or the security, to be
insufficient, then such sheriff or other officer shall be subject to the
same judgment with the surety in such bond, in the same manner as
if he were co-surety thereon.

ARTICLE VII.
PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST GARNISHEES.
§ 1442. When any garnishee, duly summoned, shall fail to appear
and discover, as by this chapter directed, the court shall enter a
judgment against him for the amount of the plaintifff's demand, and
all costs, and such judgment shall be final, unless cause be shown to
the contrary during the same term, and execution shall issue thereon;
provided, any such garnishee may answer under oath, to be certified
by any person authorized to administer an oath, and forward the
answer to the court in which said suit is pending.
§ 1443. Garnishees shall, in all cases, answer within the three firs!
days of the return term, unless the court, for cause shown, shall grant
further time ; and if, upon the answer or examination of any garnishee,
it shall appear that there is any estate of the defendant's in the hands

t
Chap. 13.]

proceedings by and against garnishees.

293

of any person not summoned, the court shall grant an attachment, to
be levied on the property in the hands of such person, who shall
appear and answer, and be liable, as other garnishees.
§ 1444. If a garnishee admits an indebtedness not then due, execu
tion shall be stayed until its maturity ; and if he admits the possession
of goods or chattels of the defendant, not seized by the sheriff, such
goods or chattels shall be delivered to the sheriff, unless the garnishee
shall give bond for the forthcoming thereof, as hereinbefore provided.
§ 1445. When the plaintifff shall allege that the garnishee has not
made a full and true discovery of the debt due by him to the defend
ant, or of the property in his possession belonging to the defendant,
he shall, at the term when the answer is filed, unless the court shall
grant further time, controvert the same in writing, specifying in what
particulars he believes the answer to be incorrect. The court may di
rect a jury to be empaneled immediately, unless good cause be
shown for a continuance, to inquire what is the true amount due
from such garnishee to the defendant, and what goods or chattels are
in his possession belonging to the defendant ; and the court shall
grant judgment upon the verdict of the jury, as if the facts found had
been confessed by the garnishee in his answer. If the answer of the
garnishee be found true, he shall recover his costs against the
plaintifff.
§ 1446. The courts having jurisdiction of an attachment, may
summon any garnishee, from one county to another, who shall in all
respects be proceeded against in the same manner as garnishees re
siding within the county where the attachment is returnable. If the
garnishee, whose answer is contested, shall not be a resident of the
county in which the suit is pending, then, upon an issue being made
upon his answer, the venue for the trial of the issue shall be changed,
on his application, to the county of his residence. The court in which
the issue is tried, shall be authorized to grant new trials and continu
ances, as in other cases, and the verdict of the jury shall be certified
by the clerk, and returned, with the issue, to the court in which the
suit is pending, and judgment shall be entered thereupon, as if the
verdict had there been found.
§ 1447. No final judgment upon a garnishment shall go against
a surety or accommodation endorser, until judgment shall go against
the principal, and the preceding endorsers or co-sureties, who may
be liable to judgment, if they be residents of this state.
§ 1448. If the personal property attached, or any part thereof,
shall have been left in the hands of the garnishee, on his giving bond,
as hereinbefore prescribed, or shall have been replevied by the de
fendant, the jury trying the issue between the parties, if they find
for the plaintifff, shall assess the value of the property so left in the
hands of the garnishee, or replevied by the defendant, as well as the
debt or damages due the plaintifff ; and if the value of the property
shall equal the amount found due the plaintifff, judgment shall be

294

PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST GARNISHEES.

[CHAP. 13.

entered against such garnishee and his sureties, or against the defend
ant and his sureties, on such replevin bond, for the amount of said
verdict ; and if the value of the property be less than the amount
found due the plaintifff, judgment shall be entered against the defend
ant, for the amount of the verdict, and against the sureties in his
replevin bond, or against the garnishee and his sureties, for the value
of the property so replevied, or left in the hands of such garnishee ;
and if judgment by default shall be entered, in such case, against the
defendant, a writ of inquiry shall be awarded, to assess the value of
the property so replevied, or left in the hands of the garnishee ; and
on the execution thereof, judgment shall be entered, as above pro
vided. In all cases provided for in this article, the judgment against
the sureties of the defendant, or against the garnishee and his sureties,
shall be satisfied and discharged, by the delivery to the sheriff of the
county, of the property replevied or left in the hands of the garnishee,
within ten days after execution on such judgment shall have come to
his hands ; and such sheriff shall sell the property so delivered to him,
and apply the proceeds to the payment of the execution ; and, in all
cases, the valuation of the property, by the officer taking such bond,
shall be prima facia evidence in favor of the plaintifff, of the value of
the property.
§ 1449. The defendant, in attachment, may contest the answer of
any garnishee, and may allege that the garnishee is indebted to him
in a larger sum than he has admitted, or that he holds property of the
defendant not admitted by the answer, and shall specify, in writing,
in what particulars the answer is untrue or defective ; and thereupon
an issue shall be made up, or the answer and exception shall consti
tute an issue, to be tried by a jury; but this controversy shall not
prevent the plaintifff from taking judgment for the sum admitted by
the garnishee, or for the condemnation of the property admitted to
be in his hands.
§ 1450. If the issue be found against the garnishee, judgment shall
be rendered against him for the amount of money or property in
his hands not admitted by him, which judgment shall be in favor of
the plaintifff, if necessary to satisfy his judgment or claim against the
defendant, or in favor of the defendant, if the judgment of the plaint
iff has been satisfied, or for so much thereof as may remain after satis
fying said judgment.
§ 1451. When a garnishee, by his answer, or at any time before or
after final judgment against him, shall allege that he has been notified
that another person claims title to, or an interest in the debt or property
which has been admitted by him, or found by a jury to be due, or to
be in his possession, and shall, if the question be of a debt due, pay
into the court the amount thereof, the court shall suspend all further
proceedings, and cause a citation to issue to the person so claiming, to
appear at the next term of the court, and contest with the plaintifff the
right to such money or property; or, if such claimant be a non-resident,

Chap. 13.J

ATTACHMENTS FOIv DEBTS NOT DIE.

295

publication shall be made in the same manner as against non-resident
defendants in attachment.
§ 1452. If the claimant fail to appear, the court shall adjudge the
money or property to the plaintifff. If he appear, he shall propound
his claim to the debt or disputed property, in writing, under oath or
affirmation, and the plaintifff may take issue thereon, and the same
shall be tried and determined as other causes in said court, and the court
shall adjudge the money or property to the party that may be found en
titled to the same; and in .all such cases the garnishee shall be pro.
tected from all further liability to either party, in respect to such debt
or property.
§ 1453. If a garnishee in attachment shall pay over or deliver, in
pursuance of the judgment or process of the court, any money or
property, which has been due, or belonging to the defendant before
notice of any sale, assignment or transfer thereof, by the defendant,
to any other person, such garnishee shall not thereafter be liable for
said debt or property to the vendee or assignee thereof.
§ 1454. The garnishee shall be allowed, by the court, reasonable
satisfaction for his attendance, out of the debt or effects in his posses
sion; or against the plaintifff in attachment, in case there be no debt
or effects in his possession ; provided, he shall put in his answer at the
return term of the attachment, within the time prescribed bylaw.

ARTICLE VIII.
ATTACHMENTS FOR DEBTS NOT DUE.
§ 1455. When any creditor, whose debt is not due, shall make
affidavit that he has just cause to suspect, and verily believes, that his
debtor will remove himself, or his effects, out of the state, before the
said debt will become payable, with intent to hinder, delay or defraud
his creditors, or that he hath removed, with like intent, leaving prop
erty in this state, and shall give bond, as in other cases, he may obtain
an attachment in the county where the debtor resides, or last resided,
or where his property may be found ; which attachment shall be issued,
executed and returned, and the like proceedings had thereon, as in
other cases of attachment ; and if the debtor shall not, on or before
the return day thereof, enter into bond to the plaintifff, in double the
sum due, with sufficient security, for the payment of the said debt,
when it shall become payable, and the costs of the attachment, the
court, on due proof of the justice thereof, shall grant judgment, as in
other cases of attachment; and on giving such bond, the same
shall be handed over to the said plaintifff, and the attachment shall
thereupon be discharged. When judgment shall be rendered, execu
tion against any garnishee indebted to the defendant shall be stayed,

296

CLAIM BY THIRD PARTY.

[Chap. 13.

until the claim of the plaintifff, or the garnishee's debt to the defendant,
shall become due, and the goods and property attached shall be sold
on a credit, until the time when the plaintifff's claim shall be payable.
The sheriff, or other officer selling such property, shall take bond from
the purchasers, payable to the plaintifff in attachment, for the amount
of his debt, interest and costs, which bond shall be returned with the
execution, and, if not paid at maturity, shall have the force and effect
of a judgment, and execution may issue thereon, as on a judgment of
a court of record; and where the property shall sell for more than the
debt, interests and costs, the officer shall take a bond for the surplus
to the defendant, and deliver the same to him; but no more property
shall be sold than is necessary to satisfy the judgment, except where
the property cannot be divided ; and the officer making the sale shall
only be entitled to commissions on the amount of the plaintifff's
demand, and the costs and commissions shall be included in the bond
or bonds, taken to the plaintifff, who shall be liable therefore to the
officers of the court. If the defendant shall have replevied the prop
erty, execution against the defendant, and the sureties in the replevin
bond, shall be stayed, until the plaintifff's claim becomes due and
payable.
•

'

.
ARTICLE IX.
CLAIM BY THIRD PARTY.

§ 1456. When property is levied on, under any writ of attachment,
and the same is claimed by any third party, as being his property,
such third party shall be entitled to all the provisions made by law
relative to claimant's issues, in the circuit court, growing out of levies
under writs of fieri facias. All the proceedings shall conform to the
provisions of the statute, relative to claimant's issues, herein re
ferred to.
§ 1457. Such claimant in attachment cases, may have his claim
tried without giving bond ; but, in that case, the property shall not be
replevied. All such issues shall be tried without delay, and the losing
party shall pay all costs occasioned by the claim.

ARTICLE X.
ALLEGED GROUND FOR ATTACHMENT CONTESTED.
§ 1458. The ground or grounds, stated in an affidavit for attach
ment, shall not be considered conclusive on the defendant ; but he
may, at the first term, proceed to contest the same in the following
manner :

Chap. 13.]

SALE OF PERISHABLE PROPERTY.

297

§ 1459. At the term to which the attachment is returnable, the
defendant may file a plea in abatement of the attachment, traversing
the ground or grounds upon which the writ was obtained.
§ 1460. This plea shall be sworn to, and when it is filed, the issue
shall be considered as formed, without any response to the plea.
§ 1461. The court shall, at the first term, or as soon thereafter as
practicable, and before any trial of the case on its merits, cause a jury
to be empaneled, to try such issue, and determine, by their verdict,
whether the attachment was wrongfully sued out or not.
§ 1462. On the trial of such issue, both parties may introduce all
legal evidence relative to the issue, and the defendant may give
evidence as to the damages, if any, which the issuance of such attach
ment has occasioned him, all damage he has sustained, including
lawyers fees, traveling expenses, hotel bills, loss of trade and special
injury to his business; but the defendant, when he files his plea in
abatement, shall give plaintifff written notice of what special damages
he will insist upon at the trial.
§ 1463. If such issue be decided for defendant, he shall have judg
ment in his favor for the damages assessed, and final process shall
issue against plaintifff, and the sureties in his attachment bond, and
for damages assessed by the jury, and the costs of suit, and the
attachment shall be dismissed ; provided, that such judgment against
the sureties in the attachment bond shall not exceed the penalty
thereof.
§ 1464. If the issue be decided for plaintifff, the defendant shall be
permitted to plead to the merits, without delaying the cause unrea
sonably, on such terms as the court may impose.
§ 1465. The plaintifff may dismiss his attachment, but defendant
shall have a jury empaneled forthwith, to assess the damage sus
tained, by reason of suing out the attachment.

ARTICLE XI.
SALE OF PERISHABLE PROPERTY.
§ 1466. When goods and chattels are levied upon, under an attach
ment, which are in danger of immediate waste and decay, they shall
be sold in the manner following :
§ 1467. The officer levying on such goods, shall immediately sum
mons three male house-holders of the county, and administer to them
an oath, to examine such goods, and certify, in writing, whether, in
their opinion, the goods are perishable.
§ 1468. If such house-holders certify that the goods are perish
able, the officer holding them, shall sell them to the highest bidder,
tor cash, after a written notice, posted at three public places, in the

298

ATTACHMENTS AGAINST N0N-RESIDKNT3.

[Chap. 13.

supervisors district where the goods were found, for two entire days
before the sale ; the proceeds of such sale shall be held by the officer,
to abide the result of the suit.
§ 1469. The owner of such goods may replevy the same, as in
other cases, at any time before such sale occurs.

ARTICLE XII.
ATTACHMENTS BY AND AGAINST NON-RESIDENTS.
§ 1470. Non-resident creditors shall have the full benefit of the at
tachment laws of this state, for the collection of their claims against
all persons residing or being within this state.
§ 1471. Non-resident creditors may also sue out attachments against
their debtors residing without the limits of this state, and subject any
property, or effects or credits of such non-resident debtors being with
in this state, to the payment of the demands of such non-resident
creditors.

ARTICLE XIII.
PUBLICATION AND NOTICE.
§ 1472. When a writ of attachment has been levied on the prop
erty of defendant, or served on any debtor of defendant as a gar
nishee, and it shall appear that the defendant has not been found,
or that he was attached as a non-resident, it shall be the duty of the
plaintifff to file in the court, or with the clerk thereof, an affidavit set
ting forth that said plaintifff hath been informed and verily believes the
fact so to be, that said defendant is not within the state. The affidavit
shall also state where said defendant is supposed to be, naming the
post office where he receives his letters, if the plaintifff has any knowl
edge or belief as to that matter; and if plaintifff hath no such informa
tion, he shall so state in his affidavit.
§ 1473. When such affidavit is made and filed, it shall be the duty
of the court, or the clerk thereof in vacation, forthwith to insert a
notice in some newspaper printed and published in the county where
the court sits, (if there be one), if not, in some convenient newspaper
in another county, stating the pendency of such attachment, at whose
suit it is brought, in what court, when returnable, and what sum is
claimed ; and citing the said defendant to be and appear before such
court, and plead to the case ; in default of which appearance, judgment
by default shall be rendered, and the property sold, and the effects
applied to the payment of plaintifff's claim.

Chap. 13.]

FINAL JUDGMENT AND SALES.

299

§ 1474. The aforesaid notice shall be published for four consecu
tive weeks. It shall cite the defendant to appear at the return term
of the attachment, if there be time for such appearance after the
completion of the publication. If there be not time for such appear
ance, then the notice shall cite the defendant to appear at the next
succeeding term of the court.
1475. If the affidavit, made as herein provided, states the post
office of the defendant, then the clerk of the court, or the justice of
the peace, as the case may be, shall immediately forward, by mail,
postage paid, to the address of such defendant, a copy of the notice
inserted in the newspaper; and the clerk or justice, forwarding such
notice, shall make affidavit of the fact, stating the time when, and the
place where, such notice was forwarded, and file the same in the
papers in the case.

ARTICLE XIV.
FINAL JUDGMENT AND SALES.
§ 1476. The defendant in attachment, may appear, by himself or
attorney, without replevying the property attached, and defend the
suit, as in other actions for the recovery of money, at any time before
final judgment; but no judgment by default, regularly taken, shall be
set aside, except upon cause shown ; and in case the defendant shall
have been personally summoned, or shall appear and plead to the
action, the judgment therein shall have the same force and effect,
against the person and property of the defendant, as in other actions
where a summons has been personally served on him: provided,
however, that such appearance shall hot vacate or effect any bond
taken under this act, nor discharge any garnishee, nor effect any lien
created by the attachment ; but the proceedings in respect to any
property attached, or any garnishee summoned, shall be the same as
if final judgment had been entered by default, without any appear
ance of the defendant.
§ 1477. If the defendant shall not appear and plead to the action,
in pursuance of the notice, the court, on proof of the publication
thereof, shall give judgment against him by default, and award a writ
of inquiry, if necessary; but on such judgment by default no exe
cution shall issue, except against the property on which the attachment
has been served, or against a garnishee who shall have money or prop
erty in his hands belonging to the defendant.
§ 1478. All the estate, real and personal, attached, and not reple
vied as aforesaid, and the stock, share or interest of the defendant, in
any copartnership or incorporated company, shall be sold and dis
posed of towards the satisfaction of the plaintifff's judgment, in the

300

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 13.

same manner as property taken in execution on a writ of fieri facias;
and all goods and chattels replevied by the defendant, or found in the
hands of any garnishee belonging to such defendant, shall be liable
to satisfy such judgment, and shall be delivered to the sheriff, or
other officer, and sold in like manner; and judgment shall be entered
up, and execution awarded, against every garnishee, for all sums of
money due by him to the defendant, or in his custody or possession,
for the use of such defendant, or so much thereof as shall be suffi
cient to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff and all costs.
§ 1479. After judgment obtained by the plaintifff by default, upon
any attachments against non-residents, or absent defendants, upon
proof of publication only, the plaintifff shall, before any sale be made,
or execution issued against any garnishee, enter into bond, with secu
rity, to be approved by the court, or the clerk in vacation, pay
able to the defendant, in double the amount of the judgment, condi
tioned that if the defendant shall, within a year and a day next
following, come into court and disprove or avoid the debt recovered
by the plaintifff against him, then the plaintifff shall restore to the said
defendant the money he may have received towards the satisfaction
of his demand, or so much thereof as shall be disproved or avoided;
which bond shall be filed with the papers in the cause, and any sale
made without such bond being given as aforesaid, shall be utterly
void.
§ 1480. In the event that property be in the hands of an officer,
levied upon under such judgments as those named in the last pre
ceding section, and if the plaintifff shall fail and refuse, for ten days,
to execute the bond named in said section, after due notice, in writing,
served by the officer holding such property, then the said officer shall
sell said property, according to law, and hold the proceeds for a year
and a day, and then pay them to the party entitled to receive the
same.
*

ARTICLE

XV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 1481. Justices of the peace shall have full cognizance of attach
ments, in all cases, where the principal of the amount in controversy
does not exceed the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ; and all the
proceedings in such courts shall, as far as applicable, be conducted
conformably to the provisions of this chapter.
§ 1482. When a suit shall have been commenced, in any court in
this state, the plaintifff may obtain an attachment against the defend
ants, or any one or more of them, on making affidavit, and giving bond,
as required in other cases of attachment, which attachment shall be

Chap. 13.]

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

301

granted and issued by the same officers, and executed and returned,
and the like proceedings shall be had thereon, as in other cases pro
vided for by this chapter ; and the affidavit, bond and attachment,
when returned, shall be filed with the papers in the original suit, and
constitute a part thereof, and the plaintifff may proceed to judgment,
and the original suit shall not be delayed thereby.
§ 1483. When it shall appear to the court, on exceptions taken by
the defendant, or otherwise, that the sureties on any attachment bond
are insufficient, the court shall direct the plaintifff to give a new bond,
with good and sufficient security ; and such bond shall be as valid, in
all respects, as the original bond ; and if the plaintifff shall fail to give
a new bond, within the time required by the court, the attachment
shall be dismissed ; and in all cases where an attachment bond or
affidavit may be defective, in any respect, or may be lost or destroyed,
the plaintifff shall be allowed to file a new affidavit and bond, which
shall be, in all respects, as valid and binding, as if given at the com
mencement of the suit.
§ 1484. When an officer shall levy an attachment on live stock of
any kind, he shall sell the same, for cash, by giving such notice of the
sale as sheriffs are required to give, in making sales of personalty
under executions ; but the officer may sell, on any day, after giving
the required notice. If the defendant's residence be known, a copy
of the notice shall be sent by mail to his post-office. The proceeds of
such sale shall be held to abide the final result. Defendant may
replevy the property any time before the sale.
§ 1485. Executors and administrators may be garnisheed, for a
debt due by their testator or intestate, to the defendant; but no judg
ment shall be entered, in such case, against an executor or adminis
trator, until the lapse of six months after the grant of his letters.
§ 1486. If the defendant shall die, after the service of the writ of
attachment, the action shall not thereby be abated or discontinued,
but shall be carried on to judgment, sale, transfer, and final determi
nation, as if the defendant were still alive, and such death had not
occurred ; and all proceedings and deeds, in such cases, are hereby
declared to be as valid and effectual in law, as if had and made in
the lifetime of such defendant.
§ 1487. Attachments may be executed by any constable, by the
sheriff, by the coroner, or by the chief police officer of any incorpo
rated town, or by a person specially appointed for such purpose, and
sworn faithfully to perform such duty.
§ 1488. Attachment suits, and all issues growing out of them, shall
be tried at the return term, unless good cause be shown for a contin
uance.
§ 1489. That this act take effect, from and after the first day of
October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, April 12, 1871.

QUO WARRANTO.

302

CHAPTER

[Chap. 14.

14.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO INFORMATION AND PROCEEDINGS IN
QUO WARRANTO.

Article I.
II.
ILL
IV.
V.

Jurisdiction of the subject matter, and commencement
of the proceedings.
Jurisdiction of the Court, and the proceedings for the
Issue and Trial.
Judgment and its results.
Results from a Judgment of Ouster and of the Disso
lution of a Corporation.
Contempts in these proceedings.

ARTICLE I.
JURISDICTION OF SUBJECT MATTER, AND COMMENCEMENT OF THE
PROCEEDINGS.
§ 1490. An information may be filed against any person unlaw
fully holding or exercising any public office or franchise within this
state, or any office in any corporation created by the laws of this
state, and when any public officer has done or suffered any act which
works a forfeiture of his office ; or when any persons act as a corpora
tion within this state, without being authorized by law, or if being
incorporated, they do or omit acts which amount to a surrender or
forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when they
exercise powers not conferred by law.
§ 1491. Such information may be filed by the attorney general or
district attorney of the proper district, whenever he deems it his duty
so to do.
§ 1492. lie must file such information, when directed to do so by
the governor, the legislature, or (if a district attorney), by the attor
ney general.
§ 1493. If the district attorney, on demand, neglect or refuse to
file an information, any citizen of the state, claiming any public office
which is usurped unlawfully, or exercised by another, may do so in

303

JURISDICTION OF THE COURT.

[CHAP. 14.

such court, and he may prosecute the same, in his own name, to final
judgment, in all other respects as provided herein.
§ 1494. Such information shall consist of a plain statement of the
facts, which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, addressed to
the court, which shall stand for an original petition.

ARTICLE II.
JURISDICTION OF THE COURT, AND THE PROCEEDINGS FOR THE ISSUE
AND TRIAL.
§ 1495. The circuit court of the county, where the defendants, or one
of them, resides, or may be found, or has an office or place of business,
through an agent or officer, whether such defendant resides in the state
or not, shall have jurisdiction of the case, and such statements shall be
filed in the clerk's office, and summons issued and served, in the same
manner as provided for the commencement of actions in the circuit
court ; and if the circuit judge of that district be interested, then
in some other convenient circuit court of an adjacent district, which
shall thereby have full jurisdiction of the case.
§ 1496. The defendant shall appear and answer such information
in the usual way, and issue being joined, it shall be tried in the ordi
nary way, at the return term of the court, unless continuance be
granted, for cause shown.
§ 1497. When the defendant is holding an office, to which another
is claiming the right, the information shall set forth the name of such
claimant, and the trial must, if practicable, determine the rights of
the contesting parties.

ARTICLE ILL
JUDGMENT AND ITS RESULT.
§ 1498. If judgment be rendered in favor of such claimant, he
shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he has qual
ified, as required by law.
§ 1499. The court, after such judgment, shall order the defendant
to deliver over all books and papers in his custody, or under his con
trol, belonging to the office.
§ 1500. When judgment has been rendered in favor of the claimant,
he may, at any time, within one year thereafter, bring suit against the
defendant, and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of the
acts of the defendant.

Chap. 14.]

RESULTS FROM A JUDGMENT OF OUSTER.

304

§ 1501. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, an information may he filed against all, or any
number of them, in order to try their respective rights thereto.
§ 1502. If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding or
exercising any office, franchise or privilege, or if a corporation be
found to have violated the law by which it holds its existence, or in
any other manner to have done acts which amount to surrender or
forfeiture of its privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such
defendant be ousted, and altogether excluded from such office, fran
chise or privilege, and also that he pay the costs of the proceedings.
§ 1503. If the defendant be found to have exercised merely cer
tain individual powers and privileges, to which he was not entitled,
the judgment shall be the same as above directed, but only in rela
tion to those particulars in which he was thus exceeding the lawful
exercise of his rights and privileges.
§ 1504. When an information is upon the relation of a private indi
vidual, it shall be so stated in the petition and proceedings, and such
individual shall be responsible for costs, in case they are not adjudged
against the defendant. In other cases, the trial of the cause shall be
the same as in criminal prosecutions, and the payment of costs shall be
regulated by the same rule.
§ 1505. In case judgment is rendered against a pretended, but not
real, corporation, the costs may be collected from any person who has
been acting as an officer or proprietor of such pretended corporation.

ARTICLE IV.
RESULTS FROM A JUDGMENT OF OUSTER, AND OF DISSOLUTION OF A COR
PORATION.
§ 1506. If a corporation is ousted and dissolved by the proceedings
herein authorized, the court shall appoint three disinterested persons
as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.
§ 1507. Said trustees shall enter into bond in such penalty, and
with such security as the court approves, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of their trust.
§ 1508. Suit maybe brought on such bond by any person injured
by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the discharge of
their duties.
§ 1509. The trustees shall proceed immediately to collect the debts,
and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide the surplus
among those thereto entitled.
§ 1510. The court shall, upon an application for that purpose, order
any officer of such corporation, or any other person having possession
of any of the effects, books, or papers of the corporation, in anywise

Chap. 14.]

CONTEMPTS IN THESE PROCEEDINGS.

305

necessary for the settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the same to the
trustees.
§ 1511. A true copy of such bond, judgments and orders, certified
to be such by the clerk of such circuit court, shall be filed with the
clerk of the chancery court ; and thereupon the chancery court shall
have charge of the same, as in other trusts, under the provisions
herein, and shall require a speedy collection and distribution to cred
itors and others, of the effects and proceeds of such corporation, and
a final settlement of all the business thereof.
§ 1512. As soon as practicable, after their appointment, the trus
tees shall make and file, in the office of the clerk of the chancery
court, an inventory of all the effects, rights and credits, which come
to their possession or knowledge, the truth of which inventory shall
be sworn to.
§ 1513. They shall sue for and recover the debts and property of
the corporation, and shall be responsible to the creditors and stock
holders, respectively, to the extent of the effects which may come into
their hands, in the same manner as though they were the executors of
a deceased person.
§ 1514. When judgment of ouster is rendered against a corporation,
on account of the misconduct of the directors or officers thereof, such
officers shall be jointly and severally liable to an action, by any one
injured thereby.

ARTICLE V.
CONTEMPTS IN THESE PROCEEDINGS.
§ 1515. Any person who, without good reason, refuses, or know
ingly neglects to obey any order of the court, as herein provided,
shall be deemed guilty of contempt of court, and shall be fined, in
any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, and imprisoned in the
county jail, until he comply with said order, and shall be further liable
for damages, resulting to any person, on account of his refusing to obey
such order.
§ 1516. That this act shall take effect, from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, April 12th, 1871.

20

ACTION OF MANDAMUS.

306

CHAPTER

[Chap. 15.

15.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO ACTION OF MANDAMUS.

Artice I.
II.

Jurisdiction of Subject Matter, and the Commencement
of the Proceedings.
Further Proceedings to Judgment, and the Results
Thereof.

ARTICLE I.
JURISDICTION OF SUBJECT MATTER AND THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE PRO
CEEDINGS.
§ 1517. The writ of mandamus is an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction, and issues from the proper circuit courts, commanding an
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, officer, or person, to do or not to
do an act, the performance or omission of which the law specially
enjoins as a duty, resulting from an office, trust or station ; and it is
granted, on the petition of any private party aggrieved, without the
concurrence of the prosecutor for the state ; or on the petition of the
state by the attorney general, or the district attorney, by or without
the direction of the attorney general, when the public interest is con
cerned, and is in the name of such private party, or of the state, as
the case may be in fact brought.
§ 1518. If the judge of the proper circuit court shall be interested,
then the proceedings may be had, and the jurisdiction vest in the cir
cuit court of a convenient county of another circuit court district.
§ 1519. The plaintifff in such action shall state his claim, and shall
also state facts sufficient to constitute a cause for such claim, and
shall also set forth that the plaintifff (if a private individual), is per
sonally interested therein, and that he sustains, or may sustain
damage, by the non-performance of such duty, and that performance
thereof has been demanded by him, and refused or neglected, and
shall pray a writ of mandamus, commanding the defendant to fulfill
such duty.
§ 1520. The pleadings and other proceedings, in any action, in
which a mandamus is claimed, shall be the same, in all respects, as

Chap. 15.]

PROCEEDINGS TO JUDGMENT.

307

nearly as may be, and costs shall be recoverable by either party, as in
an ordinary action for the recovery of damages, and the trial shall be
had at the return term, unless continuance be granted, for cause shown.

ARTICLE II.
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS TO JUDGMENT, AND THE RESULTS THEREOF.
§ 1521. Where a discretion is left to an inferior tribunal, the writ
of mandamus can only compel it to act. It cannot control the dis
cretion of the inferior tribunal.
§ 1522. It shall not be issued in any case where there is a plain,
speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of law, ex
cept as herein provided.
§ 1523. In case judgment be given for the plaintifff, that a manda
mus do issue, it shall be lawful for the court in which such judg
ment is given, if it shall see fit, besides issuing execution in the ordi
nary way, for the damages and costs, also to issue a peremptory writ
of mandamus to the defendant, commanding him forthwith to per
form the duty to be enforced.
§ 1524. The writ shall simply command the performance of the
duty, and shall be directed to the party ; and, if he do not comply,
the court may compel compliance by an attachment directed to the
sheriff, which may be issued in term time or vacation, and returnable
forthwith, and no return except that of compliance shall be allowed,
but time to return it may, upon sufficient grounds, be allowed by the
court or judge, either with or without terms.
§ 1525. The court may, upon application of the plaintifff, instead of
proceeding against the defendant by attachment, direct that the act re
quired to be done, may be done by the plaintifff, or some other person
appointed by the court, at the expense of the defendant ; and upon
the act being done, the amount of such expense may be ascertained
by the court, or by a reference appointed by the court, as the court
or judge may order, and the court may render judgment for the
amount of such expense and costs, and enforce payment thereof by
execution.
§ 1526. During the pendency of the action, the court or judge in
vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing damage or
injury to the plaintifff, until the case is decided.
§ 1527. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1S71.
Approved, March 30, 1871.

308

REPLEVIN.

CHAPTER

[Chap. 16.

16.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO REPLEVIN.

ARTICLE I.
HOW OBTAINED, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.
§ 1528. Whenever any goods and chattels are, or shall be, wrong
fully taken or detained, an action of replevin may be maintained by
any person having the right of immediate possession, for the recovery
thereof, and for the damages sustained by reason of such wrongful
taking or detention ; provided, such action shall be brought within
one year next after the plaintifff's right of action has occurred, and
not after.
§ 1529. Before any writ of replevin, in such case shall issue, the
plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, shall make and file in the office of
the clerk of the circuit court, or with a justice of the peace, in cases
within the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, an affidavit, setting
forth a description of the property taken or detained, and that the
plaintifff is legally entitled to the immediate possession of the same ;
that said property was wrongfully taken, or is wrongfully detained, by
the defendant, and that the plaintifff's right of action has accrued
within one year.
§ 1530. The writ of replevin shall command the sheriff or other
lawful officer of the proper county, to take the goods and chattels
specified in the affidavit, and to deliver the same to the plaintifff,
upon the plaintifff entering into bond to the defendant, with suf
ficient security, in double the value of the property, to be ascertained
by the valuation of the sheriff, or other officer into whose hands the
writ may come, conditioned that he will prosecute the writ with effect,
and without delay make return of the property to the defendant, if
return thereof be adjudged, and pay the defendant such damages as he
may sustain by the wrongful suing out of said writ, and also such
costs as may be awarded against him, and save harmless the sheriff or
other officer, as the case may be, for replevying the said property ; un
less the defendant shall enter into bond, with sufficient security in
like penalty, payable to the plaintifff, conditioned that the property
shall be forthcoming to satisfy the judgment of the court, and to
summon the defendant to appear in court on the return day of the
writ, to answer to the action. And upon the defendant entering into
bond as aforesaid, the property shall be restored to him.

Chap. 16.]

REPLEVIN—HOW OBTAINED.

309

§ 1531. The defendant shall give bond, as above provided, within
two days from the seizure of the property, and failing in that time,
the property shall be delivered to the plaintifff, as above provided ;
but if the plaintifff, when notified of the failure of the defendant to
give bond, shall not himself give the required bond, within a reason
able time, the property shall remain in the hands of the sheriff, or
other officer, until the trial, subject to the right of either party, on
application to the sheriff or other officer, to be allowed to give bond
and receive the property ; and if neither party gives a bond, that shall
not effect the suit but it shall nevertheless proceed.
§ 1532. The declaration may be filed, after the issuance of the
writ : provided, it be filed on or before the first day of the return
term, or before any order of nolle pros, be taken ; and the action may
be tried at the first term of the court. The defendant may plead
that he is not guilty of the premises charged against him, and this
plea shall put in issue, not only the right of the plaintifff to the pos
session of the property, but also the wrongful taking and detention
thereof. In cases before justices of the peace, the proceedings shall
be as in other cases before them.
§ 1533. When the property shall have been permitted to remain
in the possession of the defendant, if the plaintifff recover, the judg
ment of the court shall be against the defendant and his sureties, that
they restore the property to the plaintifff, or pay him the value thereof,
as assessed by the verdict of a jury, and also for such damages as
shall have been assessed by the jury, for the wrongful taking or de
tention ; and the valuation of the sheriff, shall in all cases, under this
chapter, be prima facie evidence of the value of the property.
§ 1534. If a plaintifff in replevin, to whom the property has been
delivered, fail to prosecute his suit with effect, the jury shall assess the
value of the property, and the damages sustained by the defendant,
and the judgment of the court shall be against the plaintifff and his
sureties, that they restore the property to the defendant, or pay him
the value thereof, so assessed, and also the damages so assessed, for
wrongfully sueing out the writ. If the plaintifff make default, or be
non-suited, the defendant may have a writ of inquiry, to assess the
value of the property, and the damages sustained by the wrongful
sueing out of the writ. And in the event of the death of any surety
upon such bonds, before the termination of the trial, the court may
order judgment nisi to be rendered against the personal representa
tives of such deceased surety, and the party may have like judgment,
upon the finding of the jury, as upon an issue found for him ; and if
no bond was given, and the property remains in the hands of the
sheriff, or other officer, the value of the property, and the damages
sustained, shall be assessed, and judgment shall be for the recovery
of the property, and the damages assessed against the party liable,
and the sheriff or other officer shall deliver the property to the suc
cessful party, and the execution shall issue for damages and costs of
suit.

310

REPLEVIN*

HOW OBTAINED.

[Chap. 16.

§ 1535. If the party in whose favor the judgment is given be in
possession of the property in controversy, he shall retain it, and a
writ of fieri facias shall issue for the damages and costs of suit; and
if the property be in possession of the losing party, the execution
shall command the sheriff to take the property in controversy, if the
same may be had, and deliver the same to the successful party, and if
not to be had, that he make the value thereof, together with the
damages and costs, of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the party and his sureties, against whom the judgment is ren
dered ; or the successful party may have his distringas to compel the
delivery of the property, together with a fieri facias for the damages
and costs.
§ 1536. The bond directed by this chapter to be taken in either
case, shall be returned with the writ to the court issuing the same ;
and if the sheriff fail to take a proper and sufficient bond, and return
the same ; or if the bond taken be adjudged insufficient, and the party
giving it shall, if required, fail to perfect the same, the sheriff shall
be liable to the party injured, for all damages by him sustained, either
by action of debt on his official bond, or by special action on the case ;
provided, the parties shall have the same right of amendment under
this chapter as that given by the chapter providing the remedy by
attachment.
§ 1537. If either party in such suit, or the sheriff, shall at anytime
deem any bond taken under this chapter to be insufficient, such party
or sheriff, if in vacation, may, upon application to the judge of the
court where such writ may be pending, obtain a citation, under the
signature of said judge, commanding the obligor in such bond to ap
pear before such judge, at such time and place as the said judge shall
therein designate, and if in term-time, such party or sheriff may pro
ceed, by motion, against the obligor on such bond, and in either case
the judge or court, shall, after hearing the evidence of both parties,
determine the sufficiency or insufficiency of such bond ; and if the bond
given by the plaintifff shall be adjudged insufficient, he shall give
a new and sufficient bond, within the time limited by the court or
judge, and in default thereof, the defendant shall be entitled to pro
ceed and enter judgment, as in case the plaintifff should be nonsuited,
or otherwise make default ; and if. the bond of the defendant shall be
adjudged insufficient, and he shall fail to give a sufficient bond, within
the time limited by the court or judge, the plaintifff, on giving bond as
by this chapter directed, shall be entitled to a judicial writ, command
ing the sheriff to take the property in controversy, and deliver the
same to the plaintifff; and thereupon such proceedings shall be had as
if the property had been delivered to the plaintifff in the first instance.
§ 1538. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, April 12, 1871.

Chap. 17.]

ejectment.

CHAPTER

311

17.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO EJECTMENT.

Article I.
n.
in.
IV.
V.

Pleadings and Process.
Practice.
Trial and its Incidents.
Compensation for Improvements.
General Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
PLEADINGS AND PROCESS.
§ 1539. The consent rule, and all fictions heretofore used in actions
of ejectment, are hereby abolished, and the action of ejectment shall
be commenced by filing a declaration in the name of the person
claiming the premises in question, as plaintifff, against the tenant or
possessor thereof as defendant; the declaration shall describe the
premises with such certainty as will distinctly apprise the defendant
of their description and situation, and so that, from such description,
possession may be delivered ; and if the plaintifff claims only an undi
vided interest therein, it shall state such interest, and the declaration
may contain several counts. If the plaintifff shall claim more than he
is entitled to, he may, nevertheless, recover so much as he shall prove
title to.
§ 1540. On filing the declaration, a summons shall issue against
the defendant, which shall be issued, executed and returned, in the
same manner prescribed for the issuance, execution and return of a
summons in personal actions.
§ 1541. The defendants named in the summons, or either of them,
shall be allowed to plead to and defend the action, either jointly or
separately; the plea shall be, " not guilty," which shall be filed in the
same time required in personal actions; and under said plea, the
defendant may give in evidence any lawful defense to the action, not
inconsistent with the other provisions of this chapter. The defend

312

PLEADINGS AND PROCESS.

[Chap. 17.

ants, or either of them, may defend for a part only of the premises
in question ; and in such case, the part shall be described in the plea,
with the same certainty required in the declaration.
§ 1542. Every tenant, sued in ejectment, shall forthwith give
notice thereof to his landlord, under penalty of three years' rent of
the premises, to be recovered by the landlord or his representative*
in an action of debt; and the landlord of such tenant, or any other
proper person, shall, by leave of the court or judge, be admitted to
appear and defend the action, in all cases where the same would have
been allowed heretofore, and either separately or jointly with the ten
ant ; and any person admitted to defend as landlord, in respect of
property whereof he is in possession only by his tenant, shall state in
his plea, that he defends as such landlord, and such person shall be
allowed to set up any defense he has heretofore been allowed to set
up, and no other ; and any judgment, in such action, shall have the
same effect, for or against such person so admitted to defend, as if he
had been named in the declaration and summons, and regularly served
with process.
§ 1543. The plea of the defendant shall, for the purposes of that
action, be construed as an admission that he was in possession of the
premises for which he defends, at the time of the commencement of
the action.
§ 1544. If the premises be not described with sufficient certainty,
in the declaration or plea, the court, or judge, may order the pleading
to be amended, so as to contain such description ; and if either party
shall fail to comply with such order, judgment may be entered, as for
want of a declaration or plea, according to the circumstances of the
case.
§ 1545. If no plea be filed, within the limited time, the plaintifff
shall be entitled to judgment, that he recover possession of the prem
ises claimed in*the declaration, and costs of suit, and shall have his
writ of possession, including an execution for the costs.
§ 1546. If the defendant in an action of ejectment, shall desire to
deny that he was, at the commencement of the action, in possession
of any part of the premises in question, he may do so by a special
plea ; but in such case, the title of the plaintifff shall be admitted,
and the only question on the trial shall be in relation to the fact of
possession ; and in no case shall possession of part of the premises be
construed as possession of the whole, when an actual adverse posses
sion is shown.
§ 1547. Declarations, writs and pleas, in the form, or to the effect
of the precedents appended hereto, shall be good and sufficient for all
purposes, in any proceedings under this chapter.

Chap. 17.]

FORMS OF PROCEEDINGS IN EJECTMENT.
FORMS OF PROCEEDINGS IN EJECTMENT.
No. I.—Form of Declaration.

State of Mississippi,
County of

)
: \

In the circuit court of said county,
term, A. D
, A. B., the
plaintifff ia this action, by his attorney, demands of C. D., the defend
ant therein, the possession of the equal undivided one fourth part of
a tract of land, with the appurtenances, situated in said county, con
taining
acres, more or less, and being [here describe the same ;]
and the plaintifff says that his right to the possession of the same,
accrued on the
day of
,.A. D
, and that the defendant
wrongfully deprives him of the possession thereof, to his damage, one
hundred dollars.
E. F., Attorney for Plaintiff.
If mesne profits are demanded, add to the above form the follow
ing : dollars,
And thefor
said
theplaintifff
use andalso
occupation
demandsofofthe
the said
defendant,
land by
thethe
sumdeof
fendant, from the aforesaid day, to the commencement of this suit,
being at the rate of
dollars a year.
No. II.—Form of Summons.
State of Mississippi, to the Sheriff of the County of

, Greeting:

We command you to summon C. D., to appear before the circuit
court of the county of
, to be held at the court house thereof, on
the
Monday of
next, to answer to the complaint of A. B.,
who demands of him the possession of [describe the land as in the
declaration;] and in default of his appearing, and defending this
action, judgment will be entered against him, and he will be turned
out of possession of said land, and have you then there this writ.
, Clerk.
No. III.—Form ofplea by the tenant, when he defends for the whole
premises claimed.
C. D.
ads.
A. B.

)
[
)

Circuit Court of
county,
Term, A. D
In ejectment.

And the said C. D., by his attorney, appears and defends this action,
and says he is not guilty of the injury whereof the said A. B. hath
complained in his declaration, nor of any part thereof, and of this he
puts himself upon the country, and the said A. B. doth the like.
G. H., Attorney of Defendant.

314

PRACTICE.

[Chap. 17.

No. IV.—Form ofplea where the tenant defendsfor part of the prem
ises only.
After stating the court and parties, say: And the said C. D., by
his attorney, appears and defends this action, as to a part of the
premises claimed by plaintifff in his declaration, to-wit: [describe
the part defendedfor], and as to the part so defended for, he says he is
not guilty of the injury whereof the said A. B. hath complained in
his declaration, and of this he puts himself upon the country, and the
said A. B. doth the like.
No. V.—Form ofplea for the landlord, when defending separately.
State the court and parties, and then say : And R. S., who is admitted
to defend this action as landlord, by his attorney, appears and defends
this action, etc., [as in form number three or four, according to cir
cumstances.]
No. VI.—Plea by any other person than the landlord, admitted to
defend, and defending separately.
State the court and parties, and then say : And N. O., who is admit
ted as a proper person to defend this action, by his attorney appears
and defends this action, etc., [as in number three or four, according
to circumstances.]
No. VII.—Plea by landlord and tenant, defending jointly.
State the court and parties, and then say: And the said 0. D.,
together with R. S., who is admitted to defend this action, as land
lord, by their attorney, appear and defend the action, etc., [as in
number three or four, according to circumstances.]
No. VIII.—Plea by any person other than the landlord, admitted to
defend, and defending jointly with the tenant.
State the court and the parties, and then say : And the said 0. D.,
together with N. 0., who is admitted as a proper person to defend
this action, by their attorney, appear and defend the action, [as in
number three or four, according to circumstances.]

ARTICLE

II.

PRACTICE.
§ 1548. If a plea be filed, limiting the defense to a part only of
the premises in question, the plaintifff shall be entitled to a judgment,
that he recover possession of the part not defended for, and to a writ

Chap. 17.]

TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

315

of possession therefore ; and where a part only of the premises is de
fended for, the plaintifff may enter a discontinuance of the action as
to that part, and enter a judgment for the residue, with costs.
§ 1549. The plaintifff may, at any time, discontinue the action, as
to any or all of the defendants, upon payment of his or their costs ;
and if one of several plaintifffs desire to discontinue, he may apply to
the court to have his name struck out of the proceedings, which may
be ordered upon such terms as the court may think just, and the action
shall thereupon proceed, at the suit of the other plaintifffs.
§ 1550. If 'one of several defendants, who defends separately for a
portion of the property, retracts his plea, and confesses the plaintifff's
action, as to such portion, the plaintifff may forthwith enter judgment,
and issue execution for the recovery of the possession of that portion,
and for the costs occasioned by the defense relating to the same, and
the action may proceed as to the residue : provided, that if any other
defendant defends for the same portion, then the plaintifff shall not be
at liberty to issue execution for the recovery of the possession of that
portion, until he has recovered against all the defendants, who defend
therefore.
§ 1551. After issue joined in ejectment, either party may demand
in writing, of the other, a bill of particulars of his claim or title to
the premises in question, which bill shall include a short abstract of
such documentary evidences of title, as the party may intend to give
in evidence on the trial ; and if any such documents may by law be
recorded, it shall also state where they are recorded, or if not
recorded, then it shall include copies of such as are in the pos
session of the party, with the names of the subscribing witnesses
thereto, if any; and such bill of particulars shall be delivered in
thirty days after the same shall be demanded, or within such further
time as the court or judge, on good cause shown, may grant, and in
default thereof, no evidence of such title shall be given on the trial;
but the court or judge may, upon good cause shown, allow either
party to serve an amended bill of particulars ; and in all cases the
evidence of title shall be confined to the matters contained in the
bill of particulars.

ARTICLE III.
TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.
§ 1552. After issue joined, the parties shall proceed to trial as
in other actions, and if the plaintifff appear at the trial, and the de
fendant does not, the jury shall render verdict against the defendant,
without any proof of title by the plaintifff ; and if the defendant ap
pears, and the plaintifff does not, the plaintifff shall be non-suited ; if
both parties appear, the question at the trial shall be whether the

316

TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

[CUAP. 17.

plaintifff or plaintifffs, or either, and which of them, is entitled to re
cover the possession of the premises in question, and whether of the
whole or part, and if a part, then of which part ; and if the jury shall
find for the plaintifff as to part only, their verdict shall particularly
specify which part, and judgment shall be entered on such verdict if
not set aside by the court, that the plaintifff recover the possession of
the same, either in whole or in part, as the case may be, with costs,
upon which a writ of possession shall issue, which may include an
execution for costs, or a separate execution may be issued for the
costs.
§ 1553. If it shall appear at the trial, that the title of the plaintifff
existed, as alleged in the declaration, in such manner that the plain
tiff or plaintifffs, or one of them, was at the commencement of the
action entitled to recover possession of the premises in question, or of
some part thereof, but that such title has expired at the time of trial,
the plaintifff or plaintifffs so entitled shall, notwithstanding such expira
tion, have a verdict according to the fact, that he had such right of re
covery at the commencement of the action, and shall recover his costs
of suit, but as to the premises claimed, the judgment shall be that the
defendant go thereof without day.
§ 1554. In ejectment the successful party shall in all cases, except
when it may be otherwise provided, recover his costs of suit of the
other party, and may have the like execution therefore as in personal
actions.
§ 1555. In case such action be brought by some one of several
persons, entitled as joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners,
any joint tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener defending the
action, may give notice with his plea, that he defends as such, and
admits the right of the plaintifff to an undivided share of the property,
(stating what share), but denies any actual ouster of him from the
property; and upon the trial of such an issue, the additional question
of whether an actual ouster has taken place, shall be tried, and if it
shall appear that the defendant is such joint tenant, tenant in com
mon, or coparcener with the plaintifff, and no such actual ouster shall
be proved, then the plaintifff shall be non-suited, with costs ; but if it
shall be proved, either that the defendant is not such joint tenant,
tenant in common or coparcener, or that an actual ouster has taken
place, then the jury shall so find by their verdict, and the plaintifff
shall have judgment in accordance with the verdict for the recovery
of possession and costs.
§ 1556. When the jury shall find for the plaintifff, in an action of
ejectment, if the defendant has a crop then planted, and growing
upon the premises in question, they shall assess a reasonable rent for
the plaintifff to receive, for the use of the premises, for such time as
they may think necessary for the defendant to make and gather his
crop; and if the defendant shall, during the term of the court at which
the action was tried, enter into bond, with security to be approved by

Chap. 17.]

COMPENSATION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.

317

the court, in a penalty of double the amount of the rent so assessed by
the jury, payable to the plaintifff, conditioned for the payment of the
rent assessed as aforesaid, at the expiration of the term fixed by the
jury, for the defendant to hold possession of the premises, then no writ
of possession shall issue upon the judgment in such action, until the
expiration of the time so allowed by the jury ; and such bond shall be
filed in the court, and if forfeited, shall have the force and effect of a
judgment, and execution may issue thereon against the principal and
sureties, as upon other judgments in such court.

ARTICLE IV.
COMPENSATION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
§ 1557. In all cases where the defendant in ejectment would be
liable for mesne profits and damages, the plaintifff may declare for
and recover the same, in the action of ejectment, or he may have his
action for mesne profits after the recovery in ejectment as heretofore ;
but it shall be lawful, in all cases, for the defendant in ejectment, or
in an action for mesne profits, to plead the value of all permanent,
valuable, and not ornamental improvements, made by the defendant
on the land, or by any one under whom he claims, before notice of the
intention of the plaintifff to bring the action, giving notice with his
plea, of the character of the improvements, and the value thereof;
and if such improvements shall exceed the value of the mesne profits
and damages, the jury shall find the actual cash value of such im
provements, the value of the mesne profits and damages, and also the
actual cash value of the land, without the improvements ; and the
defendant shall have a lien upon the land for the difference between
the value of the mesne profits and the value of the improvements so
found; and no execution shall issue in favor of the plaintifff, until he
shall have paid the amount so due to the defendant ; and unless the
plaintifff shall, within three months after the rendition of the verdict,
pay the amount so due as aforesaid, the defendant may pay to the
plaintifff the assessed value of the land, with interest from the date of
the verdict, and shall pay the costs of the suit ; and thereupon the
execution of the judgment for the recovery of the land shall be per
petually stayed ; and if the defendant shall fail to pay to the plaintifff
the value of the land so assessed, with interest, and the cost of the
suit, within three months after the expiration of the time allowed the
plaintifff for making payment as aforesaid, an execution shall issue for
the sale of the said land recovered in the ejectment; and out of the
proceeds of the sale, after payment of the costs, the plaintifff shall be
paid the assessed value of the land, with interest from the date of the
verdict, and then the defendant shall be paid out of the residue, the

318

OKNERAL PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 17.

assessed value of the improvements, above the value of the mesne
profits and damages, with interest as aforesaid, if the residue shall
amount to so much ; and if a surplus shall remain, such surplus
shall be divided between the plaintifff and defendant, in proportion to
the amount which each may be entitled to receive as aforesaid ; but
no defendant shall be entitled to such compensation for improvements,
unless he shall claim the premises under some deed or contract of
purchase, made or acquired in good faith.

ARTICLE

V.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 1558. In case either party shall desire a survey to be made, of
the premises sued for in ejectment, such party may cause the same
to be made, after the institution of the suit, by applying to the clerk
of the court, in which the suit is brought, to issue a commission for
that purpose, directed to the county surveyor, or other surveyor,
authorizing him to make a survey of the premises, and report the
same to the court at the next term thereof, which survey shall be com
petent evidence; but no such survey shall be made without first
giving ten days' notice to the opposite party, of the time of making
the same ; and the surveyor shall have authority to administer all
oaths, which may be necessary in the completion of the work, and
the party at whose instance the survey was made, shall pay the ex
penses thereof, but may recover the same as costs, in case he succeeds
in the action.
§ 1559. The death of a plaintifff, or defendant in ejectment, shall
not cause the action to abate, but it may be continued as hereafter
provided.
§ 1560. In case the right of a deceased plaintifff shall survive to
another plaintifff, a suggestion may be made of the death, and the ac
tion may proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff; and if the sug
gestion be made before the trial, the plaintifff shall have a verdict and
judgment, upon its appearing that he was entitled to bring the action,
either separately or jointly, with the deceased plaintifff ; and in case
of the death before trial, of one of several plaintifffs, whose right
does not survive to any of the other plaintifffs, if the legal representa
tives of the deceased plaintifff, shall not become a party to the action,
a suggestion may be made of the death, and the action may proceed
at the suit of the surviving plaintifff, for such share of the property as
he is entitled to, and costs.
§ 1561. In case of a verdict for two or more plaintifffs, if one of
them die before final process is executed by delivery of possession,
thereupon the other plaintifff may, whether the legal right to the

Chap. 17.]

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

319

property shall survive or not, suggest the death in manner aforesaid,
and proceed to judgment and execution for the recovery of the posses
sion of the whole of the premises in question, to which the, right of
possession may he found -by the verdict, and the costs ; or in case such
death shall occur after the judgment, the surviving plaintifff may,
without such suggestion, take out execution and recover possession
of the whole of the premises, as aforesaid ; but nothing herein con
tained shall affect the right of the legal representative of the deceased
plaintifff, or the liability of the surviving plaintifff to such representa
tive; and the entry and possession of such surviving plaintifff, under
such execution, shall be considered an entry and possession on behalf
of such representative in respect of the share of the premises in ques
tion, to which he shall be entitled as such representative, and the
court may direct possession to be delivered accordingly.
§ 1562. In case of the death, before trial, of a sole plaintifff, or of any
of several plaintifffs, whose right does not survive to any other plaintifff,
the legal representative of such deceased plaintifff may, by leave of
the court, enter a suggestion of such death, and that he is such legal
representative, and the action shall thereupon proceed, and the truth
of the suggestion shall be tried on the trial of the action, together
with the title of such deceased plaintifff, and such judgment shall
follow upon the verdict in favor of, or against, the person making such
suggestion, as is hereinbefore provided, with reference to a judgment
for or against such deceased plaintifff.
§ 1563. In case a sole plaintifff die, after a verdict in his favor, and
before final process is executed, judgment, if not entered, shall be
entered in his favor, and shall have the same effect as if entered in
his lifetime ; and the court, on suggestion of such death, and applica
tion of the legal representative of the deceased plaintifff, may order
that a writ issue for the delivery to such representative of the posses
sion of the premises recovered, and the same shall be delivered accord
ingly, subject, however, to such terms as the court may impose ; and
the personal representatives of such deceased plaintifff shall have the
like remedies for the collection of the costs recovered by such judg
ment, as they would have upon any other judgment for money in favor
of the deceased.
§ 1564. In case of the death, before judgment, of one of several
defendants, who defend jointly, a suggestion may be made of the
death, and the action may proceed against the surviving defendant to
judgment and execution ; but if such death happen before trial, the
court, in its discretion, may order that the legal representatives of
such deceased defendant be summoned to appear and defend the
action, within a time to be limited by the court; and in case such rep
resentative appear, he shall plead the same plea, and the same pro
ceedings shall be taken against him as if he had been originally ad
mitted to defend the action ; and if no such order be made, or if one
be made and such representative, having been duly summoned, do not

.320

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

[Chap. 17.

appear and plead, within the time so limited, then the plaintifff sug
gesting thejdeath, in manner as aforesaid, may proceed against the sur
viving defendants to judgment and execution.
§ 1565. In case of the death of a sole defendant, or of all the de
fendants, before trial, a suggestion may be made of the death, and if
the legal representatives of such deceased defendant or defendants
shall not voluntarily appear and become parties to the action, the
court shall order such representatives to be summoned to appear and
defend the action, within a time to be limited by the court; and in
case such representatives appear they shall plead the same plea, and
the same proceedings may be taken against them, as if they had been
originally admitted to defend the action ; and if no plea be filed within
the time limited, the plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment for want
-of a plea, and may have a writ of possession for the recovery of pos
session of the premises in question, in the same manner as if the
original defendant or defendants were still living.
§ 1566. In case of the death of sole defendant or of all the de
fendants, after verdict against him or them, the plaintifff shall, never
theless, be entitled to judgment, as if no such death had taken place,
and to proceed by execution for the recovery of possession, without
suggestion or revivor, and to proceed for the recovery of the costs, in
like manner as upon any other judgment for money, against such de
fendant or defendants.
§ 1567. In case of the death of one of several defendants who de
fends separately, for a portion of the premises in question, for which
no other defendant defends, before trial, or after a verdict against him,
the same proceedings may be taken as to such portions, as in case of
the death of a sole defendant, and the plaintifff may proceed against
the surviving defendant in respect of the portion of the premises
for which he defends.
§ 1568. In case of the death, before trial, of one of several de
fendants, who defends separately, in respect of property for which a
surviving defendant also defends, the court may order that the legal
representatives of such deceased defendant, be summoned to appear
and defend the action, within a time to be limited by said court ; and
in case such representative appear, he shall plead the same plea, and
the same proceedings may be had against him, as if he had been
originally admitted to defend the action ; and if no such order be
made, or if one be made, and such representative, having been duly
summoned, do not appear and plead, within the time so limited, then
the plaintifff, suggesting the death in manner aforesaid, may proceed
against the surviving defendants, to judgment and execution.
§ 1569. A judgment in an action of ejectment, commenced after
this chapter takes effect, shall be conclusive as to the right of posses
fiion established by such judgment, upon the party against whom it is
recovered, and upon all persons claiming from, through or under such
party, by title arising after the commencement of such action : pro

Chap. 18.]

SUITS AGAINST THE STATE.

321

vided, that if any person against whom such judgment is recovered,
shall be, at the time of its recovery, an infant, married woman, idiot,
or lunatic, the judgment shall be no bar to an action, commenced by
such person, or any one claiming from, through, or under such person,
within three years after the removal of such disability.
§ 1570. The several courts in which actions of ejectment may be
brought, or be pending, shall and may exercise over the proceed
ings therein, the like jurisdiction and control, as heretofore exercised
in the action of ejectment, so as to insure a trial of the title only, and
of actual ouster, when necessary, and for all other purposes for which
such jurisdiction may at present be exercised.
§ 1571. Wherever, in this chapter, the words " legal representa
tive" of a deceased party, plaintifff or defendant occur, in relation to
the effect of the death of such party in an action of ejectment, they
shall be understood to mean such heir, devisee or other representa
tive of the deceased person, as upon his death becomes seized or
possessed of, or otherwise entitled to the estate or interest in the
premises in question, of which such deceased person was siezed,
possessed or entitled to, at the time of his death.
§ 1572. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved, April 12th, 1871.

CHAPTER

18.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO SUITS AGAINST THE STATE.

Article I.
II.
III.

Liability of State to Individuals.
Where Suits may be Commenced.
Mode of Procedure.

ARTICLE

I.

LIABILITY OF STATE TO INDIVIDUALS.
§ 1573. The State of Mississippi shall beheld liable to all persons
whatever having claims, at law or in equity, against her, to the same
extent as individual persons are liable to each other, and may be sued
21

322

WHERE SUITS MAY BE COMMENCED.

[CHAP. 18.

by any person having a cause of action, in the manner hereinafter
provided ; but no suit shall be maintained unless the claim has been
demanded from the proper officer, and payment refused.

ARTICLE II.
WHERE SUITS MAY BE COMMENCED.
§ 1574. All suits against the state, whether at law or in equity,
shall be commenced in the court having jurisdiction of the cause,
which holds its sessions at the capital of the state ; and those courts
are hereby vested with exclusive jurisdiction over all causes in which
the stale may be made a party defendant.
§ 1575. In the event that no court of proper jurisdiction should
hereafter sit at the capital, then suits against the state shall be
brought in the proper court, which sits in the county in which the
capital is located.

ARTICLE

III.

MODE OF PROCEDURE.
§ 1576. Suits against the state shall be instituted and conducted
in reference to process, pleading and practice, in conformity with the
general laws of the state regulating suits between individuals, in the
tribunals where such suits may be commenced.
§ 1577. Process in suits against the state shall be served on the
attorney general, in the mode prescribed by law for the service of pro
cess in other cases.
§ 1578. It shall be the duty of the attorney general, whenever pro
cess is served upon him, in a suit against the state, to appear and rep
resent the state, unless his official engagements elsewhere render it
impracticable for him to do so.
§ 1579. The governor of the state is hereby vested with power, and
it is made his duty, whenever in his opinion the interest of the state re
quires, to employ counsel to assist the attorney general in the de
fense of suits against the state, and to agree with such assistant counsel
as to the amount of their compensation ; and on the governor's cer
tificate to the auditor of public accounts that such services have been
performed, and that the amount charged is according to professional
rates, the auditor shall issue his warrants therefore on the state
treasurer.
§ 1580. Judgments and decrees against the state shall not be en

Chap. 19.]

UNLAWFUL AND FORCIBLE ENTRY.

323

forced in any other manner, except by an appropriation made by the
legislature, on the petition of the person holding such judgment or de
cree, accompanied by a duly certified copy of such judgment or decree.
§ 1581. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved April 18, 1871.

CHAPTER

19.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO UNLAWFUL AND FORCIBLE ENTRY AND
UNLAWFUL DETAINER.

Article I. In what Cases a Remedy.
II. The Complaint.
III. The Warrant,
IV. The Court.
V. The Trial and Judgment, and Execution.
VI. Appeal and Proceedings.
VII. Miscellaneous Provisions.

ARTICLE I.
IN WHAT CASES A REMEDY.
§ 1 582. Any one deprived of the possession of land by force, or
intimidation, or fraud, or stratagem, or stealth, and any landlord,
vendor, mortgagee or trustee, or cestui que trust, or other person
against whom the possession of land is withheld, by his tenant, vendor,
mortgagor, or grantor, or other person, after the expiration of his
right by contract, express or implied, to hold possession, and the legal
representatives or assigns of him who is so deprived of possession, or
from whom possession is so withheld, as against him who so obtained
possession, or withholds possession, after the expiration of his right, and
all claiming to hold under him, shall, at any time within three years
after such deprivation or withholding of possession, be entitled to the
summary remedy herein prescribed.

324

THE COMPLAINT

THE WARRANT.

[Chap. 19.

ARTICLE n.
THE COMPLAINT.
§ 1583. The party bo turned out of possession, or so held out of
possession, may exhibit his complaint before any justice of the peace
of the county or corporation within which such lands or tenements
may lie, in the following form, or to the following effect, that is to say:
County [or corporation] of
, to-wit:
A. B., of the said county [or corporation] complains that C. D. hath
unlawfully turned him out of possession [or unlawfully withholdsfrom
him the possession] of a certain tenement [describing it], containing,
by estimation,
acres of land, with the appurtenances, lying and
being in the county [or corporation] aforesaid, whereof he prays resti
tution of the possession.
A. B., plairitijf.
Such complaint shall be verified by the oath or affirmation of the
plaintifff, certified at the foot thereof, after the following manner:
County [or corporation] of
, to-wit:
This day the above named A. B. made oath [or affirmed] before me,
a justice of the peace for said county [or corporation], that he verily
believes the allegations of the above complaint to be correct and true.
Given under my hand this
day of
E. F., Justice of thr Peace.

ARTICLE

III.

THE WARRANT.
§ 1584. The justice, before whom such complaint shall be made,
shall thereupon issue his warrant, to the following effect :
County [or corporation] of
, to-wit:
Whereas, A. B. hath made complaint, on oath [or affirmation],
before me, a justice of the peace for the said county [or corporation],
that C. D. hath unlawfully turned him out of possession [or unlaw
fully, and against Ids consent, holds him out ofpossession] of a cer
tain tenement, and
of land, with its appurtenances, lying and
being in the said county [or corporation], and hath prayed restitution
of the possession thereof; these are, thereforee, in the name tif the State
of Mississippi, to require you to summon the said C. D. to appear at
, [which shall be at the usual place of holding justice's court, in
said district], on the
day of
, before the justices of the

Chap. 19.]

THE COURT.

325

county [or corporation] aforesaid, to answer to the complaint afore
said, and also require you to give notice of this warrant to two other
justices of the peace for the said county [or corporation] and to
request their attendance at the time and place aforesaid ; and have
then there this warrant. Witness my hand this
day of
E. F., Justice of the Peace
§ 1585. The warrant aforesaid shall be directed to the sheriff or
coroner, or any constable of the proper county, as the case may re
quire, and shall be made returnable on a day certain, not less than
five, nor more than twenty days after its date, and shall be forthwith
executed by the proper officer, who shall make due return to the jus
tices, at the time and place therein mentioned, of the manner in which
he shall have executed the same.
§ 1586. The said warrant shall be served on the defendant, five
days before the return day, either by delivering to him a copy thereof,
or if he cannot be found, by delivering a copy thereof to any person
of his family, above the age of sixteen years, at his usual place of
residence, or if no such person be found, then by setting up a copy
in some conspicuous place, on the tenement in the warrant men
tioned.
§ 1587. At any time after such warrant shall have been issued, it
shall be lawful for the justice issuing the same, upon the application
of either party, to issue subpoenas for witnesses, requiring them to
attend at the court, before the justices, at the time appointed as
aforesaid, to give evidence on the trial. Any subpoena so issued, shall
be executed in the same manner, and shall have the same force and
effect, as a subpoena, issued according to law, in a cause pending in
the circuit court.

ARTICLE IV.
THE COURT.
§ 1588. It shall be the duty of the justices, notified as aforesaid,
and of the justice who shall have issued the warrant, to attend at the
place of holding court, on the day therein specified, for the purpose
of holding a court, for the trial of the complaint aforesaid, for which
purpose such justices, or any two justices of the county, (or corpora
tion, as the case may be), shall constitute a court. Such court shall be
considered a court of record; they shall have power to issue all
proper process to bring before them witnesses, or other persons
whose attendance may be lawfully required by them ; and they may
adjourn from day to day, and from time to time, until the trial
shall be ended. The sheriff or coroner, or constable, as the case may
require, shall be attendant upon them, and execute their orders.

326

THE TRIAL AND FINAL JUDGMENT.

[Chap. 19.

ARTICLE V.
THE TRIAL AND FINAL JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.
§ 1589. When the justices have so met, and formed a court, on the
day and at the place aforesaid, if it shall appear to them that the de
fendant has been duly served with the warrant, they shall proceed,
without further pleadings in writing, to the trial of the complaint
aforesaid.
§ 1590. In any action of unlawful entry, or unlawful detainer, the
plaintifff may, on the trial, claim and establish, by evidence, any
amount due for arrears of rent, of the tenement of which possession
is sought, or a reasonable compensation for the use and occupation
thereof, during the time the same has been occupied by the defend
ant, not exceeding the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ; and the
said justices shall find, upon the evidence, the said arrears of rent, or
reasonable compensation, as aforesaid, and shall cause judgment to
be entered up against the defendant in the action, for such arrears of
rent, or reasonable compensation, as aforesaid, and award a writ of
fieri facias thereon.
§ 1591. If the finding be for the plaintifff, the justices shall render
judgment in favor of the plaintifff, that he recover possession of the
teaement aforesaid, with full costs, and shall award a writ of habere
facias possessionem, which shall be issued by the justice who com
menced the proceeding.
§ 1592. If the finding shall be in favor of the defendant, the jus
tices shall render judgment against the plaintifff, that his complaint be
dismissed, and that the defendant recover of him full costs ; and the
judgment of said justices, rendered as aforesaid, either in favor of the
plaintifff or the defendant, shall be executed in the same manner" as if
it had been the judgment of any other court of record in the state.
§ 1593. If the court shall be composed of but two justices of the
peace, and they shall disagree in deciding, the decision of the justice
before whom the complaint was made, shall be the judgment of the
court.

ARTICLE VI.
APPEAL AND PROCEEDINGS.
§ 1594. Either party aggrieved by the judgment of said justices,
may, after final judgment, appeal to the circuit court of the county,
on the appellant, within five days after the rendition of the judgment,
entering into bond and security, in the presence of the justice before
whom the complaint was originally made, and approved by said jus

Chap. 19.]

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

327

tice, in a penalty of two hundred dollars, payable to the opposite
party, conditioned for the payment of the costs before the said justices,
and of all costs that may accrue in the circuit court, in case the appel
lant fail therein ; but such appeal shall not operate as a supersedeas ;
and the said justice shall send to the circuit court, all the papers and
proceedings, and a transcript of all orders and judgments in said
cause, and shall deliver the same to the clerk of the circuit court, to
be there docketed for trial ; and the said circuit court shall, at the first
term, empanel a jury, and hear and determine the said cause anew
on its merits, in a summary way, and may award restitution, if neces
sary.
§ 1595. When the plaintifff shall have claimed and obtained judg
ment, in any such action, for arrears of rent, or for the use and
occupation of the property in controversy, the defendant, before he
shall have an appeal, shall give bond in double the amount of such
rent or damages, in addition to the penalty required in other cases ;
and such bond, besides the condition required in other cases, shall
also be conditioned, that the appellant shall pay such sums as may
be adjudged against him in the circuit court, for arrears of rent or
damages, for the use and occupation of the property in controversy;
and on the trial of the cause in the circuit court, the plaintifff may
claim for all arrears of rent due at the time of such trial, or for the
use and occupation of the premises up to that time, if the same shall
have remained in the possession of the defendant, and the jury shall
be charged to inquire and find the same ; and the court shall cause
judgment to be entered against the defendant, and his sureties on the
appeal bond, for the amount of such verdict, and award & fieri facias
thereon, with legal interest and all costs : provided, that the judgment
against the surety shall not exceed the penalty of the appeal bond.
§•1596. In all appeals to the circuit court, under this chapter, the
said court, on motion of the appellee, may inquire into the sufficiency
of the amount of the appeal bond, and of the security thereon, and
may require a new bond, or additional security, on pain of dis
missal of the appeal.
§ 1597. The clerks of the circuit courts are hereby required to tax
in the bill of costs, after final judgment, all the costs that accrued on
the trial before the justices, in all cases herein provided for, and in
clude the same in the fieri facias by him to be issued for the costs
accruing in the same case in said circuit courts.

ARTICLE VII.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 1598. No judgment rendered as aforesaid, either for the plaintifff or
the defendant, shall bar any action of trespass, or any action of eject

328

LIEN OP MECHANICS.

[Chap. 20.

meiit, or other action between the same parties, respecting the same
tenement; nor shall any verdict, found as aforesaid, be held conclusive
of the facts therein found, in any other action between the same parties.
§ 1599. Every justice of the peace, summoned to attend the jus
tice aforesaid, and failing to attend, without sufficient cause therefore,
shall be liable to a fine of twenty dollars, to be imposed by the said
justice, for the use of said county; and the said justice shall issue a
scire facias against such defaulting justice of the peace, returnable
to the next term of his court, to show cause why such fine should not
be made final ; and execution shall issue therefore, if judgment be
made final.
§ 1600. The justices holding such court, and the sheriff or other
officer attending the same, shall each be entitled to two dollars a day
for attending the trial ; and all other fees of witnesses and officers, for
services rendered in relation to the proceedings and trial aforesaid,
shall be the same as the fees for similar services, rendered in a suit at
law, respecting the title to land, in the circuit courts, and shall be
taxed in the costs.
§ 1601. The justice before whom the complaint is made under this
chapter, may, before issuing any process, require the plaintifff to
give bond, with security, for the payment of the costs ; and in case
judgment should go against the plaintifff, judgment shall be entered
against him and the sureties on his bond, for the amount of costs.
§ 1602. That this act shall take effect from and after the first day
of October, A. D. 1871.
Approved. May 13, 1871.

CHAPTER 20.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO LIEN OF MECHANICS.

Article I.
II.

Lien when allowed.
How enforced.

ARTICLE I.
LIEN WHEN ALLOWED.
§ 1603. Every house or other building, bridge, mill, or any ad
dition erected thereto, and any fixed machinery, or gearing, or other


