matter of the action, but in such action, if the assignor [desires]
(denies) having any interest in the action, no costs shall be awarded
against him, and a [defendant] (default) shall be deemed a denial.

SEO. 5. In case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without any prejudice to a set off or
other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good
consideration, before due. 1

SEC. 6. An executor or administrator. trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person or persons for whose benefit the action
is prosecuted. _

SEO. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall
be joined with her, except when the action concerns her separate
property, she may sue alone; when the action is between her and
her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

SEO. 8. If a_ husband and wife are sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right. ' ..

SEC. 9. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian, who. may be appointed by the court in which the action is
prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge.

SEC. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: First,
when the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under [the] (that) age,
upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant. Second,
when the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after
the service of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen
(years), or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant, or any other party to the action.

SEO. 11. A father, or in case of his death or dcsertion of his
family, the mother may maintain an action for the injury or death
of a minor child; and a guardian for the injury of a ward; and
an administrator for the death of a dece[n]dent.

SEO. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except when otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 13. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or

claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement
of the question involved therein.

SEC. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest shall be joined as plaintihs or defendants; but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant ; the reason thereof being
stated in the complaint; and when the question is one of common
or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impract(ic)able to bring them all into court, one or

_ more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

SEO. 15. Persons severally liable upon the -same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may
all, or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option
of the plaintifff.

SEC. 16. An action shall not abate by the death or other disability of the party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death or
other disability of a party, the court on motion may allow the ac.
tion to be continued, by or against his representative or successor
in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action
may be continued in the name of the original party, or the court
may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted
in the action.

SEO. 17. The court may determine any controversy before it
between the parties, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence
of other parties, the ‘court shall order them to be brought in. In
all suits now pending in any court of record, or which may here
after he brought, under this act, when it shall be necessary to maké
new parties or bring other parties into court, the plaintii may in
vacation, file in the oiiice of the clerk of the court where the same
is pending, a supplementary petition, setting forth their interest,
and praying that they may be made parties to said suit; upon
which supplemental petition, it shall be the duty of the clerk to
issue a summons to said person, which summons shall be issued and
served as in other cases, and the said parties so summoned shall answer or demur as in other cases, and the cause shall be proceeded
with as if they had originally been parties to the suit. “

TITLE 11.

PLACE or TRIAL or CIVIL Acrxons.

Size. 18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is
situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial as provided in this act: First, for the recovery of real property or mining claims, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the
determination in any form of such right or interest, or for injuries
to real property: Second, for the partition of real property:
Third, for the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

SEC. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
county where the causes, or some part thereof arose; subject to
(the) like [like] power of the court to change the place of trial:
First, for the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except, that where it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake,
river or other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river,
or other stream, and opposite to the place where the ofence was
committed: Second, against a public odicer, or person specially
appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of
his odice, or against a person who, by his command or his aid, does
anything touching the duties of such odicer.

SEC. 20. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the parties, or some of them, resided at the commencement of the action; or, if none of the parties reside in the
Territory, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff
may designate in his complaint, subject, however, to the power of
the court to change the place of trial as provided in this act.

i . . 21. The court may, on motion, change the place - n ial
in the o ' ing cases: First, when the count -:..;"ated in the
complaint is n . e proper county: u - o , when there is reason
to believe that an im '1 (tria nnot be had therein: Third,
when the convenience of -A --..~. -.4 and the ends of justice would
be promoted by t -. , ange: Fo ; when, from any cause, the
judge i -.r. aliiied from acting in the ac ~ .

TITLE III.

MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEO. 22. Civil actions in the district and probate courts shall
be commenced by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, and the issuing of a summons
thereon, Provided, that after the filing of the complaint, a defendant in the action may appear‘, answer or demur, whether the summons has been issued or not, and such appearance, answer or demur(r)er shall be deemed a waiver of summons.

SEC. 23. The clerk shall indorse on the complaint the day,
month and year the same is filed, and at any time within one year
after the filing of the same, the plaintifff may cause to be issued a
summons thereon. The summons shall be issued and signed by
the clerk, under the seal of the court, and directed to the defendant.

. SEO. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action,
the court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint
is filed, and, if the action is brought for money, the amount demanded by the plaintifff; and shall require the defendant to appear
and answer the complaint on the return day of the summons; and
the clerk shall also indorse on the summons the names of the plaintifff’s attorneys.

SEC. 25. The summons shall be returnable on the first day of
the next term after it is issued, if the defendant resides in the
county in which the action is pending, and the summons was issued
ten days before the commencement of such term; or, if the defendant resides out of the county in which the suit is brought, but in
the district, and the summons was issued fifteen days before the
first day of the term; but if the defendant resides out of the dis(trict) in which the action is pending, the summons must (be)
issued twenty days before the first day of the term.

Site. 26. Any defendant served with (a) summons in the
county in which the action is pending, ten days before the return
day thereof, or any defendant (served) with (a) summons out of
the county in which the suit is brought, but in the district, fifteen
days before the return day thereof, or any defendant served with
(a) summons out of the district, but in the Territory, twenty days

before the return day thereof, shall be required to appear and an-,
swer or demur to the complaint on the return day of the summons,
or judgment may be taken by default for the amount due, or the
relief sought.

SEO. 27. In an action aifecting the title to real property, the
plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing
the names of the parties, the object of the action, and description
of the property in that county affected thereby. From the time
of the [time of the] filing, only, shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property effected thereby.

SEO. 28. The summons shall be served by thesheriff of the
county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a
person specially appointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the
court in which the action is brought. When the summons is served
by any other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the
odice of such clerk, with the affidavit of such person, of its service.

, SEC. 29. The summons shall be served as follows: First, if
the suit be against a corporation, by reading the same to the president, or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or by leaving a copy of the same at the office,
or other place of business of said corporation, in a conspicuous
place: Second, if against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
by reading the same to the father, mother, or guardian of the defendant; or, if there be none in the Territory, then to any person
having the care, control or custody of such minor, or with whom
he resides, or in whose service he is employed; or by leaving a copy
thereof at the residence of such father, mother, guardian, or person having the care, control, or custody of r such minor; or (of) the
person by whom he is employed; or at whose residence such minor
resides: Third, if against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for
whom a guardian has been appointed, by reading the same to such
guardian, or by leaving a copy thereof at the dwelling-house, or
usual place of abode of such guardian, with some person residing
there, or posting the same in a conspicuous place: Fourth, in all
other cases, by reading the same to the defendent, personally, or by

leaving a copy thereof at the dwelling-house, or usual place of
abode of such defendent, with some person residing there, or by
posting the same in a conspicuous place.

SEC. 30. When the person on whom service is to be made resides out of the Territory, or has departed therefrom, or after due
diligence cannot be found within the Territory, or conceals himself
to avoid the service of summons, and that fact shall appear by affidavit, the court, or the clerk thereof, in vacation, shall grant an
order of publication; the order to notify the non-resident, absent
or concealed defendant, of the pendency of the action, stating
briefly the general nature thereof, and require [them] (such defendants) to appear and answer the complaint on the return day of
the summons, or that the cause will be heard, and determined in
their absence.

SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a
newspaper published in the county in which the suit is brought, if
any there be, if not, then in the paper published nearest thereto, in
the Territory. Such publication shall be made at least once a week
for four weeks successively, the last of which shall be sixty days
before the first day of the term of court at which said suit will be
heard. When the publication is ordered, personal service of the
summons out of the Territory, sixty days before the first day of
the term at which the suit is heard, shall be equivalent to publication.

SEC. 32. Whe(n) the action is against two or more defendants,
and the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed as follows: First, If the action be
against the defendants jointly indebted on contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court otherwise
direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all
the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only, that it may be
enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendant served; or, Second, If the action be against defendants severally liafile, he may proceed against the defendants
served, as if they were the only defendants.

SEO. 33. In the case of publication, the allidavit of the printer,
or his foreman, or principal clerk, or other person having personal
knowledge of the same, shall be filed, showing such publication.
And in case of personal service out of the Territory, the affidavit

of the person serving the summons shall be filed showing such
service.

SEC. 34. A written acknowledgment of the defendant, on
the summons, of its service, shall be equivalent to service of the
same, on proof by aliidavit being made to the court, that the signature of the defendant or defendants to such acknowledgment of
service is genuine.

SEC. 35. From the time of the service of the summons, or the
voluntary appearance of the defendant, the court shall be deemed
to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. ‘

TITLE IV.

PLEADINGS.

SEO. 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations of the parties of their respective claims and defenses for the judgment of the
court.

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and [and]
the rules by which the suliice(i)n(c) y of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be those prescribed in this act. .

SEO. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall
be the complaint, deznur(r)er, or reply to the defendant’s answer;
and the only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be a
demur(r)er to the complaint, or a demur(r)er to the reply, or an
answer to the complaint. The demur(r)er or answer of the defendant, and the demur(r)er or reply of the plaintifff, shall be filed
with the clerk. ‘

SEC. 89. The complaint shall contain, First, The title of the
action, specifying the name of (the) court and the name of the
county in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties
to the action, plaintifff and defendant. Second, A statement of the
facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, and when (the) complaint contains more than one cause of
action, each shall be stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered.
Third, A demand of the relief which the plaintifff [s] claims, if the
recovery of money or damages he demanded, the amount thereof
shall be stated.

SEO. 40. The Kleiemliim 1nl“y detnur to the complaint Within
me "lm° ‘°‘1“l‘°‘l to unsweiri when it allhcars on the face ‘thereof
either, First, That the GT1“ has T10 jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the 5“b3ect S)? the action; or, Second, that the
Pl3i11ii5ll*18 n0ti'0l19l9‘é“«lC11p‘:lcity to sue ; or, Third, that there is another action pending between the same parties for the same cause;
‘"3 Fourth, that there is it W3-feet or misjoiIi(ie1' of ~p:1rties, plaintifff
or defendant; or, Fifth, that several causes of action have been
improperly united; or, Sixth, that the complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; or, Seventh, that
the action has not been commenced within the (time) limited by
law.

SEC. -11. The demurrer shall specify the cause of demurrer,
and each cause shall be separately stated and numbered.

SEC. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or
to one or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the residue; or may demur and answer at the same time.

SEC. 43. The complaint may be amended at any time before
answer, Without leave, and after answer, with leave of the court,
upon such terms as may be just, and the court may in its discretion require the complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of
the amendment (to be) served upon every defendant affected thereby, or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by attorney; but no
amendment of the complaint shall be filed without leave of the
court, increasing the demand of the plaintifff in (an) action for the
recovery of money. The defendant shall answer such amended
complaint in such time as may he ordered by the court, and judgment may be entered by default, upon failure to answer, as in other
(38%.

SEC. 4-}. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty
do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objecticii may be
taken by answer.

SEC. 45. If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the sanie,
excepting only the objections to the _j111'isi_liction of the court. and
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain, First, a
specific or general denial of each allegation of the colnplaint, controverted by .the defendant, but a general denial, shall only put
in issue the material and express allegations of the complaint.
Second, a statement of any new matter or counterclaim constituting a defense, in plain and concise language. When the answer
contains new matter constituting a defense, the plaintifff may within
the time allowed by the court, reply to such new matter, and if he
fail to do so, such new matter shall be taken as true, and deemed
proved at the trial. If new matter of set off and counterclaim he
set up in the answer, the reply’may contain matter of set off and
counterclaim, not embraced in the complaint, All new matter set
up in the reply, shall be deemed denied by the defendant.

SEC. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, shall
be one existing in favor of the defendant, and against a plaintifff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of one of the following causes of action: First, a cause
of action arising out of the transaction set forth in the complaint or
answer, as the foundation of the plaintifff’s claims, or the defendant’s
defense, connected with the subject of action. Second, in an action
arising upon contract, any other cause of action arising also upon
contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.

SEO. 48. When" crossdemands have existed between persons,
under such circumstances that if one had brought an action against
the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be
deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or death of the
other, but the two demands shall be deemed compensated, so far as
they equal each other.

SEC. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer, as many
defenses and counterclaims as he may have; they shall each be
stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered; and shall refer to
the cause of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner
by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 50. When the answer contains new matter, the plaintiff
may within the time allowed by the court, demur to the same fa}
insudiciency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and he
may also within the same time, demur to one or more of the
defenses set up in the answer, and the defendant, in like manner,
may demur to the plaintiiI"s reply. Sham and irrelevant answers,
replies and defenses, and so much of any answer or reply as may
be irrelevant, redundant or immaterial, may be stricken out, on

motion, and upon such terms as the court in its discretion may
impose; also, ambiguous, unintelligible and uncertain matter.

SEO. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or
his attorney.

SEO. 52. When an action is brought upon a written instrument,‘
and the original instrument or a copy thereof is filed with the complaint, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall
be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be
verified. ,

SEC. 53. When the defense to an action is founded upon a‘
written instrument, and ti. copy of the same or the original instrument is filed with the answer, the due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the reply denying the same be
verified.

SEO. 54. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the affldavit shall be made by the party, or some one having personal
knowledge of the facts. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by an officer thereof.

SEC. 55. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall
deliver to the adverse party, within a reasonable time after a demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded
from giving evidence thereof. The court may order a further
account when the one delivered is too general, or is defective in
any particular.

SEC. 56. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inser(ted) in a
pleading, it maybe stricken out by the ‘court, on motion of any
person aggrieved thereby.

SEC. 57. In an action for the recovery of real property, such
property shall be described with ‘its metes and bounds, in the
complaint.

SEC. 58. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of
court or oilicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts concerning jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stat(ed) to have been duly given or made. If
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading it shall be
bound to establish, [in] (on) the trial, the facts concerning the
jurisdiction.

SEC. 59. In pleading the performance of conditions, precedent

in contracts, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance, but it may be stated, generally, that the party
duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading shall establish on trial the facts
showing such performance.

SEC. 60. In pleading a privizte statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sudicient to [to] refer to such statute by its
title and the day of its passage; and the court shall thereupon take
judicial notice thereof.

Sac. 61. In actions for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of
showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter
out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be suiiicient to

state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning

the plaintifff ; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff
shall establish on the trial, that it was so published or spoken.

SEO. 62. In actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount
of damage, and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 63. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint when they arise out of, First, contracts express or
implied; or Second, claims to recover specific or real property, with
or without damages for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the same; or Third,
claims for the recovery of specific personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; or Fourth, claims against
a trustee or other person in a judiciary capacity, by virtue of a
contract or by operation of law; or Fifth, injuries to character; or
Sixth, injuries to person; or Seventh, injuries to property. But
the causes of action so united shall all belong to one, only, of these
classes; and shall effect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, and shall be separately stated.
Provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action for either
an injury to character or to the person.

°- SEO. 64. Every material allegation of the complaint or answer,

not controverted by the answer or reply, shall, for the purpose of
the trial, be taken as true.

SEO. 65. A m[e] (a)terial allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from
the pleading without leaving it (in)sufIicient.

SEC. 66. After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on demurrer, either party may amend any pleading demurred to [and]
without costs; filing the same as amended; but a party shall not
so amend more than once. When a demurrer to a complaint or
answer is overruled, and there is no answer or reply filed,’ the court
may, upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to:
be filed. If a demurrer to the replication be overruled, the facts
alleged in the reply shall still be considered as [diried] (denied.)

SEO. 67. The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceedings
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;

. and may upon like terms enlarge the time for answer or demurrer,

or demurrer to an answer or reply, or reply to an answer filed.
The court may, likewise, upon allidavit, showing good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow upon such terms as may
be just, an amendment to any pleading, or proceeding in other particulars; and may, upon like terms, allow an answer to be made
after the time allowed by the court; and may, upon such terms as
may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a (party), or his
legal representatives, from a judgment, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertance, surprise or
excusable neglect. When, from any cause, the summons was not
personally served on the defendant, the court mayallow, upon such
terms as may be just, such defendant, or his legal representatives,
at any time within six months after the rendition of any judgment
in such action, to answer to the merits of the original action.

SEC. 68. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a[ny]
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name; and when his true name is discovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.‘

SEC. 69. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of
determining its eifects, its allegations shall be liberally construed,

with a view to substantial justice between the parties. ,
I

SEC. 70. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall
not effect the substantial rights of the parties; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

TITLE V.

CHAPTER. II.

SEC. 71. The plaintifff in an action to recover possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as
provided in this act. I

SEO. 72. When the delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be
made by the plaintih‘, or by some one in his behalf, showing, First,
That the plaintiil‘ is the owner of, or entitled to the immediate possession of the property, particularly describing it: Second, That
the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant: Third,
The actual value thereof: Fourth, That the same has not been
taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute of this
Territory, or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.

SEC. 73. The plaintifff or his attorney may, thereupon, by indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriil‘ of the
county where the property claimed may be, to take the same from
the defendant.

SEC. 74. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a
written undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the efect that they are bound to the
defendant in double the value of the property as stated in the affldavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may from any cause he recovered
against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property
described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant
or his agent, and deliver it to the plaintiff; except as herein otherwise provided.

SEC. 75. At any time before the delivery of the property to
the plaintifff, the defendant may, if the plaintifff consent thereto, be
permitted to retain possession -thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a
written undertaking, executed by two or more sumcient sureties,
in double the amount of the value of the property, as stated in the
affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of any such
sum as may from any cause he recovered against the defendant. If
the plaintifff does not consent, the property shall be immediately delivered to him by the sherif.

SEC. 76. The qualification of sureties shall be as follows:
First, Each shall be a resident of the county: Second, When
the property claimed is not worth over two thousand dollars, each
shall be worth the amount specified in the undertaking, over and
above his debts, liabilities, and property by law exempt from execution. When the property claimed exceeds in value two thousand
dollars, the oilicer may take the justification of each one, separately, so that the whole amount equals the amount of the sum
specified in the undertaking. In all cases where the officer takes
bail, as herein provided, he shall require the sureties to make oath
of the facts, showing their qualifications as bail.

SEC. 77. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in
a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it be not delivered he shall cause the building or enclosure
to be broken open, and take the property into his possession; and
if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of the county.

SEC. 78. When the sheriff' shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver it to
the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking,
and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 79. If property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person makes aiiidavit of
his title thereto, or right of possession thereof, stating the grounds
of such title or right, and serves the same upon the sheriff, the
sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the
plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on the demand of him or his agent,
indemnities the aheriE' against such claims, by an undertaking by
two sumcient sureties, who shall have the same qualifications, and
shall make aiiidavit thereof, as sureties in other cases herein speciiied, and no claim to such property by any other person than the
defendant or his agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless so
made.

SEC. 80. The sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking and allidavit, with his proceedings endorsed thereon, with the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

SEC. 81. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by affidavit or otherwise, that any bond executed in any of
the proceedings herein mentioned, is insullicient. or the sureties
thereto have not the qualifications of bail, as herein prescribed, the
court may order new bonds to be given within a time limited, and
if such bonds be not given within such time, the sheriff shall take
and deliver the property to the party that would have been entitled
to the possession of the same if no such bond had ever been executed.

TITLE VI.

CHAPZ-[HER III.
INJUNo'rroNs.

SEC. 82. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person
to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by the judge thereof, or by the probate judge; and when made by a judge may be
enforced as the order of the court.

SEC. 83. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
First, When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually: Second,
When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the commis'sion or continuance of some act during the litigation, would produce great, irreparable injury to the plaintifff : Third, When it
shall appear during the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to he done,
some act in violation of the plaintiil"s rights, respecting the subject
of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.

SEC. 84. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing

i the summons on the complaint, and at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon aiiidavit. The complaint in the one case, and the
affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sullicient
grounds exist therefore. No injunction shall be granted on the
complaint, unless it be verified by the oath of the plaintin‘, or some
Done in his behalf, that the person making the oath has read, or
heard the complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the
same is true of his own knowledge, excoptthe matter therein stated
on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes
it to be true. When granted on the complaint, a copy of the comJilaint, and verification attached, shall be served with the injunction; and when granted .upon affidavit, a copy of the aiiidavit shall '

be served with the injunction.

SEC. 85. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered, unless, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ;
but in such case, the defendant may be restrained until the decision
of the court or judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

SEC. 86. On granting an injunction, the court or judge shall
require, except when the people of the Territory are a party plaintifff, with suilicient sureties, to the effect, that the plaintifff will pay
to the party'enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be
specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the injunction,
if the court finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.

SEC. 87. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any of the several defendants, shall be heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not
be granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrain

SEC. 88. An injunction to stop the general and ordinary b 1
ness of a corporation, shall not be granted, except by the court, r
shall it be granted without due notice of the app ' ation therefdr,l
to ‘the proper officers of the corporation, except the people of
the Territory are a party to the proceedings.‘ 2 SEC. 89 If an injunction be granted witho otice, he defendant at any time before the trial, may apply, n,,reasona 0
notice to the judge who granted the injunctioh, or the court in
which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint, or the affidavit, on

which the injunction was granted, or upon affidavit on the part of

   
 
   
 

the defendant, with or without the answer. If the application be
made upon affidavit on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise
the plaintiE' may oppose the same, by affidavits or other evidence,
in addition to those on which the injunction was granted

SEO. 90. If upon such application it satisfactorily appears that
there is not suiiicient ground for the injunction, it shall be’ dissolved, or if it appear that the extent of the injunction is too great,
it shall be modified.

CHAPTER IV.
GROUNDS or Arracniunur.

SEC. 91. The plaintifff in civil action for the recovery of money,
‘may at or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment
against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein
stated, and no other; when the debt or contract upon which the
attachment is sought was contracted in this or some other Territory
of the United States; or upon debts or contracts made out of this
Territory, and in some of the States of the United States, and
payable in this Territory; or for machinery or other pfoperty to be
brought to this Territory; or freight upon the same; or for fare or
passage money of persons coming to this Territory; First, When
the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a foreign corporation
or a non-resident of this Territory; or, Second, Has ahsconded,
with intent to defraud his creditors; or, Third, Has left the county
of his residence to avoid the service of a summons; or, Fourth, So
conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon him; or,
Fifth, Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of
the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to defraud his creditors;
or, Sixth, Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, Seventh, Has property or rights in action which he conceals;-or, Ei ih, Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is
about to dispo . of, his property, or a part thereof, with the intent
to defraud his creditors; or, Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the
debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be, or has
been brought. But an attachment shall not be granted on the

ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resi- '

dent of this Territory for any claim other than a debt or demand
arising upon contract, judgment or decree.

SEC. 92. An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned
in the preceding section, when there is filed in his office an affidavit
of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing, First, The nature
of the plaintifff’s claims; Second, That it is just; Third, The
amount which the afliant believes the plaintifff ought to recover;
and, Fourth, The existence of some one of the grounds for an
attachment enumerated in the preceding section.

See. 93. When the ground of the attachment is, that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this Territory,
the order of the attachment may be issued without an undertaking.
In all other cases, the order of attachment shall not be issued by
the clerk until there has been executed in his office, by one or more
sullicient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk, an
undertaking double the amount of the plaintifffs claim, to the effect
that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 94. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which the property of such_defendant may be, and require him
to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within
his county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may
be sullicient to satisfy the plainti&"s demand, and costs; the amount

' of which demand shall be stated, in conformity with the complaint,

unless the defendant shall deposit with the sheriff an amount of
money sullicient to cover p1a.intiif’s demand, and costs of suit;
which money shall be deposited by the sheriff with the clerk of
the' court out of which said writ of attachment issued; which
money shall be held by said clerk, ‘subject to the further order of
the court. Several writs may be issued at the same time, to sheriffs of different courts.

SEC. 95. The rights or shares which the defendant may have
in the stock of any corporation or company, together with the interests and profits thereon, and all debts due such defendant, not
exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be rendered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 96. The sheriff to whom the writ of attachment is directed

and delivered shall execute the same without delay, and—if the
undertaking mentioned in section ninety-four be not given,—as follows : First, Real property shall be attached by making a list of
the same, and by leaving a notice with the owner or occupant thereof, stating that the same has been attached, and at whose instance,
if such owner or occupant can be found, or by posting such notice
in a conspicuous place on such premises. Second, Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by taking it
into custody. Third, Stock or shares, or interest in stock or
shares, of any corporation or company, shall be attached by leaving with the president, or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof, a notice, stating that the stock
or interest of the defendant is attached‘, and at whose instance.
Fourth, Debts and credits and other personal property, not capable
of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person
owing such debts, or having under his control, or in his possession,
such credits or other personal property, a notice that such debts
owing by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal
property in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the
defendant, are attached, and at whose instance.

SEO. 97. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintill‘, his agent or attorney, that any person has in his possession, or
under his control, any credits or other personal property belonging
to the defendant, or is owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff
shall serve upon such person a notice that such credits or other
property or debts, as the case may be, are’ attached, and by what
authority, and at whose instance.

SEO. 98. All persons having in their possession, or under their
control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the
defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant, at the time of the
service upon them of the notice," as provided in the last two sections, shall be—unless such property be delivered up or transferred
or such debts be paid to the sheriff'—liable to the plaintifff for the
amount of such credits, property or debts, until the attachment be
discharged, or any judgment recovered by him, be satisfied.

SEC. 99. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having
in his possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal
property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend
before the court or judge, or a referee appointed by the court or

judge, and be examined on oath, respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend, for the purpose of giving
information respecting his property, and may be examined on oath.
The court or judge, may, after such examination, order personal
property, capable of manual delivery, to be delivered to the sheriff,
on such terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be given of
all other personal property, containing the amount and description thereof.

SEC. 100. The sheriil‘ shall make a full inventory of the property attached, and return the same with the writ, and from the
time of leaving such writ or attachment, it shall be a lien u_pon the

' property, until the satisfaction of the judgment recovered by the

plaintifff, unless the defendant executes the undertaking mentioned
in section ninety-four. To enable him to make such return as to
debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the time of the service, the party owing the debt, or having the credit, to give him, a
memorandum, stating the amount and description of each; and if

such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of re- °

fusal with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum,
may be required to pay the costs of any proceeding taken for
the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amount and
description of such debt or credit.

SEC. 101. If any property attached be perishable, the sheriff
shall sell the same, in the manner in which such property is sold
on execution. The proceeds and other property attached by him
shall be retained by him, to answer any judgment that may be
recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon
another judgment, recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits attached may be collected by him, if the
same can be done without suit. The sheriff"s receipt shall be a
sufiicient discharge for the amount paid. ~

Site. 102. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached
to the defendant or to any other person claiming it upon his giving
a written undertaking therefore executed by two or more suiiicient
sureties engaging to re-deliver it or pay the value thereof to the
sheriff to whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff
in that action may be issued. If an action be brought upon such
undertaking, against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense. that the property for which the undertaking was given did
not at the execution of the writ of attachment belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

SEC. 103. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the sheriff
shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which
has not been delivered to the defendant or claimant as herein before
provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered
previous to issuing the attachment, if it is sufiicient for that purpose: First, by paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected
by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
Second, if any balance remain due and an execution shall have
been issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution
so much of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to

satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. A

Notices of the sales shall be given and the sales conducted as in
other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 104. If after selling all the property attached by him
remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with
the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his
fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain
due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance as upon execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid,
the sheriff upon reasonable demand shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property remaining in his hands and any
proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the judgment.

SEC. 105. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or
in part the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant
to sections ninety-four and one hundred and two, or he may proceed
as in other cases upon the return of an execution.

SEC. 106. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff, (on any undertaking received in the action,) all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff or deposited by
the defendant and all the property attached remaining in the
sheriff’s hands shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent, the
order of attachment shall be discharged and the property released
therefrom.

SEC. 107. In all cases where there has been more than one
attachment issued against the same defendant returnable at the

same term of court, and more than one judgment rendered against
such defendant at the same term of court in cases in which attachments have been issued, and there is not sufficient property of such
defendant including the rights, debts and credits attached in such
action to satisfy all of said judgments, the court shall direct the
sheriff to whom execution may issue or who has under his control
any money, rights, credits or other property that may be applied
to the satisfaction of such judgments to proceed to sell said property as herein provided and to collect such debts, rights, or credits,
and after deducting the costs that may be due in all of said cases,
to pay to each such judgment creditor a proportionate share of the
remainder of the proceeds of such sales and money collected according to the amount of his judgment. .

SEC. 108. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the
action he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the
court in which the action is pending, or to the judge thereof, or to
a probate judge, for an order to discharge the same upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section, and if theapplication be granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies col.-..

lected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in
his hands, shall be released from the attachment and delivered to
the defendant upon the justification of the sureties on the under»taking, if required by the plaintifff.

SEC. 109. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to
the court or judge an undertaking executed by at least two sureties,
residents of the district, to the effect that the sureties will on demand pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment that may be
recovered in favor of the plaintifff in the action not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking which shall be sufficient to satisfy
the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint andtthe costs.
The sureties may be required to justify on such application before
the judge or court, and the property attached shall not be released
from the attachment without their justification, if the same be
required.

Sac. 110. In all cases where property or effects have been
attached, the defendant, or any creditor of the defendant interested,
may file a plea in the nature of a plea in abatement, under oath,

putting in issue the truth of the facts alleged in the affidavit on
which the attachment was sued out.

SEC. 111. Upon such issue the plaintifff shall be held to prove
that the facts alleged by him in said affidavit as the grounds of the
attachment existed at the time of the issuance of the writ of
attachment.

SEC. 112. If the issue he found against the plaintiil‘ the attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the plaintifff, and his sureties
shall thereafter be liable on their bond for all damages sustained by
the defendant in consequence of the issuing of the attachment, and
the court shall assess a reasonable fee against the plaintifff for
defendant attorney or attorneys.

SEC. 113. After the attachment of property by the sherid‘, the
defendant, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, may have the writ
of attachment dissolvedby showing to the court in which the action
is brought, or a judge thereof, or a probate judge, that there was
not at the time of the issuing of the attachment any sullicient
grounds therefore, or that the property attached is not subject to
execution or attachment. If the court or judge hearing the same
shall dissolve the attachment, the sheriff shall deliver all property
attached remaining in his hands, and all monies collected by him
by virtue of the attachment of the defendant, and the sureties of
the plaintifff shall be liable to the defendant for all damages he may
have sustained by the issuing of the attachment, not exceeding the
amount stated in the plaintifff’s undertaking.

SEC. 114. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with
the summons if issued at the same time, otherwise within twenty

days after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings indorsed
thereon or attached thereto.

CHAPTER V.‘

DEPOSIT IN COURT.

SEC. 115. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination
of a party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money, or other things capable of delivery, which being the subject
of litigation is held by him as a trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the same,
upon motion, to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party,

upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the further direction of the court.

SEC. 116. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which
the suit is pending, or by a judge thereof, First, Before judgment,
provisionally, on the applicationof either party, when he establishes
a prima facie right to‘ the property, or to an interest in the property, which is the subject of the action, and which is in possession
of an adverse party, and the property or its rents and profits are in
danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired. Second,
After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment, to preserve it during the pending of an appeal, and, Third,
In such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of the
courts of equity jurisdiction.

TITLE VII.

CHAPTER I.

TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.

SEC. 117. A judgment is ‘the final determination of the rights
of the parties in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 118., Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case requires it,
determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between
themselves. ' "

SEC. 119. In.an action against several defendants, the court
may in its discretion render judgment against one or more of them,
leaving the action to proceed against the others, when a several
judgment is proper.

SEC. 120. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no
answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
complaint, but in any other case the court may grant him any relief
consistent‘ with the case made by the complaint, and embraced
within the issue.

SEC. 121'. An action may be dismissed, or judgment of nonsuit entered, in the following cases: First, By the plaintifff himself at any time before trial, upon the payment of costs, if a
counterclaim has not been made. If bonds shall have been
executed by the plaintifff, the defendant may then have his action
thereon. ‘Second, By either party upon the written consent of
the other. Third, By the court when the plaintifff fails to appear
on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.
Fourth, When upon the trial, and before the final submission of
the case, the plaintifff abandons it. Fifth, By the court upon the
motion of the defendant, when upon the trial the plaintifff fails to

prove a suliicient case for the jury. The dismissal in the first two '

sub-divisions may be made by an entry in the clerk’s register.
Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

SEC. 122. In every case other than those mentioned in the last
section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER IL
OF Issuss AND THE MANNER or mum DISPOSITION.

SEC. 123. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is
maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. Issues
are of two kinds; First, of law. Second, Of fact.

SEC. 124. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to any
pleading, or any part thereof.

SEC. 125. An issue of fact arises, First, Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer. Second,
Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue of law is joined
therein.

SEC. 126. An issue of law shall he tried by the court unless it
be referred upon consent, as otherwise provided. '

SEC. 127. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a
jury trial be waived, or reference ordered, as provided in this
act. Where there are issues both of law and fact to the same complaint, the issues of law shall be first disposed of.

SEC. 128. The clerk shall enter causes upon the docket of the
court according to their order in filing, and shall set as many causes
for trial on each day of the term as he shall think proper, as they
are filed; but no civil cause shall be set for trial on the first day
of the term, and no cause shall be tried before the day on which it

was set for trial, except by consent of the parties, unless the defendant makes default. All causes not finally disposed of at the
close of the term, shall be continued until the next term of the
court.

SEC. 129. Either party may bring the issue to trial or to a
hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party— unless the court
for good cause shown, otherwise direct,— may proceed with his case
and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment as the
case may require.

SEC. 130. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the
absenceof evidence, shall be made only upon affidavit showing
the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that
due diligence has been used to procure ‘it, the witness that the
party expects to obtain, and the facts he expects to prove by him,
and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or ohered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

CHAPTER ;II.

SEC. 131. When the action is called for trial by jury, the
jurors summoned who have appeared and not been excused, shall
be called. If the panel is not full, the sheriff shall summon
from the citizens of the county —and not from the by-standers—
so many competent persons as may be necessary to complete the
jury. The jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties
consentto a less number. The parties may consent to any number
not less than three. Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in
the minutes of the trial.

SEC. 132. As soon as the  is completed, an oath or afiirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance that they
each of them will well and truly try the matters in issue between
, the plaintid, and , the defendant, and a
true verdict render according to the evidence. V

       

SEC. 138. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when

there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenge shall be to individual

jurors, and shall be either peremptory or for cause. Each party
shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

S120. 134. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more
of the following grounds: First, A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror.
Second, Consanguinity or aflinity within the third degree to either
party. Third, Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either
party, or being a member of the family of either party, or a partner in business with either party, or being security on any bond or
obligation for either party. Fourth, Having served as a juror, or
been a witness, on a previous trial between the same parties for the
same cause of action. Fifth, Interest on the part of the juror in
the event of the action, or in the main question involved in the
action, except the interest of a juror as a member or citizen of the
municipal corporation. Sixth, Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action. Seventh,
The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against, or bias to, either party.

SEC. 135. Challenges for‘ cause shall be tried by the court.
The juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a
witness on the trial of the challenge.

Connncr or THE TRIAL.

SEC. 136. If after the empanelling of the jury, and before
verdict, a juror becomes sick, or for any other causenis unable to
perform his duty, the court may order him to be discharged in that
case, the trial may proceed with the other jurors with the consent
of the parties to the action, or anew juror may be sworn and the
trial begin anew, or the jury may be discharged and a new jury
then or afterwards he empaneled. T

SEC. 137. In charging the jury, either party shall be allowed
to present to the court written instructions upon matters of law,
and argue the same to the court, and the court shall give or refuse
such instructions, or may modify or change them in writing, but
under no circumstances shall the court give any verbal instructions,

, or modify or alter any instruction offered by verbal comments; and

when any instruction is given, refused, or altered, the court‘ shall
note the same thereon in writing; nor shall the court comment
upon the testimony further than to inform the jury that they are
the exclusive judges of all questions of fact submitted to them, and

if the parties or their attorneys require it, the instructions shall be
given to_ the jury before the argument of the cause.

SEC. -138. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in court or retire for deliberation; if they retire, they shall be
kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient
place, under the charge of one or more oiiicers, until they agree
upon their verdict or are discharged by the court. The officer shall,
to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together, separate from
other persons, he shall not suffer any communication to be made to
them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict; and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered,
communicate‘ to any person the state of their deliberations or the
verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 139. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take
with them the instructions of the court, and all papers—except
depositions—which have been received as evidence in the case, or
copies of such papers as ought not in the opinion of the court to be
taken from the person having them in possession. And they may
also take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on
the trial, taken by themselves, or any of them, but none taken by
any other person.

'SEC. 140. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there
be a disagreement between them as to any point of law arising in
the cause, they may require the oiiicer to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court, the information required shall
be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel.

SEC. 1-11. In all cases where a jury is discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict from any cause, during the progress
of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may
be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court may
direct.

SEC. 142. While the jury is absent, the, court may adjourn
from time to time, in respect to other business, but it shall nevertheless be deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause
submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the opening of the court, in case of an agreement during a
recess or adjournment for the day. A final adjournment of the
court for the term shall discharge the jury.

SEC. 143. When the jury shall have agreed upon their verdict,
they shall be conducted into court by the oliicer having them in
charge. Their names shall be called, and they shall be asked by
the court or clerk whether they have agreed upon their verdict, and
if they answer in the affirmative, they shall pass the same to the
court or clerk.

SEC. 144. If the verdict be informal or insufficient, in not covering the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the court, or the jury may
again be sent out. ,

SEC. 145. When the verdict is given, and is not informal or
insufiicient, the court or clerk shall read it to the jury and inquire
of them whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the
jury may be sent out again, but if no disagreement be expressed,
the verdict shall be received and the jury discharged from the case.

To

Tm: Vnanxcr.

SEC. 146. The verdict of the jury shall be either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff
or defendant. A special verdict is that by which they find the
facts only, leaving the jltdgment to the court. The special verdict
shallpresent the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence,
and not the evidence to prove them; and those conclusions of fact
shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the court but
to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 147. All verdicts shall be rendered in writing, and presented by the foreman of the jury.

SEC. 148. In an action for the recovery of money only, or
specific real property, the jury in their discretion may render a
general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct
the jury to find a special verdict upon all or any of the issues, and
in all cases may instruct them—if they render a general verdict-—
to find upon particular questions of fact to be stated, and may direct

a hnding thereon. The verdict shall be filed with the clerk, and '

entered in the minutes of the cause. When a special finding of
the facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.

SEC, 149. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding the
amount of the plaintiff’s claim as established, the jury shall also
find the amount of the recovery.

SEC. 150. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or
the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being in favor of the
defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof,
shall find the value thereof, and may at the same time assess the
damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the
prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention
of such property.

SEC. 151. Judgment shall immediately be entered upon the
verdict, unless the cause be for some reason further postponed by,
the court.

TRIAL nv rm: Comrr.

SEC. 152. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties»
to an issue of fact, in actions arising on contract, and with the
assent of the court, in other actions in the manner following: First.

By failing to appear at the trial. Second, By written consent, in.

person or by attorney, filed by the clerk. Third, By oral consent
in open court entered in the minutes.

Sec. 153. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, it
shall state the fact found, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.

SEC. 154. Chancery cases may be tried by the court, with or
without the finding of a jury, upon issue formed by the court; and
on a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an account

be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference may he ordered.

Rsrnrumcns AND TRIAL BY Rsrnasss.

SEC. 155. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of
fact, of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of
the parties.

SEC. 156. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases:

SEC. 157. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account, on either side, in which case the
referee may by directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to
report upon any specific question of fact involved therein, or where
the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of
the court before judgment upon on issue of law, or for carrying a
judgment or order into sheet, or when a question of fact other than
upon the pleadings shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any
stage of the action.

SEC. 158. When it is necessary for the information of the court
in a special proceeding.

SEC. 159. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons,
not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do
not agree, the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding three.

SEC. 160. When the appointment of the referees is made by
the court or judge, each referee shall be, First, Qualified as a
juror, as provided by statute. Second, Competent as a juror between the parties.

SEC. 161. When the referees are chosen by the court, each
party shall have the same right to challenge as to such referees to
be made and determined, in the same manner and with like efect
as in the formation of juries, except that neither party shall be entitled to peremptory challenge, subject to the limitations and directions prescribed in the order of reference. The trial by referees
shall be conducted in the same manner as trial by the court. They
shall have the same power to grant adjournments, administer oaths,
to preserve order, and punish all violations thereof upon such trial,
and compel the attendance of witnesses, and punish them for nonattendance or refusal to be sworn to testify, as is possessed by the
court.

81:0. 162. ‘The report of the referees shall state the facts found,
and when the order of reference includes an issue of law, it shall
state the conclusions of law separately from the facts. The referees
shall file with their report the evidence received upon the trial. If
evidence olfered by either party shall not be admitted upon the trial,
and _the party offering the same shall except to the decision rejecting such evidence at the time, the exception shall be noted by the
referees, and they shall take and receive such testimony and file it
with the report. Whatever judgment the court may give upon the
report, it shall, when it appears that such evidence was frivolous or
inadmissible, require that the party at whose instance it was taken
and reported to pay all costs and expenses thereby incurred.

SEC. I63. The report shall be filed with the clerk. If it be
filed in term time, either party may, within such time as may be
prescribed by the rules of the court or by special order, move to set
the same aside, or for judgment thereon, or such order or proceedings as the nature of the case may require. If the report be filed
in vacation, the like proceedings may be had at the next term following. The court may allirm or set aside the report, either in
whole or in part. If it allirm the report, it shall give judgment
accordingly. If the report be set aside, either in whole or in part,
the court may make another order of reference as to all, or so much
of the report as is set aside, to the same referees, or others, or it
may find the facts and determine the law itself, and give judgment
accordingly. Upon a motion to set aside a report, the conclusion
thereof shall be deemed and considered as the verdict of a jury.

Excnmous.

SEC. 164. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a
decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial he by jury, or in
the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any
time from the calling of the cause to the rendering of the verdict, or
decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a
new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material and
affect the substantial rights of the parties.

SEC. 165. The point of the exception shall be particularly
stated pnd shall be delivered to the judge, who shall, if the same is
conformable to the truth, sign the same, and if the same is not
conformable with the facts, it shall be corrected by the court until
it is made so; when it shall be signed by the judge and filed with
the clerk.

SEC. 166. No particular form of exception shall be required.
The objection shall be stated with so much of the evidence or other
matter as is necessary to explain, but no more, and the whole as
briefly as possible.

SEC. 167. When a cause has been tried by the court or by
referees, and the decision or report is not made immediately after
the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed
excepted to on a motion for a new trial or appeal, without any
special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

N EW TRIALS.

Sec. 168. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or
referees in action at law, but in chancery cases such re-examination
shall be called a re-hearing, and motions for a new trial or rehearing, as the case may he, shall be conducted as in this article
provided.

SEC. 169. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated
and a new trial or re-hearing granted on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party: First, Irregularityin the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented
from having a fair trial. Second, Misconduct of the jury. Third,
Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against. Fourth, Newly-discovered evidence, material for
the party making the application, but which he could not with
reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the trial.
Fifth, Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice. Sixth, That the verdict is contrary to law, evidence, or both. Seventh, Error of law occurring
at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.

be given for the excess; or if the defendant is entitled to any other
ah-mative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 176. In.an action to recover personal property, judgment
may be for the plaintifff for the posseaion, or value thereof, in case
a delivery thereof cannot be had, and damages for the detention of
the same. If the property has been delivered to the plaintiff, and
the defendant claims a return of the property, judgment for the
defendant may be for the return of the property or the value thereof—in case a return cannot be had-and damages for taking ‘and
withholding the same. ‘

SEC. 177. The judgment shall be entered in the order book,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other determination
of the action, and if the judgment be for money, the amount thereof
shall be stated in words.

SEC. 178. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any
issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless reuder judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the
real property of the deceased party unless such judgment is for the
purchase-money thereof, but shall be payable in the course of
administration on his estate.

SEC. 179. The clerk shall keep a docket which shall be styled
a “Judgment Docket,” in which he shall enter under their appropropriate heads the names of the parties against whom judgment
was rendered. If the judgment is for money, the amount thereof,
the date of the rendition of the judgment, and the page where
entered in the order book, and leave 'a space sufiicicnt to enter
satisfaction of the judgment.

' 0. The judgment shall, from the date of its rend’ ' , become a lien u 0 . . ; e real property of the judgm - . - tor not

exempt from execution in the co - -- ' w’ ' ' s rendered owned
by him at the time, or in whic :- as w 'terest, or any that
he may afterwards : - ' . ntil said lien expires. he lien shall
~~- ' . - '- wo years unless the judgment is previously sa r:- ..
SEC. 181. A transcript of the judgment, certified by the clerk
and under seal of the court, may be filed with the recorder of any
other county, and from the time of the filing the‘ judgment shall
become a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor
not exempt from execution in such county, owned by him at the
time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien

expires. The lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.

SEC. 182. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the
judgment docket by the judgment creditor or his attorney, and by
the clerk when an execution thereon is returned satisfied, and upon
the record of the same, filed with any recorder as herein provided,
by the judgment creditor or his attorney, or by filing with such
recorder an acknowledgment of satisfaction, acknowledged before
any person authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, which
shall be recorded by such recorder and shall refer to such judgment Whenever a judgment is satisfied otherwise than upon execution, it shall be the duty of the party or attorney to satisfy the
same or give acknowledgment of satisfaction, as the case may be,
and on motion the court may order it to be done.

T

CHAPTER V.
Exscucuons.

SEC. 183. The party in whose favor judgment is given may at
any time within live years from the entry thereof issue a writ of
execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 184. Thewrit of execution shall be issued in the name of
the Territory of Montana, sealed with the seal of the court and
signed by the‘ clerk, and ‘shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county where it is to be executed, and shall intelligibly refer to the

- judgment,‘stating the court, the county where the judgment was
rendered, the names of the parties, the judgment, and if it be for
money, the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon,
and shall require the sherif substantially as follows: First, If it
be for money, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment,
interest and costs, out of the personal property of such debtor, and
if sudicient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real
property, or if the judgment be a lien upon real property, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day the judgment was
rendered, or if the execution be issued to a county other than the
one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the
transcript of the judgment was filed in the office of the recorder of
such county, or at any time thereafter. Second, If it be against

real or personal property in the hands of personal representatives,
heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it
shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest and
costs, out of such property. Third, If it be for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff
to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to
the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the
sherif to satisfy any costs, damages, rents or profits recovered by
the same judgment out of the personal property of the person
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for
which judgment was recovered, to be satisfied therein, if a delivery
thereof cannot be had, and if sullicient personal property cannot be
found, then out of the real property of the defendant.

SEC. 185. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment
recovered against two or more persons in an action upon a joint
contract, in which action all the defendants were not served with
summdns, or did not appear, it shall direct the sheriff to satisfy the
judgment out of the joint property of all the defendants, and the
undivided property only of the defendants who were served, or who
appeared in the action. In other respects the writ shall he as
herein provided.

SEC. 186. The execution shall be made returnable within sixty
days after its receipt ‘by the sherif to the oiiice of the clerk of the
court where the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 187. The sherid receiving ‘an execution shall endorse
thereon the day, month, and year, when he received the same.

SEC. 188. Where the judgment requires payment of money, or .

the delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced
in those respects by execution. When it requires the performance
of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the person or
officer who is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced.

SEC. 189. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an execution shall be issued only by leave of the court on
motion. Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by
the oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment, or some
part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

SEC. 190. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment, execution may issue thereon against the property of the
debtor by permission of the probate court, and shall be issued and
executed in the same manner, and with the same efect, as if the
judgment debtor were alive.

SEC. 191. Executions against the property of the judgment
debtor may be issued to any court, and executions may be issued to
the different counties at the same time. Where an execution requires the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be issued
to the county where the property or some part thereof is situated.

SEC. 192. All goods, chattels, monies, and other property real
or personal of the judgment debtor not exempt by law, and all
property and rights of property seized and held' under attachment
in the action, shall be liable to execution. Until a levy, property
shall not be affected by the execution. Shares and interests in any
corporation or company, and debts and credits, and other property
not capable of manual delivery, may be attached on execution in
like manner as upon writs of attachment. Gold dust, and gold and
silver bullion, shall be returned by the officer as so much money
collected at its current value, without exposing the same for sale.

SEC. 193. All real and personal estate belonging to any married woman at the time of her marriage, and all which she may
have acquired subsequently to such marriage, or to which she shall
have after become entitled in her own right, and all her personal!
earnings, and all the issues, rents and profits of such real estate,
shall not be liable to attachment for or execution upon any liability
or judgment against the husband so long as she or any minor child
of her body be living: Provided, that her separate property shall
be liable for debts owing by her at the time of her marriage.

SEC. 194. The following property shall be exempt from execution or attachment, except as hereinafter specially provided: First,
A homestead not exceeding three thousand dollars in value, to in-1
clude the dwelling-house and other buildings, and the lands and
lots upon which they stand. Second, All wearing apparel of every
person and family. Third, All private libraries, musical instruments, family pictures, and keepsakes. Fourth, To each household two beds and bedding, and one additional bed and bedding for
every two members of the family, and other household goods and
utensils and furniture not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars
in value. Fifth, To each household one horse, two cows with their

calves, ten swine, two stapds of bees, fifty domestic fcwls, and
provisions and fuel for the comfortable maintenance of such household and family for three months. Provided, That in case such
householder shall not possess, or shall not desire to retain, the animals
above named, he may select from his stock and retain other animals
not to exceed three hundred dollars in value. Sixth, To a farmer,
the tools, implements, and farming utensils actually used about the
farm, two yoke of oxen, with yokes and chains, or one span of
horses, with harness and one wagon. Seventh, To a mechanic, the
tools _and instruments used to carry on the trade, occupation or
business in which he is engaged for his support or the support of
his family, also material not exceeding in value two hundred dollars. Eighth, To physicians, their libraries and medicines, not
exceeding in value two hundred dollars. Ninth, To attorneys,
clergymcn, teachers, and other professional men, their libraries.
Tenth, All property of the Territory, or of any county, incorporated city, town or village therein, or of any public or municipal
corporation of like character. Eleventh, All fire-arms kept for
the use of any person or family. Twelfth, To any person a skiff,
or small boat, with its oars, sails, and rigging, not exceeding in
value fifty dollars. Thirteenth, The tent and furniture, including
a table, camp-stools, bed and bedding of a miner, his rocker, shovels,
spades, picks, wheelbarrows, pumps, cabin, sluice-boxes and flames,
and other instruments used in mining, with provisions necessary for
his support for three months. Fourteenth, A suilicient quantity
of hay or grain or feed for keeping for three months the animals
mentioned in the several sub-divisions of this section as exempt
from execution or attachment. But no article of property mentioned in this section shall be exempt from an execution issued upon
a mortgage thereon, or for any tax levied thereon, or for any judgment for the purchase money thereof. Provided, That no mortgage made by a married man of any property exempt from execution and attachment by this act, shall be of any validity unless the
wife shall join in such mortgage, and the same be witnessed and
acknowledged by her the same as required in case of a deed conveying her interest in real estate.

SEC. 195. Any person desiring to take the benefit of this act
shall do so at the time property is levied on or attached, or within
a reasonable time thereafter, according to circumstances.

Sec. 196. In all cases the defendant may select the property
which he claims as exempt.

SEC. 197. When a sherif or other oiiicer has levied upon or

attached, or is about to levy upon or attach, personal property
which is claimed to be by law exempt from execution or attachment,
the sheriff or other oiiicer shall, if required by the person claiming,
forthwith summon three discreet and disinterested men, having the
qualifications of jurors, and resident in the vicinity where the property is found, and administer to them an oath impartially to examine and determine how much, if any, of said property is sovexempt.
Such persons shall have full power to summon witnesses, administer the necessary oath, and adjourn from time to time, not longer
than three ‘days in all. They shall also have power to appraise the
property claimed, and the other property of the claimant, so far as
may be necessary to determine what portion of it is exempt. They
shall deliver their decision to the sheriff in writing, and he shall
forthwith deliver to the person claiming, such as is decided by them
exempt from execution; but nothing in this section contained shall
prevent the person claiming the property from giving a bond and
trying his right of property before the district court, as provided in
cases for trying the right of property claimed by persons other than
the judgment debtor.
' SEC. 198. The sherih shall execute the writ against the property of the judgment debtor by levying on a suiiicient amount of
property, if there be suiiicient, collecting and selling the things in
action, and selling the other property, and. paying to the plaintiff
or his attorney so much of the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with the clerk of the court. Any
excess in the proceeds over the judgment and all costs due shall be
returned to the defendant or other person entitled thereto. When
there is more property of the judgment debtor than is sumcient to
satisfy the judgment and the costs due, within view of the sheriff,
he shall levy on only such part of the. property as the judgment
debtor may indicate: Provided, that the judgment debtor be present and indicate at the time of the levy such part; and, Provided,
that the property be amply sufficient to satisfy such judgment and
costs. _

SEC. 199. Before the sale of property on execution, notice
thereof shall be given, as follows: First, In cases of perishable

property, by posting written or printed notice of the time and place
of sale in three public places of the township or city where the sale
is to take place, for such time as may be reasonable considering the
character and condition of the property. Second, In cases of other
personal property, by posting a similar notice in three public places
in the township or city where the sale is to take place, ten days
before the day of sale. Third, In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, in three
of the most public places in the township or city in which such
property is situated, twenty days before the day of sale, and by
publishing a similar notice once a week, for three weeks successively, before the day of sale, in a newspaper published in the
county in which such property is situated, if there be one published
therein, and such notices shall particularly state the time and place
of all such sales All sheriff’s sales on execution shall take place
between ten o’clock in the forenoon and four o’clock in the afternoon.

SEC. 200. An oliicer selling without notice, as prescribed by
the last section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved
party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully
taking down or defacing the notice posted, if it be done before the
sale or satisfaction of the judgment—if the judgment be satisfied
before sale —shall forfeit five hundred dollars. '

SEC. 201. All sales of property under execution shall be made
at auction, to the highest bidder; and when suilicient has been sold
to satisfy the execution,. including the costs, the sale shall stop.
Neither the oilieer holding the execution nor his deputy, nor any
one acting under him‘, shall become a purchaser, either directly or
indirectly, at such sale. When the sale is of personal property,
capable of manual delivery, it shall be within view of those who
attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as likely to bring the
highest prices; and when the sale is of real property, and consists
of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately; or
when a portion of such property is claimed by a third person, and
he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold.
The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which property, real and personal, shall be sold, when
such property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of artielse which can be sold to advantage separately, and the oilicer shall
be bound to follow such directions. .

Size. 202. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him
for property struck of to him at a sale under execution, the officer
may again sell the property immediately, or at any time afterwards,
to the highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the
officer may recover the amount of such loss, with costs, by motion,
upon previous notice of five days, before any court, or before any
justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed his jurisdiction.

SEC. 208. -Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary
manner to give judgment, and issue execution thereon forthwith,
but the ‘defendant may claim a jury. And the same proceeding
may be had against any subsequent purchaser who may refuse to
pay, and the oliicer may in his discretion thereafter reject the bid
of any person so refusing.

SEC. 204. The two preceding sections shall_not be construed to
make the oliicer liable for any more than the amount bid by the

second or subsequent purchaser and the amount collected from the.

purchaser refusing to pay.

SEC. 205. When the purchaser of any personal property capable
of manual delivery shall pay the purchase-money, the officer making
the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and, if desired,
shall execute and deliver to him a certihcate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all the right,
title and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on
the day the execution was levied.

SEC. 206. In case of _the sale of real property, the sherif shall
execute to the purchaser, upon the payment of the purchase-money,
a deed showing the parties to the judgment, the court and county
in which the judgment was rendered, the amount thereof, the date
of the judgment, and the facts showing that the law has been com
plied with in respect to the sale. Such deed shall convey to the
purchaser all the interest of the judgment debtor in the property
sold

Size. 207. If a purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his succemcr in interest, be ejected therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of

. the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price
paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor. If the purchaser

of the property at sheriR"s sale, or his successor in interest, fail to
recover possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings
concerning the sale, or because the property sold was not subject to
execution and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on
petition of such party in interestor his attorney, revive the original
judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon from the time of payment at the same rate that the
original judgment bore; and ‘when so revived, the said judgment
shall have the same efect as the original judgment of said court of
that date, and bearing interest as aforesaid, and any other or after
acquired property, rents, issues, or profits of the said debtor, shall
be liable to levy and sale under execution in satisfaction of such
debt: Provided, that no property of such debtor sold bona jide
before the filing of such petition shall be subject to the lieu of said
judgment.

CHAPTER VI.

Docxnrrs.

SEC. 208, The clerk of the district and probate courts shall
procure, at the expense of the county, an order book, court docket,
bar docket, and such other books required by law to be kept by
such clerk, or as the court may order.

SEC. 209. The proceedings of -each day’s business of court
shall be entered up by the clerk in the order book, in full, and
shall be read in open court on each morning, and signed by the
judge.

SEC 210. The clerk of the court shall prepare a court docket
and a bar docket. The court docket shall be for the use of the
court, and the bar docket for the use of the bar. Each shall show
the names of the parties to each case, the number thereof, the
plaintifffs and defendants, attorneys, the date of the commencement of the cause, and the day on which the same is set for trial.
There shall be sufiicient space left on the court docket at each cause for
the judge to make full minutes of all that is done therein, and it
shall be the duty of the judge to make such minutes at the time
that any proceedings are therein had.

CHAPTER VII.

CLAIM ro Paorsnrr Lrcvrsn UPON on Arracusn.

SEC. 211. When any other than the judgment debtor shall
claim property levied upon or attached, he shall have the right to
demand and receive the same from the officer making the levy or
attachment, upon his making an affidavit that the property is his,
or that he has the right to the immediate possession thereof, stating
the value thereof, and describing the same, and giving to the officera
bond, with sureties in double the value of such property, conditioned
that he will appear at the next term of the court in the district
in which the property was seized, which shall commence ten days
or more after the acceptance of the bond by the odicer, and make
good his title to the same, or that he will return such property to
the officer or pay its value. If the oilicer require it, the sureties
shall justify as in other cases, and in case they do not justify when
required, the officer shall retain the property. If such officer do
not require the ‘bail to justify, he shall stand good for their sailiciency. He shall date and indorse his acceptance on the bond.

SEC. 212. The oiiicer shall return the aiiidavit, bond, and justification, if any, to the officer of the district court, and the clerk
shall place the same upon the docket of the court at the first term,
which shall commence ten days or more after the acceptance of the
bond by the oilicer, as above provided for, and it shall stand for
trial at that term, and it shall be governed by rules regulating
other trials SEC. 213. The person claiming the property shall be the plaintifff, and the oilicer and plaintifff in the execution or attachment

, defendants.

Site. 214. If the claimant make good his title to the property,
the bond shall be cancelled; if to a portion thereof, a like portion
of the bond shall be cancelled; but if he shall not maintain his
title, judgment shall be rendered against him atrd his sureties for
the value of the property, or for such less amount as shall not
exceed the amount due on the original execution or attachment.
When the judgment is in favor of the dilicer for the entire property,
the claimant shall pay the costs. When the claimant recovers all

the property, judgment shall be given in favor of the claimant for
costs. When the claimant recovers a portion of the property only,
the costs shall be apportioned. When the plaintifff prevails, the
costs may be taxed against the person who was plaintifff in the execution or attachment, or the court may in its discretion, if it be
of the opinion that the odicer levied upon said property without the
exercise of due caution, adjudge him to pay the costs, or any portion thereof.

CHAPTER VIII.
Pnocssnmas SUPPLEMENTARY T0 Exncurxon.

SEC. 215. When an execution against the property of the judgment debtor, or any one of several debtors, in some judgment issued
to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he does not reside in this Territory, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment is rendered, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
judgment creditor, at any time after such return is made, shall be
entitled to an order from a judge of the court requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before
such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a time and place
specified in the order; but no judgment debtor shall be required to
attend before a judge or referee out of the county in which he resides when proceedings are taken under the provisions of this act.

SEC 216. After the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof upon affidavit of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or of a judge thereof, that any judgment
debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order,
require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place
before such judge, or referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same, and such proceeding may thereupon be had for the
application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment as is provided upon the return of an execution. The court may enforce its orders by imprisonment if the
judgment debtor fail or refuse to obey the same.

SEC. 217. After the issuing of an execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff'

the amount of his debt, or soimuch thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a suiiicient
discharge for the amount so paid.

SEC. 218. ‘After the issuing and return of an execution against
the property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several judgment debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to
him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge may, by an
order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before him, or a
referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the same.

SEC. 219. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the judge or referee upon any proceedings under this act in
the same manner as upon a trial of an issue.

SEC. 220. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor, or
any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of
the debtor for his personal services at any time within thirty days
next preceding the order shall not be so applied, when it shall be
made to appear, by the debtor’s aiiidavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the support of a family supported in
whole or in part by his labor.

SEC. 221. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to
have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the
court or judge may authorize, by an order to that eifect, the judgment creditor to institute suit against such person or corporation
for the recovery of such interests or debt; and the court or judge
may by an order forbid the transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt until an action can be commenced and prosecuted to
judgment. Such order may be modified or vacated by the judge
granting the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at
any time upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 222 If any person, party, or witness disobey an order of
the referee, properly made in the proceedings before him under this
chapter, be may be punished by the court or judge ordering the
reference for a contempt.

TITLE VIII.

CHAPTER I.

FORECLOSURE or Monrsaens.

SEC. 223. There shall be but one action for the recovery of
debt or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage or lien
upon real estate or personal property, which shall be for the en- _
forcement of such lien or mortgage in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In such action, the court shall have power to
foreclose the defendant’s equity of redemption in the mortgaged
property, and direct a sale thereof for the purpose of satisfying the
amount due the plaintifff and the costs and expenses of foreclosure
and sale.

SEC. 224. If the debt for which the mortgage, or lien, or encumbrance, is held be not all due, the court or jury trying the
cause shall find the amount due, and the time and amount of such
other sums as may become due; and if it shall appear to the court
or jury that the mortgaged property can be sold in parcels without
injury to the same, the same shall be so sold, and the plaintifff may
have execution on his several establishments, as they severally become due; but if such property cannot be sold in parcels without

injury to the same, then the court may direct that all such property be sold and the proceeds to be applied, first to the satisfaction of
the amount due and costs, and then to the amount next to become
due, and so on, until the whole amount due or to become due to
the plaintifff is paid, deducting legal interest from the same from
the time the same is paid until the time the same would have become due.

SEC. 225. If there be a surplus remaining after the satisfaction
of the mortgage debt and costs, it shall be paid to the person
entitled to the same, or it may be deposited in court.

SEC. 226. All sales of mortgaged property shall be conducted
in the same manner and subject to the same rules as to notice and
the execution of conveyances, and in all other respects as sales
under execution.

SEC. 227. If the mortgaged property shall not sell for a sum
suilicient to satisfy the amount due the plaintifff and costs, the
plaintifff may have execution for the balance in the same manner as
executions are issued in other cases. Judgments rendered in foreclosures of mortgages shall be a lien upon the real estate of the
judgment debtor the same as judgment in other cases.

I CHAPTER II.

Ac'rIoNs Eon‘ N UISANCE, WASTE, AND WILFUL TRESPASS, IN
CERTAIN CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 228. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent,
or ofensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, or the obstruction of any highway, or the closing of the
channel of any stream used for boating or rafting logs, lumber or
timber, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such
action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously
afected or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance,
and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as
well as damages recovered. ’

SEC. 229. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant
or tenant in common, of real property, commit waste thereon, any
person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against him

. therefore, in which action there may be judgment for treble damages.

SEC. 230. Any person who shall cut down or carry oil‘ any
wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure
any tree or timber on the land of another person, or on the street
or highway in front of any person’s house, village, or city lot or
cultivated grounds, or on the commons or public grounds of any
city or town, or on the street or highway in front thereof, without
lawful authority, shall be‘ liable to the owner of such land, or to
such city or town, for treble the amount of damages which may be
assessed therefore, in a civil action in any court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 231. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon
the land or adjoining it.

SEC. 232. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry in or upon or detention of any building or any cultivated
real property, judgment may be entered for three times the amount
at which the actual damages are assessed.

CHAPTER III.
ACTIONS IN RELATION TO REAL Esmrs.

SEC. 233. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or his tenant of real property, against any person
who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate or interest.

SEC. 234. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment
to be taken against him without answer, the plaintifff shall not
recover costs.

SEC. 235. In an action for the recovery of real property, where
the plaintiff shows a right to recovery at the time the action was
commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the
pleading of the action, the verdict and judgment may be according
to the fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding
the property.

SEC. 236. When damages are claimed for withholding the
property recovered, upon which permanent improvements have
been made by a defendant, or those under whom he claims holding
under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintiil‘, in good
faith, the value of such improvements shall be allowed as a set-of
against such damages.

SEC. 237. The court in which an action is pending for the
recovery of real property, or a judge thereof, may, on motion, upon
notice to either party. for good cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon the property and make
survey and measurement thereof for purpose of the action.

SEC. 238. The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon
such party may enter upon the property with necessary surveyors
and assistants and make such survey and measurement, but if any

unnecessary injury he done to the property he shall be liable
therefore.

SEC. 239. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a
conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the
mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale. _

SEC. 2-10. The court may, by injunction, on good cause shown,
restrain the party in possession from doing any act_ to the injury of
the real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or
after a sale on execution before a conveyance is executed.

SEC. 241. An action for the recovery of real property, against
a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by an alienation made
by such person, either before or after the commencement of the
trial.

CHAPTER IV.
Acnoxs son USURPATIONS.

SEC. 242. An action may be brought by the district attorney
in the name of the people of Montana Territory upon his own
information, or upon the complaint of a private party, against any
person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises
any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this Territory. And it shall be the duty of the district attorney to bring
the action whenever he has reason to believe that any such oiiice or

franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or"

exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do so by the
governor. .

SEC. 243. Whenever such action is brought, the district attorney, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also
set forth in the complaint the name of the party rightly entitled to
the office, with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case,
upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or
emoluments belonging to the office and by means of his usurpations
thereof, an order may be granted by the judge of the supreme

court, or a district judge, for the arrest of such defendant and

holding him to trial, and thereupon he may be arrested and held
to bail for his appearance at the trial, and for his compliance with

any order or judgment that may be rendered against him in such .

action.

SEC. 244. In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon
the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party
alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as
justice shall require.

SEC. 245. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person alleged to be entitled, amkthe same be in favor of such person,
he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing
such oiiicial bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself
the duties of the office, and he may by action‘ recover the damages
which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the
o$ce by the defendant.

SEC. 246. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such
persons, in order to try their respective rights to such oiiice or
franchise.

SEO. 247. When a defendant against whom such action has
been brought is adjudged guilty of usurping, or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding any odice, franchise or privilege, judgment shall
be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the oilice, franchise or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The
court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine,
not exceeding five thousand dollars, which line when collected shall
be paid into the treasury of the Territory.

TITLE IX.

CHAPTER I.
APPEALS.

SEC. 248. A judgment, or order in civil action, except when

expressly made hnal in this act, may be revived, as prescribed by
— this title, and not otherwise.

SEC. 249. An order made out of court, without notice to the
adverse party, may be vacated or modified without notice by the
judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the‘
manner in which other motions are made.

SEC. 250. Any party aggrieved, may appeal in the cases prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be known as the
appellant, and the adverse party the appellee.

Sac. 251. An appeal may be taken, First, From a final judgment
in action or special proceeding commenced in the court in which the
judgment is rendered within six months after the rendition of the
judgment. Second, From a judgment rendered on an appeal from
the probate court within ninety days after the rendition of the
judgment. Third, From an order granting or refusing a new trial
or re-hearing, from an order refusing to change the place of trial of
an action or proceeding after a motion is made therefore in the case
provided by law, or on the ground that the judge is disqualified
from hearing or trying the same, from an order granting or dissolving an injunction, and from an order refusing to grant or dissolve
aninjunction, and from any special order made after final judgment within sixty days after the. order is made and entered in the
minutes of the court.

Sac. 252. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk
of the court with whom the judgment or order appealed from is .
entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same, or some specific ’
part thereof, and serving a copy of the notice upon the adverse
party or his attorney.

SEC. 253. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes
a statement of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment
or order, he shall within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order prepare such statement, which shall contain the
grounds upon which he intends to rely upon the appeal, and so
much of the evidence as shall be necessary to explain the grounds,
and no more, and shall file the same with the clerk. The appellee
may within five days thereafter prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a copy of the same on the appellant. If such
amendments he admitted, the statement shall be corrected accordingly, and if not admitted the statement and amendments shall be
presented to the judge who tried the case, upon notice of two days
to the appellee, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by
such judge.

SEC. 254. If the party shall omit to make a statement within
the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall omit

within the several times above limited, the one party to propose
amendments the other to notify an appearance before the judge,
they shall be respectively deemed, the former to have agreed to the
statement as proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendment as proposed, and no settlement of the statement or certificate
thereto by the judge shall be required.

SEC. 255. The several periods of time above limited may be
enlarged upongood cause shown by the judge before whom the
cause was tried.

SEC. 256. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be
signed by him, with his certificate that the same has been allowed
and iscorrect. When the statement is agreed upon by the parties,
they or their attorneys shall sign the same, with their certificate
that it has been agreed upon by them and is correct. In either
case, when settled or agreed upon, it shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 257. The clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal
be from a final judgmnnt, to the transcript of the proceedings, including a copy of all the pleadings, motions and orders made in the
cause; if the appeal’ be from an order, to such order or a copy
thereof.

SEC. 258. The provisions of the last preceding sections shall
not apply to appeals taken from an order made upon an affidavit
filed, but such affidavit shall be annexed to the order in the place
of the statement mentioned in those sections.

SEC. 259. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the judgment.

SEC. 260. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, ailirm, or modify the judgment or order
appealed from in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and
as to any or all of the parties and may set aside, or confirm, or
modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to or dependent
upon such judgment or order, and may if necessary or proper order
a re-hearing. When the judgment or order is reversed or modified,
the appellate court may make complete restitution of all property
or rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order; and when it
appears to the appellate court that the appeal was made for delay,
it may add to the costs and damages as may be just.

SEC. 261. On an appeal from final judgment, the appellant

shall furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, a transcript of all the pleadings, motions, orders, judgments, and proceedings, and the statement annexed— if there be one—certified
by the clerk to be correct. On an appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal or from an order, the appellant shall furnish
the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or
order appealed from, and a copy of all the papers used in the hearing or trial in the court below, such copies to be certified by the
clerf that they are correct. If any written opinion be placed on

‘file on rendering the judgment or making the order in the court

below, a copy shall be furnished. If the appellant fail to furnish
the requisite papers, the appeal may be dismissed.

CHAPTER II.
Appear. 1'0 rm: ‘SUPREME COURT mom '& Drsnuor COURT.‘

Sac. 262. An appeal may be taken from the district court to
the supreme court in the following cases: First, From a {inal
judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding commenced in
those courts, or brought into the courts from another court. Second, From an order granting a new trial or re-hearing, or refusing
the same; from an order refusing to change the place of trial of
an action or proceeding after a motion is made therefore in the cases
provided by law, or on the ground that a judge is disqualified
from hearing or trying the same; from an order granting or dissolving an injunction, and from any special order made after dual

judgment.

SEC. 263. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose in‘

any case, a written undertaking in not less than three hundred dollars shall be executed on the part of the appellant by at least two
sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages and
costs which may be awarded against him on the appeal, or that sum
shall be deposited with the clerk of the court in which the judgment wasrendered to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be filed, or such deposit made with the clerk, within .

five days after the notice of the appeal is filed.
SEC. 264. If the appeal be from a judgment or order, directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the

judgment or order unless a written undertaking be executed on the
part of the appellant by two or moresureties —stating their place
of residence,—— to the effect that they are bound in double the
amount named in the judgment or order, that if the judgment or
order appealed from, or any part thereof, be ailirmed, the appellant
shall pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order,
or the part of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall
be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages and costs
which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appal,
which undertaking shall be approved by the clerk.

SEC. 265. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the
assignment or delivery of documents or personal property, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by appeal unless the things required to be assigned or delivered he placed in the
custody of such oiiicer or receiver as the court may appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant,
with at least two sureks, to the approval of the clerk, and in such
amount as the court or udge thereof, or probate judge, may direct,
to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate
court upon the appeal.

SEC. 266. If the judgment or, order appealed from direct the
execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment _or order shall not he stayed by the appeal until the
instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment or order is entered, to abide the judgment of
the appellate court.

SEC. 267. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real or personal property, the execution of
the same shall not he stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the
effect that during the possession of such property by the appellant
he will not commit nor suffer to be committed any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the
use and occupation of such property from the time of the appeal
until the delivery of the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the
court by which the judgment was rendered or order made, and
which shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, and the appeal is by the mortgagor, the
undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

SEC. 268. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by the
preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or order appealed from,
or upon the matter embraced therein, but the court below may
proceed upon any other matter included in the action and not
efected by the judgment or order appealed from. And the court
below may in its discretion dispense with or limit the security
required by the said sections when the appellant is an executor,
administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right.

SEC. 269. The undertaking prescribed by the preceding sections may be separate, or all included in- one, at the option of the
appellant.

SEC. 270. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect
unless it be accompanied by the aiiidavit of the snreties, that they
are each worth the amount specified therein, over and above all their
just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, except where the judgment exceeds three thousand dollars, and
the undertaking on appeal is executed by more than two sureties,
they may state in their affidavit that they are severally worth
amounts less than that expressed in the. undertaking if the whole
amount be equivalent to that of two suilicient sureties. In all
cases where an undertaking is required on appeal by the provisions
of this chapter of this act, a deposit in the court below of the
amount of the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars
in addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all
cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written
consent of the appellee.

SEC. 271. In all cases not herein provided for the perfecting
of an appeal, by giving the undertaking as herein required, or by
making a deposit as before specified, shall stay all proceedings
in the court below upon the judgment or order appealed from,
except that where it directs the sale of perishable property the
court below may order the property to be sold and the proceeds
thereof deposited to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 272. Appeals in the supreme court maybe brought to a
hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the opposite

. party. Before the argument, each party shall furnish to the other

a copy of his points and authorities, and file one copy thereof with
the clerk.

SEC. 273. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it
shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk
of the court in which the judgment appealed from is entered,
who shall enter the same at length in the order book and minutes
against the judgment or order appealed from, a reference to the
judgment of the supreme court, with a brief statement that such
judgment or order has been affirmed, reversed, or modiiied, as the
case may be.

CHAPTER III.
APPEALS mom Paonua TO Drsrmor Covnrs.

SEC. 274. An appeal may be taken from the probate court to
the district court of the district in which the probate court is held,
in the following cases: First, From an order or decree admitting
a will to probate or refusing the same. Second, From an order
setting apart property or making an allowance for the widow or
children. Third, From an order granting letters testamentary or
of administration, or appointing a guardian of an ‘infant or of an
insane person, or of a person incompetent to manage his own property, or refusing to grant such letters, or to make such appointment, or making such letters of appointment. -Fourth, From an
order directing the sale or conveyance of real property. Fifth,
From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share, is allowed or payment thereof directed, or by which
such allowance or direction is refused. Sixth, From an order
made in the settlement of an executor, administrator, or guardian.
Seventh, And from any other final judgment or order made in any
case, civil or criminal.

SEC. 275. All appeals provided for in this act, from the probate court, shall be taken in the same manner as provided for in
article 8th of “an act entitled an act in relation to executors and
administrators.”

TITLE X.

CHAPTER I.
_,Y_Vnrrs or Eaaoa.

SEC. 276. Every Hrialfjudgment, order, or decision of a district
court, except in chancery,(r1is'y.‘l_5e',e;amined upon a writ of error
in the same court for error in fact,“ in’ th_e_ supreme court for error
in law.   °_ ,

Size. 277. Every such writ shall be’ ’p_1:6secuted within six
months and not after. But if the party entitl'e‘d‘t_{r__liave such writ
shall be absent from the Territory, and shall not have hc,e.n:personally served with process, nor appeared to the action, or’ éach
party he an infant, or married woman, or imprisoned, or insalne,
then such writ may be prosecuted within two years after the removal of such disability and not after: Provided, That absence
from the Territory shall not entitle the party to a longer time than
five years. The time limited shall include the day on which the
judgment is rendered, or the order or decision is made, or on which
the disability ceases.

SEC. 278. A writ of error shall be deemed to have issued on
the day on which the plaintiff in error shall file in the oilice of the
clerk of the district court where the record is, a written undertaking, executed by two sureties, to be approved by the clerk, for _

the payment of all the costs of such proceeding, and it shall not be

necessary in any stage of the proceedings actually to sue out the
writ of error.

SEC. 279. On the filing of such undertaking, the clerk shall
issue a notice to the defendant in error, under the seal of the court,
specifying the court in which and the time when he is to appear to
protect his interests, and if the prcecipe direct the writ of error to
bemade returnable to the supreme court, he shall send thither a
transcript of the record, under the seal of the court. Such notice
may be as nearly as applicable in the following form:

Tsaarroav or 1\IoNrANA,
County of

To C—— D—-+- .

You. are hereby notified that A B-——: has sued a writ
of error, from the supreme court, to reverse the decision of the
district court of said county, given in your favor against the said
A B at the ———— term of 18 ,and unless
you appear in the said supreme court on the ———-—- Monday of
, 18 , the cause will be heard: in your absence.

       

 

Witness the seal of the district court’-the,’ day of —————,
18 . _ 
[SEAL]   E———— F—-——,
_ .-*-,1. 2 ° Clerk.

.0. ‘.

Sec. 280. The-,ndti.' ‘may be served on the defendant in error
or his atto1;oef_b:i'._1-e<'!ord, by any sheriff within his county, and shall
be by ’d.e1_i've.l-ii1g°a copy thereof, or it may be served by any other
dis.irit_ar6_sted° person, and the return of the sherif endorsed thereon,
or-‘the affidavit of such other disinterested person, shall be evidence
thereof, and if served ten days before the return day, the cause
may be heard at that term. If returned not found, the court of
error may make such order for the publication as shall appear most
likely in the particular case to convey knowledge of the proceedings
to the defendant in error, and may then proceed as if the notice
had been personally served.

SEC. 281. The transcript shall contain a copy of the writ and
return, the pleadings, the journal entries and the bills of exception,
the exception and return, and such other matters as the court or
judge shall have ordered to be made a part of the record Either
party may have a ccrtiorari to supply any diminution of the record.

‘ SEC. 282. The court of error may fix the time for assigning errors
and filing joinders. If errors in law be assigned, no joinders shall
be necessary. One or more errors in fact may be assigned, and the
defendant may put in the common joinder as a demurrer thereto, or
may traverse, or confess and avoid the facts assigned for error, and
a separate issue shall be made in each.

SEC. 288. The judgment, or other matter complained of, may
be ahirmed, or may be reversed, or set aside, in whole or in part,
or may be modified, or a di&'ereut judgment or order may be substituted for that complained of, and the cause may be remitted to

the district court for such further proceedings as the supreme
court by mandate shall direct. Executions may issue from the
supreme court, or its judgments may be executed by the district
court on mandate for that purpose.

SEC. 281. If the undertaking for costs contain an additional
undertaking to pay the judgment if ailirmed, and damages, or any
new or modified judgment that may be given against the plaintifff
in error, then all further proceedings by way of executing the judgment shall forthwith cease, until further order of the court of error.
In such case, if the judgment be affirmed or modified, or any new
judgment be given against the plaintifff in error, damages may be
awarded to the defendant in error, not exceeding ten per cent. upon
the amount of the judgment, exclusive of interest and costs, if it
manilestl y appear that the proceeding was without probable cause,
and merely for delay; and in case where judgment is rendered
against the plaintifff in error, judgment shall also be rendered
against the sureties in the undertaking to the extent of their liability, and execution shall issue against them accordingly.

SEC. 285. The undertaking for a writ of error may be in the
following form :

A Bj-, District Court, County of ————,
vs. Judgment ———— ——,
C D , - at term, 18—.
We promise to pay all costs awarded against A B ,

on his writ of error in this cause,--and also the judgment if
a$rmed,— and the damages, or any new or modified judgment

that may be given against him.
E——— F-——,

G——H—_.  

SEC. 286. If after the undertaking be filed either party shall
die, or, being a single woman. shall marry, the proper persons may,
on motion, be made parties, and the causes shall proceed to judgment. ,

SEC. 287. Any person who may be a party or privy in any
judgment, order, or decision, may prosecute a writ of error to reverse the same to the benefit of all parties and privies therein, and
no other party or privy shall afterwards prosecute a writ of error
for the same cause.

SEC. 288. The reversal of a judgment order or decision shall
not effect the title to the property sold upon an execution issued
upon such judgment order or decision if such property be purchased
at the sale by a stranger, but if purchased by the judgment creditor, the plaintifff in error may bring an action for the recovery of
the same, and the court may award restitution or render such other
judgment as justice shall require.

SEC. 289. When the supreme court shall be equally divided in
opinion, the cause shall stand continued until all the judges are
present. _

SEC. 290. Whenever on trial of an action at law in the district
court it shall be found to turn upon important or doubtful principles of law, the court may direct a special verdict to be found, and
in all cases the parties may agree upon the facts, and such agreement in writing,‘ signed by the parties or their attorneys, shall be
made part of their record; and all questions of law arising upon
special verdicts, agreed cases, motions for new trials, and all others
in any manner arising in the district courts in law or equity, may
be adjourned into the supreme court for decision, and the supreme
court may give judgment or remand the cause, or make any order
according to the law and justice of the ease.

TITLE XI.

CHAPTER I.

MIscnLLANEoUs Pnovrsrons.

»
0

SEC. 291. When a judgment is reversed against two or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, those who
were not originally served with the summons and did not appear to
the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should not
be bound by the judgment in the same manner as if they had been
originally served with the summons.

SEC. 292. The summons as provided in the last section shall
describe the judgment and require the person summoned to show
cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the
same manner and returnable within the same time as the original
summons. It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.

SEC. 293. The summons shall be accompanied by anaffidavit
of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains uusatished, and shall specify
the amount due thereon.

SEC. 294. Upon such summons the defendant may answer upon
the return day thereof, denying the judgment or setting up any
defense which may have arisen subsequently, or he may deny his
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered,
except a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitation.l

SEC. 295. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment,
or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the
summons, with the allidavit ailixed, and the answer, shall constitute
the written allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the
original complaint and judgment, the summons with the affidavit.
annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such written allegations.

SEC. 296. The issue found may be tried as in other cases, but.
when the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be»found against him, it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied»
on such original judgment, with interest thereon.

CHAPTER II.
CONFESSION or JUDGMENT.

SEC. 297. A judgment of confession may be entered without»
action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure any
person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or
both, in the manner herein prescribed.

SEC. 298. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect: First,
It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specific sum. Second, If it be for money due or to become due, it shall state concisely the fact out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum
confessed is due or to become due. Third, If it be for securing
the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely
the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same. Fourth, That such confession is not made for the purpose of defrauding the creditors of
the defendant, but the sum confessed is a bona jide existing debt
owing from the defendant to plaintifff, due or to become due at some
specified time- The statement shall be filed with the clerk, and
the court may thereupon enter judgment for the amount confessed,
and the same shall have the same force and effect as other judgments in such courts; and when the debt for which judgment is
confessed is not due, the judgment shall state when the same will
become due, and execution shall not issue thereon. until such debt
shall have become due, unless the defendant otherwise direct.

' CHAPTER III.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVEBSY WITHOUT ACTION.

SEC. 299. Parties to a question in difference which might be a
subject of civil action, may without action agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present’
a submission of the same to any court that would have jurisdiction
of the same if an action had been brought, but it must appear by
affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good
faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case and render judgment thereon as
if an action were depending. .

SEC. 300. J ddgment shall be entered as in other cases, but
without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial. The submission
and other papers used in the hearing of said cause shall be filed
with the clerk of the court where judgment is entered. .

SEC. 301. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same
manner subject to appeal.

CHAPTER IV.
I ‘* l AnBI'raA'rIoNs._

SEC. 302 Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action
between them, except a question of title to real property in fee or

for life. This qualification shall not include -questions relating
merely to the partition or boundaries of real property.

SEC. 308. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing,
and may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 304. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be
entered as an order of the district court, for which purpose it shall
be filed with the clerk of such court in the district where the parties or one of them resides. The clerk shall thereupon enter in his
register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of thejx
parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission,
when filed, and the time’ limited by the submission, if any, within
which the award shall be made. When so entered the submission
shall not be revoked except by the consent of both parties. The
arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and
the award may be enforced by the court in the same manner as a
judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the court,
it may be revoked at any time before the award is made.

' SEC. 305. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and
place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths
to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and
to make an award thereon.

SEC. 306. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during the investigation, but when met a majority may determine any
question. Before acting, they shall be sworn before an oiiicer
authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and
examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in relation to
the matters in controversy, and to make a just award according to
their understanding.

SEC. 307. The award shall be in writing, and signed by the
parties or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When
a submission is made an order of the court, the award shall be filed
with the clerk, and a note thereof made in his register after the
expiration of five days from the filing of the award, upon the
application of a party, and on filing an affidavit showingithat notice
of filing the award has been served 'on the adverse party or his.
attorney at least four days prior to such application, and that no’
order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the award
shall be entered by the clerk in the order book, and shall thereupon
have the effect of a judgment. '

SEC. 308. The court upon motion may vacate the award upon
either of the following grounds, and may award a new hearing
before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion: First, That it
was procured by corruption or fraud. Second, That the arbitrators
were guilty of misconduct, or committed gross error in refusing, on
cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or refusing to hear pertinent
evidence, or otherwise acted improperly in a manner in which the
rights of the party were prejudiced. Third’, That the arbitrators
exceeded their powers in making their award, or that they refused
or improperly omitted to consider a part of the matter submitted to
them, or that the award is indefinite or cannot be performed.

SEC. 309. The court may on motion correct or modify the
award, when it appears: First, That there was a miscalculation
in figures upon which it was made, or that there is a mistake in
the description of some person or property therein. Second, When
a part of the award is upon matters not submitted which can be
separated from other parts and does not affect the decision on the
matter submitted. Third, When the award, though imperfect in’
form, could have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the
imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 310. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to
appeal, or writ of error, in the same manner as an order which is
subject to appeal or writ of error in civil actions, but the judgment
entered before motion is made shall not be subject to appeal or writ
of error. ' .

SEC. 311. If a submission be revoked and an action be brought
therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs and
damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER V.
OFFER TO Conmss JUDGMENT.

SEC. 312. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or
judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an otier to allow judgment to be
taken for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified.
If the plaintifff accept the offer and give notice thereof in five days,
he ‘may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of
notice of acceptance, and judgment may thereupon be entered

accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given within the
time limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not
be given in evidence, and if the plaintiff fail to recover a more
favorable judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the
defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

CHAPTER VI.
ACTIONS FOR DEBTS NOT DUE.

SEC. 313. Actions may be commenced on any note, bill, bond,
or other instrument in writing, for the payment of money, or for
the delivery of any gold dust, or gold or silver bullion, before the
name shall have become due, when it shall appear by the aiiidavit
of the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf : First, That the defendant is leaving, or is about to leave, this Territory, taking with him

' property, monies, rights, credits, or other articles that might be

subject to the payment of the debt. Second, That the defendant is
disposing of his property, or is about to dispose of property subject
to execution, for the purpose of defrauding his creditors. The affidavit shall also state the nature of the indebtedness and the amount
due the plaintifff. The affidavit shall be filed with the complaint.

SEC. 314. Attachments may be issued in such cases under the
same rules and subject to like restrictions as provided for in other
cases.

SEC. 315. The defendantmay by plea put in issue the matters
alleged , in the affidavit herein required, and if the defendant fail to
substantiate them, the suit shall abate. ‘

SEC. 316. The court, or a judge thereof, or a probate judge,
may, on motion, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, dismiss
such action if it appear that there was no suiiicient grounds for the
commencement of the same.

TITLE XII.

CHAPTER 1.
Or Wrmnssns.

SEC. 317. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in any
civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in the event of
the same as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of
a crime, but such interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting his credibility. ,

SEC. 318. Any party to a civil action or proceeding may compel any adverse party or person for whose benefit such action or
proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or defended at the trial or by
deposition, to testify as a witness, in the same manner and subject
to the same rules as other witnesses.

SEC. 319._ No party shall be allowed to testify by virtue of
anything herein contained, where the adverse party is an executor
or administrator of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved
transpired before the death of such deceased person.

SEC. 320. The following persons shall be incompetent to testify:
First, Persons who are of an unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. Second, Children under ten years of
age who appear incapable‘ of receiving just impressions of the facts
respecting which they are examined or of relating them truly, but
the court in its discretion may allow such children to testify, and
the facts herein enumerated shall go to their credibility. Third,
Husband or wife for or against each other, or concerning any communication made by one to the other during the marriage, whether
called as a witness while that relation existed or afterwards.
Fourth, An attorney concerning any communication made to him
by his client in that relation, or his advice thereon, without the
client’s consent. Fifth, A clergyman or priest concerning any
confession made to him, in his professional character, in the course
of discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs, without
the consent of the person making the confession. Sixth, A negro,
Indian, or Chinaman, where the parties to the action are white

persons, but if the parties to an action or either of the parties is
an Indian, negro, or Chinaman, a negro may be introduced as a
witness against such negro, an Indian against such Indian, or a
Chinaman against such Chinaman. A negro within the meaning
of this act is a person having one-eighth or more of negro blood,
an Indian is a person having one-half or more of Indian blood, and
a Chinaman is a person having one-half or more Chinese blood.

SEC. 321. The clerks of the district and probate court shall, on
application of any person having a cause or any matter pending in
the court, issue a subpoena for witnesses, under the seal of the
court, inserting all the names required by the applicant in one sub«
ptnna, which may be served by the sberilf, or by the party, or by
any other person. When a*subpoena is not served by the sheriff,
proof of service shall be shown by affidavit; where served by the
sheriff, by his certificate; but no costs of service shall be allowed
except when served by the sheriff.

SEC. 322. The subpoena shall be issued as follows : First, To
require attendance before a court or at a trial of an issue therein.
Second, To require attendance out of court before a u,dge, justice,
or any other oilicer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony
in any matter under the laws of this Territory. It shall be issued
by the judge, justice, or other officer before whom the attendance
is required. Third, To require attendance before a commissioner
appointed to take testimony by a court of any other state or territory.

SEC. 323. The service of the subpoena shall be by reading the

same to the witness, or by leaving a copy at his usual place of
abode, but such copy need not contain the name of any other witness.
SEC. 324. No person shall be compelled to attend as a witness
unless his fees for travel to and from the place of trial and one
days’ attendance there is either paid or tendered to him at the time
of the service of the subpoena if demanded by him; and the person making the service shall state in the return what amount of
fees was paid or tendered, and if not paid or tendered, whether a
demand for the same was made or not.

SEC. 325. No person shall be compelled to attend as a witness
out of the county in which he resides unless his residence is less
than thirty miles from the place of trial.

Snc. 326. A person present in court, or before a judicial oilicer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in
attendance upon a subpoena issued by such officer.

SEC. 327. It shall be the duty of a witness duly served with a
subpoena to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under
his control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and
legal questions, and unless sooner discharged, to remain until the
testimony is closed.

SEC. 328. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent
to the matter in issue though his answers may establish a claim
against himself; but he need not give an answer that would have a
tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony, nor need he
give an answer which will have a direct tendency to degrade his
character, unless it be to the very fact in issue or to a fact from
which the fact in issue would be presumed; but a witness shall answer as to theifact of his previous conviction for felony.

SEC. 329. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn,
or to answer as a witness,.or to subscribe to an affidavit or deposition when required, may be punished as contempt by the court or
officer issuing the subpoena or requiring the witness to be sworn,
and if the witness be a party, his complaint may be dismissed or
his answer stricken out. '

SEC. 330. A witness disobeying a subpaena shall also forfeit to
the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars and all damages he may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which
forfeiture and damages may be recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 331. In case of the failure of a witness to attend, the
court or oiiicer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service
thereof, and other requirement of the law, may issue a warrant to
the sheriff of the county to arrest the witness and bring him before
the court or oilicer where his attendance is required.

SEC. 332. If the witness be a prisoner confined in jail or prison
within this Territory, for any other cause than asentence for felony,
an order for his examination in prison upon deposition, or for his
temporary removal and production before a court or officer for the
purpose of being orally examined, may be made as follows: First,
by the court itself in which the action or proceeding is pending.
Second, By a judge of the supreme court, district court, or probate judge of the county where the action or proceeding is pending,
if before a judge or other person ‘out of court.

SEC. 333. Such order can only be made upon aiiidavit showing
the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected by
the witness, and its materiality.

SEC. 334. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where
the action or proceeding is pending, and for cause other than a sentence for felony, his production may be required; in all other cases
his examination when allowed shall be taken upon deposition.

SEC. 335. Every person served with a subpoena to attend as a
witness before a court, judge, commissioner, referee, or other person, in a cause where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest in a civil action
while going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there,
and returning therefrom. CHAPTER II.
ON Armnavrrs.

SEC. 336. An ahidavit to be used before any court, judge, or
oiiicer of this Territory, may be taken before any judge, or clerk
of any court, or any justice of the peace, or notary public, of this
Territory.

SEC. 337. An aiiidavit taken in another state or territory of the
United States, to be used in this Territory, shall be taken before a
commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory to take
aiiidavits and depositions in such other state or territory, or before
a judge of record having a seal. °

SEC. 338. An affidavit taken in a foreign country, to be used
in this Territory, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister, or
consul of the United States, or before any judge of a court of
record having a seal, in such foreign country.

SEC. 339. When an aiiidavit is taken before a judge of a court
of any other state or territory, or a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence of the court, and
the fact that such judge is a member thereof, shall be certified by
the clerk of the court under the seal thereof.

CHAPTER III.

DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS TERRITORY.

SEC. 340. The testimony of a witness of this Territory may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of
the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special
proceeding after a question of fact has arisen therein in the following cases: First, When the witness resides out of the county in
which his testimony is to be used. Second, When the witness is
about to leave the county where the action is to be tried, and will
probably continue absent when the testimony is required. Third,
When the witness is sick, too infirm to attend the trial, or there is
an apprehension that he will db before the time of trial.

SEC. 341. Either party may have the deposition taken of a
witness in this Territory, before any judge or clerk, or any justice
of the peace or notary public in this Territory, on serving upon the
adverse party previous notice of the time and place of examination,
and showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section, at
any time after the service of the summons or appearance of the defendaknt, or after the completion of notice by publication, and at any
time thereafter. When the defendant has not appeared, the notice
may be served on the clerk of the court where the action is pending. Such notice shall be at least five days, and one additional day
for every twenty-five miles of the distance from the residence of
the party to the place of examination, unless for a cause shown a
judge by order prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter time is
prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with the notice.

SEC. 342. Either party may attend at such examination, and
put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition when completed shall be carefully read to the witness and
corrected by him in any particular if desired, it shall then be subscribed by the witness, and a certificate attached by the officer taking the same, that the witness was sworn, the time and place of
taking the deposition, and whether or not the parties were present,
and shall then enclose it in an envelope or wrapper, seal it, and
direct it to the clerk of the courtrin which the action is pending,
and endorse on the envelope or wrapper the names of the parties to

the action. Such deposition may be sent through the mail or by
some safe private opportunity, or by any person by which the parties in writing may agree. Such deposition, when so taken, may
be used by either party upon the trial, or other proceeding against
any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if a party attend at the examination, such party shall
make no objection at the trial to the form of an interrogatory unless
the same was stated at the time of the examination and noted in the
deposition. All objections to a deposition shall be taken before the
commencement of the trial.

SEC. 343. It shall appear at the trial that the cause for taking
the deposition still exists or that such witness is dead.

SEC. 344. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be
read in any stage of the same actiongr proceeding by either party,
or in any subsequent action between the same parties for the same
cause, and shall then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

CHAPTER_ IV.
Dsposrrrons TAKEN our or rms Tsaarroar.

SEC. 345. The testimony of a witness out of this Territory may
be taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of
the summons, or the appearance of the defendant, or the publication of notice to a non-resident, and in a special proceeding at any
time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 346. The deposition of a witness out of this Territory
shall be taken upon commission issued by the clerk of the court
where the action or proceeding is pending, under the seal of the
court, on the application of either party. It shall be issued to
some person authorized to take depositions at the place where the
depositions are to be taken, and shall specify the action or proceeding in which the deposition is to be used, the time and place of the
taking of the same, and shall authorize such person ‘to take such
depcaition.

Sec. 347. The party taking such deposition shall serve upon
the opposite party a notice stating the time and place of the taking
of such deposition. Such notice shall be served by delivering a
copy thereof to the adverse party or his attorney a sumcient length

of time to enable such adverse party to travel from his residence,
by the most usually travelled route, to the place of taking such
deposition, and ten daysin addition. When such adverse party has
no attorney of record, and his place of residence is unknown to the
party, such notice may be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending the time herein specified before the taking of
the deposition. T

SEC. 348. Each party may attend at the taking of such deposition, and put such questions as may be legal and proper. Such
deposition when taken shall be signed by the witness.

SEC. 349. The oiiicer taking the deposition shall administer an
oath to the witness, and whenthe deposition is completed he shall
enclose the same in an envelope or wrapper, together with the commission issued to him, and thhnotice or a copy of the notice served
upon the adverse party, and endorse upon the envelope or wrapper
the names of the parties to the action or proceeding, and seal the
same, and direct it to the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending. Such deposition may be transmitted by mail, or by any
person that the parties in writing may agree upon.

SEC. 350. The oilicer taking such deposition shall append to
the same a certificate, under seal if he have one, showing, First,
The time and place of taking such deposition; Second, That the
witness was sworn according to law; Third, Whether or not the
parties were present in person or by attorney.

SEC. 351. If such deposition be taken by an oiiicer not having
a seal, a certificate of a clerk of a court of record having a seal
shall be appended,showing that the oiiicer taking such deposition is
authorized by the laws of the place where the deposition is taken
to take depositions, and that the person taking the same is authorized to exercise the duties of such office.

SEC. 352. Such depositions shall be subject to the same rules
of construction as depositions taken in this Territory.

SEC. 353. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed
by reason of a commission not returned, except on evidence satisfactory to the court that the_ testimony of the witness is necessary,
and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

CHAPTER V.
Pnocssnmcs ro Psarsruars TESTIMONY.

SEC. 354. The testimony of a witness may be taken and perpetuated as provided in this chapter of this act.

SEC. 355. The applicant shall produce to the district judge, or
to a probate judge, an affidavit stating: First, That the applicant
expects to be a party to an action in a court of this Territory, and
in such case the name or names of the persons whom he expects
will be adverse parties; or, Second, That the proof of some fact or
facts is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is
interested, or to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other
matter which may hereafter be anticipated, or if anticipated he may
not know the parties to the suit; and, Third, The name or names
of the witness or witnesses to be examined at his or their place of
residence, and a general outline of the facts expected to be proved,
the judge to whom such petition is presented shall make an order
allowing the examination and prescribing the notice to be given,
which notice, if the parties are known and reside in this Territory,
shall be personally served on them, and if unknown such notice
shall be served on the clerk of the county where the property to be
afected by such evidence is situated, and a notice thereof to be
published in some newspaper to be designated by the judge making
the order. ' .

SEC. 356. Upon proof of the service of the notice as provided
in the last section, it shall be the duty of the judge before whom
the depositions are ordered to be taken, to proceed to take the
depositions of the witnesses named in such petition upon the facts
therein set forth, and the taking of the same may be continued
from time to time in the discretion of the judge.

SEC. 357. The examination shall be by question and answer,
unless the parties otherwise agree. The depositions, when taken,
shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certilied to by the judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office
of the clerk of the district court of the county where the same was
taken, together with the order for the examination, the petition on
which the same was granted, and the proof of service of notice.

SEC. 358. The affidavits or proof filed with the deposition or
certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts

therein stated.

SEC. 359. If a trial he had between the parties named in the
petition as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, or between any parties wherein it may be material to establish the fact
which such deposition prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of
the witness or witnesses, or of his or her inability to attend the trial
by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition of
depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be used by either party,
subject to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the
examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be
made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER VI.
Oarns AND Arrramurons.

SEC. 360. Every court of this Territory, every judge or clerk
of any court, every justice of the peace, every notary public,
and every officer authorized to take testimony or to decide upon
evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or
a$rmations.

SEC. 361. When a person is sworn who believes in any christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion if there be any such. In other cases, they
shall be sworn with uplifted hand to tell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, as they shall answer to God.

SEC. 362. Any witness who desires it, may, at his option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn amrmation, or declaration.
that he will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth, in the matter pending, and that he does so under the penalties and pains of perjury. A false ailirmation, or declaration, shall
be deemed perjury, equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER VII.
Wnrrrnn Evmxnca AND INSPECTION or Docummzrs.

SEC. 363. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge
thereof, or a probate judge, may, upon notice, order either party to
give to the other within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or
permission to take a copy, of any book, document, or paper in his
possession or under his ,control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or the defense therein. If compliance with the
order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or
paper, from being given in evidence, or as wanted as evidence by
the party applying; may direct the jury to presume it to be such
as he alleges it to be, and the court may also punish the party
refusing, for a contempt. This section shall not be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers,
or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

SEC. 36-1. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a
writing other than the writing itself, except in the following cases:
First, When the original has been lost or destroyed, in which case,
proof of the loss or destruction shall first be made. Second, When
the original is in the hands of the party against whom the evidence
is offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice. Third,
When the original is a record or other document in the custody of
a public officer. Fourth, When the original has been recorded and
a certified copy of the record is made evidence by statute. Fifth,
When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents
which cannot be examined in court without great loss of time and
the evidence sought from them is only the general result of the
whole. S120. 365. The party producing a writing as genuine which has
been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution,
in a part material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is
not noted on the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was made by another
without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made. If he
do that, he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

SEc.. 866. A judicial record of this Territory, or of the United
States, may be proved by the production of the original or copy
thereof certified by the clerk or other person having the legal custody thereof under the seal of the court to be a true copy of such
record.

SEC. 867. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts
of any State or Territory of the United States may be proved or
admitted in the courts of this Territory, by the attestation of the
clerk under the seal of the court (if there be a seal), ‘together with
a certificate of the ' judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, as
the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

SEC. 368. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved
by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, with the
seal of the court annexed (if there be a seal and clerk), or by the
legal keeper of the record, _with the seal of his oiiice annexed (if
there be a seal), to be a true copy of such record, together with a
certificate of a judge of the court that the person making the certificate is the clerk of the court or legal keeper of the record, and

' in either case, that the signature is genuine and the certificate is in

due form, and also together with the certificate of the minister or
ambassador of the United States or of a consul of the United States
in such foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of
the judge and clerk or other legal keeper of the record.

SEC. 369. A copy of a judicial record of a foreign country
shall also be admissible in evidence upon proof: First, That the
copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original,
and is an exact transcript of the whole of it. Second, That such
original was in the custody of the clerk of the court or other legal
keeper of the same. And Third, That the copy is duly attested
by a seal which is proved to be the seal of the court where the
record remains if it be the record of a court, or (if there be no
such seal, or if it be not a record of a court) by the signature of
the legal keeper of the original.

SEC. 370. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, codes, or other
written law enacted by any other State or Territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published by authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the
existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such State

Territory, or government, shall be admitted by the courts and
oilicers of this Territory on all occasions as presumptive evidence
of such laws.

53 L+‘3‘(£}\ I37.

TITLE'XIII.

CHAPTER I.
Wan: or Cnnrronnu on REVIEW.

SEC. 371. The writ of Certiarari may be denominated a writ
of review. ‘

SEC. 372. This writ may be granted, on application, by any
court of this Territory, except a justice’s court. The writ shall be
granted in all cases where an inferior tribunal, board, or oiiicer,,

exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such ,

. tribunal, board, or officer, and there is no appeal, nor in the judg- ‘

ment of the court any other plain, speedy and adequate remedy.

SEC. 373. The application shall be made on allidavit by the
party beneficially interested and the court may require a notice of
the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an
order to show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice.

SEC. 374. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal,
board, or oilicer, or to any other person having custody of the
record or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal,
the clerk, if there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript
required.

SEC. 375. The writ of review shall command the party towhom it is directed, to certify fully to the court issuing the writ at
a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the
record and proceedings (describing or referring to them with.convenient certainty), that the same may be reviewed by the court,
and requiring the party in the meantime to desist from the further
proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 376. If a stay of proceedings be not mentioned, the words
requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ. These words
may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the court,

but if omitted the power of the inferior court or odicer shall not be
suspended nor the proceedings stayed. _

SEC. 377. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a
summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed
by the court.

Sac. 378. The review on this writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or o$cer,
has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, board, or
oilicer.

SEC. 379. If the return of the writ be defective, the court may
order a further return to be made. When a full return has been
made, the court shall proceed to hear the parties or such of them as
shall attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment,
either ailirming, or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.

SEC. 380. A copy of the judgment required by the clerk shall
be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or oilicer, -having the
custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

SEC. 381. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall be entered
by the clerk of such inferior tribunal, board, or officer, in the records of such tribunal, board, or officer. If the proceeding be had
in any other than the superior court, an appeal may be taken in
the same manner, and upon the same terms, as from a judgment in
a civil action. ’

CHAPTER II.

WRIT or MANDATE.

SEC. 362. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the‘

writ of mandate.

SEC. 383 It may be issued by any court in this Territory,
except justice’s court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person, to compel the performance of an act whichthe law especially enjoins as a duty resulting from an odice, trust, or station,
or to compel the admission of a party to the enjoyment and use of
a right or oilice to which he is entitled and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or

person.

SEC. 384. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is
not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of

law. It shall be issued upon affidavit on the application of the
party beneficially interested.

SEC. 385. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory.
The alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the
party to whom it is directed, and command such party immediately
after the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do
the act required to be performed, or to show cause before the court

at a specified time and place why he has not done so. The peremp- i

tory writ shall be similar in form, except the words requiring the

party to show cause why he has not done as commanded shall be
omitted and a return day inserted.

SEC. 386. When the application to the court is made without
notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative
shall be first issued, but if the application be upon due notice, and
the writ be allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the first
instance. The notice of application when given shall be at least
ten days. The writ shall not be granted by default. The case
shall be heard by the court, whether the adverse party appear or not.

SEC. 387. On the return day of the alternative, or the day on
which the application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as
the court may allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall
have been served, may show cause, by answer, under oath, made in
the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 388. If an answer be made which raises a question as to
a matter of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and
afecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allegation on which the application for the writ
is based, the court may, in its discretion, order the question to be
tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such can he had,
and the verdict certified to the court. The question to be tried
shall he distinctly stated in the order for the trial, and the county
shall be designated in which the same shall be had. The order

may also direct the jury to assess damages which the applicant may
have sustained, in case they find for him.

SEC. 389. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded
by the answer of any valid objection to its sufliciency, and may

countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of
avoidance.

SEC. 390. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the
jury, be may move for a new trial by filing reasons therefore. The
motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be brought on
before the judge of the court in which the cause was tried, either in
term or vacation. If a new trial be granted, a jury shall within
five days thereafter, unless the parties agree to a longer time, be
summoned to try the issue. After a second verdict in favor of the
same party, a new trial shall not be had.

SEC. 391. If no notice-of a motion for a new trial be given, or
if given be denied, the clerk within five days after the rendition of
the verdict, or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the court in
which the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the
verdict, attached to the order of trial, after which either party may
bring on the argument of the application upon reasonable notice to
the adverse party.

SEC. 392. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on
the papers of the applicant. If answer be made which does not
raise a question of fact necessary to be tried by a jury, but only
such matters as may be explained or avoided by a reply, the court
may in its discretion grant time for replying. If the answer or
answer and reply raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the court shall proceed to hear or fix a day for hearing the
arguments of the case.

SEC. 393. If a judgment be given for the applicant, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained as found by the
jury, or as may be determined by the court or referees upon 9. reference, to be ordered, together with costs; and for such damages and
costs an execution may issue, and a peremptory mandate shall also
be awarded without delay.

SEC. 894. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a
summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed
by order of the court.

SEC. 395. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and
directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it
appears to the court that any member of such tribunal, corporation,
or board, or such person upon whom the writ has been personally

served has, without just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the
same, the court may, on motion, impose a tine not exceeding one
thousand dollars. In case of persistence in a refusal of obedience,
the court may order the party to be imprisoned for a period not
exceeding three months, and may make any order necessary and
proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a judge or officer who draws a salary from the Territory or county, a certified copy shall be forwarded to the auditor or
county treasurer, as the case may be, and the amount thereof may
be retained from the salary of such judge or officer. Such judge
or officer, for this willful disobedience, shall also be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor in oilice.

‘TITLE XIV.

Conrnmprs AND THEIR PUNISHMENTS.

SEC. 396. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed
contempts: First, Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior

‘toward the judge while holding court or engaged in his judicial

duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting
on a reference or arbitration tending to interrupt the due course
of a trial, reference, or arbitration, or other judicial proceeding.
Second, A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in presence of the court or its immediate vicinity tending

to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding‘.
Third, Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule,
or process issued by the court or judge at chambers. Fourth,
Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an officer by
virtue of an order or process of such court or judge at chambers.
SEC. 397. When a contempt is committed in the immediate

view of the court or judge at chambers, it may be punished sum- ‘

marily. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view or presence of the court or judge at chambers, an affidavit
shall he presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting
the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators.

SEC. 398. An attachment may be issued by an order of the
court for the arrest of the person accused, and that he be held to

bail in the sum specified therein for his appearance at a time to be
specified.

Sac. 899. When the person arrested has been brought up or
appeared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge,
and shall hear any answer which the person arrested may make to
the same, and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which
an adjournment may be had from time to time.

SEC. 400. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he
may be imprisoned until 'he shall have performed it, and in that
case the act shall be specihed in the warrant of commitment; in all
other cases of contempt the court or judge may impose a tine not

exceeding £ve hundred dollars and imprisonment not exceeding five
days.

TITLE XV.

Or Cosrs.

SEC. 401. Costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff, upon judgment in his favor in the following cases: First, In an action for
the recovery of real property. Second, In an action to recover
possession of personal property when the value amounts to fifty
dollars or over, such value to be determined by the jury, court,
or referee by whom the action is tried. Third, In an action to
recover money or damages where the plaintiff recovers fifty dollars
or over. Fourth, In a special proceeding in the nature of an
action.

SEC. 402. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument
in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action, against
several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the
same action, no costs shall be allowed the plaintiil‘ in more than
one of such actions, which may be at his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement of
the previous action openly within the Territory, but the disbursement of the plaintifff shall be allowed to him in each action.

SEC. 403. Costs shall be allowed to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in actions for the recovery of real or personal

property, in actions for the recovery of money, and in a special
proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 404. In other actions than those hereinbefore mentioned.
costs may be allowed or not, and‘ if allowed may be apportioned between the parties on the same or adverse sides in the discretion of
the court.

SEC. 405. If any defendant defend in his own interest alone, if
he recover judgment he shall recover costs.

SEC. 406. In the following cases the costs of an appeal or writ
of error shall be in the discretion of the court: First, When a
new trial is ordered. Second, When the j udgment‘ is modified.

SEC. 407. The fees of referees shall be ten dollars to each for
every day spent in the business of reference, and the parties shall
not agree upon any other rate of compensation, nor shall any other
rate of compensation be allowed by the courts.

SEC. 408. When an application is made to a court or referee
to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the postponement may be imposed in the discretion of the court or referee
as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 409. When in action for the recovery of money only the
defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of
the action he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he
was entitled, and deposited in court for the plaintiff the amount so
tendered, and the allegation found to be true, the defendant shall
recover costs.

SEC 410. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in an action by or
against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; but
costs shall by the judgment be made chargeable only upon the esstate, fund, or party represented, unless the court shall direct the
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally for mis
management or bad faith in the prosecution or defense.

S30. 41]. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding is brought before a court of higher
jurisdiction for a review in any other way than by appeal, the same
costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected
by execution or in such manner as the court may direct, according
to the nature of the case.

Sac. 412. The party entitled to recover costs, and claims the
same, shall deliver to the clerk of the court within two days after
the entry of judgment a memorandum of the items of his costs and
necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, which memorandum shall be verified by the party, or some one in his behalf,
stating that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have
been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 413. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up
by him the costs, per centage allowed, and any interest on the verdict from the time it was rendered.

SEC. 414. When the plaintiff in an. action resides out of the
Territory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and
charges that may be awarded against such plaintiff may be required
by the defendant; when required, all proceedings in the action shall
he stayed until an undertaking, with sullicient sureties, be filed
with the clerk, to the e&'ect that they will pay such costs and
charges as may be awarded against the plaintiil’ by judgment or
in the process of the action,not exceeding three hundred dollars.
A new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the court
or judge upon proof that the original undertaking is insuilicient
security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such new or
additional undertaking be filed.

SEC. 415. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned
above shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a resident
within the county and is worth double the amount specified in the
undertaking over and above all just debts and liabilities exclusive
of property exempt from execution.

SEC. 416. If the undertaking be not filed Within the time limited by the court, the action may on motion be dismissed.

TITLE XVI.

Morroxvs, Onmms, AND SERVICE or PAPERS.

SEC. 417. Every direction of court or judge made or enteredin writing and included in a judgment is denominated an order.
An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 418. Motions shall be made in the county in which the
action is brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district.

Sec. 419. When a written notice of _a motion is necessary, it
shall be given, except as otherwise provided, five days before the
time appointed for the hearing, if the court is held in the same district where both parties reside, otherwise ten days; but the court
or judge, or a probate judge, may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 420. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court, and at a‘
time fixed for the motion or the return day of the order, the judge
is unable to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by his

order to some other judge before whom it might originally have
been brought.

SEC. 421. When notices or other papers are required to be
served on the party or attorney, the same shall be served by delivering a copy thereof to such party or attorney, or by leaving a copy
of the same at the usual place of business or place of abode of such
party, or the office or place of abode of such attorney, between the
hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening.

SEC. 422. Service may be made by mail where the person
making the service and the person on whom the service is to be
made reside in different places, between which -there is a regular
communication by mail. In case of service by mail, the notice or
other paper shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence or post
office address, and the postage paid, and in such case the time of
service shall be increased one day for every twenty-five miles distance between the place of deposit and the place of address.

Sac. 423. All notices or other papers which it is necessary to
serve upon a party, except original or final process, or proceeding
to bring a party into court for contempt, may be served either upon
the party or his attorney, or one of several attorneys in the action.

Sac. 424. An aiiidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title
of the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective
6:19, shall he as valid and as effectual for any purpose as if duly
entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding.

TITLE XVII.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 425. The supreme court may make rules not inconsistent
with the constitution and laws of this Territory for its own government and the government of the district courts, and the probate
court may make such rules for its government, but such rules shall
not be in force until thirty days after their adoption and publication. If the supreme court fail to make rules for the government
of the district courts, the district courts may make their own rules,
and until the meeting of the supreme court such district courts may
make their own rules, to be published as above provided.

SEC. 426. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same
contract or transaction whenever after the former action a new cause
of action arise therefrom.

SEC. 427. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one
time, between the same parties and in the same court, upon cause
of action which might have been joined, the court may order the
actions to be consolidated into one.

SEC. 428. An action may be brought by one person against
another for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the
latter makes against the former. for money or property upon alleged
obligation, and also against two or more persons for the purpose of
compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other for which the
plaintiff is bound as security.

SEC. 429. When there are three referees or arbitrators all
shall meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done
by all.

SEC. 430. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this act, shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day ;' if the last day be Sunday, or any other day
on which ordinary legal business cannot be transacted, it shall be
excluded.

SEC. 431. In an action brought against a sheriff for an act
done by virtue of his office, if he give written notice thereof to the
sureties on any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment

received therein shall be sudicient evidence of his right to recover
against such sureties;- and the court or judge, in vacation, may on
motion, upon notice of live days, order judgment to be entered up
against them for the amount so recovered, including costs.

SEC. 432. Words used in this act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present; words used in
the singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the
plural the singular; and words used to include the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender; writing shall be deemed to
include printing or printed paper; oath to include adirmation or
declaration; signature or subscription to include, when the person
cannot or is unable to write, his name being written near it and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness. '

SEC. 433. In all cases where an undertaking by the provisions
of this act is required, it shall be the duty of the person taking the
same to require the sureties to accompany the same with an affidavit
that they are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking over
and above their just debts, liabilities, and property exempt by law
from execution. Provided, That when. the amount specified in the
undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are more
than two sureties thereon, they may state in their aiiidavits that
they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the
undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufhcient sureties.

Sec. 434. The court or judge thereof in which an action is
pending may, upon the application of either party, upon reasonable
notice to the other, appoint a receiver. to take charge of any property in dispute and make such disposition of the same as the court
or judge shall direct, under such rules and prescriptions as to bonds
as the court may think proper. The court shall also have power to
make such application of the proceeds of any property, or other
proceeds in the hands of any receiver appointed by any inferior
Power, belonging to the parties in the action, as the court may
think just and proper.

Sec. 435 A receiver appointed as mentioned in the last section, shall keep an accurate account of all proceeds of any property
orbusiness that may come into his hands by virtue of his trust,
tndall amounts paid out by him for the expense of keeping any
Property or carrying on any business, and shall pay over the same

according to the order of the court. Such receiver shall be allowed
such compensation for his services as the court may think proper,
to be paid out of any money in his hands belonging to the parties
in action.

SEC. 436. Writs of certiorari and mandamus may be issued
in the cases prescribed in this act by a judge of the supreme court,
district court, or probate court, in vacation, and may in the discretion of the judge issuing the writ be made returnable, and a hearing may be had thereon on the return day in vacation.

SEC. 437. Whenever property has been taken by an officer
under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of this
act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court, or a
judge thereof, or a probate judge, that the interest of the parties
to the action will be subserved by a sale thereof, the court or judge
may order such property to be sold in the same manner as property
is sold under an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in court
to abide the judgment in the action. Such order shall be made
only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney in case such
party has been personally served with summons in the action.

SEC. 438. A copy of any record or document or paper in the
custody of a public ofricer of this Territory or of the United States
within this Territory, certified under the onicial seal, or verified by
the oath of such oiiicer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the
original in his custody, may be read in evidence in an action or
proceeding in the courts of this Territory in the like manner and
with the like effect as the original could be if produced.

SEC. 489. When two or more persons associated in any business, transact such business under a common name, whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued
by such common name, the summons in such cases being served on
one or more of the associates; but the judgment in such cases shall
bind only the joint property of the associates.

SEC. 440. All decisions given upon an appeal upon questions
of law alone, in any appellate court in this Territory, shall be given
in writing, with the reasons therefore, and filed with the clerk of
the court.

SEC. 441. A defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract or specific personal property, may at any time before answer, upon aiiidavit that a person not a party to the action,

makes against him, without any collusion with him, a demand upon
the same contractor for the same property, upon due notice to such
person and the adverse party, apply to the court to substitute
such person in his place and discharge him from liability to either
party, on his depositing in the court the amount claimed on the
contract, or delivering the property or its value to such person as
the court may direct, and the court may in its discretion make the
order.

SEC. 442. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action who has an interest, in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties to the action, or an interest against
both. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted
to become a party to an action between other persons, either in
joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint,
or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the
plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintiff

and defendant.

SEC. 443. Any third person may intervene, either before or
after issue has been joined in the cause.

SRO. 444. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint,
nled in the court in which the action is pending, and it must set
forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests. A copy of
the petition or complaint shall be served upon the parties tothe
action against whom anything is demanded, who shall answer as if
it were an original complaint in the action.

SEC. 445. The court shall determine upon the intervention at
the same time that the action is decided. If the claim of the party
intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs incurred by the
intervention.

SEC. 446. On the trial of any action in a court of record, at
the request of either party, the court may in its discretion appoint
a competent person to take down the testimony in writing.

SEC. 447. The party postponing a trial in any court of record,
shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party who is in attendance be
then taken before any judge or clerk of the court in which the
cause is pending, or before any notary public, or other ofricer
authorized to take depositions, as the court may indicate, which
shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be read

A in the trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections,

as if the witness was produced.

SEC. 448. Whenever costs ‘are awarded to a party by an appellate court, such party may have an execution for the same on filing
a remittitur with the clerk of the court below, and it shall be the
duty of such clerk, whenever the remittitur is filed, to issue the
execution upon application therefore. ‘And whenever costs are
awarded to a party by an order of any court, such party may have
an execution therefore in like manner as upon a judgment.

SEC. 449. The supreme court, the several district courts, and
the several probate courts, of this Territory, shall be courts of
record.

SEC. 450. The sittings of every court of justice shall be public,
except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 451. In an action for divorce, the court may direct the
trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be private, and upon such

directions all persons may be excluded except the officers of the

court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel. 

SEC. 452. Every court shall have power, First, To preserve
and enforce order in its immediate presence. Second, To enforce
order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or persons
empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority.
Third, To compel obedience to its lawful judgments, orders and
process, and to the lawful orders of its judge out of court in an
action or proceeding pending therein. Fourth, To control, in
furtherance of justice the conduct of its ministerial officers.

SEC. 453. A judge shall not act as such in any of the following
cases: In an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in
which he is interested, when he is related to either party by consanguinity or ailinity within the third degree, when he has been
attorney or counsel for either party in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 454. A judge shall not act as attorney or counsel in a
court in which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed
therefrom to another court for review, or in any action or proceeding from which an appeal may lie in his own court.

SEC. 455. A judge of the supreme court, or of the district
court, shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except in
an action in which he is a party to the record. A

SEC. 456. A judge, or justice of the peace, shall not have a
partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court in this Territory.

SEC. 457. If an application for an order, made to a judge of a
court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused in
whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the same order shall be made to any other judge, except
of a higher court: Provided, That nothing in this section shall be
so construed as to apply to motions refused for any informalities in
the papers or proceedings necessary to obtain an order.

SEC. 458. A violation of the last section may be punished as a
contempt, and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked by
the judge who made it, or vacated by a judge of a court iuwhich
the action or proceeding is pending.

SEC. 459. The judges of the supreme court, of the district
courts, and of the probate courts, shall have power in any part of
the Territory, and justices of the peace within their respective
counties shall have power, to take and certify, First, The proof and
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other
instrument required to be proved or acknowledged. Second, An
aiiidavit to be used in any court of justice in this Territory.

Snc. 460. No action or proceeding in a court of justice shall
be affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges, or
by a failure of a term thereof.

SEC. 461. Every written proceeding in a court of justice in

.this Territory, or before a judicial officer, shall be in the English

language, but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in that
that language may be used and numbers may be expressed by 6gures or numerals in the customary manner.

SEC. 462. Each of the following courts, and no others, shall
have a seal: First, The supreme court. Second, The district
courts. Third, The probate courts.

SEC. 463. The clerk of each court shall keep the seal thereof.

Sac. 464. The seal of the court need not be alfixed to any proceeding therein, except, First, To a summons, writ, or subpoena.
Second, To the proof of a will, or the appointment of an executor,
an administrator, or guardian. Third, To the authentication of a
copy of a record, or other proceeding of the court, or of an officer
thereof, for the purpose of evidence in another court, and such other
cases as may be prescribed by law.

SEC. 465. The seal may be affixed by impressing it upon the
paper, or on a substance attached to the paper and capable of receiving the impression. .

SEC. 466. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial
business may be transacted, on any day except as provided in the
next section.

SEC. 467. No court shall be opened, nor shall any judicial
business be transacted, on Sunday, New Year’s day, Fourth of
July, Christmas day, Washington’s birth day, Thanksgiving day,
or on a general election, except for the following purposes: First,
To give upon their request instructions to a jury then deliberating
on their verdict. Second, To receive a verdict or discharge a jury.
Third, For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal
action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature. Fourth, When it
shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, in cases for the recovery of specific personal property, that

the defendant is about to conceal, dispose of, or remove such property out of the jurisdiction of the court, an “order for taking possession of the same may be issued on any day. Fifth, When an .

application for a writ of attachment is made, and it shall appear by
the allidavit of the plaintih‘, or some one in his behalf, that the defendant is about to dispose of, conceal or remove propertysubject to

‘ execution or attachment out of the jurisdiction of the court, a writ

of attachment may be issued on any day. When the day fixed for
the opening of a court shall fall on any of the days mentioned in
this section, the court shall stand adjourned until the next succeeding day.

SEC. 468. Every court of justice, except a justices’ court,
shall sit at the county seat of the county in which it is held, except
as may be otherwise provided by law. No justice of the peace
shall hold a court in any other county or city than the one for

which he shall have been elected.

 ‘ TITLE XVIII.’

COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS TERRITORY.

SEC. 469. The following shall be the courts of justice of this
Territory: First, The supreme court. Second, The district courts.
Third, The probate courts. Fourth, The justices’ court.

Supreme Court.

SEC. 470. The supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction
in all civil cases where the amount in dispute exceeds one hundred ,‘
dollars, and in all criminal cases tried in the district courts, and 5
shall hold its sessions at the capital at the times iizred by law. 9

District Court.

SEC. 471. The Territory shall be divided into three judicial.
districts.

SEC. 472. There shall be a district judge for each of the judicial district. The courts held by them shall be district courts of
the Territory. The jurisdiction of these courts shall be of twokinds. First, Original. Second, Appellate. V

SEC. 473. The district court shall have original jurisdiction in.
civil cases where the amount in dispute, or value of the property
sued for, exceeds fifty dollars, and in all criminal cases not other»
wise provided for. Provided, The district court may enter judg-ment for a less sum than hfty dollars upon the plaintiff paying.
costs, and may in like manner enter judgment for the recovery of
personal property of less than fifty dollars value.

SEC. 474.. The appellate jurisdiction of these courts shall omtend to bearing upon appeal an order or judgment of a probate
court or justice of the peace in the cases provided by law.

SEC. 475. The courts and judges thereof shall have power to
issue all writs necessary and proper to the complete exercise of the
power conferred on them by the constitution, organic act, and laws
of this Territory.

SEC. 476. The terms shall be held at such times and places as
provided by law. If a room for holding the court he not provided

by the county, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery,

suitable and sufficient for the transaction of business, the court may ’

direct the sheriff to provide such room, attendants, fuel, lights, and
stationery, and the expense shall be a county charge.

SEC. 477. The district judges shall at all reasonable times,
when not engaged in holding courts, transact such business at their
chambers as may be done out of court. At chambers they may
try and determine writs of mandamus, certz'orurz', and qua warranto, hear and dispose of all applications for orders and writs
which are usually granted in the lirst instance upon an ex parle
application, and may in their discretion also hear applications to
discharge such orders and writs.

SEC. 478. When an action or proceeding is commenced in a
district court in which a probate court has concurrent jurisdiction,
the district court may, -if the parties agree, by order transfer the
same to the probate court of the same county. Upon such transferance the probate court shall have and exersise over such action
or proceeding the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced
therein.

Probate Court.

SEC. 479. There shall be in each county a probate court with
the jurisdiction conferred by this chapter.

SEC. 480.‘ The probate court shall have power to open and
receive the proof of last wills and testaments and to admit them
to probate, to grant letters testamentary of administration and of
guardianship, and to revoke the same for cause shown according to
law, to compel executors and administrators and guardians to render an account when required, or at the period by law to order the
sale of property of estates or belonging to minors, to order the payment of debts due by estates, to order and regulate the partitions
of property or estates of deceased persons, to compel the attendance
of witnesses, to appoint appraisers or arbitrators, to compel the
production of title deeds, papers, or other property of an estate or
of a minor, and to make such other orders as may be necessary and
proper in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred on the probate
court.

SEC. 481. The probate judge shall have power in vacation to
appoint appraisers to receive inventories and accounts to be filed in

his court, to suspend the powers of executors, administrators, or
guardians in the cases allowed by law, to grant letters testamentary
of administration or of guardianship, to approve claims and bonds,
and to direct the issuance from his court of all writs and process
necessary in the exercise of his powers as probate judge.

SEC. 482. The probate court shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with the district courts in all civil actions where the amount in controversy shall not exceed twenty-five hundred dollars.

SEC. 483. The probate court and the judge thereof shall have
power at chambers to try and determine suits of mandamus, certiorari, and quo warranto, and to issue all writs necessary or
proper to the complete exercise of the powers conferred upon it by
this and other statutes, and. in the absence of the district judge
from the county to issue writs of habeas corpus and injunctions.

SEC. 484. If a room for holding the court he ‘not provided by
the county, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery,
suitable and suiiicient for the transaction of business, the court may
direct the sheriff to procure such room, attendants, fuel, lights, and
stationery at the expense of the county.

SEC. 485. A regular term of the probate court shall be held at
the county seat of each county on the first Monday in April, J une
August, October, December and February of each year, for the
transaction of all business of which said court has jurisdiction.
Provided, however, That if the district court of the district embracing any county be in session at such time, the probate court of
the county in which said district court is held shall stand adjourned
until the first Monday of the ensuing month.

SEC. 486. That if said court shall not be held on the first day
of the term, such court shall stand adjourned from day to day until
the evening of the third day; if at that time the judge shall not
have appeared and opened court, the same shall stand adjourned
until the next regular term. Special adjourned terms may be held
in continuation of the regular term upon its being so ordered by
the court in term time and entered by the clerk upon the record
thereof. '

SEC. 487. That if the judge be disqualified for any cause from
sitting on the determination of any cause or proceeding pending
before him, the cause shall be certified with the original papers to

the district court of the district including the county, which shall
proceed thereon to final judgment and determination.

SEC. 488. That each judge of the probate courts shall be a
conservator of the peace throughout his county.

SEC. 489. In all civil cases within their jurisdiction the probate courts and the judges thereof shall have the same power to
grant all orders and writs and process which the district courts or
the judges thereof have power to grant within their jurisdiction,
and to hear and determine all questions arising within their jurisdiction as fully and completely as the district courts or the judges
thereof have power to do under the laws of this Territory.

SEC. 490. Juries in all civil actions in the probate court shall
consist of not more than twelve nor less than six persons having the
qualifications of electors, who shall not be summoned until the cause
is at issue and set for trial and a demand is made by one or more of
the parties, and their fees for one day paid into the hands of the
clerk by the party making the demand. 3

SEC. 491. The clerk shall issue a venire, returnable on the
day upon which the cause is set for trial, and if on the return day
the panel be not full it may be filled by summoning others.

TITLE XIX.

, ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION or REAL Pnopsnrr.

SEC. 492. When several persons hold and are in possession of
real property as joint tenants or tenants in common, in which one
or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives,
or for years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof according to the respective rights of the
persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property-, or a part
of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without prejudice
to the owners.

SEC. 493. The interests of all persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint specially and particularly as far as known to the plaintiff,
and if one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon’

an executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder,
so that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in
the complaint.

SEC. 494. No persons who have any claim or liens upon the
property by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties
to the action unless such liens be matters of record.

SEC. 495. Immediately after filing the complaint the plaintiff
shall file with the recorder of the county in which the property is
situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties, so far as known, the object of the action and
the description of the property affected thereby. From the tim
of filing it shall be deemed notice to all persons. '

SEC. 496. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having any interest,
or any liens of record, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon
the property, or upon any particular portion thereof, and generally
to all persons unknown who have or claim any interest in the
property. '

SEC. 497. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or
any one of the unknown parties reside out of the Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,
publication may be made as in the other cases. The notice of publication shall contain a brief description of the property which is
the subject of the action.

SEC. 498. The defendants who have been personally served
with the summons shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the nature and extent of their interest in the property, and
if such defendants claim a lien upon theproperty, by mortgage,
judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the amount and date of the
same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether the
amount has been secured in any other way or not, and if secured,
the extent and nature of the security, or they shall be deemed to
have waived their right to such lien.

SEC. 499. The rights of the several parties, plainti& as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such
action, and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall
be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court before the
judgment of sale shall be made, and when service by publication
has been made, like proof shall be required of the right of the

absent or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered,
except that when there are several unknown persons having an
interest in the property, their rights may be considered together
in the action, and not as between themselves. _

SEC. 500. The plaintiff shall produce to the court, on the hearing of the case, the certificate of the recorder of the county where
the property is situated, showing whether there were, or were not,
any liens outstanding, of record, upon the property or any part
thereof, at the time of the commencement of the action.

SEC. 501. If it appears, by the certificate of the recorder, that
there were outstanding liens of record at the time of the commencement of the action, and the person holding or claiming such liens
were not made parties to the action, the court shall either order
such parties to be brought in by an amendment or supplemental
complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain whether their liens have
been paid, or if not paid what amounts remain due, and their order
among the liens, among the parties who have appeared and answered, and whether the amount remaining due thereon has been
secured in any way, and if secured, the extent and nature of the
security. ‘

SEC. 502. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served, a
reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before the
referee, appointed as provided in the last section, on each person
having outstlnding liens of record, who is not a party to the action,
to appear before the referee at a specified time and place, to make

_ proof, by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the true amount due or

to become due, contingently or absolutely, thereon. In case such
person be absent or his residence be unknown, service may be made
by publication or notice to his agent, under the direction of the
court, in such manner as may be proper. The report of the referee
thereon shall be made to the court, and shall be confirmed, modified, or set aside and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the
case may require.

SEC. 503. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established
by evidence, or if it appear by evidence without such allegation in
the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or
any part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof,
otherwise, upon the requisite proof being made, it shall order the

partition, according to the respective rights of the parties as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees therefore, and shall
designate the portion to remain undivided, for the owners whose
interests remain unknown or are not ascertained. '

SEC. 504. In making partition, the referee shall divide the
property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the
respective rights of the parties as determined by the court, designating the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a
surveyor, with the necessary assistants,- to aid them therein.

SEC. 505. The referees shall make a report of the proceedings,

specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing a

the property divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a
particular description of each share.

SEC. 506. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and

if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being con£rmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual
forever, which judgment shall be binding and conclusive on all persons named as parties to the action, and their legal representatives,
who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any
part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or for years, or
as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such
property, or any part thereof, after the termination of a particular
estate therein, and who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a
beneficial interest in the property, or who have any interest in any
undivided share thereof, as tenants for years, or for life, on all
persons, who may be interested in the property, who are unknown,
and notice shall have been given to them by publication, and all
other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either of
them.

SEC. 507. But such judgment and partition shall not affect
tenants for years, less than ten, to the whole of the property which
is subject to partition.

SEC. 508. The expenses of the referees, including those of a
surveyor and his assistants when employed, shall be ascertained and
allowed by the court, and the amount theereof, together with the
fees allowed by law to the different parties to the action.

SEC. 509. When alien on an undivided interest or estate of
any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned to such party, but
such share shall first be charged with its just proportion of the costs
of partition in preference to such lien.

SEC. 510. When a part of the property only is ordered to be
sold, if there be an estate for life, or years. in an undivided share of
the whole property, such estate may be set oil‘ in any part of the
property not ordertd to be sold.

SEC. 511. The proceeds of the sale of the encumbered property
shall be applied, under the direction of the court, as follows: First,
To pay its proportion of the general costs of the action. Second,
To pay the costs of the reference. Third; To satisfy and cancel of
record the several liens in their order of priority, by payment of
the sum due, and to become due, theamount to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment. Fourth, The residue among the
owners of the property sold, according to their respective share

a therein.

SEC. 512. When any party to the action who holds a lien upon
the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion,
order such securities to be exhausted before the distribution of the
proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made, from
the amount of the lien on the property, on account thereof.

SEC. 513. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the
persons entitled thereto whenever the court so directs, but in case no
direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid
into court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the court.

SEC. 514. When the proceeds of sales of any share or parcels
belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are
known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between
such parties for the determination of their respective claims thereto,
which shall be ascertained and adjudged by the court, or a referee,
at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require the parties to present the facts or law in controversy by
pleadings as in an original action.

SEC. 515. All sales of real property, made by referees under
this chapter, shall be made by public auction, to the highest bidder,
upon notice published in the same manner as required for the sale
of real property on execution. The notice«shall state the terms of

sale, and if the property, or any part of it, is to be sold subject to
a prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall be stated in the notice.

Ssc. 516. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of
any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit;
and for that portion of which the purchase money is required by
the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit
of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the Territory.

SEC. 517. The referees may take separate mortgages and other
securities for the whole, or convenient portions, of the purchase
money, of such parts of the property as are directed by the court to
be sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner, of full age,
in the name of such owner, and for the shares of an infant, in the
name of thegguardian of such infant, and for other shares, in the
name of the clerk of the county and his successors in oilice.

Ss_c. 518. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years,
whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such
sum as may be deemed areasonable satisfaction for such estate,
and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead
thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed with the clerk of. the
court. Upon the filing of such consent, the clerk shall enter the
same in the minutes of the court.

Site. 519. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as
provided in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of
the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and
reasonable sum to be allowed on account of such estate, and shall
order the same to be paid to such party, or deposited in court for
him, as the case may require.

SEC. 520. If the person entitled to such estate for life, or
years, be unknown, the court shall provide for the protection of
their rights in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were
known, and had appeared.

SEC. 521. In all cases of sale where it appears that any person
has a vested or contingent interest, right, or estate, in the future,
in any of the property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle the
proportional value of such contingent or vested interest, right, or
estate, and shall direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale

to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect
the rights and interests of parties.

SEC. 522. In all cases of sale of property, the terms shall be
made known at the time, and if the premises consist of distinct
farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.

SEC. 523. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of them, shall be interested in any purchase, nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of
the infant All sales contrary to the provisions of this section shall
be void. SEC. 524. After completing the sale of the property, or any
part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the same
to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold
to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid as
secured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities (if
any) taken. The report shall be filed in the odice of the clerk of
the court in the county where the property is situated.

SEC. 525. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order shall
be entered directing the referees to execute conveyances and take

\ securities pursuant to such sale, which they are hereby authorized
to do. Such order may also give directions to them respecting the
disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 526. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or
an encumhrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of
the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

Size. 527. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the property in any way, who have been named
as parties to the action, and against all such parties and persons as
were unknown, if the summons have been served by publication,
and against all persons claiming from them, or either of them.

SEC. 528. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown owner, or to persons without the Territory, who have no
legal representatives within it, the same shall be invested in securities on interest, for the benefit of the person entitled thereto.

SEC. 529. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken,

or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be

done (except as herein otherwise provided,) in the name of the
clerk of the county in which the papers are filed, and his successor
in office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 530. When security is taken by the referees on a sale,
and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in
writing under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the
shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled. or
when shares and proportions have been previously adjudged by the
court, such securities shall be taken in the name, of, and payable to,
the parties respectively ‘entitled thereto, and shall be delivered to
such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and
receipt shall be returned and filed with the clerk.

SEC. 531. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by.

whom an investment is made, and his successors in oflicc, shall
receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and
invest the same as the court may direct, and shall file in his oilice
all securities taken, and keep an account in a book provided for
that purpose in the clerk’s oilice, free for inspection by all persons,
of investments and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

Sec. 532. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal
between the parties according to their respective rights, and a partition be ordered by judgment, the court may adjudge compensation
to be made by one party to another, on account of the inequality of
partition, but such compensation shall not be required to be made
by others, by owners unknown, nor by infants unless, in case of an
infant, it appear that he has personal property suilicient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

SEC. 533. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of
the sale may be paid by the referee making the sale, to his general
guardian, or the special guardian appointed by him in the action,
upon giving the security required by law or directed by order of
the court. ' '

SEC. 534. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody
and management of an estate of an insane person, or other person
adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in
real property shall have been sold, may receive in behalf of such
person, his share of the proceeds of such real property, from the

referees, on executing, with suilicient sureties, an undertaking approved by the, judge of the court, or a probate judge, that he will
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true
and just account to the person entitled or his legal representative.

SEC. 535. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane
person, or other person incapable of conducting his own afairs, who
is interested in real estate held in joint tenancy or in common, or
in any other manner, so as to authorize his being made a party to
an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree to the share to he. set off to such infant, or
other person entitled, and may execute in his behalf a release to
the owners of the shares of the party to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court, which partition shall be
approved or disapproved by the court.

SEC. 536. The costs of the partition, including fees for referees
and other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively
entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment.
In that case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the
judgment may be enforced .against such shares by execution, and
against other property held by the respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises between some of the parties only, the court
may require the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties
thereto or any of them. .

SEC. 537. The court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a single referee instead of three referees in the proceedings
under the provisions of this chapter, and the single referee, when
thus appointed, shall have all the powers and perform all the duties
required of three referees. '

SEC. 538. When several persons hold and are in possession of
mining claims as joint tenants or tenants in common, upon the
petition of one or more of the joint tenants or tenants in common,
the court having jurisdiction shall appoint a commissioner, who
shall proceed to make partition of the property to be divided, and
make a report to the court as provided in this act.

SEC. 539. In case of partition of a mining claim, any of the
tenants in common or joint tenants interested therein may file an
aiiidavit showing to the court that a sale for money would be injurious to him, her, or them; the court shall, upon such showing,
appoint a commissioner, who shall decide such claim as hereinafter
provided for.

SEC. 540. The commissioner provided for in the last section
shall proceed to the place where such claim is located, and at such
time as the court may direct, within not less than twenty nor more
than forty days after such sale shall have been ordered by the court,
shall sell such claim at auction to the highest bidder, in parts or
parcels, to the joint tenant or tenants in common, and shall receive
bids in shares or individual interests or parts of such claim to be
divided.

SEC. 541. The party or parties seeking the partition of such
mining claim shall be deemed the highest bidder within the meaning of the last preceding section whowill take the least part or
partition of such mining claim at a place upon such claim to be
selected by him, her, or them in proportion to the whole share or
shares or interest held by such party or parties, provided, that if
the remainder of the joint tenants or tenants in common shall fail
to make a higher bid in proportion to their joint shares or interests
in such claim, then the bid of the party or parties seeking the partition shall be received and declared to be the highest bid, and the
commissioner shall proceed to measure oil‘ such claim to the party
or parties as hereinafter provided; and such claim or part of the
claim so measured of by said commissioner to the highest bidder,
shall be and is hereby considered as an entire surrender to the
opposing party of the remainder of his or her shares or interest in
such claim, thereby relinquishing the residue of the shares or interests held by the party to whom was awarded the highest bid (not
included in the measurement of said commissioner) to the adverse
party.

Site. 542. Whenever any such bid as mentioned in the two next
preceding sections shall have been received and declared, the commissioner shall go upon the claim and measure o&' to such bidder
the amount of such claims so bid oh’, at such places the bidder shall
have selected in his bid.

SEC. 543. After setting of such bids as provided in the last
section, the commissioner shall again receive bids as hereinbefore
provided, and shall thereafter measure oif such bids as before stated,
and shall continue in the same manner to receive bids and set apart

the same from such claims until the parties who still hold an undivided portion of such claims shall be satisfied that such sale cease,
and are content to hold the remaining portion of such claim as
joint tenants or tenants in common as the case may be.

SEC. 544. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and «

if necessary appoint a new commissioner. Upon the report being
confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be e&'ectual forever, which judgment shall be binding upon all the parties
to the action.

. T TITLE xx.
-‘7-‘bimwi aa.{«aaL4~se7 (. ass

Pnocmznme IN J osrrcss’ Connrs IN CIVIL Casas.
CHAPTER I.

Sec. 545. The courts held by justices of the peace in this
Territory shall be denominated justices’ courts, and shall have the
jurisdiction conferred by this act; but nothing contained in this act
shalliaffect their jurisdiction. in actions or proceedings now pending
therein, not shall it affect any judgment or order already made or
proceedings already taken.

SEC. 546. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of the following cases: First, In all civil actions where the amount clai-sued
does not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars. Second, Of actions to recover the possession of personal property when the value
of such property does not exceed one hundred dollars. Third, Of
an action for the foreclosure of any mortgage or lien on personal
property,'when the debt secured or amount claimed does not exoeed one hundred dollars. Fourth, Of an action for a forcible or
unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention of, lands,
tenements, or other possessions. Fifth, Of an action to determine
the right to a mining claim, and for damages for injury to the same,
when the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
The jurisdiction conferred by this section shall not extend, however,
to a civil action in which the title to real property shall come in
question. ‘

SEC. 5-17. These courts shall also have jurisdiction of all misdemeanors committed within their jurisdiction punishhble by fine
not exceeding one hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding
thirty days or by both such fine and imprisonment.

Sac. 548. There shall be no terms in justices’ courts. They
shall be always open. '

Sac. 549. Each justice before entering upon the discharge of
his duties shall take the constitutional oath of oiiice, and shall execute a bond to the Territory in the sum of two thousand dollars,
conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties, and file the
same with the county clerk, which bond shall be approved by such
clerk.

SEC. 550. The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace shall
be co-extensive with the limits of the county in which they are
elected, and no other or greater unless expressly provided by
statute.

SEC. 551. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or defend
in person or by attorney; and any person on the request of a party
may act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury process was served shall not appear or act on the trial
on behalf of either party.‘

SEC. 552. Judgment upon confession may be ontered’ up in "‘

F "3

justices’ court in this Territory specified in the confession. . V

Size. 553. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of an action‘

upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without summons,
without regard to their residences or the place where the cause of
action arose or the subject matter of the action may exist:

CHAPTER II. ,

Sac. 554. Actions in justices’ courts shall be commenced by
filing a copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon
which the action is brought, with a statement of the amount due
therein, or a concise statement in writing of the cause of action,
and the issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleading of the parties without summons; in the latter
case the action shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

SEC. 555. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed
by the justice as follows: First, If the infant be plaintiff, the

appointment shall be made before the summons is issued, upon the
application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or
upwards, if under that age, upon the application of some relative
or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed
and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the action, shall be first
filed with the justice. Second, If the infant be defendant, the
guardian shall be appointed at the time the summons is returned
or before pleading. It shall be the right of the infant to nominate
his own guardian if the infant be over fourteen years of age and
the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to be appointed, otherwise the justice may appoint any suitable person who
gives such consent.

SEC. 556. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by
name, or if his name be unknown by a fictitious name, and shall
summon him to appear before the justice at his office, naming its
township or city, and at a time specified therein, to answer the
complaint of the plaintifff for a ‘cause of action therein described, in
general terms sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of
the claim against him, and in an action for money or damages shall
state the amount the plaintiff will take judgment for if the defendant fail to answer, and shall be subscribed by the justice and dated
on the day of its issue.

SEC. 557. The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance of the defendant, and the time of service, shall be as follows:
First, When the summons is accompanied with an order for the
arrest of -the defendant it shall be returnable immediately. Second,
In all other cases it shall be returnable in not less than four or
more than ten days from its date, and shall be served at least four
days before the time for appearance.

SEC. 558. The summons shall be served by the sheriff, or a constable of the county, or by some one specially appointed by the justice,
as follows: First, If the action be against a corporation, by reading‘
the same to the president or other head of the corporation, or to the
secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof. or when no such oilicer resides in the county, to a director resident therein, or by
leaving a copy of the summons at the principal oilice or place of
business of such corporation in the county. Second, If against a
minor under the age of fourteen years, by reading the same to his
father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none within the county,

then to any person having the care or control of such minor, or
with whom he resides, or in whose service he is, or by leaving a
copy thereof at the dwelling house or place of abode of such person.
Third, If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own afairs, and for whom a
guardian has been appointed, by reading the same to such guardian,
or by leaving a copy thereof at his place of residence. Fourth, In
all other cases, by reading the same to the defendant personally, or
by leaving a copy at his place of residence.

SEC. 559. When the person on whom the service is to be made,
resides out of the Territory, or cannot, after due diligence, be found
within the Territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of
summons, and the fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction
of the justice, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of
action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is
to be made, the justice shall grant an order that service be made by
publication of the summons. The order shall direct the publication
to be made in a newspaper printed in the county in which the
action is brought, if there is one, and, if not, in the newspaper
printed nearest thereto, at least once a week: Provided, That a
publication against a defendant residing out of the Territory, or
absent therefrom, shall not be less than one month. The service of
the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the
time prescribed by the order of publication.

SEC. 560. An order for the arrest of the defendant may be
endorsed on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may
be arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable at the time of serving
the summons and brought before the justice, and there detained until
duly discharged, in the following cases: First, In an action for the
recovery of money or damages, and a cause of action arising on
contract, express or implied, where the defendant is about to depart
from the Territory with the intent to defraud his creditors. Second, In an actip for the embezzlement of property, or fraudulently
misapplied, or converted to his own use, by an attorney, factor,
broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or
by any other person in a fiduciary capacity. Third, When the defendant has been guilty of fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought. Fourth, When
the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of the property,

or is about to dose, with intent to defraud his creditors. But no
female shall be arrested in any action.

SEC. 561. Before any order for arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the allidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on which the application is founded. The plaintid’ shall also execute and deliver to
the justice a written undertaking, with two or more sureties, to the
effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the order of
arrest be dismissed, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred dollars.

SEC. 562. The defendant, immediately on being arrested, shall
be taken to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he
be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be made to appear to
him by the affidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness
for the defendant, the officer shall immediately take the defendant
before the next nearest justice within the county, who shall take
cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon as if the summons
had been issued and the order of arrest made by him.

SEC. 563. The officer making the arrest shall immediately give
notice thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorney, or agent, and endorse
on the summons and subscribe a certificate stating the time of
serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to
the plaintifff. _

SEC. 564. The oiiicer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by the order of the justice:
Provided, That the oiiicer shall not be bound to keep such person
under arrest more than twenty-four hours, unless the plaintifff advance each day the expenses of keeping such person.

SEC. 565. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with
the officer, may demand a trial immediately, and upon such demand
being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours,
except by the trial of another action pending at the same time, or
he may have an adjournment, and be discharged on giving bail, as
provided in the next section. An adjournment at the request of
the plaintifff beyond three hours shall discharge the defendant from
arrest, but the action may proceed as in other cases.

SEC. 566. If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment, the same shall be granted on condition that ‘he execute and
file with the justice an undertaking, with two or more suiiicient sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the efect that he will render himself amenable to the process of the court during the pending of the
action, and such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein,
if it be found by the justice that the defendant was subject to arrest
in such action, or that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment he may recover in the action. On filing
such undertaking the defendant shall be discharged from custody.

SEC. 567. The defendant may file a plea under oath, putting
in issue the facts stated in the affidavit for the order of arrest, and
the plaintiff shall he held to establish such facts, and if he fail to
do so, the order of arrest shall be dismissed, and the defendant
may proceed upon the undertaking of the plaintifff for his damages
occasioned by the arrest.

SEC. 568. A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall
be issued by the justice, on receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of
the plaintiff, showing the same facts that are required to be shown
by the afhdavit in cases of attachment in the district court.

Site. 569. Before issuing the writ, the justice shall require a.

written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or more
suicient sureties, to the efect- that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the attachment be dismissed, the plaintifff will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages that
he may sustain by reason of the attachment.

SEC. 570. The writ may be directed to the sherid‘, or any constable. of the county, and shall require him to attach and safely
keep all the property of the defendant in the county not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufiicient to satisfy
the plaintifff’s demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security,
by the undertaking of the suiiicient sureties, in an amount sufiicient
to satisfy such demand and costs, in which case, to take such undertaking. ‘ '

Site. 571. The provisions of this act, relating to attachments in
the district courts, shall be applicable to justices, courts, the word
constable being substituted for the word sheriff where the writ is
directed to a constable, and the word justice being substituted for
the words judge and clerk.

SEC. 572. The plaintih‘ in an action to recover possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him,
as provided herein.

SEC. 573. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be
made by the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, showing, First,
That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof.
Second, That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
Third, The alleged cause of the detention thereof according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief. Fourth, That the same
has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute, or seized under an attachment or execution A against the
property of the plaintifff, or if so seized that it is by statute exempt from such seizure, and, Fifth, The actual value of the property.

SEC. 574. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in
writing upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or constable of the
county to take the same from the defendant and deliver it to the
plaintifff upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the next
section.

SEC. 575. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a
written undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the officer, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant
if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may for any cause he recovered against the plaintifff, the
officer shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if
it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it
in his custody, and shall notify the defendant in writing if he can
be found in the county, of the taking of such property, and by
what authority. _

SEC. 576. At any time within two days after the taking of such
property by the officer, the defendant may require the return thereof, upon giving to the officer a written undertaking, with two or
more sureties to be approved by the officer, to the effect that they
are bound in double the -value of the property as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if

such delivery be adjudged, and for payment to him of such sum as
may from any cause he recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not required, it shall be delivered to the
plaintifff, except as provided in this act.

SEC. 577. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in
a building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery, and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open and take the property into his possession.

SEC. 578. When the officer shall have taken the property, as
provided in this act, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver
it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for
taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

Sec. 579. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit
of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the
grounds of such title or right, and serve the same upon the odicer,
the officer shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to
the plaintid} unless the plaintifff on demand of him or his agent,
indemnifying the odicer against such claim by an undertaking executed by two sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their aiiidavits that
they are each worth double the value of the property as specified
in the affidavit of the plaintifff over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are property holders of the .county, and no claims to such property by any
other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against
the officer unless so made.

Size. 580. The officer shall return the order and aiiidavit, with
his proceedings thereon, to the justice within five days after taking
the property mentioned therein.

SEC. 581. The qualification of sureties on the .several undertakings required by this act shall be as follows: First, Each of
them shall be a resident and property holder within the county.
Second, Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution, which facts shall appear by the

affidavits of the sureties annexed to the undertaking or endorsed
thereon.

CHAPTER III.

PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

SEC. 582. The pleadings in justices’ courts shall be, First,
The complaint by the plaintiff stating the cause of action. Second,
The answer by the defendant stating the grounds of the defense.
SEC. 583. The pleadings shall be in writing and verified by
the oath of the party his agent or attorney when the action is,
First, For the foreclosure of any mortgage or the enforcement of
any lien on personal property. Second, For a forcible or unlawful entry upon or forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tenements,

or other possessions. Third, To recover possession of a mining
claim. Fourth, When the defendant pleads matter in bar or abatement. In all other cases the pleadings may be_ oral or in writing.

SEC. 584. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them
shall be entered by the justice in his (locket; when in writing, they
shall be filed in his office and a reference to them made in his
docket. Pleadings shall not be required to be in any particular
form, but shall be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

SEC. 585. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manmer the facts constituting the cause of the action.

Site. 586. The answer may contain a denial of any of the

.1

material facts stated in the complaint which the defendant believes ’

to be untrue, and also a statement in a plain and direct manner of
any other facts constituting a defense, counterclaim, or set 08',
upon which an action might be brought by the defendant against
the plaintii in a justices’ court. '

SEC. 587. A statement in an answer that the defendant has
not sufficient knowledge or information to form a belief in respect
to a particular allegation in the previous pleadings of the adverse
party shall be equivalent to a denial.

SEC. 588. When the cause of action or defenses, or a set off to
a set off arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of
money only, it shall be suiiicient for the party to deliver a copy of
the account or instrument to the court, and to state that there is
due to him thereon from the adverse party a specified sum which

he claims to recover or set oil‘, the court may at the time of the
pleading require that the original account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a copy to be furnished; or if it be not so exhibited, and a copy furnished, may
prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence, unless it appear that
such instrument is not in the possession of the party pleading it,
or under his control.

SEC. 589. If the plaintifff annex to his ‘complaint, or file with
the justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the
payment of money upon which the action is brought, the defendant
shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the
maker, indorsers or assignors thereof unless hespecitically deny the
same in his answer under oath.

Size. 590. Either party may object to the pleading of his adversary, or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficient] y explicit to
enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action
or defense, although it be-taken as true. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the pleading to be amended, and
if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.

SEC. 591. A variance between the proof on the trial and the
allegations in pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial unless the
court be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his
prejudice thereby.‘ .

SEC. 592. The pleadings may be amended at any time before
trial to supply a deficiency or omission when by such amendments
substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made
after the issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse.
party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall
be granted. The court may also in its discretion require as a condition of an amendment the payment of costs to the adverse party,
to be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars, but such
payment shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment; nor shall an amendment he allowed after
a witness is sworn upon the trial when an adjournment thereby
will he made necessary.

SEC. 593. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence

by which the question of title to ‘real property shall be raised in
the trial before a justice; and if it appear from the plaintiffs own

« showing on the trial, or from the answer of the defendant, verified

by his oath or that of his agent or attorney, or if it appear at any
time during the trial that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the decision of the question of title to real property,
the justice shall suspend all further proceedings in the action and
transmit the pleadings, and a certified transcript of his own proceedings in the action, to the clerk of the district court of his
county, and from the time of filing such pleadings and transcript
with the clerk of the district court shall have over the action the
same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced therein. Provided, That when the action is certified to the district court, upon
the answer of the defendant, he shall file amundertaking, to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that he will pay all costs that
may be awarded against him on the trial in the district court.

SEC. 594. If at any time before the trial it appear to the satisfaction of the justice before whom the action is brought, by affidavit
of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either
party, or if either party made aiiidavit that he has reason to believe
and does" believe that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, the action shall be be transferred to some other
justice of the same county; and in case of a jury being demanded,
and affidavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and
impartial trial on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens
of the precinct or township against him, the action shall be transferred to some other justice of the peace in the county. The justice to whom the action may be transferred by the provisions of this
section shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action
as if it had been originally commenced before him The justice
ordering the transfer of the action to another justice shall immediately transfer to the latter, on the payment of the costs due from
the party procuring the transfer, all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcri§t of the proceedings that have been
had in the action.

SEC. 595. Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury he
demanded, or if the justice be actually engaged in other oilicial
business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either
party as follows: First, When a party who is not a resident of

T

the county is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twentyfour hours; when the defendant in attendance is under arrest, the
adjournment not to exceed three hours. Second, In other cases
not to exceed five days.

SEC 596. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon the
application of either party without the consent of the other, for a
period not exceeding ten days (except as provided in the next section) as follows: First, The party asking the adjournment shall,
if required by his adversary, prove by his own oath or otherwise
that he cannot, for want of material testimony which he expects to
procure, safely proceed to trial, and shall show in what respects the
testimony expected is material and the diligence he has used to procure it. Second, The party asking the adjournment shall also, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any
witness of the adverse party who is in attendance be then taken by
deposition before the justice, which shall accordingly be done, and
the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with the same effect
and subjections as if the witness were present; but such objections
shall be made at the time of taking the deposition. Third, The
court may also require the moving party to state upon affidavit the
evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it is considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, the trial shall not be postponed. It shall appear by the
aiiidavit of the party or otherwise that due diligence has been used
to obtain the evidence wanting before a postponement of the trial is
made therefore.

SEC. 597. An adjournment may be had either at the time of
joining issue or at any time subsequent, _to which the case may
stand adjourned on application of either party for a period longer
than ten days, but not to exceed one month from the time of the
return of the summons, upon proof by the oath of the party, or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justice, that such party cannot
be ready for trial before the time to which he desires an adjournment for want of material evidence, particularly describing it, and
that the delay has not been made necessary by any act of negligence on his part since the action was commenced, that he has used
due diligence (which shall be stated) to procure it, and has been
unable to do so, and that he expects to procure the evidence at the

time stated by him; provided, that if the adverse party admit that
such evidence would_be given, and consent that it may be considered

. as given on the trial, or oH‘ered and overruled as improper, the adjournment shall not be had.

SEC. 598. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer
than ten days upon the application of either party, except on condition that such party file an undertaking, with sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment that may be recovered
against the party applying.

SEC. 599. If the plaintiff fails to appear at the time set for trial,
and the defendant appears and demands it, the action shall be dismissed.

SEC. 600. If either party fails to appear at the time set for
trial, or fails to make the necessary pleading or proofs on his part,
the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of the party
present, and judgment shall be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

r SEC. 601. A trial by jury shall he demanded at the time of
joining issue, and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it; when demanded, the trial of the case shall be adjourned
until a time and place fixed for the return of ,the jury. If neither
desire an adjournment, the time and place shall be determined by
the justice, and shall be within the next two days, or the same day.
The jury shall be summoned, upon an order of the justice, from
the citizens of the city or township, and not from the by-standers.

SEC. 602. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall
proceed to call from the jurors summoned the names of the persons
to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any number not more than twelve
nor less than six, and shall not be summoned until their legal fees
for one day’s service shall be paid into the hands of the justice by
the party demanding the jury.

SEC. 603. Each juror shall be competent to serve as such in
the district court. If a suilicient number of competent jurors do
not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned from the
vicinity, and not from the by-standers, sudicient to complete the
jury.

SEC. 604. Either party may challenge peremptorily one-half

of the jury. Challenge for cause may be made by either party for
any cause that a challenge for cause can be ‘made in- the district
court. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the justice.

CHAPTER IV.

JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

SEC. 605. Judgment that the action be dismissed without
prejudice to a new action may be entered with costs in the following cases: First, When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the
action before it is finally submitted. Second, When he fails to
appear at the time set for trial, or within one hour thereafter, and
the defendant appears and demands that the action be dismissed.
Third, When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county; but if the
objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal
on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the judgment. If not
taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived and shall not be cause
of reversal.

SEC. 606. When the defendant fails to appear and answer,
judgment shall be given for the plaintifff, as follows: When a copy
of the account, note, bill, or other obligation upon which the action
is brought, was filed with the justice at the time the summons was
issued, judgment shall be given without further evidence for the
sum specified in the summons.

Sac. 607. Upon issue joined, or when the defendant fails to
appear, except cases mentioned in the last section, if a trial by jury
be not demanded, the justice shall bear the evidence, and decide all
questions of fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

SEC. 608. Upon a verdict by a jury, the justice shall immediately render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the trial, if the
defendant has been arrested and is still in custody. In other cases,
it shall be entered within four days after the close of the trial.

Sac.» 609. If the action be on a ‘contract against two or more
defendants, and the summons be served on one or more but not on
all, the judgment shall be entered up only against those who were

served, if the contract he a several or a joint and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract only, the judgment
shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be
enforced against the joint property of all and the separate property
of the defendants served.

SEC. 610. When the amount found due to either party exceeds
the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such
party may remit the excess and judgment may be rendered for the
residue.

SEC. 611. If the defendant, at any time before trial, offer in
writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified
sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with
the costs there accrued, but if he do not accept such offer before the
trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum larger than the one
mentioned in the ofer, he shall not recover any costs accruing after
the offer was made, but the offer and failure to accept shall not be
given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to costs.

SEC. 612. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the
defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be
so stated in the judgment, and entered in the docket.

SEC. 613. When_ the prevailing party is entitled to costs by
this chapter, the justice shall add their°amount to the verdict, or
in case of the plaintiff to recover, or in case of a dismissal of the
action, shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the
amount of such costs.

Site. 614. The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which
may be filed and docketed in the odice of the district clerk of the
county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt
of the transcript by the district clerk shall be noted by him thereon and entered on the docket, and from that time executions may be
issued by the district clerk on such judgment to the sheriff of any
other county of the Territory, in the same manner as upon judgments rendered in the higher courts. All process and judgments
recovered in justices’ courts, to he executed within the same
county, shall be issued by the justice or his successor in office.
No judgment rendered by a justice of the peace shall create any
lien on any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript of such
judgment, certified by the justice, be filed and recorded in the c$ce

of the recorder. When such transcript is to be filed in any other
county than the one in which the justice resides, such transcript
shall be accompanied by the certificate of the county clerk as to the
ohicial character of the jl18tlC6_¢Wh6l‘0 sojiled, andgrecorded in the
oiiice of the recorder of any county. Such judgment shallrbe_;_a_L:lien,
upon and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment debtor,
situated in the county where the transcript may be filed and recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as if such judgment had
been rendered in the district court of such county.

SEC. 615. Execution for the enforcement of judgment in a justices’ court may be issued on the application of the party entitled
thereto, at any time within live years from the entry of the
judgment. ‘

SEC. 616. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be
directed to the sheriH', or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice issuing the same, and shall bear date the day
of its delivery to the officer to be executed; it shall intelligibly
refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties and the
name of the justice before whom, and of the county where, and the
time when, it was rendered, the amount of the judgment, if it be
for money, and if less than the whole is due, the amount due thereon; it shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to the sheriff or
constable as are required in executions issued by the clerk of the
district court. .

SEC. 617. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is
delivered, shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as
the sheriff is required to execute executions issued by the clerk of
the district court, and the constable when the execution is directed
to him, shall be vested for that purpose with all the power of the
sheriff, and after issuing an execution, and either before or after its
return, (if the same be returned unsatisfied either in whole or in
part), the judgment creditor shall be entitled to an order from the
justice, requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time to be
designated in the order, and answer concerning his property before
such justice, and the attendance of such may be enforced by the
justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined on oath
concerning his property, and any person alleged to have in his
hands property, monies, effects, or credits, of the judgment debtor,
may also be required to attend and be examined, and the justice

 

may order any property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or
any other person, not exempt from execution, belonging to such
debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction of such judgment, and
the justice may enforce such order by imprisonment until complied
with, but no judgment debtor or other person shall be required to
attend before any justice out of the county in which he resides.

CHAPTER V.
GENERAL l’novIsIoNs.

Site. 618. The provisions of this act, in relation to parties to
actions in the district courts, and relative to practice, pleading, and
trial, shall, so far as the same are applicable, and do not conilict
with this title, he observed in justices’ courts.

SEC. 619. Every justice shall keep a book denominated a
docket, in which he shall enter, First, The title of every action
or proceeding. Second, The object of the action or pmeeding,
and if a sum of money be claimed the amount of the demand.
Third, The date of the summons, and the time of its return; and
if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts. Fourth, The time when
the parties, or either of them, appear, or their non-appearance if
default he made; a minute of the pleadings and motions, if in writ'“ing, referring to them, if not in writing, a concise statement of the
material parts of the pleadings, and of all motions made during the
trial by either party, and his decisions thereon. Fifth, Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether on oath, evidence
or consent, and to what time. Sixth, The demand for a trial by
jury, when the same is made, and by whom made, the order for the
jury, and the time appointed for the trial, and return of the jury.
Seventh, The names of the jury who appear and are sworn, the
.names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request. Eighth, The
verdict of the jury, and when received, if the jury disagree and
are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge. Ninth,
The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included, and the
time when rendered. Tenth, The issuing of the =execution, when
issued, and to whom delivered, the renewals thereof, if any, and
when made, and a statement of any money paid to the justice, and

when and by whom. Eleventh, The receipt of a notice of appeal,
if any be given, and of the appeal bond, if any be filed, with the
amount thereof, and the names of the sureties. Twelfth, A note of
any other proceedings taken in the action or proceeding.

SEO. 620. The several particulars of the last section specified
shall be entered under the title to the action to which they relate,
and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justices’
docket, or a transcript thereof certified to by the justice or his sued
cessor in oilice, shall be primary evidence to prove the facts so
stated therein.

Sec. 621. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each
judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The names of
the plaintifffs shall be entered in the index in the alphabetical order
of the first letter of the family names. ,

SEC. 622. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the expiration of his term of oiiice, to deposit with his successor his official
dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessors which may be
in his custody, to be kept as public records. If the oilice of a‘
justice become vacant by his death, removal from the township or
city, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the
dockets in possession of such justice shall be deposited with the
county clerk of the county, to be by him delivered to his successor
in office of the justice.

81:0. 623. Any justice with whom a docket of his predecessor
is deposited, may issue execution or other process upon a judgment
there entered and unsatisfied, in the same manner and with the
same effect as the justice with whom the judgment was entered
might have done. In case of the creation of a new county, or
the change of the boundaries between two counties, any justice in
whose hands the docket of a justice formerly acting as such within
the same territory may come shall for the purpose of this section
be considered the successor of said former justice. —

SEC. 624. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed
the successor of the justice whose oiiice became vacant before the
expiration of a full term. When a full term expires the same or
another person ebcted to take oilice in the same township or city
from that time shall  deemed the successor.

SEC. 625. The summons, execution. and every other paper

made or issued by a justice, except a subpoena, shall be filled up
without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall be
void.

Snc. , 626. In case of sickness or other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice, on a return of summons, or at a time appointed for a trial, another justice of the same county may at his
request attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested
.with the power for the time being of the justice before whom the
summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the
proceedings before the attending justice, subscribed by him, shall
be made in the docket of the justice before whom the summons was
returnable.

SEC. 627. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on
being satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet
person of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a
summons or execution with or without an order, to arrest the defendant with or without a writ of attachment. Said justice shall
be liable on his official bond for all otlicial acts of the person so
deputed. Such deputation shall be in writing made on the process
and a note thereof made in the justices’ docket.

SEC. 628. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a
constable in relation to the service, execution, and return of such
process, and shall be subject to the same obligations.

SEC. 629. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his
term of oilice, may proceed and complete the execution of all final
process which he has begun to execute, in the same manner as if
he were still in office, and his sureties shall be liable to the same
extent.

SEC. 630. A justice may punish any person guilty of a contempt of his court, as defined by this act, by line or imprisonment,
or both, but such fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars, nor
imprisonment shall not exceed one day.

SEC. 631. The acts for which the person is convicted shall be
particularly specified in the justices’ docket, and the judgment
entered thereon.

SEC. 632. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any
action or proceeding in the courts held by theta, and fmal process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the
county.

Sac. 633. Depositions may be taken in the same manner, to
he used in justices’ courts, as they are taken to be used in the
district court.

SEC. 634. In actions respecting mining claims, proof shall be
admitted of the customs, usages, and regulations, established and
in force in the mining district embracing such claim, and such
customs, usages, or regulations, when not in conflict with the,
laws of this Territory, shall govern the decision of the action. ‘

SEC. 635. A new trial may be granted by the justice, on
motion, within ten days after the entry of judgment, ‘for any of
the following causes: First, Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Second, Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence
of passion. Third. Insuiiiciency of the evidence to justify the
verdict, or other decision. Fourth, Newly-discovered evidence,
material for the party making the application, which he could
not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at
the trial. SEC. 636. The application shall be made upon affidavit and
notice; the affidavit shall be filed with the justice, with a statement
of the grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The adverse
party may use counter affidavits on the motion, provided they be filed
one day previous to the hearing of the motion.

SEC. 637. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in
a justices’ court, may appeal therefrom to the district court of the
county, at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the
judgment. The appeal shall be taken by filinganotice of appeal with
the justice, and serving a copy of the same upon the adverse party.

SEC. 638. The party appealing shall file with the justice, within the time allowed for taking an appeal, an undertaking in double
the amount of the judgment appealed from, or if the judgment be
for the recovery of specific personal property, in double the value
of such property, with suiiicient sureties, and conditioned that the
party appealing will pay any judgment that may be rendered against
him in the district court, as well as all costs that may betawarded
against him, and for the prosecution of such appeal to effect, or if
the party in whose favor judgment is rendered appeals, the bond
shall be continued for the prosecution of the appeal to effect, and

for the payment of all costs that may be adjudged against the

appealing party. The undertaking shall be accompanied by the
affidavit of the sureties that they are residents of the county, and
are each worth, over and above their debts, liabilities, and property
by law exempt from execution, the amount specified in the undertaking, but several sureties may state that they are worth sums
less than the amount.stated in the undertaking besides such exemptions, if the whole amount equals the amount of two sufficient
sureties.

SEC. 639. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and the undertaking, as provided in the last section, and payment of fees therefore, the justice shall make out a full and complete transcript‘ from
his docket of all the proceedings in the action before him, and
transmit it, together with all the motions, pleadings, and all other
papers belonging to the said cause, to the clerk of the district court
of the county, which transcript shall be certified by such justice,
within ten days after the filing of the appeal, bond, and notice of
appeal, the justice may be compelled by an order of the district
court entered on motion, to transmit any or all of .such papers, and

may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same.

SEC. 640. If the party appealing fail to reduce or enlarge the
judgment appealed from, ten dollars or more, or reverse the same
in the district court, he shall not recover any of the costs of the
appeal. _ _

SEC. 641. All appeals from justices’ courts shall be tried anew,
in the district court, on the papers filed in the justices’ court,
unless the court, for good cause shown, and on such terms as may
be just, allow other papers to be filed in such action. Either party
may demand a trial by jury in the district court. Each party
shall have the benefit of all legal objections made in the justices’
court.

SEC. 642. If an execution shall have been issued on a judgment appealed from, on the filing of the appeal bond, the justice
shall by order diredt the oilicer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services rendered
on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon,
and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together with all
monies collected from sales or otherwise If his fees be not paid,
the officer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof
as may be necessary to pay the same.

SEC. 643. Costs shall be allowed the prevailing party in justices’ courts.

SEC. 644. Justices of the peace shall receive from the sherif
or constable of their county, all monies collected on any process or
order issued by their courts respectively, and all monies paid to
them in their ollicial capacity, and shall pay the same over to the
parties entitled or authorized to receive them, without delay. For
a ‘violation of this section, they may be removed from their office,
and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 645. Justices of the peace may in all cases require a
deposit of money, or an undertaking, as surety for costs of court,
before issuing a summons.

SEC. 646. In actions respecting mining claims, the justice shall
have power, upon application of the party out of possession of the
claim or claims, after notice of one day to the adverse party, to
appoint a receiver of the proceeds of the claim pending the actioh.
If the parties agree upon a person, he shall be appointed such

receiver. If the parties do not agree, the justice shall appoint a '

receiver, who shall take an oath, which shall be filed with the justice, that he is not interested in the action between the parties, and
that he will honestly keep an account of all gold or metals of any
kind the proceeds of the claim in dispute. After the appointment
of such receiver, the justice shall have power to issue an order to
any sheriff or constable to put such receiver into possession of such
claim, and such receiver shall continue in possession thereof until
the action is determined.

Ma‘ ”¥I Xl:.‘7h  33

Foacmm Ema! AND UNLAWFUL DETAINER.

SEC. 647. No person or persons shall hereinafter make any entry
into the lands, tenements, or other possessions, or by entering upon
any gulch mining claim, or quartz lode mining claim, or other mining
claim, in the temporary absence of the party or parties in possession,
or by entering peaceably, and the turning out by force, or frightening by threats, or other circumstances of terror, the party or parties, out of possession, and detain and hold the same. In every
such case, the person so olfending shall be deemed guilty of a

forcible entry and detainer within the meaning of this act; but not in
cases where entry is given by law, and in such cases not with
strong hand nor with multitude of people, but only in a peaceable
manner; and if any person from henceforth do to the contrary, and
thereof be duly convicted, he shall be punished by fine.

SEC. 6-18. Any justice of the peace shall have authority to
inquire as hereinafter directed, as well as against those who. make
unlawful or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, and detain the same as against those who, having lawful and
peaceable entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, unlawfully detain the same, and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that
an unlawful or forcible entry hath been made, or that the said
lands, tenements, or other possessions, after a lawful entry, are
held unlawfully, then such justice shall cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof.

SEC. 649. When any complaint shall be made in writing to any
justice of the "peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry, or
unlawful detainer, said justice shall issue a summons, directed to
the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the person or persons against whom such complaint shall have
been made, to appear before said justice on a day named in the
summons, which shall not be more than ten days from the issuing
of such summons, and at the place therein mentioned.

SEC. 650. Such summons shall be served upon the person or
persons against whom the same is issued, as other summons are
served issued by a justice, at least four days before the return
day thereof, and the onicer serving the same shall make return of
the time and manner.of such service.

Site. 651. After the return of the summons served as hereinbefore provided, and at the time and place appointed in said summons, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine said complaint, unless either party demand a jury, in which case a jury
shall be summoned in the same manner and on the same terms, and
the trial shall be had as in other cases of trial by jury before a
justice. _

SEC. 652. If at the time set for trial the defendant, his agent
or attorney, shall make oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial
for want of some material witness, naming him, that he has made
due exertion to obtain such witness or his testimony, and believes if

an adjournment be allowed he will be able to procure the testimony
of such witness, in which case, if such person or persons will give
bond, with sudicient surety, conditioned to pay the said complainant
for all rent that may accrue during the pending of such suit, and
all costs and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the said
justice shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable time as may
appear necessary, not exceeding one month.

Size. 653. The testimony of any witness which may be considered necessary by either party, may be taken in the same manner and with like effect as is provided for the taking of testimony
in other cases in justices’ courts;

SEC. 654. On the trial the complainant shall only be required to
show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer complained of,
that he was peaceably in actual possession at the time of the forcible entry, or was entitled to the possession of the premises at the
time of the unlawful holding over. The defendant may show in
his defense that he or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such
premises he claims, have been in quiet possession thereof for the
space of one whole year together next before the said inquisition,
sudthat his interest therein is not yet ended or determined; and
such showing shall be a bar to the prosecution; andin no case
where the title to land is involved shall a justice of the peace have
cognizance.

Sec. 655. If upon the trial, upon any complaint under this act,
the justice or jury shall find the defendant or defendants, or either
of them, guilty of the allegations of the complaint, said justice
shall enter judgment for the complainant to have restoration of the
premises, and shall impose such line, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, considering all the circumstances, as he may deem just,
and shall tax the costs for the complainant, and may issue execution therefore; and the said justice shall award and issue a writ of
restitution. But if the said justice or jury {ind that the person
complained of is not guilty, the justice shall tax the costs against
the complainant and issue execution therefore.

SEC. 656_. If the jury empaneled cannot agree upon a verdict,
the justice may, with the consent of the parties, discharge them,
ind issue a venire. returnable forthwith, or at some other time
tgreed upon by the parties.

SEC. 657. In all cases of a verdict by the justice or jury for

the complainant, the damages shall be assessed as well for the waste

, and injury committed upon the premises as for the rents and profits

during such detainer; and the verdict shall also find the monthly
rents and profits of the said premises, and the complainant shall be
entitled to recover treble damages against the persons against whom
the judgment has been rendered, which damages shall be assessed
by the justice or jury, and when so assessed shall be trebled by
said justice and entered as a judgment in the cause upon which
execution may issue.

SEC. 658. When any person shall hold over any lands, tenements, or other possessions, after the termination of the time for

-which theyare demised or let to them, or to the person under whom

they hold possession, or contrary to the covenants or conditions of
the lease or agreement under which they hold, or after any rent
shall become due according to the terms of the lease or agreement,
and shall remain unpaid for the space of three days, in all such
cases, if the lessor, his heirs, executors, administrators, assigns,
agent or attorney, shall make demand in writing of such -tenant
that they shall deliver possession of the premises held as aforesaid,
and if such tenant shall refuse or neglect for the space of three
days after such demand to quit‘ the possession of such lands or tenements, or to pay the rent thereof due and unpaid, as aforesaid,
upon complaint thereof to any justice of the peace of the proper
county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try and determine the
same in the same manner as in other cases hereinbefore provided
for, but shall impose no fine in any such case mentioned in this
section.

SEC. 659. The preceding section shall not extend to any person who has or shall have continued in possession one year after
the termination of the time for which the premises were demised or
leased or let to them or those under whom they hold possession, or
to any person who continues in possession three years quietly and
peaceably.

SEC. 660. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpoenaed as
a witness, who shall not appear, or who appearing shall refuse to
serve or give evidence in any prosecution instituted under this act,
shall forfeit and pay for every such default or refusal to the use of
the county, unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such fine,

not exceeding twenty dollars, as the said justice shall think proper
to impose, and execution may be issued therefore.

Sec. 661. Appeals may be taken from all judgments rendered
under this act to the district court, under the same rules and restrictions as to notice, appeal bond, and other matters, as are required on appeals from justices’ courts in other cases; but in case
such appeal be taken by the defendant, the undertaking shall contain an additional condition, to the effect that he will pay to the

,plaintill' all rents, profits and other damages that may accrue during the pendency of the appeal. If the appeal should’ be‘ decided '
against him upon the filing of the appeal bond,'all proceedings

shall he stayed.

SEC 662. Such appeals shall be tried in the district court as
other appeals from justices’ courts are tried.

SEC. 663. Amendments to the coihplaint, answer, or other proceedings in matters of form only, may be allowed by the justice,
or the district court, on appeal, at any time before judgment, upon
such terms as may be just, and all matters of excuse, justification,
or evidences of allegations in the complaint, may be given in evidence under the answer.

SEC. 664. All rules and regulations relating to trial before
justices of the peace in other cases, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title, shall be applicable, and be observed in trials
arising under this title. - . ’

Sec. 665. An act entitled an act to regulate the proceedings
in civil cases in the courts of justice of the Territory of Idaho,
approved February 1st, 1864, and an act entitled an act supplementary to an act entitled an act to regulate proceedings in civil
cases in courts of justice in the Territory of Idado, approved February 4th, 1864, passed by the legislature of Idaho at its first session, begun and held at Lewiston on the 7th day of December,
1863, and all other laws, or parts of laws, that are inconsistent
with this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.

SEC. 666. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its approval by the governor.


