AN Aer

Respecting practice and proceedings in Courts of Justice,
and for other purposes.

Be it enacted b the Council and House of Representatives of
the Territory of ebraska, as follows, viz:

CHAPTER I.

SUPREME COURT.

Sncrron 1. The Supreme Court of the Territory shall have,
and exercise, appellate and final jurisdiction of all matters of
appeals, or writs of error, that may be taken from the judgments
or decrees of the District Courts, in all matters of law, facts and
equity, where the rules of law, or the principles of equity appear
from the files, exhibits, or records from said courts, to have been
erroneously determined.

Sac. 2. Special terms may be called by the Chief Justice, at
his discretion, for the trial of appeals in civil cases, with the
consent of both parties, or for the trial of appeals in criminal
cases, to which the accused consents, and the prosecuting Attorney can show no sufficient objection.

Size. 3. The court may prescribe the manner of keeping the
records of the court, by the clerk thereof, and the rules of practice before said court.

Sec. 4. If a quorum is not ‘in attendance, on the first day of
the term, the fact shall be entered upon the records, and the
court shall stand adjourned ‘until the next day, and a like proceeding from day to day, until the fourth day; and should there
still be no quorum the court will stand adjourned until the next
term in course. N o proceedings shall in any manner be affected
by such. adjournment, or failure to hold a court, but shall stand
continued to the next term.

Ssc. 5. The court may issue all writs and processes, necessary for the exercise and enforcement of its jurisdiction and
powers.

S20. 6. The Judges of the Court may report their own decisions, or they may appoint a reporter, who shall hold his office
at the pleasure of the court.

Sec. '7. The opinions of the chief, and each associate justice
of the court, on all questions reviewed on appeal, as well as such
motions, collateral questions, and points of ractice, as they may
think of sufficient importance, shall be re uced to writing and
filed with the clerk of the court; all dissenting opinions must be
written and filed in the same manner.

Snc. 8. The Supreme Court has a general supervision over
the District Courts, to prevent .and correct errors and abuses.

 

CHAPTER II.

DISTRICT COURTS.

Size. 1. The District Court shall be held at the Court House
at the county seat in each of the counties aforesaid. When there
shall be none, the sheriff of the county shall provide, at the expense of the county, a suitable place at the county seat for holding
the Court.

SEC. 2. The District Court shall have original and exclusive
jurisdiction over all matters, and suits at law, and in chancery,
arising in each county in their respective districts, except when
justices of the peace have jurisdiction, and concurrent jurisdiction with said justices of the peace in cases where the demand
or cause of action of the plaintifff shall exceed fifty dollars, and
not exceeding one hundred dollars, and shall have jurisdiction in
all cases of appeal from a justice of the peace, or judge of Probate, and the said judge of the District Courts shall be conservators of the peace throughout the Territory.

Sec. 3. The said courts shall respectively have authority to
hear and determine all cases of crimes and misdemeanors whatsoever that may be committed intheir respective districts, except
those which are exclusively cognizable before justices of the

eace.
P Size. 4. A special term may be ordered and held by the District Judge in any county in his district, for the trial of any criminal offense if he deem it necessary. In ordering a special
term he shall direct whether a grand, or petit jury, or both, or
neither shall be summoned.

Sam. 5. The District Judges may interchange, and hold each
others’ courts. ,

Size. 6. The Clerk of each District Court shall keep a record
of the proceedings of the court, under the direction of the judge.
He shall, from time to time, read over all entries therein in open
court, which, when correct, shall be signed by the judge.

Snc. 7. When it is not practicable to have all the records
prepared, and thus approved, during the term, they may be read,
corrected and approved at the next succeeding term, but such
delay shall not prevent an execution from issuing in the meantime,
and all other proceedings may take place in the same manner as
though the record had been approved and signed. Entries authorized to be made in vacation, shall be read, approved and signed,
at the next term of the court. .

Snc. 8. The record aforesaid is under the control of the
court, and may be amended, or any entry therein expunged, at
any time during the term at which it is made, or before it is
signed by the judge as aforesaid.

SEC. 9. Entries made, approved, and signed at a previous time,
can be altered only to correct an evident mistake, or omission.

Size. 10. If the Judge does not appear on the day appointed
for holding the court, the Clerk shall make an entry thereof in
his record, and adjourn the court till the next day, and so on until
the third day, unless the judge appear.

Sac. 11. If the judge does not appear by five'o’clock in the
afternoon of the third day, the court shall stand adjourned till the
next regular term.

Snc. 12. If the judge is sick, or for any other sufficient cause
is unable to attend court, at the regularly appointed time, he may
by a written order direct an adjournment to a particular day
therein specified, and the clerk shall, on the first day of the term,
or as soon thereafter as he receives the order, adjourn the court
as therein directed.

SEC. 13. No recognizance, or other instrument, or proceeding shall be rendered invalid, by reason of their being a failure
of the term, but all proceedings pending in court shall be continued to the next regular term, unless an adjournment be made as
authorized in the last proceeding section.

Snc. 14. In cases of such continuances, or adjourments, persons recognized, or bound to appear at the regular term which
has failed as aforesaid, shall be held bound in like manner to
appear at the time so fixed, and their sureties (if any) shall be
liable, in case of their -no appearance, in the same manner as
though the term had been held at the regular time, and they had
failed to make their appearance thereat.

SEC. 15. Upon any final adjournment of the court, all business, not otherwise disposed of, will stand continued generally.

Snc. 16. No Judge of the Supreme or District Court shall
practice as an attorney, or counsellor at law, or give advice in
relation to any case pending, or about to be brought, in any of
the courts of this Territory.

SEC. 17. All judicial proceedings must be public, unless oth- _
erwise specially provided by statute, or otherwise agreed upon by
the parties.

Snc. 18. All courts have power to administer oaths connected
with any matter pending before them, either by any judge, jus- ‘
tice, or clerk thereof, or by any other person appointed for that
purpose by them.

Size. 19. A judge or justice is disqualified from acting as such,
except by mutual consent of parties, in any case wherein he is a
party or interested, or where he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree, or where he has
been attorney for either party in the action or proceeding.

Sac. 20. The District Court may by rule compel a justice of.

the peace to allow an appeal, or to make, or amend his returns
according to law.
SEC. 21. When an omission or mistake has been made by a

justice in his docket-entries, and that fact is made to appear to the

satisfaction of the court, the court may correct the mistake, or
supply the omission, or direct the justice to do so.

Size. 22. An appeal from an inferior, if to the District Court,
brings up a cause for a trial upon its merits alone.

Size. 23. When judgment is affirmed, the District Court shall,
on motion, render judgment against the appellant and his sureties, for the amount of the judgment below, damages and costs,
in case such damages can be ascertained by the Court without
trial.

SEC. 24. N 0 Court can be opened, nor can any judicial business be transacted on Sunday, except:

1st. To give instructions to a jury then deliberating on their

verdict;

2nd’. To ‘receive a verdict, or discharge a jury;

3rd. To exercise the powers of a single magistrate in a criminal proceeding.

S20. 25. The Clerks of the Supreme Court and of the several
District Courts in this Territory, shall have power to appoint
deputies; and district clerks shall appoint deputies, who shall
reside in each county wherein courts are to be held. Such deputies shall be sworn, faithfully to perform the duties of their office,
before they enter upon those duties.

Snc. 26. Every clerk appointing a deputy under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for all the official acts of said
deputy clerk.

Snc. 27. Each clerk aforesaid shall, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, enter into bonds to the Territory, with
good security, to be approved of by the judge in whose district
such clerk resides, in the sum of three thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his ofliee.

Sec. 28. Each clerk hereafter to be appointed shall, before
he enters upon the duties of his office, give a like bond to the
Territory; and any person aggrieved by the malpractice of any
such clerk, may sustain an action thereon before any court of
competent jurisdiction.

CHAPTER In.

JUSTICES COURTS.

Size. 1. The jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace shall be
co-extensive geographically, with their counties respectively.

SEC. 2. Within said limits it extends to all civil cases when
the amount does not exceed one hundred dollars, except cases
in chancery, and when questions involving the title or boundary
to real estate are at issue, and in cases of libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, and false imprisonment, seduction and criminal conversation.

Size. 3. Suits may in all cases be brought in the county where
the defendant, or one of several defendants, reside, or may be
found.

Size. 4. Actions of replevin, and suits commenced by attachment, may be commenced in any county wherein any portion of
the property is found.

SEC. 5. Every Justice of the Peace shall keep a docket, in
which shall be entered in continuous order, with the proper date
to each act done’, all the proceedings in the case.

SEC. 6. Ordinary actions shall be commenced by voluntary

appearance or by summons, which must issued and signed by the ,

Justice, and must state the cause of action in general terms, so
as to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against
him, and the sum claimed, and for which the plaintifff will take
payment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer at the time
fixed therein as the appearance day.

S1-:0. 7. The time thus fixed in the summons must be not more
than ten days from the date, and the summons must be served
not less than five days previous to the appearance day.

SEC. 8. The day of return as fixed in the summons, shall be
known as the return day, at which the issue between the parties
shall be made up, and by the consent of parties, may be tried.
If not so consented to, the justice shall set a day which shall be
known as the trial day, which shall be not more than ten, nor less
than three days from the return day, unless for causes shown.

SEC. 9. Suits shall be deemed commenced, at the time the
process is placed in the hands of the person authorized to serve
the same, and when two or more may be received upon the same
day, the one first received shall be the first served. ‘

Size. 10. The defendant may, at any time, pay to the officer
having the process, or to the justice of the peace, the amount of
the claim expressed therein, together with the costs, which have‘
then accrued, and thereupon the proceedings shall cease.

SEC. 11. Any agent or attorney appearing for another may

be required by the justice to show his authority, if written, or ‘

prove it by his own oath or otherwise, if verbal.

Size. 12. The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour, in
Which to appear, after the time fixed for appearance, and neither
party is bound to wait longer for the other.

Sec. 13. Upon the trial day, if the justice be actually engaged
in other official business, he may postpone the proceedings in the
case until such business is finished.

Size. 14. Either party applying for, and obtaining an adjourni ment after the appearance day, must, if required by the adverse

party, consent that the testimony of any witness of the adverse
party, who is in attendance, be then taken, to be used on the trial
of the cause.

Sec. 15. The pleadings may be written or oral; if oral, they
must in substance be written down by the justice, in his docket,
and sworn to, when such verification is necessary.

Snc. 16. All set-offs must be made, if at all, at the time the
answer is put in.

Snc. 17. The original, or a copy, of all written instruments,
upon which a cause of action or set-off is founded, must be filed
with the claim founded thereon, or a sufficient reason given for
not doing so.

SEC. 18. If in a suit for tresspass on real property, the defendent justifies by pleading title, it must be in writing. The
justice shall thereupon make an entry thereof in his docket, and
return the original papers, and a transcript of all the entries in
his docket, to the District Court, in the same manner, and within
the same time, as if required in cases of appeals.

SEC. 19. When from the plaintiffI’s own showing on the trial,
it appears that the determination of the action will necessaryly
invalue the decision of a question of title or boundary to real property, the justice must dismiss the action, stating in his docket
the reason therefore.

Size. 20. But when a case is thus transferred or dismissed,
an account of the title to land being invalued, if there are other
causes of action, not necessarily connected, they may be severed,
and the latter tried before the justice.

Size. 21. Unless one of the parties demand a trial by jury, at
the time of joining issue, the trial shall be by the justice.

Size. 22. If the plaintifff fails to appear by himself, his agent
or attorney, on the return day, or at any other time fixed for the
trial, the justice shall render a judgmentof nonsuit against him
with costs, except in the case provided in the next section.

Size. 23. When the suit is founded upon an instrument of
writing purporting to have been executed by the defendant, in
which the demand of the plaintifff is liquidated, if the signature
of the defendant is not denied under oath, and if the instrument
has been filed with the justice, previous to the day for appearance, he may proceed with the cause, whether the plaintifff appear
or not.

Size. 24. In the case provided for in the last section, if the
defendant does not appear, judgment shall be rendered against
him for the amount of the pla1ntifl"s claim.

Sac. 25. But if, when the plaintiffI"s claim is not founded on .

such written instrument, and the defendant does not appear, the
justice shall proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the
plaintifff, and shall render judgment thereon for the amount to

which he shows himself entitled, not exceeding the amount stated
in the summons.

Size. 26. In the cases contemplated in the last sections, if the
defendant has previously filed a set-off, founded on a written
instrument, purporting to have been signed by the plaintifff, calling for a sum certain, if the signature of the plaintifff is not
denied under oath, the justice shall allow such set-off in the
same manner as though the defendant had appeared, and shall
render judgment accordingly.‘

Sec. 27. On the return ay either party may demand a jury,

who shall receive fifty cents each for their services, to be taxed .

and paid as other costs, which must be deposited with the justice
at the time of, and by the party demanding the jury; and the
costs of each party shall be kept separate and taxed by the court
at the time of rendering judgment.

Size. 28. The jury shall consist of three men, or any other
number‘ up to five, which the parties may consent to, having the
qualifications of voters; to be selected as follows: the justice, or
any other officer agreed on by the parties, shall write down the
names of three times the number to be summoned: from the list
each party alternately may strike off one, until the list is reduced
to the number to be summoned; if either party refuse, the justice
shall strike for him. The venire is then to issue for those whose
names remain on the list, to appear, to try the cause. After their
appearance either party may challenge them for cause, and every
‘vacancy shall be filled by talesmen, who may also be challenged
for cause. When the number is complete they shall be sworn
by the justice, well, truly, and impartially, to try the matter submitted to them by the court, and a true verdict give according to
law and evidence given in court. T

Sec. 29. - The justice may discharge the jury when satisfied
that they cannot agree, and shall immediately proceed as before
to form a jury, and when formed shall issue a new venire for the
jurors to appear, at a time therein fixed, not more than three
days distant, unless the parties otherwise agree, but the party
demanding a jury may waive his application at any time before
the issue of the venire, and the cause shall then be tried by the
court.

Size; 30. N o motion in arrest of judgment, or to set aside a
verdict can be entertained by a justice’s court.

SEC. 31. The verdict of the jury must be general. But where
there are several plaintifffs, or defendants. the verdict may be for
or against one, or more of them.

SEO. 32. In cases of non-suit, confession, or on the vordict of
a jury, the judgment shall be rendered and entered upon the
docket forthwith. In all other cases, the same shall be done
within three days after the cause is submitted to the justice, for
final action. ..

Sec. 33. If the sum found for either party exceed the jurisdiction of the justice, such party may remit the excess, and take
judgment for the residue, but he can never afterwards sue for the
amount so remitted. A

Snc. 34. Instead of so remitting the excess, the party obtaining such verdict, may elect to have judgment of nonsuit entered,
in which case the plaintifff shall pay the costs.

Sec. 35. The party obtaining thejudgment in a justice’s court
for more than fifteen dollars may cause a transcript thereof to be
certified to the office of the clerk of the district court in the

county.
SEC. 36. Execution for the enforcement of judgment in a

' justice’s court, except when docketed, in the office of the Clerk

of the District Court, may be issued by the justice before whom
the judgment was rendered, on the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of the

judgment, but not afterwards
SEC. 37. Such execution shall be against the goods and chattels of the defendant therein, and shall be directed to any constable of the county.
Sec. 38. It must be dated as on the day on which it‘ issued,

1 and made returnable within thirty days.

Sac. 39. If not satisfied when returned, it may be renewed
from time to time, by an endorsement thereon to that effect, signed
by the justice, and dated at the time of such renewal.

Size. 40. Such endorsement must state the amount paid on
such execution (if any) and shall continue the execution in full
force, for thirty days from the date of renewal.

Sac. 41. Property levied on before such renewal may be

‘retained by the officer and sold after renewal.

Sac. 42. The appeal must be taken and perfected within ten
days after the rendition of the judgment.

Sec. 43. If within the ten days‘ the appellant is prepared to
take his appeal and is prevented only by the absence or death of
the justice or his inability to act, he may apply to the Clerk of
the District Court of the county for the allowance of his appeal.

SEC. 44. Such application shall be founded on an affidavit,
stating the amount and nature of the judgment, and the time of
the rendition thereof as nearly as practicable, and the reason why

he thus applies.
Sac. 45. The clerk has thereupon the same power to act in

the premises as the justice would have had. He may require
the books and papers of the justice to be delivered to him, for
which purpose he may issue a precept to the sheriff to that effect
if necessary, and may make out and file the transcript; after this
he shall return to the office of the justice of the peace, all the
papers proper to be kept by the justice.

Sec. 46. The appeal shall in no case be allowed until a
recognizance of the following form, or its equivalent, is taken
and filed in the office of the justice, the sureties being approved
by him (or by the clerk acting for him as above authorized,) and
the sum therein inserted being sufficient to secure the judgment

as well as the costs of the appeal.

We, the undersigned, acknowledge ourselves indebted to-—---—-—-—, in the sum of—-—-->dolla.rs, upon the following conditions: Whereas——i——-——--—-has appealed from the judgment
of———- . , a justice of the peace, in an action between

, as plaintifff, and as defendant, now, if the
said appellant pays whatever amount is legally adjudged against
him in the farther progress of this cause, then this recognizance
is to be void, and otherwise in force. '

   

A. B., Principal,
C. D., Surety,
Attest: l

E. F ., JusticeSEC, 47. Upon the appeal being taken in accordance with the

foregoing proceedings In the case by him shall be suspended.
Sac. 48. If in the meantime an execution has been issued,

the justice shall give the appellant a certificate that the appeal V

has been allowed. Upon that certificate being presented to the
constable, he shall cease further action and release any property
that may have been taken in execution.

Size. 49. Upon the taking of any appeal, the justice shall,

on or before the first day of the term to which the appeal is taken, :

file in the office of the clerk of the District Court all the original

papers relating to the suit, with a transcript of all the entries in
his docket.
Size. 50. Upon the return of the justice being filed in the of{ice of the clerk, the cause will be deemed in the District Court. 3

SEC. 51. The District Court may by rule compel the justice
to allow an appeal, or to make or amend his returns according to
law. b A
Sac. 52. Where an omission or mistake has been made by
the justice in his docket entries, and that is made unquestionable,
the District Court may correct the mistake or supply the omission, or direct the justice to do so.

Sac. 53. If an appeal is allowed ten days before the next I

term of the District Court, the justice’s return must be made, and
the order entered at least one day before that term. All such
cases must be tried when reached unless continued‘ for cause. If
the appeal be taken less than ten days before the next term, the
same shall be entered at least one day before the second term.

SEC. 54. An appeal brings up a cause for trial upon its merits
and for no other purpose. All errors, irregularities, and illegalities are thereforee to be disregarded under such circumstances if
if the cause might have been prosecuted in the District Court. .

Size. 55. No new demand or set-off’ can be introduced in a
case after it comes into the District Court, unless by mutual consent.

Size. 56. The appellant must pay the costs of the appeal, unless he obtains a more favorable judgment than that from which
appealed. '

Sac. 57. If the judgment below is against the appellant, he

may tender to the opposite party a certain amount, with costs, ,

and if the final amount recovered be less favorable to the appellee than such tender, he shall pay the costs of appeal.

Sec. 58. Any judgment in the District Court against the
appellant shall be entered up against him and his sureties

jointly.

Snc. 59. If an appeal is taken for delay, the District Court
shall award such damages, not exceeding ten per cent on the
amount of the judgment below, as may seem right.

Size. 60. Any person aggrieved by an erroneous decision in
matter of law, or other illegality in the proceedings of a justice
of the peace, may remove the same, or so much thereof as is
necessary into the District Court for correction, by writ of certloran.

Snc. 61. The basis of the proceedings is an affidavit filed in
the office of the clerk, setting forth the errors complained of.

Size. 62. The clerk shall thereupon issue the writ commanding the justice to certify the record and proceedings, so far as
they relate to the facts stated in the affidavit.

Snot 63. A copy of the affidavit shall accompany the writ
and be served upon the justice, who shall with the least practicable delay make the return required.

Snc. 64. All proceedings in the Justice’s Court, subsequent
to judgment, may be stayed by a recognizance entered into, like
that required in cases of appeal; and on which recognized judgment shall be entered against the principal and surety in like
manner and under like circumstances.

Size. 65. The District Court may compel an amended return
when the first is not full and complete.

SEC. 66. The District Court may render final judgment, or
it may remand the cause to the justice for a new trial, or such
further proceedings as shall be deemed proper, and may prescribe the notice necessary to bring the parties again before the

justice.

Size. 67. If the District Court render a final judgment reversing the judgment of the justice of the peace after such judgment
has been collected in whole or in part, it may award restitution
with interest, and issue execution accordingly, or it may remand
the cause to the justice for this purpose.

Sec. 68. The proceedings to gain possession of personal property wrongfully withheld will be the same as are prescribed in
such cases in the District Court, except as modified in this act.

Sac. 69. An attachment can issue only at the commencement of the action, and only when the action is founded on contract, and the money is due.

Sno. '70. The constable has the same power to administer an
oath, to the garnishee, and to take his answer as is given to the
sheriff‘, in cases of attachment in the District Court.

Sno. 71. Garnishees may be required to appear and answer
at the time fixed for the appearance of the parties to the action.

0

I-‘ORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Size. 72. Summary remedy for forcible entry or detention of
real property is allowable:

lst. When the defendant has by force, or intimidation, or
fraud, or stealth, entered upon the prior actual possession
of another, in regard to real property, and detains the
same.

2nd. When a lessee holds over after the termination, or contrary to the term of his lease.
3rd. When the defendant continues inpossession after a sale
by foreclosure of a mortgage, or on execution, unless he
claims by a title paramount to the lien by virtue of which
the sale was made, or by title derived from the purchaser
at the sale. 7

4th. When the defendant has entered upon the claim of another, as defined by the claim laws of the neighborhood
in which it lies, and holds the same contrary to the right
of the claimant under said claim laws.

Size. 73. The mere non-payment of rent by the time stipulated in the lease, does not enable the plaintifff to resort to this
action, unless expressly so stipulated in the lease.

Size. 74. The legal representative of the person, who might
have been plaintifff‘ if alive, may bring this suit after his death.

Size. 75. Before suit can be brought in any, except the first
of the above classes, three days notice to quit must be given to
the defendant in Writing.

Snc. 76. The petition must be in writing and sworn to.

SEC. 77. The proceedings may be had before a justice of the
peace of the county where the remises are situated, or if there
is no justice therein able or qu ‘fled to act, they may be brought
before some justice in any adjoining county. They shall be governed by the same rules as other cases before justices of the
peace, except as herein modified.

Size. 78. The time for appearance and pleading, must not be
less than two, nor more than six days from the time the summons
is served on the defendant.

Size. 79. N o adjournment shall be made for more than ten
days, nor to any other place, except by consent of the parties.

Snc. 80. If the defendant is found guilty, judgment shall be
entered that he be removed from the remises, and that the
plaintifff be put in possession thereof, an a warrant «of removal
shall issue accordingly to which shall be added a, clause, commanding the officer to levy the costs as in ordinary cases.

Size. 81. The question of title caimot be investigated in this,
except it be the title to claims upon the public lands, and nothing
herein contained prevents a party from suing for a trespass, or
from testing the right of property in any other manner.

Snc. 82. Peaceable and uninterrupted possession, with the
knowledge of the plaintifff, one ear after the cause of the action
accrued, is a bar to this proceeding.

S20. 83. An action of this kind cannot be brought in connection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of a set-off‘.

Size. 84. The warrant for removal can only be executed only
in the day time.

Size. 85. The justice with whom the docket of a predecessor

is deposited, may issue execution on, or give a transcript of any
judgment therein entered, in the same manner, and with the
like effect as the justice who rendered judgment might have
done.

Sac. 86. ' In case of sickness or disability, or necessary absence of a justice, at the time fixed for the trial of a cause or
other proceeding, any other justice of the county may at his request attend and transact the business for him, without the transfer of the business to another office. The entries shall be made
in the office of the Justice at whose office the business is transacted, and the same effect shall be given to the proceedings as
though no such interchange of official service had taken place.

SEC. 87. Every justice issuing any processrauthorized by this
act, upon being satisfied that such process will not be executed
for want of an officer to be had in time to execute the same,
may empower any suitable person, not being a party to the suit,
to execute the same by an endorsement upon such process, to the
following effect: “At the request and risk of the plaintifff, I authorize———-——-——‘—-—to execute and return this writ.

* E. F ., Justice of the Peace.
And the person so empowered shall thereupon possess all the
authority of a constable in relation to the execution of such process, and shall be subject to the same obligations, and shall receive
the same fees for his services.

Size. 88. N 0 process can issue from a justice’s court, into another county, except when specially authorized by law.

She. 89. The constable is the proper executive officer of a
Justice’s Court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties
required of him. The powers and duties of the sheriff in relation to the business of the District Court, so far as the same are
applicable and not modified by statute, devolve upon the constable, in relation to the J ustice’s Court.

. CHAPTER IV.

CONTEMPTS.

Sac. 1. Every court of record shall have power to punish by
fine and imprisonment, or by either, as for criminal contempt,
persons guilty of any of the following acts :

1st. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards

the court, or any of its affairs, in its presence.

2nd. Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance

tending to interrupt its proceedings.

3rd. Wilful disobedience of, or resistance willfully offered to

any lawful process or order of said courts.

4th. Any willful attempt to abstract the proceedings, or hinder the due administration of justice in any suit, proceedings, or process pending before the courts.

5th. The contumacious and unlawful refusal of any person

to be sworn or affirmed as a witness; and when sworn or
affirmed, the refusal to answer any legal and proper
interrogatory.

Size. 2. Contempts committed in the presence of the court
may be punished similarly; in other cases the party upon being
brought before the court, shall be notified of the accusation
against him and have a reasonable time to make his defense.

Sac. 3. Persons punished for contempt under the preceding
provisions, shall nevertheless be liable to indictment, if such
contempt shall amount to an indictable offense; but the court before which the conviction shall be had may, in determining the
punishment, take into consideration the punishment before
inflicted in mitigation of the sentence.

Size. 4. A justice may punish, as for contempt, persons guilty
of the following acts, and no others:

lst. Disorderly, contemptuous, and insolent behavior towards

the justice, tending to interrupt the due course of trial or
other judicial proceedings before him.

2nd. A breach of the peace, boistrous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceeding.

3rd. Wilful resistance, in the presence of the justice, to the

execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by
him.

SEC. 5. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such justice,
on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought before
the justice, where an opportunity to be heard in his defense or
excuse must be given. The justice may thereupon discharge
him, or may convict him for the offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed"

twenty dollars, and such imprisonment ten days.

SEC. 6. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense
and the judgment thereon, must be entered in his docket. A
warrant of commitment to the jail of the county until the fine
be paid, or for the term of imprisonment, may then be issued;
such warrant must ccntaina transcript of the entry in the docket,
and the same must be executed by any constable to whom it
may be given, and by the jailor of the county.

SE0. 7. If a sheriff‘, or other officer, corruptly, or through
favor, or ill will, summon a juror with the intent that each juror
shall find a verdict for or against either party, or shall summon
a grand juror from like motives, with intent that such grand jury
shall or shall not find an indictment or presentment against any
particular individual, he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and forfeit his office, and be forever disqualified
from holding any office in this Territory.

Snc. 8. Either house of the Legislature shall have power to
punish any one by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, and
by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or either, or both,
for a contempt or breach of privilege.

Size. 9. Contempts and breach [of] privilege shall be inquired
into, first by a special committee appointed for that pur, before which the accused shall have the right to be
eard by himself and counsel, and have compulsory process to
procure the attendance of his witnesses; which committee shall
report all matters of fact specially, with their opinion thereon,

for the final action of the House.

CHAPTER V.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORB.

SE0. 1. Any white male citizen of the United States who is
actually an inhabitant of this Territory, and_ who shall, b examination in open court, satisfy the court that he is of goo , moral
character, may by such court be permitted to practice inall the
Riiistrict Courts of the Territory upon taking the usual oath of
0 cc.

Sec. 2. The Supreme Court may on motion admit any practicing Attorney of the District Court, to practice in the Supreme
Court upon his taking the usual oath of office.

SE0. 3. Any practicing attorney in the Courts of record of
another State or Territory, having professional business in either
the Supreme or District Courts, may on motion be admitied to
pragtice in either of the Courts upon taking the oath as aforesai .

Sac. 4. The form of the oath aforesaid shall be in substance
as follows——-‘‘ You do solemnly swear that you will support the
Constitution of the United States and the laws of this Territory,
and that you will faithfully discharge the duty of an attorney
and counselor of this court, according to the best of your ability.
So help you God.”

Sac. 5, It is the duty of an attorney and counselor,

lst. To maintatn the respect due to the courts of justice and
to judicial officers ;

Sci. To counsel or maintain no other actions, proceedings,
defenses, than those which appear io him legal and just,
except the. defense of a person charged with a public
offense.

3d. To employ for the purpose of maintaining the cause contide: to him, such means only as are consistent with
trut .

4th. To maintain inviolatate the confidence, and at any peril
to himself, to preserve the secrets of his clients.

5th. To abstain from all offensive practices and to advise no
fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or
witness, unless required by the justice ef the cause with
which he is charged.

6th. Not to encourage either the commencement or continuance of _an action or proceeding from any motive of pas$10!). or interest.

Sac. 6. An attorney and counselor who is guilty of deceit or

collusion, and consents thereto with interest [intent] to deceive a
court, or judge, or a party to an action or proceeding, is liable to .
be disbarred, and shall forfeit to the injured party treble damages,
to be recovered in a civil action.

Sac. 7. An attorney or counselor has power :

lst. To execute in the name of his client a bond for an ap- T

peal, certiorari, writ of error, or any other paper necessary and proper for the prosecution of a suit already
commenced.

2d. To bind his client by his agreement in respect to any

proceeding within the scope of his proper duties and
powers, but no evidence of any such agreement is receiveable, except the statement of the attorney himself, his
written agreement signed and filed with the clerk, or an
entry thereof upon the records of the court.

3rd. To receive money, claimed by his client in an action or

proceeding, during the pendency thereof or afterwards,
unless he has been previously discharged by his client,
and upon payment thereof and not otherwise to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the
judgment.

Size. 8. An attorney has a lien for a general balance of compensation upon any papers of his client which have come into
his possession in the course of his professional employment; upon
money in his hands belonging to his client and in the hands of
the adverse party in an action or proceeding in which the attorney was employed from the time of giving notice of the lien to
that party.

Snc. 9. Any person producing a license or other satisfactory
voucher, proving that he hath been regularly admitted an attorney at law, in any court of record within the United States, that
he is of good moral character, may be licensed and permitted to
practice as a counselor and attorney at law in any court in this
Territory without examination. Ssc. 10. Plaintiffs shall have the liberty of prosecuting and
defendants shall have the liberty of defending in their proper
persons; and nothing herein contained shall be so construed as
to affect any person or persons heretofore admitted to the degree
of an attorney or counselor at law, by the laws of this Territory,
so as to subject them to further examination, or make it necessary for them to renew their license.

Sac. 11. N 0 person shall be permitted to practice as an attorney
of the courts of this Territory who holds a commission as Supreme or District Judge, or Judge of Probate, Sheriff, Clerk,
Constable, or J ailor in the county where they hold their respective officers, or clerk of Supreme or District Courts in the Territo .

S1223. 12. When a party is not within the county where the
attorney resides, the attorney may verify any pleadings necessary to the issue therein pending; but in such case the affidavit
of verification must set forth the grounds of his knowledge or
belief, and the cause of the absence the party.

S30. 13. When an attorney residing and practicing in any
State or Territory, receives money upon demands left with him
for collection in such State or Territory, which he omits to pay
over, he is liable to arrest here in an action brought to recover
money.

Sac. 14 Upon filing original papers in any case, it shall be
his duty to indorse thereon his name. ”

SEC. 15. It shall be the duty of every attorney to act as the
guardian of an infant defendant in any suit pending against
him, when appointed for that purpose by an order of the court;
shall prepare himself to make the proper defense, to guard the
rights of such defendants, and shall be entitled to such compensation as the court shall deem reasonable.

CHAPTER VI.

JURORS.

SEC. 1. All qualified electors of the Territory, of good moral
character, sound judgment, and in full possession of the senses
of hearing and seeing, are competent jurors, in their respective
counties. ’

SI-so. 2. The following persons are exempt from liability to
act as jurors; to wit: All persons holding office under the laws
of the United States, or of this Territory; all practicing attorneys, physicians and clergymen; all acting professors or teachers of any college, school, or other institution of learning, and
all persons disabled by bodily infirmity, or over sixty years of
age, or specially exempted by any other statutes from serving
on juries.

Sac. 3. Any person may also be excused from service on a
jury when for any reason, the court shall be satisfied that the
interests of such person, or those of the public, will be materially
injured by his attendance, or when the state of his own health,
or the death or sickness of a member of his family, requires his
absence.

SEC. 4. If a person legally summoned as a juror fail to appear, the court may issue a rule, requiring him to appear and
show cause why he should not be fined for a contempt, and unless
he render a reasonable excuse for his failure to attend, the
court may fine him in any amount not exceeding ten dollars and
costs.

Sac. 5. The jury in attendance at a regular term, need not
be summoned to attend an adjourned term, but must attend at
such term, unless otherwise directed at the adjournment of said
court, but they must be summoned to attend any special term,
when so directed by the court at its adjournment.

Sac. 6. On the first Monday in March, annually, the county
commissioners shall fix upon the requisite number of jurors for
the ensuing year, to be selected from each precinct, in proportion to the number of votes therein, and shall within ten days
thereafter, notify one of the justices of the peace in each precinct, of the number required from that precinct.

SEC. 7. The justice shall select the required number of competent jurors, and furnish a list of the names of such jurors to
the clerk of the county, on or before the first day of April annually. .

SE0. 8. The clerk shall place the names of the jurors in a
box, and the first fifteen names drawn therefrom, shall be summoned to serve as grand jurors, the balance shall serve as petit
jurors.

SE0. 9. The clerk shall issue a venire, directed to the sheriff
of the county, who shall summon such jurors, five days previous
to the first day of the next term of the court.

CHAPTER VII.

RECEIVERS.

Sr-zc. 1. On petition of either party to a civil action or proceeding, wherein he shows that he has a probable right to any :
of the property which is the subject of the controvery, and which
is in the possession of an adverse party, and that such property,
or its rents and profits are in danger of being lost or materially
injured, or impaired, the court or the judge thereof in vacation,
if satisfied that the interests of one or both the parties will be
thereby. promoted and the substantial rights of neither unduly
infringed upon, may appoint a receiver to take charge of and
control such property under its discretion.

Sac. 2. N 0 party or attorney, or person interested in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein. ‘
SEC. 3. Before entering upon the discharge of hisduties, he
must be sworn faithfully to discharge his trust to the best of his ‘
ability, and must also file with the clerk a bond with sureties to
be by him approved, in a penalty to be fixed by the’ court, and
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, and that he

will obey the orders of the court in respect thereto.

Sec. 4. Subject to the control of the court, a receiver has
power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession
of property, to collect debts, to receive the rents and profits of
real property, and generally to do such acts in respect to the property committed to him as the court may authorize.

Sec. 5. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court
shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
things, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience, as for a contempt, may make an order, requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver
it in conformity with the direction of the court.

CHAPTER VIII.

INJUNCTION8 AND ORDERS.

Size. 1. An injunction may be granted as an independent
means of relief, or as auxiliary to other proceedings in accordance with the rules heretofore observed, except as herein
modified.

Size. 2. When it is a more auxiliary measure resorted to,
during the trial of the principal cause, the terms on which it is
allowed, as well as the kind of notice to be given to the opposite
party, shall be as such as the court prescribe.

Size. 3. When applied for as an independent means of relief,
the petition must be sworn to and presented to the District Court,
if in session in the county, for an allowance of the injunction;
if not in session, application for that purpose may be made to
any Judge of the Supreme or District Court, or to the Judge of
the Probate Court of the proper county. “

SEC. 4. If the order for allowance is made by the court in
session, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the record, and
issue the writ accordingly. If made in vacation the judge must
endorse the said order upon the petition.

Sac. 5. In both the cases contemplated in the last section,
the order of allowance must direct the writ to issue only after
the filing of abond in the office of the clerk of the District Court
in a penalty to be therein fixed, with sureties to be approved by
said clerk, (unless the court or judge granting the said order has
previously approved said sureties,) and conditioned for the payment of all the damages which may be adjudged against the
petitioner by reason of said in’unction.

Snc. 6. When the proceedings in a civil action are sought to
be enjoined, the suit must be brought in the county wherein such
proceedings are pending, the board must also in that case be
farther conditioned to pay any judgment that may be ultimately
recovered against the party who seeks the injunction, for the
cause of action on which the suit sought to be enforced is
founded.

Sec. 7. The penalty of the bond must be fixed by the court
or judge who makes the order and must be doubly sufficient to
cover any probable amount of liability to be thereby incurred.

Szc. 8. Upon the filing of the bond as required, the clerk
must issue the writ of injunction as directed by the order of allowance.

SE0. 9. The court or judge before granting the writ may, if
deemed advisable, allow the defendant an opportunity to show
cause why such order should not be granted.

Snc. 10. If the writ is» granted without allowing the defendant to show cause, he may at any time before the next term of
the court, apply to the judge who made the order, to vacate or
modify the same.

Size. 11. Such application must be with notice to the plaintifff, and it may rest upon the ground that the order was improerly granted, or it may be founded upon affidavits on the part
lief thei] defendant, In the latter case the plaintifff may fortify
is app ication by counter affidavits, and have reasonable time
therefore.

Snc. 12. The judge may thereupon decide the matter at
once, unless some good cause for delay be shown. But the vacation of the order shall not prevent the cause from proceeding,
if any thing be left to proceed upon.

Size. 13. Any judge of the Supreme or District Court, being
furnished with an authenticated copy of the writ of in'unction,
and also with satisfactory proof that such injunction as been
violated, shall issue his precept to the sheriff of the county,
where the violation of the injunction occurred, or to any other
sheriff (naming him) more convenient to all parties concerned,
directing him to attach said defendant, and bring him forthwith
before the same or some other judge, at a place to be stated in
said precept.

Sac. 14. If when thus produced, he files his affidavit denying
or sufiiciently excusing the contempt charged, he shall be releasad, and the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of the court for
preservation.

Sac. 15. But if he fail to do so, the judge may require him
to give bond, with surety for his appearance at the next term of
the court, and also for his future obedience to the injunction,
which bond shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 16. If he fail to give such security he may be committed
to the jail of the county, where the proceedings are pending
until the next term of the court.

Size. 17. If the security be given, the court at the next term
shgél act upon the case, and punish the contempt in the usual
m e.

S20. 18. The defendant may move to dissolve the injunction,
either before or after the filing of the answer. *

SEC. 19. Issue may be joined on the defendant’s answer, and
a trial had as in other cases.

Snc. 20. When practicable, the whole matter connected with
the injunction, shall be disposed of on such trial, and complete

justice administered to all parties.

Size. 21. If the injunction be dissolved in whole or in part,
damages may be awarded against the obligors of the bond, which
shall be assessed by a jury when required by either party.

Sac. 22. For good cause shown, a judge’s order may issue
in vacation, directing any of the officers of the court in relation
to the discharge of their duties.

Size. 23. Such order shall be in force during the vacation in
which it is granted, and for the first two days of the ensuing
term.

Size. 24. The judge granting it may require the filing of a

bond as in case of an injunction, unless from the nature of the 1

case such requirements would be clearly unnecessary and improper.

CHAPTER IX.

BEFEBEES.

Size. 1. All or any of the issues in the action, whatever of
fact, or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court, entered _in
the journal.

Snc. 2. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference
in either of the following cases :

lst. Where the trial of anissue of fact shall require the examination of mutual accounts, or, where the accounts is on
one side only, and it shall be made to appear to the court
that it is necessary that the party on the other side should
be examined as a witness to prove the account, in which
cases, the referees may be directed to hear and report
upon the Whole issue, or upon any specific questions of
fact involved therein; or——

2d. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for

the information of the court before judgment, in cases
which may be determined by the Court, and for carrying a judgment into effect; or—— '

3d. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,

shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of an
action.

S20. 3. The trial before referees shall be conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court.

S1-zc. 4. They have the same power to summon and enforce
the attendance of witnesses to administer all necessary oath in
the trial of the case, and to grant adjournments as the court upon
such trial. They must state the facts found and the conclusions
of law, separately; and their decisions must be given, and may
be excepted to and received in like manner. The report of the
referees upon the Whole issue, when confirmed by the court,
stands as the decisions of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried
by the court. When the reference is to report the facts, the
report has the effect of a special verdict.

Size. 5. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when
an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person, or
persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered
accordingly; and if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be
free from exception.

SEC. 6. A reference as provided in this chapter cannot be
ordered by a Probate Court unless by consent of the parties to
the reference and to the referees.

SEC. 7. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true
exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made in the
case, and return the same with their report to the court, making
the reference.

SE0. 8. A judge in vacation, upon the written assent of the
parties, may make any order of reference which the court of
which he is a member could make in term time. In such case
the order of reference shall be made on the written agreement
of the parties to refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the
court, with the other-papers in the case.

SEC. 9. The referees must be sworn well and faithfully to
have and examine the cause, and to make a just and true report
therein, according to the best of their understanding.

Size. 10. The referees shall be allowed such, compensation
for their services as the Court may deem just and proper, which
shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case.

CHAPTER X.

THE PLACE or BRINGING sum

Size. 1. Except where otherwise provided, personal actions
must be brought in a county wherein some of the defendants
actually reside. But if none of them have any residence within
this Territory, they may be sued in any county wherein either
of them may be found.

~ S130. 2. If a suit be brought in a wrong county, it may be
there prosecuted to a termination, unless the defendantdemand

a change of venue to the proper county. In cases of such change ‘

of venue, the court shall order the same at the cost of the plaintifff and may award the defendant a reasonable compensation for

his trouble and expenses in attending at the wrong county.
Sec. 3. In cases of attachment of property, when the defendant is not served, or in cases when the suit is brought to obtain ‘
possession of personal property, or to enforce a lien or mort- I
. gage, or when it relates to real property, it must be brought in

any county where the real property or any portion of it lies or
where any part of the personal property may be found.

SEC. 4. When by its terms a contract is to be performed in
any particular place, suit for a breach thereof may be brought in
the county wherein such place is situated. _

SEC. 5. When a corporation company, or an individual. has

an office or agency in any county for the transaction of business, ,

any suits growing out of, or connected with the business of that
office, or agency, may be brought in the county where such office or agency is located as though the principal resided therein,
and service on any agent or clerk employed in such office or
agency shall be sufficient service upon the principal.

CHAPTER XI.

3 THE IANNEB OF GOIIHENOING ACTIONS.

Sec. 1. Actions originating in the District Court are to be
commenced by serving the defendant with the summons hereinafter described.

Snc. 2. Such summons shall be issued and signed by the
clerk, under the seal of the court.

Sec. 3. Such summons must inform the defendant of the
name of the plaintifff, that on or before a certain day therein
named, a petition will be filed in the office of the clerk of the
District Court of county, claiming of him (here state
briefly the substance of the remedy sought), and that unless he
appears and pleads thereto _by (stating the time when, by.law,
or by the rules of court, he is required to plead,) default will be
entered against him and judgment rendered thereon.

SEC 4. If the petition is not filed b the time thus fixed, or,
if not filed ten days before the first day of the next term, the
action will be deemed discontinued, unless good cause be shown
for the failure.

SEC. 5. The summons must be placed in the hands of the
sheriff for service, [who] must note the time when thus. left
with him.

SEC. 6. If served out of the county in which the suit is
pending, return may be made by mail, and the postage thereon
taxed among the costs.

Sec. 7. If not served ten days before the then next term,
the cause shall stand continued, unless a trial he had by consent of parties.

Sac. 8. The service is to be made by reading the same to
the defendant and giving him a copy, if demanded. If not
found, he may be served by a copy, left at his usual place of
residence, with some member of the family, more than fourteen years of age.

Sec. 9. Unless previously served with a copy of the petition, the defendant may, at any time, require a copy thereof
to be sent to him through the post office, directed to any place
he may designate. . _

Sec. 10. The return must state the time and manner of
making the service. If made by leaving a copy as aforesaid, it
must state at whose house and the name of the person withwhom the same was left, or a sufficient reason must be given
for omitting to do so. If served personally, it must state
whether a copy of the petition was required, and if so, to what
point it was to be directed. . .

Sac. 11. The plaintifff may notify either of the defendants
that no personal claim is made against him, in which case a
copy of that notice must accompany the return. If, after such
notice and return, such defendant unreasonably defend the
action, he must pay costs to the plaintifff.

S30. 12. Upon a return of “not found” as to all or any of

the defendants, service on such defendants may be made by ‘
giving notice of the commencement of the action for four weeks
successively in some newspaper, printed as convenient as practicable to the court wherein the suit is pending, to be determined
by the clerk of the court.

Sac. 13. If a county is defendant, service may be made ,
upon the clerk of the county court. If any other civil corporation, upon a trustee or other officer thereof.

SEC. 14. When an action is brought against a corporation
of any other description, service ma be made upon either of
its officers, or upon any clerk engage in the active management of the ordinary business of the corporation.

SEC. 15. If brought against a partnership or corporation
having no officers, service may be made upon any member

thereof or upon any agent employed in the general management of their business.

Snc. 16. If against a minor or insane person, service must
be made upon the defendant personally, and, in case of insane
defendant, or those under the age of fourteen years,‘ service
must be made upon the father, mother, or guardian, and if
there be none such within the Territory, then upon the person
having the legal care and control of such persons, if there he
an .
gee. 17. Upon being served in either of the methods hereinbefore prescribed, the defendant shall be considered in court.

Sec. 18. Where a part of the defendants who should be
individually served with process, cannot be found, the plaintifff,
instead of procuring service upon them by publication, may
proceed as though all the defendants were in court; but the
judgment in such cases shall not be valid as to those not served
until by scire facias the have had a full opportunity of showing cause against the ju gment.

Sac. 19. The service of papers is sudiciently proved,

1st. By the written admission of the defendant.

2nd. By the return of the sheriff of the cotmty where made.

3rd. By the affidavit of any other person who made the

same.
4th. By the proof of publication in the manner above required.
CHAPTER XII.

PARTIES T0 ACTIONS.

Sm. .1. The party seeking to obtain or enforce a contract,

by any proceeding, is, so far as that roceeding is concerned,
the plaintifff, the other party the defen ant.

Sac. 2. Civil actions must be prosecuted in the name of
the real parties in interest, except in the cases of trustees, or
other persons legally authorized to sue for another.

Size. 3. When not otherwise provided, all persons interested in obtaining the relief sought, may be joined as plaintifffs;
those having adverse interests as defendants.

Sac. 4. Persons having an united interest, must be joined
on the same side, either as plaintifffs or defendants. But when
some who should be made plaintifffs, refuse to join, they may be
made defendants, the reason thereof being set forth in the petition.

SEC. 5. When the question is one of a common or general
interest to many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court,
one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.

SEC. 6. Persons severally liable, on the same instrument,
including the makers and endorsers of negotiable paper, and
sureties, mayvall or any part of them, be joined in the same
action.

Sac. 7. Persons jointly and severally liable on the same instrument, may be all or any part of them, sued at once.

Size. 8. If a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had, without joining other parties, they may be brought
in by amendment of the petition, or by a supplemental petition
and summons.

Size. 9. In actions for the recovery of property, any person
not a party thereto, on showing himself interested in the subject matter of the suit, may be allowed to a.ppear and defend
therein.

Sec. 10. At anytime before answering, the defendant may
obtain the substitution of any person in his place, who is not
already a party to the suit, who claims the money -or property
which is the subject matter of the suit.

SEC. 11. For this purpose he must file his affidavit, stating
the facts, upon which he founds his application, and denying all
collusion with the person whom he seeks to substitute as defendant, and must offer to pay the money into court, or deliver the
property to any one the court shall direct. If,’ in answer to a
rule against the plaintifff, and the person there sought to be substituted as defendant, sufficient cause be shown, the court shall
make the order of substitution, and discharging the original defendant from all liability to either party. ‘

Size. 12. If husband and wife are sued together, the wife
may defend her own right, and if the husband neglect to defend,
she may defend for his right also.

Size. 13. Minors may sue by their guardian, who shall be

responsible for the cost of suit. They may also defend by
guardian. ‘

Sac. 14. Those who have no guardian, may sue by their
next friend, who shall be responsible for costs. The court may
appoint a guardian, ad litem, to defend for a minor who has no
other guardian.

SEC. 15. Partners may sue or be sued in their proper, or
partnership name. Their individual property shall be liable to

any judgment against them, unless sufiicient cause be shown to
the contrary. A

SEC. 16. Where an action is founded on a written instrument, suit may be brought by, or against any of the parties
thereto, by the same name and description as those of which they
are designated in such instrument.

S20. 17. When a bond or other instrument given to the Territory or county, or to any officer or persons, is intended for the
security of the public generally, or of aparticular individual, suit
may be brought thereon, in the name of any person intended to
be thus secured, who has sustained any injury, in consequence of
a breach thereof.

Sac. 18 When the precise name of any defendant cannot be
ascertained, he may be described as accurately as practicable,
and when the name is ascertained, it shall be substituted in the
further proceedings in the case.

Sec. 19. Corporation, foreign or domestic, may bring suits
in this Territory, in their corporate name.

SEC. 20. An unmarried woman may prosecute an action for
her own seduction, and recover such damages, as may be awarded
in her favor.

Sec. 21. The father, mother, or guardian, as the case may
be, may also bring suit for the seduction of a minor daughter or
ward, though such daughter, or ward, be not living with nor in
the service of the plaintifff, and though there be no loss of service, but Where the action is brought by the guardian, the damages recovered shall inure to the sole benefit of the Ward.

Sec. 22. Actions do not abate by the death, marriage, or
other disability of either party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if from the nature of the case the cause of action can
survive or continue. .

SEC. 23. In such cases the court upon motion may allow. the
action to be continued by or against his representative, or successor in interest.

See. 24. An action may be brought by one person against
another for the purpose of settling an adverse claim which the
latter makes against the former, to be regulated by such rules
as the court shall prescribe.

CHAPTER XIII.
THE r1.1«:.-u)1.\'Gs.

SEC. 1. All technical forms of actions and of pleadings are
hereby abolished. ,

Sec. 2. Any pleading which possesses the following requisites shall be deemed sulficientz '

1st. When to the common understanding it conveys a reasonable certainty of meaning;

2nd. When by a fair and natural construction it shows a
substantial cause of action or defense.

Snc. 3. If defective in the first of the above particulars, the
court on motion shall direct a mere specific statement; if in the
latter it is ground of demurrer.

SEC. 4. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff is the
petition, which must contain a statement of the facts constituting
the cause of action as well as a claim of the remedy sought. If
money be the object of the action, the amount demanded must
be stated.

SEC. 5. The defendant shall demur or answer or do both on
or before the morning of the second day of the term at which he
is required to appear unless the court by general rule or special
order otherwise direct.

Sac. 6. The demurrer may be to one portion of the petition
and the answer to another, or each may apply to the whole.

Sac. 7. In the latter case the answer shall not be held to
overrule the demurrer, but the issue growing out of such pleadings shall be disposed of in their order.

Size. 8. The defendant may also set up by way of set-ofi‘,
any claim which would have been the subject of an action against
the plaintifff and which was held by the defendant at the time
the suit was commenced. If the defendant omit to set off‘ his
claim, he cannot recover costs when he sues upon it.

See. 9. When the answer contains new matter by way of
avoidance or set-off, the plaintifff may reply thereto by way of
demurrer or otherwise, and like proceedings shall if necessary
be continued by way of rejoinder or farther pleadings until a
final issue is joined.

Size. 10. Each pleading subsequent to the petition shall, in
relation to every affirmative allegation to which it should respond, containa specific admission or denial, or it must state some
sufficient reason for not doing so. Allegations not thus responded
to will be taken as true.

Sec. 11. Where the pleading thus shows a reason for not
admitting or denying a previous allegation it shall, for the purpose of forming an issue and putting the other party to the
proof, be regarded as a denial of the truth thereof.

Sac. 12. The plaintifff in his petition may at his option
require the answer of the defendant to be given under oath, and
in like manner the party filing any subsequent pleading setting
forth new matter may require the reply thereto to be given under
oath.

Size. 13. Any pleading thus required to be made under oath
shall be considered as evidence in the cause of equal weight with
that of a disinterested witness, provided it be sworn to by the
party himself who was called upon to answer, but not otherwise.

SEC. 14. The pleading thus calling for a reply under oath
must itself be sworn to. If sworn to by any other than himself,
he must show that he has reasonable means of information on
the subject and what those means are.

See. 15. Where the reply under oath is to create much delay

or inconvenience the court may require satisfactory evidence (by
oath of the party or otherwise) that such sworn reply is important.

Sec. 16. Such reply must be sworn to by the party himself,
or some one of the parties, where there are several, or by some
one showing himself to be possessed of equal information with the
party on the subject matter thereof, and that he has authority to
make such sworn reply. N o pleading verified as above required
can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, nor can
a party be compelled to state facts which if true would subject
him to a prosecution for felony.

Snc. 17. Either party may make a supplemental pleading
alledging any material facts which have come to his knowledge
since the filing of his former pleading.

Size. 18. When a pleading is founded upon a written instrument or account, a copy thereof must be annexed to such pleading or it will be sufficient ground for a demurrer thereto. A
set off is a pleading within the meaning of this section.

SEC. 19. Several causes of action may be united in the same
petition provided they affect all the parties thereto in the same
capacities and if suit on all might be brought in that county.
But the court, to prevent confusion therein, may direct all or any
portion of the issues joined therein to be tried separately.

Sec. 20. Each party may state in either of his pleadings as
many different grounds of action or defense, whether legal or
equitable, as he may think material.

. Size. 21. The court may on motion cause irrevelant, redundant, or scandalous matter to be expunged from any pleading.

Sec. 22. Demurrers for formal defects are abolished. Those
for substantial defects must set forth the true grounds of objection to the pleading demurrcd to.

Sec. 23. Upon the determination of any demurrer the failing
party may amend or plead over upon such terms as the court
deems just, or as it may by general rule prescribe.

Size. 24. No cause shall be continued in consequence of the

~ amendment of any pleading unless the court is satisfied that substantial justice requires such continuance.

Sec. 25. Immaterial variances, errors, or defects, may be
disregarded, or the court may direct an amendment without
costs.

Sac. 26. No variance, error, or defect, shall be deemed material unless the court is satisfied that the objecting party will
be prejudiced by disregarding it or by allowing it to be amended.
In such cases amendments shall be allowed in any stage of the
proceedings upon such terms as the court deems just.

Snc. 27. The court may allow material amendments at any
stage of the proceedings upon such terms and subject to such
rules as it may prescribe.

Sac. 28. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld

by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed
and used instead of the original.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

Size. 1. The clerk shall keep a calendar of the cause pending
in his court, arranging the criminal and civil causes respectively
in the order of their commencement, and shall furnish the court
and bar each with a copy at every term of the court.

Size. 2. Except where otherwise provided causes shall be
tried at the first term after they are commenced unless reasonable cause for a continuance be shown.

Size. 3. VVhere time is asked for making application for a
continuance, the cause shall not lose its place on the calendar, or
it may be continued at the option of the other party and at the
cost of the party applying therefore.

SEC. 4-. Continuances shall not be granted for any cause
growing out of the fault or negligence of the party applying
therefore. Subject to this rule they may be allowed for any cause
which satisfies the court that substantial justice will thereby be
more nearly attained. '

Sac. 5. Motions for a continuance on account of the absence
of witnesses must be founded on the affidavit of the party, his
agent or attorney, showing that due dilligence has been used to
obtain such testimony, also the name and residence of such witness, what particular facts he expects to prove by him, and that
he knows of no other witness by whom such facts can be fully
proved.

Sac. 6. If the opposite party will admit the facts as thus
stated, the court shall in its minutes make a note of such admission and the cause shall not be continued.

Snc. 7. A separate trial between the plaintifff and any or all
of several defendants may be allowed by the court whenever in
its opinion justice will be thereby promoted.

Sac. 8. The marriage of a party is no sufficient ground for a
continuance, nor shall a cause he continued on account of the
death of a party unless the court is also satisfied that farther
proceedings cannot then take place without causing substantial
injury to some of the parties.

Sac. 9. Issues of law shall first be tried, but by going to trial
on an issue of fact without objection a party shall be deemed to
have waived his demurrer.

SEC. 10. Upon the decision of a demurrer, if the unsuccessful party fail to amend or plead over, the same consequences
shall ensue as though :1 verdict had passed against the plaintiti" or
the defendant had made default, as the case may be.

Sac. 11. Issues of fact shall be tried by the court unless
one of the parties require a jury. Where a jury is thus required a fee of fifty cents for each juror by him required shall be
advanced by him and shall be taxed in his bill of costs.

Sat‘. 12. When a jury trial is demanded, the party shall
state the number of jurors he demands, which shall not be less

than three nor more than nine, and the clerk shall thereupon
draw from the box by lot the number demanded.

SEC. 13. The plaintifff first, and then the defendant, may
challenge any juror for cause after allowance of any such challenge. The vacancy shall be supplied by lot from the box and
so on until the required number is supplied. The parties may
then in turn peremptorily challenge, as near as may be, one
third of the number so demanded. Vacancies are to be supplied
as above provided, subject to challenge for cause until all shall
be drawn from the box when talesmen may be summoned, who
may also be challenged for cause, and when allowed others
shall be summoned until the number of jurors is complete.

Sac. 14. When both parties desire it a struck jury may be
ordered, whereupon eighteen jurors shall be drawn from the
box and the plaintifff first and then the defendant shall strike
out one juror in turn until each has struck out six and the
remaining six shall try the cause.

SEC. 15. At any time before the cause is finally submitted to
the court [or] jury either party may bepermitted by the court to
give farther testimony to correct an evident oversight or mistake,but [the] terms may be imposed upon the party obtaining

‘this privilege.

SEC. 16. Whenever in the opinion of the court it is proper
that the jury should have a view of the localities connected with
the pending controversy, it may order them to be conducted in a
body in the custody of proper officers to the place. And while
thus absent no person must speak to them on any subject connected with the trial, except in a public manner to point out the
localities which they have come to examine.

SEC. 17. At any time before the cause is submitted to the
jury, they may be permitted to separate under the proper instruc
tions of the court ‘ .

Size. 18. After the cause is submitted to the jury they must
be kept together, without drink except water, and without food
except when otherwise directed by the court.

SEC. 19. If after the impanneling of the jury and before verdict a juror becomes sick so as to be unable to perform his duty
he may be discharged.‘ In such cases, unless otherwise arranged by consent, the vacancy thus made must be filled and the trial
commenced anew, or the court may in its discretion order the
juryito be discharged and a new one impanneled.

Sec. 20. Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take

with them all papers except depositions, which have been received 1

as evidence in the cause.

SEC. 21. While the jury is absent the court may adjourn from
time to time in respect to other business, but is to be deemed
open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the
jury until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged.

SEC. 22. When by consent the jury have been permitted to
seal their verdict and separate before it is rendered such sealing
is equivalent to a rendition and recording thereof in open court.
The jury shall not be polled nor shall they be permitted to disagree thereto, unless such a course has been agreed upon between the parties.

Sec. 23. In every action for the recovery of money only or
for specific real or personal property the jury in their discretion
may render a general or special verdict.

Sac. 24. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict upon all or any of the issues, or may direct
them to return a general verdict upon particular questions- of
fact to be stated in writing.

S120. 25. Where an action is for the recovery of money only
the jury shall assess the amount of the recovery.

Size. 26. The verdict shall in all cases be returned in writing and filed with the clerk and entered upon the record,
after having been put in form by the court if necessary, and
the verdict of a majority of the jurors shall be deemed the verdict of the jury.

Sac. 27. The verdict shall be sufficient in form if it expresses
the intention of the jury.

Snc. 28. Thecharge of the court shall be confined strictly to
matters of law, and shall if desired by either party he in writing and placed in the hands of the jury.

Sac. 29. The court may in its discretion require any instruction asked by either party to be committed to writing.

Sac. 30. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its
decision if requested by either party shall be given in writing,
stating the facts found and the conclusions founded thereon
separately, all [of] which shall be entered upon the record.

SEC. 31. Any or all of the matters involved in any suit may
be submitted to three referees unless one of the parties object
thereto. A different number of referees may be fixed upon by
consent.

Sec. 32. When the parties cannot agree upon the referees,
the court may appoint them or it may allow each party to select
one and itself choose a third.

Size. 33. The referees when selected shall stand in place of
the court and shall possess the same power to preserve order.
They may be required to state the facts found and upon them
the court shall render judgment. The court may upon a sumcient shelving set aside their report, in whole or in part, and
refer the matter anew or any part thereof, either to the same
or other referees.

Sac. 34. By the consent of the court and parties, any person
may be selected to act as judge for the trial of any particular
cause or question, and while thus acting he shall possess all
the powers of the District Court.

SEC. 35. When a set-off is proved, a balance shall be struck
between it and the demand established by the plaintifff‘, for which
balance judgment shall be rendered in favor of the party entitled thereto. .

Sec. 36. In all other cases judgment shall be rendered in
accordance with the law and facts found in either of the modes
above provided.

Snc. 37. Damages are recoverable at the same rates to
which the plaintifff would have been heretofore entitled for the
same substantial cause of action.

SEC. 38. The plaintifff cannot take a non,-suit without the
consent of the defendant after the latter has claimed a set-off,
but he may in such cases, at any time before the jury retire to
consider of their verdict, dismiss his cause of action, leaving the
defendant to proceed on his set-off or counterclaim in the capacity of plaintifff.

SEC. 39. The defendant may in like manner withdraw his
counterclaim at any time before the jury withdraw.

SEC. 40.‘ When there is no counterclaim to be considered,
the plaintifff may, at any time before the jury return with their
verdict submit to a non-suit at his own costs.

SEC. 41. If in any of the cases contemplated in the last three
sections, the trial is by the court instead of being by a jury, the
taking a non-suit, the dismissal of the cause of action, or the
withdrawal of the counterclaim therein provided for, may
take place at any time before the court is prepared to make its
decision on the question of fact, but not afterward.

Size. 42. Either party may except to any decision or opinion
of the court. If for matters occurring during the trial, the exceptions must be taken and reduced to writing before the verdict
is rendered unless otherwise arranged by consent. And where
a bill of exception is subsequently filed such consent ,,shall be
presumed unless the contrary is shown by the record.

Sac. 43. Such exceptions must be in writing, but the court
may allow such time as may be deemed reasonable to settle and
reduce the same to form.

SEC. 44. If the truth of the case be fairly stated in such bill
of exceptions, the judge shall sign the same and it shall thereupon become a part of the record on the case.

Size. 45. Motions in arrest of judgment or a new trial must
be made within a reasonable time and at the term of the court
at which the trial took place.

SEC. 46. The party making such motion shall forthwith furnish
the counsel of tlne opposite party as well as the court with a copy
of the points upon which he relies, which points must be plainly
and particularly set forth. _

Sac. 47. In applications for a new trial the affidavits of
jurors or officers of the court may be taken and used in relation
to such application.

Srzc. 48. Costs shall be recovered by the successful against
the losing party. But where the plaintifff is successful as to part
of his demands and fail as to others, an equitable apportionment
of costs may be made by the court.

SEC. 49. The aggregate amount of costs of the prevailing
party against to [the] losing party shall be added to and become
a part of the judgment.

SEC. 50. Costs may be retaxed by the court and the judgment
corrected in that respect at any time before it is paid off and
satisfied.

Sec. 51. All final adjudications of civil actions are judgments.

Size. 52. Judgment may be rendered for or against one or
more of several plaintifffs or defendants before the case is ripe
for decision as to all, where such a course will not unjustly prejudice the interest of other parties.

SEC. 53. In cases where the title to land is finally settled or
determined, the clerk shall make a complete record of the whole
cause and enter it in the proper book. But in no other case
need a complete entry be made, except at the request of a party
who pays beforehand the expense of such record.

Sec. 54. In actions on penal bonds the petition must set forth
the breaches, and the judgment rendered thereon must be for the
actual damages only.

Snc. 55. When a judgment is set aside or satisfied by execution or otherwise, the clerk shall enter a memorandum thereof
in the column left for that purpose in the judgment docket.

SEC. 56. The relief granted to the plaintifff cannot exceed
that which he has demanded in his petition. I11 other respects.
the court may grant any relief consistent with the case made.

Sec. 57. The defendant may at any time submit to any
judgment which shall be agreed upon between the parties, which
agreement must be in writing and filed with the clerk unless
done in open court.

Sec. 58. N onsuits when allowable, and judgment by agreement, may take place in vacation. In such cases, the clerk may
at once make the entry accordingly, and execution thereon may
issue forthwith unless otherwise agreed upon between tht
parties.

SEC. 59. The provisions in this title relative to juries are
intended to be applied to the court when acting as a jury in thrtrial of a cause, so far as they are applicable and not incompatible with the provisions herein contained.

CHAPTER XV.

JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.

SEC. 1. A judgment by confession, without action, may be
entered by the clerk of the District Court, or bya justice of the
peace, if within his jurisdiction, in the manner hereafter proVided.

Sec. 2. Such confession can only be for money due or to
become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities
on behalf of the defendant, and must be for a specified sum.

SEC. 3. A statement in writing must be made and signed
by the defendant and verified by his oath to the following effect,
and filed with the clerk or justice of the peace:

1st. If for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which the indebtedness arose and

that the sum confessed therefore is justly due or to become due, as the case may be.
2d. If for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts
constituting such liability, and must show the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
Snc. 4. If in the District Court, the clerk shall thereupon
make an entry of judgment in his court record for the amount
thus confessed and costs, and shall issue execution thereon forthwith, unless otherwise stipulated by the defendant in his con- ,

fession.

SEC. 5. If in a justice court, the justice shall thereupon enter
a judgment with costs, and issue execution as above directed.
If a transcript be filed with the clerk of the District Court, a
copy of the statement must be filed with it.

SEC. 6. Upon an authority given before this statute takes
effect, and which was valid where given, judgment may be rendered up as herein mentioned, or as nearly so as the circumstances of the case will permit.

SUBMITTING CONTROVERS1}-IS WITHOUT ACTION.

Sec. 7. Parties to a question of difference which might be I

the subject of a civil action may present an agreed statement of
the facts thereof to any court having jurisdiction of the subject

matter.

Snc. 8. It must be shown by affidavit the controversy is
real, and that the proceeding is in good faith to determine the
right thereto. '

Size. 9. The court must thereupon hear and determine the
case, andathe judgment rendered thereon will be the same in all
respects as though suit had been regularly brought, and will be
followed by the same consequences.

JUDGMENT BY DEFAULT.

Sec. 10. If the defendant fail to file his answer or other
pleading, by the time prescribed, or if, having pleaded, he
withdraw his pleading without permission or authority to replead, judgment by default may, on motion of the plaintifff, be
entered against him.

Sac. 11. The District Court may provide, by rule, for entering defaults in vacation.

Sac. 12. When service has been made by publication only,

and no appearance had, default shall not be entered until proof ‘

has been made that a copy of the petition and notice was directed to the defendant through the post office at his usual place of
residence (stating the place), in sufficient time for his appearance, or that such residence is unknown to the plaintifff or his
attorney or business agent, and could not, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained.

Sec. 13. Default may be set aside on such terms as the
court may deem just, but not unless an affidavit of the merits
be filed and a reasonable excuse be shown for having made
such default, or unless application be made therefore at the term
on which the default was entered, or if entered in vacation,
then on the first day of the next succeeding term.

SEC. 14. When the action is for a money demand, and the
amount of the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation,
the clerk shall assess the amount.

Srzc. 15. When long accounts are to be examined, the
court may refer the matter to referees.

Snc. 16. In other cases, the court shall assess the damages,
unless a jury be demanded by the party not in fault.

Snc. 17. The defendant may appear at the time of the assessment and cross-examine the plaintifff’s witnesses, but for no
other purposes.

Snc. 18. The proper amount having been ascertained by
either of the above methods, judgment shall be rendered
therefore.

Sec. 19. When the proceedings are of an equitable character, the court, upon reading the pleadings and proofs and hearing the testimony offered, shall render such judgment as is consistent with the rules heretofore observed in chancery cases.
- Sec. 20. When judgment by default is rendered against a
defendant who has not been personally served, the court before
issuing process to enforce such judgment may require the .plaintifff‘ to give security to abide the future order of the court, as
contemplated in the next succeeding sections.

Sac. 21. If such defendant or any person legally representing him shall, at the next term of the court after being notified
of the judgment, and within one year after the renditjon thereof, petition the court to set aside such judgment, and give security and comply with such conditions as the court may direct,
the court may, in its discretion, open the judgment and permit
the defendant to defend against the petition.

Size. 22. Such proceedings shall not disturb the right of
bona fide purchasers of property under the judgment thus set
aside, but the court may make such order on behalf of the defendant and against the plaintifff, as the circumstances of the case
require.

 

CHAP TER XVI.

EXECUTION S.

Size. 1. Judgments or orders requiring the payment of money or the delivery of the possession of property are to be enforced by execution. Obedience to those requiring the performance of any other act is to be coerced by attachment for contempt.

Snc. 2. Executions may issue at any time within five years
from the entering of the judgment.

SEC. 3. After the lapse of five years, such execution can
issue only after suing out a scire facias and obtaining the requisite order of the court thereon.

Sec. 4. Executions from the District Court may issue in
the first instance into any county which the party ordering them
may direct.

Size. 5. When sent into any county other than that in which
the judgment was rendered, return may be made by mail. But a
money cannot thus be sent except by the direction of the party
entitled thereto or his attorneys.

Size. 6. The execution must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the time and place at which it was rendered, the 1
names of the parties thereto, its amount, and the amount still
to be collected thereon, if for money, and if not for money, it
must state what specific act is required to be performed.

Sec. 7. Where the judgment is against husband and wife
the execution may issue against the property of either or both
of them.

Size. 8. Stock or interests owned by the defendant in any
company, and also debts due him, and property of his in the
hands of third persons, may be levied upon in the manner provided for attaching the same, and the proceeding by garnishment shall be the same as nearly as practicable.

Size. 9. Bank bills and other things in action may be levied
upon and sold or appropriated as hereinafter provided, and assignments thereon by the officer, when necessary, shall have the

same effect as if made by the defendant, and may be treated as
so made.

SEC. 10. After the rendition of judgment, any person indebted to the defendant in execution, may pay to the sheriff‘ the
amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as is necessary
to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge therefore.

Sac. 11. Public buildings, owned by the Territory or any
county, city, school district, or other civil corporation, and any
other public property which is necessary and proper for carrying out the general purpose for which any such corporation is
organized, are exempt from execution. The property of a private
citizen can in no case be levied upon to pay the debt of a civil
corporation.

Size. 12. In case no property is found on which to levy,
which is not exempted by law, or if the judgment creditor elect
not to issue execution against such corporation, he is entitled to
the amount of his judgment and costs in the ordinary evidences
of indebtedness issued by that corporation. And if the debtor
corporation issues no scrip or evidences of debt, a tax must be
levied as early as practicable, sufficient to pay off‘ the judgment
with interest and costs.

Sac. 13. A failure on tbe part of the officers of the corporation to comply with the requirements of the last section. renders them personally responsible for the debt.

Size. 14. The following property of. private invdividualg is
also exempt from execution: All wearing apparel kept for actual use and suitable to the condition of the party and family,
and trunks and other recepticles to contain the same; one fnusket or rifle, the proper tools, instruments, books of any farmer,
mechanic, surveyor, physician, public officer, farmer, teamster,
or other laborer habitually earns his living; all libraries, family
bibles, portraits and paintings; a seat or pew occupied by the
debtor or his family in any house of public worship; and an interest in a public or private burying ground not exceeding one
acre for any one defendant.

Size. 15. If the debtor is the head of a family there is further exempt his homestead as provided by law, one cow and
calf, one horse (unless a horse has previously been exempted),
thirty sheep and the wool therefrom, five hogs and all pigs under six months old; the necessary food for all animals exempt
from execution for sixty days, all flax raised by the defendant
and the manufactures therefrom; one bedstead and the necessary bedding for every two in the family; all cloth manufactured
by the defendant, not exceeding one hundred yards in quantity;
household and kitchen furniture not exceeding one hundred dollars in value; all stores and appendages in common use in the
family; all spinning wheels and looms and other instruments of
domestic labor kept for actual use, and the necessary provisions and fuel for the use of the family for six months.

S20. 16. The word “family,” as used in the last section,
does not include strangers or boarders lodging with the family.

Size. 17. The earnings of such debtor for his personal services or those of his family, at any time within ninety days next
preceding the levy are also exempt from execution and attachment.

SEC. 18. None of the exemptions contained in this chapter
are intended for the benefit of non-residents, but their property
is liable to execution, with the exception of ordinary wearing
apparel and trunks to contain the same; but any person coming
to this Territory with the intention of remaining, is a resident
within the meaning of this chapter.

Sac. 19. The officer shall in all cases select such property
and in such quantities as will be likely to bring the exact
amount required to be raised, as nearly as practicable.

Size. 20. He must execute the writ by levying on the property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in action by
suit in his own name, if necessary, or by selling the same, selling the other property, and paying to the plaintifff the proceeds,
or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.

Sec. 21. The sheriff must give four weeks’ notice of the
time and place of selling real property, and two week’s notice
in case of personal property.

Size. 22. Such notice shall be given by being posted up in at
least three public places in the county, one of which shall be at

the place where the last District Court was held. In addition to
which, in case of the sale of real estate or where personal property to the amount of two hundred dollars or upwards is to be
sold there shall, if either party make of the sheriff a written
request therefore, or if the defendant be a non-resident, be two
publications of such notice in some newspaper printed in the
county, if there be one.

See. 23. An officer selling without the notice above prescribed shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the defendant in execution in addition to the actual damages sustained by either
party, but the validity of the sale is not thereby affected. .

Snc. 24. The sale must be at public auction between nine
o’clock in the forenoon a11d four in the afternoon.

Sec. 25. When there are no bidders, or when the amount
offered is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the sale
is prevented from taking place on the day fixed, the sheriff may
postpone the sale for not more than three days without being
required to give any farther notice thereof, but he shall not
make more than two such postponments. ..

Sac. 26. When property sells’ for more than the amount
required tobe collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant unless the officer have another execution in his hands on
which overplus might be rightfully applied.

Sec. 27. If the property levied on sell for less than sufficient
for that purpose, the plaintifff may order out another execution
which shall be credited with the amount of the previous sale.
The proceedings under this second sale shall conform to those
hereinbefore prescribed.

Sec. 28. When property is unsold for want of bidders the
levy still holds good, and if there is sufficient time the property
may again be advertised and sold under the same execution, or
the execution may be returned and a rendition exponas issued.

Sec. 29. When the purchaser fails to pay the money when
demanded the plaintifff or his attorney may elect to proceed
against him for the amount; otherwise the sheriff shall treat
the sale as a nullity and may sell the property again on the
same day or after a postpomnent as above authorized.

Sec. 30. Money levied upon may be appropriated without
being advertised or sold. The same may be done with bank
bills, drafts, promissory notes or other papers of alike character,
if the plaintifff will receive them at their par value as cash or if
the officer can exchange them for cash at that value.

Sec. 31. Where, by the endorsement of the clerk upon the_
writ, it appears that either of the persons against whom it issued
is only a surety for some of the others, the sheriff shall in selling first exhaust the property of the principal before he sells
any of‘ the property of the surety.

Sac. 32. When the sheriff have doubts as to the defendant’s
ownership of personal property he may refuse to levy, or if he
has levied ‘Ngrnay refuse to sell, and may surrender the property
0 the claimant unless the plaintifff will first give him a bond of

idemnity to enable him to proceed safely.

Sac. 33. Wnen the personal property is owned jointly by
the defendant and another, the sheriff may take it into custod
subject to be released by a delivery-bond or a bond conditioned
to pay the debt to the value of the defendant’s interest in the
property levied on.

See. 34. When a judgment has been obtained against the
executor of one deceased which his personal estate is insufficient
to satisfy, the plaintifff may file his petition in the office of the
clerk of the District Court wherein judgment was rendered,
against the executor, the heirs, and devisees of real estate (if
there are such) setting forth the facts and that there is real estate of the deceased within the Territory, describing its location
and extent and praying the court to award execution against the
same. '

SEC. 35. A notice shall thereupon be endorsad upon said
petition notifying the persons against whom the petition is filed
to appear on the first day of the next term and show cause if
any they have why execution should not be awarded.

SEC. 36. The petition and notice shall be served and returned
in the ordinary manner and ‘the same consequences as in civil
actions shall result from not serving them ten days before the
next term of the court.

Sec. 37. At the proper time the court shall award the execution unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary.

Size. 38. The non-age of the heirs or devisees shall not be
deemed such sufficient cause.

Size. 39. Mutual judgments, the executions on which are in
the hands of the same officer, may be set off the one against the
other, except that the costs shall not be so set off unless the balance of cash actually collected on the larger judgment is sufficient to pay the costs of both judgments, and such costs shall be
paid therefrom accordingly.

SEC. 40. When_ real property has been levied upon, if the
estate is less than a lease-hold having two years of unexpired
term the sale is absolute. When the estate is of a larger amount
the property is redeemable as hereinafter prescribed.

Size. 41. At the time of the sale the sheriff shall give to the
purchaser a certificate containing a description of the property
and the amount of money paid by such purchaser, and stating
that unless redemption is made within one year thereafter according to law, he or his heirs or assigns will be entitled to a
deed for the same.

Sec. 42. The defendant may redeem such property at any
time within one year from the day of sale as hereinafter provided and will in the meantime be entitled to the possession of
the property.

Size. 43. For the first six months after such sale his right
to redeem is exclusive, but if no redemption is made by him at
the end of that time any creditor of the defendant whose demand
isa lien upon such real estate, may redeem the same at any
time within nine months from the day ofsale. But a mecham'c’s

lien before judgment thereon is not of such a character as to entitle the holder to redeem.\

SEC. 44. Any creditor whose claim becomes a lien prior to
the expiration of the time allowed by law for redemption by
creditors may redeem. A mortgagee [may] only thus redeem
before or after the debt secured by the mortgage falls due.

Sec. 45. A creditor redeeming as above contemplated is
entitled to receive an assignment of the certificate issued by the
sheriff to the. original purchaser as hereinbefore directed.

Size. 46. When the property has been sold in parcels any
distinct portion may be redeemed by itself.

Sac. 47. When the interests of several tenants in common
have been sold on execution the undivided portion of any or
either of them may be redeemed separately.

Sec. 48. The rights of a defendant in relation to redemption are transferable and the assignee has the like power to
redeem.

Sec. 49. If the defendant or his assignee fail to redeem,
the sheriff must at the end of the year execute a deed to the
person who is entitled to the certificate as hereinbefore provided
or to his assignee. If the person so entitled be dead, the deed
shall be made to his heirs, but the property will be subject
to the payment of the debts of the deceased in the same manner
as if required during his life time.

Sec. 50. The purchaser of real estate at a sale on execution
need not place any evidence of his purchase upon record until
twenty days after the expiration of the full time of redemption.
Up to that time the publicity of the proceedings is constructive
notice of the rights of the purchaser but no longer.

Sac. 51. Deeds executed by a sheriff in pursuance of such
sales are presumptive evidence of the regularity of all previous
proceedings in the case, and may be given in evidence without
preliminary proof.

Sec. 52. When real estate has been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who has succeeded to his interest may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages
for any injury to the property committed after the sale, and before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

Sec. 53. The term “defendant” as herein used, is intended
to designate the party against whom, and the term “plaintifff”
the party in favor of whom any execution has issued.

Sac. 54. All executtons from the District or Supreme Court
shall be returnable within sixty days from their date, those from
J ustice’s Courts within thirty days from date.

Sec. 55. Executions from a J ustice’s Court shall issue
against the goods and chattels of the defendant; those which
issue from a Court of record shall issue against the goods, chattels, lands and tenements of the defendant, and in all executions
from any Court where the body of the defendant may be [by] law
be taken, the execution shall issue against the goods and chattels,
orgoods, chattels, lands and tenements, as the case may require,
and for want thereof against the body of the defendant.

CHAPTER XVII.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTAL TO EXECUTION.

S120. 1. VV hen an execution against the property of a judgN ment debtor has been issued from the District or Supreme Court

to the sheriff of the county where such debtor resides, or to the
sheriff of the county wherein the cause was originally tried in
case the said debtor resides out of the Territory, and is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part. the judgment creditor is entitled
to an order for the appearance and examination of said debtor.

Size. 2. The like order may be obtained at any time after
the issuing of an execution upon proof, by affidavit of the party
or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court or officer who is to
grant the same, that any judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

S20. 3. Such order may be made by the court in which the
judgment was rendered, or by any judge thereof in vacation.
And the debtor may be required to appear and answer betore
either of such courts or officers, or before a referee appointed
by the court or judge who issued the order.

S20. 4. The debtor on his appearance may be interrogated
in relation to any fact calculated to show the amount of his property or the disposition which has been made of it, or any other
matter pertaining to the purpose for which the examination is
permitted to be made. And the interrogatories and answers
shall be reduced to writing and preserved by the court or officer
before whom they are taken.

SEC. 5. If any property, rights or credits subject to execution are thus ascertained, an execution may be issued and
they may be levied upon accordingly, and shall be sued as other
property levied on by execution, and the purchaser shall have
power to collect in his own name any demand due the defendant in the execution from any corporation or person in the
same manner as such defendant might have done. The plaintifff
may in all cases be a purchaser under his execution.

Size. 6. Should the judgment debtor fail to appear after
being personally served with notice to that effect, or should he
fail to make full answers to all proper interrogatories thus propounded to him, he will be guilty of contempt and may be arrested and imprisoned until he complies with the requirement
of the law in this respect.Snc. 7. Upon proof to the satisfaction of the court or officer
authorized to grant the order aforesaid that there is danger that
the defendant will leave the Territory or that he will conceal
himself, the said court or officer instead of the officer aforesaid
may issue a warrant for the arrest of the debtor and for bringing him forthwith before the court or officer authorized to take
his examination as hereinbe fore provided. After being thus
brought before the said court or officer he may be examined in
the same manner and with the like effect as is above provided.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ARBITRATION S.

Sec. 1. All controversies, which might be the subject of
civil actions, may be submitted to the decision of one or more
arbitrators as hereinafter provided.

Sec. 2. The parties themselves, or those persons who
might lawfully have controlled a civil action in their behalf, for
the same subject matter, must sign a written agreement specifying particularly what demands are to be submitted, the names
of the arbitrators, and the court by which the judgment on their
award is to be rendered.

Size. 3. They shall then appear before some justice of the
peace of the county and acknowledge the instrument by them
signed, to be their free act and deed.

Sac. 4. The submission may be of some particular matters
or demands, or of all demands, which the one party has against
the other, of all natural demands on both sides.

Sec. 5. A submission to arbitrators of the subject matter of
a suit may also be made by an order of court upon an agreement
of parties, after suit is commenced.

SEC. 6. All the rules prescribed by law in cases of referees
are applicable to arbitrators, except as herein otherwise expressed, or except as otherwise agreed upon by the parties.

Size. 7. Neither party shall have the power to revoke the
submission without the consent of the other.

Size. 8. If either party neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice, they may nevertheless proceed to hear
and determine the cause upon the evidence which is produced
before them.

Sec. 9. If the time within which the award is to be made
is fixed in the submission, no award made after that time shall
have any legal effect, unless made upon a re-commitment of the
matter by the court to which it is reported.

Sac. 10. If the time of filing the award is not fixed in the
submission, it must be filed within one year from the time such
submission, is signed and acknowledged, unless by mutual consent the time is prolonged. .

Site" 11. The award must be in writing, and shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the
agreement, or it may be enclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the court and not opened until the court so orders.

Size. 12. The cause shall be entered on the docket of the
court at the term to which the award is returned, and shall be
called up and acted upon in its order. But the court may require actual notice to be given to either party when it appears
necessary and proper before proceeding to act on the award.

. Sec. 13. The award may be rejected by the court for any
legal and sufficient reasons, or it may be re-committed for a rehearing to the same arbitrators or any others agreed upon by
the parties.

Sec. 14. When the award has been confirmed, it shall be
filed and entered on the record, and shall have the same force
and effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may be entered
and execution issued accordingly.

J 1:0. 15. When an appeal is taken from such judgment,
copies of the submission and award, together with all affidavits,
shall be returned to the Supreme Court.

Size. 16. If there is no provisions in the submission respecting costs, arbitrators may award them at their discretion.

Sec. 17. The compensation of the arbitrators shall be two
dollars per day, for the time actually and necessarily spent, unless the court fix a less amount, and the fees of the justice of
the peace shall be twenty five cents for making out the agreement of submission (in case he does so), and the like amount
for taking and certifying the acknowledgement thereto.

Size. 18. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
affect, in any manner, the control of the District Court over the
parties, the arbitrators, or their award, nor to impair or affect
any action upon an award or upon any bond or other engagement to abide an award.

CHAPTER XIX.

ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF‘ REAL PROPERTY.

Size. 1. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in
in real property, and a right to the immediate possession there‘of may recover the same by action, which may be brought
against any person acting as owner, landlord or tenant of the
property claimed.

Sec. 2. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a
tenant, the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice thereof being given him.

Ssc. 3. When the defendant is a non-resident, having an
agent for the property in the Territory, service may be made
upon such agent in the same manner and with the like effect as
though made on the principal.

Size. 4. The plaintifff in his petition shall state that he is
entitled to the possession of the premises, particularly describing
them, the interest he claims therein, and that the defendant
unlawfully keeps him out of possession. Size. 5. The answer of the defendant must set forth under
what claim of right (if any) he holds possession, and if as mere
tenant the name and residence of his landlord must be given.

Site. 6. The court may grant continuances in cases of this
nature for reasons of less importance than those required to be
set forth in ordinary civil actions.

Sec. 7. Where the defendant makes defense, it is not
necessary to prove him in possession of the premises.

Size. 8. The plaintifff cannot recover for the use and occupation of the premises for more than six years prior to the com,mencement of the action.

820. 9. When the plaintifff shows himself entitled to the
immediate possession of the premises, judgment shall be enterep
and a writ of possession issued accordingly.

Sac. 10. When there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants, any one or more of the plaintifffs may recover against one
or more of the defendants, the premises or any part thereof,
or any interest therein, or damages, according to the right of
the parties; but the recovery shall not be for a greater interest
than that claimed.

Sac. 11. If the interest of the plaintifff expire before the
time in which he could be put in possession, he can obtain a
judgment for damages only.

Sec. 12. Where there is no proof against some of the defendants, the court may order discontinuances as to them before
the testimony in the cases is close.

Size. 13. Judgments in proceedings of this nature are as
conclusive as those in actions relating to personal property except as herein othervise provided. ‘

Size. 14. The preceding section is intended to apply only
to interests existing at the time of trial, and is not intended to
prevent a new action to test the validity of rights acquired subsequent to the former trial.

See. 15. The court in its discretion may grant a new trial
on the application of a party or those claiming under him, made
at any time within two years after the determination of the
former trial.

SEC. 16. The result of such new trial (if granted after the
close of the term at which the first trial took place) shall in no
case affect the interests of third persons, acquired in good faith
for a valuable consideration since the former trial.

See. 17. But the party who, on such a new trial, shows
himself entitled to lands which have thus passed to a bona fide
purchaser, may recover the proper amount of damages against
the other party. either in the same or subsequent action.

Sec. 18. The party who has been successful in such new
trial shall (if the case require it) have his writ of restitution to
restore to him his property.

SNC. 19. In an action against a tenant, the judgment shall
be conclusive against the landlord, who has recived notice as
hereinbefore provided.

Sac. 20. If not notified, he shall be regarded as a defendant who has not been served with the original summons, and
shall be treated accordingly.

Size. 21. The plaintifff must rcceive [recover] on the strength
of his own title.

Sac. 22. The court, on motion, and after notice to the opposite party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing

the party a plying therefore to enter upon the property in controversy an make survey and admeasurement thereof for the
purpose of the action.

Snc, 23. The order must describe the property, and a copy
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the
occupancy and control of the land.

Sac. 24. In case of wanton aggression on the part of a defendant, the jury may award exemplary damages.

Size. 25. An action in the nature of that authorized in this
chapter may also be brought by one having a reversionary interest, or by one either in our out of possession, against another
who claims title to real property, although the defendant may
not be in the possession thereof, for the purpose of determining
and quieting the question of title.

SEC. 26. The rules above prescribed shall, in such cases, be
observed as far as they are applicable.

S20. 27. In an action for the recovery of (lower before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real
property against his co-tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition to his evidence of right, that the defendant either denied
the plaintiffl".< right. or did do some act amounting to such
denial.

CHAPTER XX.

SCIRE FACIAS.

Sac. 1. Where a scire facias is allowed by law it shall be
commenced by petition and summons as in other civil actions.

Size. 2. The petition must be accompanied by an affidavit of
the plaintifff in the proceeding, his agent or attorney, stating
that the judgment has not been satisfied to his knowledge,
information, or belief, and must specify the amount due

thereon.
Sac. 3. The answer of the defendant must also be under

oath, and the i.-sue joined, if any, will be tried in the usual
manner.

MANDAMU&

Sec. 4. The writ of mandamus issues from the District Court
to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel
the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a
duty resulting from an office, trust, or station.

Size. 5. Where a discretion is left to an inferior tribunal, the
writ of mandamus can compel him [it] to act. It cannot control
the discretion of the inferior tribunal.

Sec. 6. The writ may alsobe issued by the Supreme Court
to any Distri«~t Court if necessary, and also in any other case,
when it is found necessary to enable it to exercise its legitimate

powers.

_ S120. 7. It ought not to be issued in any case where there is
a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of
the law.

S20. 8. It is issued on the information, under oath, of the
party beneficially interested, and is either alternative or peremptory.

Sec. 9. The alternative writ commands the defendant to do
the act required to be performed, or show cause before the court
forthwith or at a specified time and place why he has not done
so, and that he then and there return the writ.

Sac. 10. The peremptory writ omits the words which require
the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded.

SEC. 11. The mode of obtaining the writ, the service and
proof thereof, the return and enforcement of obedience thereto
must be in the same manner as in case of the writ of certiorari.

SEC. 12. On the return day of the alternative writ, or
on such farther day as the court may allow, the party on
whom the writ has been served may show cause by a sworn
answer made in the same manner as an answer to a petition in
a civil action, and issue may be made thereon and tried accordingly.

Sec. 13. If the defendant make default, or judgment after
answer be moved against him, a peremptory mandamus issues
forthwith. The subject of costs is regulated upon the same
principles as in ordinary civil actions.

CHAPTER XXI.

NOTICE AND THE SERVICE OF PAPERS.

SEC. 1. When not otherwise provided, process required by
law must be in writing and served as hereinafter provided.

Snc. 2. All papers requiring to be served by a party to an
action or other proceeding must be served as follows, when no
other mode is particularly pointed out.

SEC. 3. The service maybe upon the party or upon his agent
or attorney.

SE0. 4. The service may be personal or it may be left at the
usual place of residence of either of the persons aforesaid in the
same manner as is provided for the service of the original summons in civil actions; or it may be served upon the attorney by
being left at his office with any person having the charge thereof,
and if there is no person in the office then by. leaving it in a
conspicuous place therein during day light.

Sec. 5. When the party making the service and he on whom
it is to be made reside in different places between which there
is a regular communication by mail, service may be made by
directing the paper properly through the post office and paying
the postage thereon. The paper shall in that case be deemed

served at the time at which the next regular mail would reach
the place of residence of the party on whom it is to be served.

S20. 6. If a party reside out of the Territory and has an
agent or attorney within the Territory, service may be made on
the latter.

SEC. 7. The return of [or] proof of service must show particularly the manner in which it was made.

CHAPTER XXII.

Nuisance, WASTE, AND TRESPASS.

Sec. 1. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as essentially to interfgpewith the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and the subject of an
action.

See. 2. Such action may be brought by any person whose
property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is
lessened by the nuisance.

Sac. 3. Where a proper case is made, the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated and damages recovered therefore. ..

Sec. 4. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or
tenant in common, of real proper[ty‘j commit waste thereon,
he is liable to pay three times the amages which have resulted from such waste to the person who is entitled to sue
therefore.

Sec. 5. Judgment of forfeiture and conviction may be rendered against the defendant whenever the amount of damages
so recovered is more than two-thirds the value of the interest
such defendant has in the property wasted and when the action
is brought by the person entitled to the reversion.

Sac. 6. Any person whose duty is to prevent waste and who
has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it,is deemed
to have committed it.

Size. 7. For willful trespass injuring any timber, tree, or
shrub on the land of another, or in the street or highway in
front of another’s cultivated ground, yard, or town lot, or on the
public grounds of any town, or any land held by this Territory
for any purpose whatever, the perpetrator shall pay treble damages at the suit of any person entitled to protect or enjoy the
property aforesaid.

Sac. 8. Nothing herein contained authorizes the recovery of
more than the just value of timber taken from uncultivated wood
land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land
in its immediate neighborhood,

Size. 9. The owner of an estate in remainder or reversion
may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for injuries done to
the inheritance notwithstanding any intervening estate for life
or years.

Snc. 10. An heir, whether a, minor or of full age, may
maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestors as well as in his own time, unless barred by the statute
of limitations.

Size. 11. Whether lands or tenements are sold by virtue of
an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain his action
against any person for either of the causes above mentioned
occurring or existing after his purchase.

Sec. 12. This provision is not intended to prevent the person
who occupies the lands in the mean time from using them in the
ordinary course of husbandry, or from using timber for the purpose of making suitable repairs thereon.

SEC. 13. But if for this purpose he employ timber vastly
superior to that required for the occasion, he will be deemed to
have committed waste and will be liable accordingly.

Size. 14. Any person settled upon and occupying any portion
of the public lands held by the Territory is not liable as a trespasser for improving it, or cultivating it in the ordinary course
of husbandry, nor for taking or using timber or other material
necessary and proper to enable him to do so, provided the timber
and other materials be taken from the land properly constituting

a part of the “claim” or tract of land so settled and occupied by
him.

 

CHAPTER XXIII.

WRITS.

Size. 1. The several courts established in the Territory shall
have power to issue all writs and processes necessary for the
exercise and enforcement of their respective jurisdiction.

Sac. 2. All the process issued by the Clerk of the Supreme, District, or Probate Courts, shall bear date on the day
it is issued, and be signed by the clerk who issued the same,
and be under the seal of the court.

Snc. 2. The style of all process shall be “the Territory of
Nebraska,” and all prosecutions shall be conducted in the name
and by the authority thereof.

 

CHAPTER XXIV.

roams IN A JUs'r1cn’s counr.

The following forms shall be used by Justices as nearly as
may be : '

       

I Summons.

Territoyr of Nebraska, SS
County of E

To any Constable of t e County : You are hereby commanded to summon———————to appear before me, at my
office, on the day of 185-, at o’clock
in the noon, to answer to the petition of ---—--—--—,

- County of

wherein he claims of you the sum of dollars, and return

then and there this writ.
A. D. 185-,

, Justice of the Peace.

 

Subpana.

Territory of Nebraska, SS
County of -——-———-, §
To ,
You are hereby commanded to appear before me, at my office
on the day of 185—, at o’clock in the
noon, to testify on the part of the—————- in the case of
vs.

       
 

     

A. D. 185-, V
, Justice of the Peace.

i

   

Execution.

Territory of Nebraska, SS

   

To any Constable of the County,

Whereas obtained judgment against
as appears of record, _for dollars, together with
dollars and cents as costs: you are thereforee commanded to
make the same, together with all accruing costs, by levy and
sale of the goods of , and make return thereof
within thirty days from date.

-———--——-— A. D. 185-.

     
     

   

, Justice of the Peace.

   

Writ of attachment.

Territory of Nebraska, SS
Count of ---—-—~-------——
Y 9
To any Constable of the County,

Whereas , has filed with me the affidavit and
bond necessary to entitle him to a writ of attachment against
for the sum of dollars, claimed to be due
said from the said zyou are thereupon commanded to attach the goods, chattels, rights, credits,
monies and effects of said , in your county, to be
kept and disposed of according to law, and make legal returns
thereof; and you are also to notify the defendant thereof and
summon him to appear before me at my office on the ~
day of ,A. D. 185»—-, to answer the petition of the plaintifff, in which is claimed (here insert the cause of action, insub-r
stance.)

   

   
 

 
     

   

 

-———---—-----~- A. D. 185—.

mi}, Justice of the Peace.

 

- County of

A Writ for the wrongful taking or detention of personal
property.

Territory of Nebraska, SS

 

To any Constable of the County,

You are hereby commanded to take the following goods and
chattels, viz: , alleged to be in the possession of , and return the same forthwith to-——
' , and further that you summon the said
to appear before me at my office on the day of —————,
A. D. 185-—, at o’clock in the noon, to answer the
petition of said wherein he claims said property and
dollars in damages for the detention of the same.

A. D. 185-—.

-—-.2:

   

   

   

 
   
   

 

 

, Justice of the Peace.

 
 

CHAPTER XXV.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT TO THE SUPREME COURT.

SEC. 1. Appeals hereafter to be tried must be taken within
one month from the time judgment is rendered by service of
notice in writing on the advance [adverse] party, his agent or
attorney, and also on the clerk of the court in which the proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the same or some
specific part thereof.

Sec. 2, Upon receiving the notice and the payment of the
legal fees thereforee by the appellant, the clerk shall forthwith
transmit to the Supreme Court a transcript of the record in the
cause, or so much thereof as the appellant directs, to which
shall be appended the notice of the appeal and the written directions of the appellant applying therefore. _

Sac. 3. All proper entries made by the clerk and all papers
pertaining to the cause and filed therein (except subpoenas,
depositions, and other papers that are used as mere evidence,)
are to be deemed parts of the record. But the transcript of motions, affidavits and other papers, when they relate to collateral
matters should not be certified unless by the direction of the
appellant. If so certified when not material to the determination of the appeal, the court may direct the person blamable
therewith to pay the costs thereof.

SEC. 4. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they are precluded from any benefits arising from the appeal, unless from
the necessity of the case; but should they fail to appear and refuse to join in the appeal, they shall be liable for their share of
the costs already made, only.

Sec. 5. The death of any or all the parties shall not abate
the suit, but the names of the proper persons being substituted

the cause may proceed ; but to promote the ends of justice, the
court may grant a continuance in such cases.

Sec. 6. An appeal from the judgment of the court shall be
a stay of execution, except to any portion of the judgment not
appealed from.

Sue. 7. If execution has been issued before such appeal is
taken the clerk shall recall it.

Sec. 8. Property levied upon and not sold at the time of
such recall shall be returned forthwith by the sheriff to the
judgment debtor.

Sac. 9. The court may reverse or affirm the judgment or
render such judgment as the District Court should have done.

Sec. 10. If the judgment be afiirmed, the court shall award
the appellee sush damages as they may deem just, not exceeding
twelve per cent. per annum.

SEC. 11. If the court affirm the judgment, it may remand
the cause to the District Court to be carried into effect, or it may
issue the necessary process for that purpose to the sheriff of the
proper county. . .

SEC. 12, If by the determination of the cause the appellant

“ is entitled to a restoration of money or property, that was taken

from him under the judgment below,then either court may award
a writ of restoration or execution for the purpose of restoring
the property or the value thereof.

SEC. 13. Property acquired by a bona fide purchaser under
a judgment reversed shall not be affected by such reversal.

Size. 14. Where judgment, the court shall on motion render
judgment against both appellant and his sureties for the amount
of his judgment, damages, and costs, in case such damages can
be ascertained by the court without trial.

 

CHAPTER XXVI.

APPEALS.

Sec. 1. Any person feeling himself aggrieved by the decrees
or decisions of Judges of Probate,or Justices of the Peace, may
take an appeal to the District Court.

SE0. 2. Appeals are taken by the service of notice in writing on the adverse party, his agent or attorney, and also on the
clerk of the court or justice of the peace before whom the proceedings was had stating the appeal from the judgment of the
court, or some specific part thereof.

Size. 3. Any one or more of several co-parties may take an
appeal. In that case, notice must be served upon the other coparties, and the proof of such service filed with the clerk of the
court or justice.

Sec. 4. If the co-parties refuse to join in the appeal, they
are precluded from taking an appeal and shallderive no benefit
from the proceedings herein provided for.

SE0. 5. An appeal shall in no case stay the execution of the
judgment of the court, unless a bond be filed as required by
law.

Size. 6. When cases are brought before any court having the
proper jurisdiction, the court may reverse or affirm the judgment
as the court below should have done, or it may remand the same
back ;or a rehearing in the court below.

Size. 7. Should the judgment of the court below, in cases
where a stay of execution has been had, be affirmed, the court
may award to the appellee such damages as it may deem just in
the premises.

Sec. 8. If the court affirms the judgment had below, it may
remand the cause to have it carried into effect, or it may itself
issue the necessary process with the proper directions to accomplish the execution of said judgment.

SEC. 9. If by the decision of the court the appellant becomes
entitled to a restoration of any part of the property or money
that was taken from him by means of such judgment, the court
may direct execution or writ of restoration to issue for the purpose of restoring to such appellant his property or the value
thereof.

Sac. 10 Appeals must be taken and perfected within twenty
days after the rendition of judgment.

Size. 11. The appeal should be allowed in no case until a
recognizance is taken and filed in the office of the justice of the
Peace or clerk of the Probate Court’s office where the proceedings were had, with sureties, to be approved by the justice or
clerk in a sufficient sum to secure the judgment and cost of the
appeaL

IN CRIMINAL CASES.

Sac. 12. The defendant may appeal if upon the decision of
the magistrate, he, or some one for him, make an affidavit stating the alledged errors in the proceedings and that he verily
believes that injustice has been done.

Sac. 13. Before such appeal is allowed the magistrate must
take from the defendant an undertaking with sufficient securities
that the defendant will appear on the first day of the next term
of the District Court, and will not depart thence without leave,
and will abide the judgment of said court, and will prosecute the
same without unnecessary delay.

 

CHAPTER XXVII.

A CTION AGAINST BOATS.

Snc. 1. Any boat found in the waters of this Territory is
liable: l
lst. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent,

clerk, or consignee on account of supplies furnished for
the use of such boat; or on account or‘ work done or
services rendered for such boat; or on account of work
done or materials furnished in building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing, or equipping such boat;

2nd. For all demands or drawages accruing from the nonperformance or mal-performance of any contract of affreightment, or any contract relative to the transportation
of persons or property entered into by the master, owner,
agent, clerk, or consignee thereof;

3rd. For all injuries to persons or property by such boat, or

by the officers or crew, done in connection with the business of said boat.

Snc. 2. Claims growing out of any of the above causes
are liens upon theboat, its apparel, tackle, furniture, and appendages, including barges and lighters, if owned by the owners
of the boat and used therewith at the time the suit is commenced.

Size. 3. Such liens take preference of any claims against the
boat itself or any of all of its owners growing out of any other
causes than those above enumerated, and between themselves
they are to be preferred in the following order:

1st. Those resulting from wages for services rendered on

board of such boat within the year then past, provided
suit be commenced within twenty days after the cessation
of such labor.

2nd. Those resulting from contracts made within this Territory.

3rd. . All other causes.

SEC. 4. Actions against boats under the provisions of this
chapter cannot be brought after the lapse of one year from the
time the cause of action accrued.

Sac. 5. The lien attaches from the commencement of the
suit subject only to such other liens as are of a preferred class.

SE0. 6. The original petition must be in a writing, sworn to
and filed with the clerk or justice of the peace, and shall thereupon issue a warrant to the proper officer commanding him
to seize the boat. The Warrant shall be served according to the
directions it contains.

SEC. 8. The usual notice shall also be issued, directed to the
boat by name, and served upon the master, owner, agent, clerk,
or consignee thereof, and if none of them be found it may be
served by posting up a copy in some conspicuous part of the boat,
The warrant shall be served according to the directions it
contains.

Size. 9. Any person interested in the boat may appear for
the defendant by himself, his agent, or attorney, and conduct the
defense of the suit, and no continuances shall be granted to the
plaintifff while the boat is held in custody.

Snc. 10. The boat may be discharged at any time before
final judgment, by the giving of a bond with sureties, to be
approved by the officer serving the warrant or by the clerk or

justice who issued it, in a penalty double the plaintifff’s demand,
conditioned that the obligor therein will pay the amount which
may be found due to the plaintifff together with costs.

Snc. 11. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff before
the boat is thus discharged, a special execution shall be issued
against it. If it have been previously discharged, the execution
shall issue against the principal and sureties in the bond Without
further proceedings.

SEC. 12. The sheriff may sell any of the furniture or appendages of the boat to satisfy the demand. If he sell the boat
itself he must sell it to the bidder who will advance the amount
required to satisfy the execution for the lowest fractional share
of the boat, unless the person appearing for the boat desire a
different and equally convenient mode of sale.

See. 13. If a fractional share of the boat be thus sold, the
purchaser shall hold such share or interest jointly with the other
owners. ‘

S130. 14. If an appeal be taken by the defendant before the
boat is discharged as above provided, the appeal bond, if one be
filed, will have the same effect in discharging the boat as the
bond above contemplated, and execution shall issue against the
obligor therein after judgment in the same manner.

Sac. 15. Nothing herein contained is intended to affect the
rights of a plaintifff to sue in the same manner as though the
provisions of this chapter had not been enacted.

Size. 16. In actions commenced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter it is sufficient to allege the contract to
have been made with the boat itself.

 

CHAPTER XXVIII.

I NFORMATIONS.

Sec. 1. An information may be filed against any person unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or franchise
within this Territory, or any office in any corporation created
by the laws of this Territory, or when any public officer has
done or suffered any act which works a forfeiture of his office;
or when any persons act as a corporation within this Territory
without being authorized by law, or if being corporated they
do or omit acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of
their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise powers not conferred by law.

Size. 2. Such information may be filed by the district attorneyé of the proper county whenever he deems it his duty so
to 0.

Size. 3. He must file such information when directed to do
so by the Governor, the General Assembly, or the District
Court.

Size. 4. Such information shall consist of a plain statement

of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding,
addressed to the court, which shall stand for an original
petition.

Size. 5. Such statement shall be filed in the clerk’s office,
and summons issued and served in the same manner as herein
before provided for the commencement of actions in the District
Court. ‘

Sac. 5. The defendant shall appear and answer such information in the usual way, and issue being joined it shall be tried
in the ordinary manner.

Size. 7. VVhen the defendant is holding an office to which
another is claiming the right, the information should set forth
the name of such -claimant, and the trial must if practicable
determine the rights of the contesting parties.

Snc. 8, If judgment be rendered in favor of such claimant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office
after he has qualified s required by law.

Sac. 9. The court, y fter such judgment, shall order the
defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his custody or
under his control belorfging to said office.

Sac‘. 10. When the judgment has been rendered in favor of
the claimant, he may at any time within one year thereafter
bring suit against the defendant and recover the damages he
has sustained by reason of the act of the defendant.

Size. 11. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, an information may be filed against all
or any portion thereof in order to try their respective rights
thereto.

Sac. 12. If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully
holding or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege, or if a
corporation be found to have violated the law by which it hold its
existence, or in any other manner to have done acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be ousted, and altogether
excluded from such office, franchise, or privilege, and also that
he pay the costs of the proceeding.

SEC. 13. If the defendant be found to have exercised merely
certain individual powers and privileges to which he was not
entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above directed, but
only in relation to those particulars in which he is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights and privileges.

Snc. 14. When an information is upon the relation of a private individual, it shall be so stated in the petition and proceedings, and such individual shall be responsible for costs in case
they are not adjudged against the defendant. In other cases the
title of the cause shall be the satne as in a criminal prosecution,
and the payment of costs shall be regulated by the same rule.

SEC. 15. In case judgment is rendered against a pretended,
but not real, corporation the costs may be collected from any
person who has been acting as an officer or proprietor of such
pretended corporation. I

SEC. 16. If a corporation is ousted and dissolved by the proceedings herein authorized the court shall appoint three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.

Sec. 17. Such trustees shall enter into bond, in such a penalty and with such security as the court may approve, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of their trust.

Sac. 18. Suit may be brought on such bond by any person
injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the
discharge of their duties. '

Sac. 19. The trustees shall proceed immediately to collect
the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide
the surplus among those thereto entitled.

Sac. 20. The court shall, upon an application for that purpose, order any officer of such corporation or any other person
having possession of any of the effects, books, or papers of the
corporation in any wise necessary for the settlement of its
affairs, to deliver up the same to the trustees.

Size. 21. As soon as practicable after their appointment, the
trustees shall make and file in the office of the clerk of the
court an inventory of all the effects, rights, and credits, which
come to their possession or knowledge, the truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.

Size. 22. They shall sue for and recover the debts and property of the corporation,-and shall be responsible to the creditors
and stockholders, respectively to the extent of the effects which
come to their hands, in the same manner as though they were
the executors of a deceased person.

Sac. 23. When judgment of ouster is rendered against a
corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors or othcers thereof, such officers shall be jointly and severally liable
to an action by any one injured thereby.

SEC. 24. Any person, who without good reason refuses to
obey any order of the court as herein provided, shall be deemed
guilty of a contempt of court and shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding five thousand dollars and imprisonment in the county
jail until he comply with said order, and shall be further liable
for the damages resulting to any person on account of his refusal
to obey such order.

Sac. 25. A proceeding of this kind may be instituted in the
manner above contemplated for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent granted by the proper authorities of
this Territory, where there is reason to believe that the same
were obtained by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a
material fact, or when the patentee of or] those claiming under
him have done or amitted an act in vio ation of the terms and
conditions in which the letters were granted, or have or by any
other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

CHAPTER XXIX.

JUDGMENT LIENS.

S20. 1. Judgments in the Supreme or District Court of this
Territory, or in the District or Circuit Court of the United‘
States if rendered within’ this Territory, all liens upon the real
estate owned by the defendant at the time of such rendition and
also upon all he may subsequently acquire before the expiration of the lien as hereinafter provided.

Size. 2. When the lands lie in the county wherein the judgment was rendered, the lien shall attach from the date of such
rendition.

Sac. 3. If the lands lie in any other county, the lien does
not attach until an attested copy of the judgment is filed in the
office of the clerk of the District Court of the county in which
the land lies.

Sac. 4. Such clerks shall, on the filing of a transcript of the
judgment in his office, immediately proceed to docket and index
the same in the same manner as though rendered in the court
of his own county..

SEC. 5. The liens above authorized continue in force for the
term of ten years only from the date of the judgment. Provided,
Abstracts of judgments, mechanics’ liens, and all securities provided for in this statute shall be recorded as provided for in
section thirty-five of chapter."“

 

CHAPTER XXX.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Size. 1. The right of civil remedy is not merged in a public
offense, but may, in all cases, be enforced independently of,
and in addition to, the punishment of the latter.’

Sac. 2. When a wrongful act produces death, the perpetration is civilly liable for the injury. The parties to the action
shall be [the] same, and though brought for a claim founded
on contract against the wrong-doer, and in favor of theestate of
the deceased, and the sum recovered shall be disposed of in the
same manner, except that when the deceased left a wife, or
child, or parent surviving him, it shall not be liable for the payment of debts.

SEC. 3. Unless from necessity of the case no cause of action,
ex delicto, dies with either or both the parties, but the prosecution thereof may be commenced or continued by or against

their respective representatives.
Sac. 4. The rule, that laws In derogation of the, common

law are to be strictly construed, has no application to this statute, but shall receive a liberal construction, in order to carry
out its general purposes and objects. .

Size. 5. _ A person whose religious faith and practice are to
keep the seventh day of the week as a day set apart by Divine
Command, and dedicated to rest and religious uses, cannot be
compelled to attend as a juror, on that day, and shall, in other
respects, be protected in the enjoyment of his opinions to the
same extent as those who keep the first day of the week.

SEC. 6. When security is required by law to be given,.and
no particular mode is prescribed, it shall be by bond.

Size. 7. Such security, when not otherwise directed, may,
if for the benefit of individuals, be given to the party intended
to be thereby secured. If in relation to public matters, concerning the inhabitants of one county or a part of a county, it
may be made payable to the county. If concerning the inhabitants of more than one county, it may be made payable to the
Territory; but a mere mistake in these respects will not vitiate
the security.

Sac. 8. Where investments of money are directed to be
made, and no mode of investment is pointed out by statute, they
must be made in the stocks of this territory, or in those of the
United States, or upon bond and mortgage of real property of the
clear, unincumbered value of at least twice the investment,
without regard to buildings.

Sec. 9. When such investment is made by order of any
court, the securitytaken shall in no case be discharged, impaired,’ or transferred without an order of the court to that effect,
entered on the minutes thereof.

Sec. 10. ' The clerk or other ;person appointed in such cases
to make the investment, must receive all monies, as they become due thereon, and apply or re-invest the same under the
directions of‘ the court, unless the court appoint some other person to_do such acts.

SEC. 11. . Once in each year, and oftener if required by the
court, the person so appointed must render to the court an account, in writing, and on. oath, of all monies so received by him,
and of ‘the application thereof.

Sec. 12.. No defective bond or other security, or affidavit in

’ any case, shall prejudice the party giving or making it, provided

it be so rectified within a reasonable time after the defect is dis. covered as not to cause essential injury to the other party.

Srzc. 13. The future proceedings of all officers, and of all
courts of limited and inferior jurisdiction, shall be presumed
regular, except in regard to matters required to be entered of
record, and except where otherwise expressly declared. ,

Size. 14. The mode of computing time is by excluding the
first day and including the last, and should the last day fall on
Sunday, the length of time prescribed shall be extended one day
so as to include the whole of the following Monday, unless
otherwise expressed. V

Sec. 15. Proceedings already commenced for the enforcement of remedies, may be continued in accordance with the

rules herein prescribed, as far as they are compatible with the
proceedings which have already taken place. ,

SEC. 16. The rules of proceedings prescribed for civil actions, proper in the District Court, shall be followed in all proceedings of a special character whether before the District
Court or other tribunals, so far as they are applicable, and not
otherwise regulated.

Size. 17. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a
court of this Territory unless it appears in the court, or has
been created by or under the laws of this Territory, or has an
agency established herein for the transaction of some portion of
its business, or has property herein, and in the last case only to
the extent of such property.

CHAPTER XXXI.
A’I"1‘A(‘H.VI12.‘3'I‘ .-\..\'n GARNISHMENT.

Sac. 1. In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintifff may cause any property of the defendant which is not
exempt from execution to be attached at the commencement or
during the progress of the proceedings by pursuing the course
hereinafter prescribed.

Sec. 2. If it be subsequent to the commencement of the
action, a separate petition must be filed, and in all such cases
the proceedings relative to the attachment are to be deemed
independent of the ordinary‘ proceedings, and only auxiliary
thereto. ,

Sec. 3. The petition which asks an attachment must in all
cases be sworn to. It must state that as the affiant verily
believes the defendant is a foreign corporation or acting as such.
or that he is a non-resident of the Territory, or that he is in
some manner about to dispose of, or remove his property out of
the Territory without leaving sufficient remaining for the payment of his debts, or that he has disposed of his property (in
whole or in part) with intent to defraud his creditors, or that he
has absconded so that the ordinary process cannot be served
upon him, or that the defendant has property not exempt from
execution which he refuses to give in security of payment of his.
debt '

SEC. 4. If the plaintiffl” s demand is founded on contract, the
petition must state that something is due and as nearly as practicable the amount and when payable.

Size. -'3. The amount thus sworn to is intended as a guide to
the sheriff‘, who must, as nearly as the circumstances of the case
will permit, levy upon property fifty per cent greater in value
than that amount.

Snc. 6. If the demand is not founded on contract, the original petition must be presented to some judge of the Supreme
or District Court, or the Judge of Probate, who shall make an

allowance thereon of the amount in value of the property that
may be attached. The provisions of this section apply to cases
in the District Court. .

Sec. 7. The property of a debtor may be attached previous
to the time when the debt becomes due when nothing but time
is wanting to fix an absolute indebtedness, and when the petition
in addition to that fact states that the defendant is about to dispose of his property with intent to defraud his creditors, or that
he is about to remove from the Territory and refuses to make
any arrangement for securing the payment of the debt when it
falls due, and which contemplated removal was not known to
the plaintifff at the time the debt was contracted.

Sac. 8. Before any property can be attached as aforesaid, the
plaintifff must file with the clerk a bond, for the use of the defendant, with sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at
least double the value of the property sought to be attached, and
in no case less than two hundred and fifty dollars if in the District Court, nor less than fifty dollars if in a J ustice’s Court, conditioned that the plaintifff will pay all damages that the defendant may sustain by reason of the wrongful suing out of the
attachment.

SEC. 9. In an action on such bond the plaintifff therein may
recover if he shows that the attachment was wrongfully sued
out, and if willfully wrong he may recover exemplary damages.
Nor need he wait until the principal suit is determined before
he brings suit on the bond.

Sec. 10. Where suits are properly commenced in the District Court of any county, the attachment may run into any
other county where property of the defendant can be found.

Snc. 11. The clerk shall issue a writ of attachment which
shall contain a general statement of the cause of action, the
amount claimed, and directing the sheriff to attach the property
of the defendant, and to notify him thereof; and when the
attachment is issued at the commencement of the proceedings,
to summon him to appear before the proper court on the return
day of the writ, and answer to the petition of the plaintifff,
and in such case no further summons is required.

See. 12. The sheriff shall in all cases attach the amount of
property directed by law if sufficient, not exempt from execucution, be found in his county, giving that in which the defendant has a legal and unquestionable title a preference over that
in which his title is doubtful or only equitable.

SEC.13. Writs of attachment from the District Court may
be sent into different counties at the same time, but if more
property be attached in the aggregate than the plaintifff is entitled to hold in that manner he must abandon the overplus and
pay all costs incurred in relation to it.

Size. 14. Stock or an interest owned by the defendant in any
company, and also debts due him, or property of his held by
third persons may be attached.

SEC. 15. The mode of attachmemt must be as follows :

lst. By giving the defendant in the action if found within

the county, and also the person occupying or in possession of the property, if it be in the hands of a third person, a copy of such writ of attachment:
2d, If the property is capable of manual delivery, the sheriff
must take it into his custody if it can be found. a

3d. Stock in a company is attached by notifying the president or the other head of the company, or the secretary.
cashier, or other managing agent thereof, of the fact
that the stock has been so attached.

4th. Debts due the defendant, or to become due at a subsequent time, or property of his held by third persons and
which cannot be found, or the title to which is doubtful,
are attached by garnishment thereof.

SEC. 16. The attachment by garnishment is effected by informing the supposed debtor or person holding the property that
he is attached? as garnishee, and by leaving with him a written
notice to the effect that he is required not to pay any debts due
by him to.the defendant, or thereafter to become due, and that
he must retain possession of all property of the said defendant
then or thereafter being in his custody or under his control, in
order that the same may be dealt with according to law.

Sac. 17. A sheriff or constable may be garnisheed for money
of the defendant in his hands. So may a judgment debtor of
the defendant when the judgment has not been previously
assigned, and also-an executor for money due from the decedent
to the defendant.

SEC. 18. Unless exempted as provided in the next section,
the notice must also require him to appear on the first day of the
next term of the District Court wherein the main cause is
depending, or on the day fixed for the trial if in a Justice’s
Court, and answer such interrogations as may be then propounded to- him, or that he will be liable to pay the entire judgment which the plaintifff eventually obtains from the defendant.

Sec. 19. The plaintifff may in writing direct the sheriff
to take the answer of the garnishee and append the same to his
return, l

Sec. 20. In such case the sheriff‘ has power to administer
an oath to garnishees requiring them to make true answers to
the questions to be propounded, which questions shall be as
follows : '

1st. Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant in

this suit, or do you owe him money or property which is
not yet due? If so state the particulars.

2d. Have you in your possession or under your control any

property, rights, or credits of the said defendant? If
so what is the value of the same, and state all the particulars.

3d. Do you know of any debts owing to the said defendant

whether "due or not, or any property, rights, or credits
belonging to him, and now in the possession or under the
control of others? If so state the particulars.

Snc. 21. If the garnishee -refuse to answer fully and unequivocally eachand all the foregoing interrogations he shall be
notified and required to appear and answer on the first day of
the next- term of the District Court, or on the day fixed for
trial as above provided. .

SEC. 22. The questions propounded to the garnishee in
court may be such as above prescribed to be asked by the sheriff
and such others as the court may think proper and right.

Size. 23. When the garnishee is required to appear at court
unless he has refused to answer as contemplated above, he is
entitled to the pay and mileage of an ordinary witness, and may
in like manner require payment before hand, in order to be
made liable for non-attendance.

Size. 24. If when duly summoned and his fees tendered (if
demanded) he fail to appear and answer the interrogatories propounded to him without sufficient excuse for his delinquency,
he shall be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full
amount of the plaintifff’s demand, and shall be dealt with accordingly. »

Sec. 25. But for mere failure to appear, he is not liable to
pay the amount of the plaintifff’s judgment until he has had an

opportunity byservice of a scire facias to show cause against.

the issuing of an execution.

Size 26. A garnishee may at any time after answer exonerate himself from farther responsibility by paying over to the
sheriff the amount owing by him to the defendant, and by placing at the sheriff’s disposal the property of the defendant, or so
much of said debts and property as is equal to the value of the
property to be attached, all of which may afterwards be treated
as though attached in the usual manner.

SEC. 27. When the answer of the garnishee is made at the
District Court, the plaintifff may controvert any facts contained
therein and specified by him, and issue being thereupon joinedmay be tried in the usual manner, upon such trial the answer ‘of
the garnishee is competent testimony.

Sac. 28. If in any of the above methods it is made to appear
that the garnishee was indebted to the defendant, or had any of
the defendant’s property in his hands, either at the time of his
being served with the garnishee notice aforesaid, or at any time
subsequent thereto, he is liable to the plaintifff, in case judgment
is finally recovered by him, to the full amount of that judgment
or to the amount of such indebtedness, and of the property so
held by him. And a judgment shall be entered up against him
accordingly, unless he prefers paying or delivering the same to
the sheriff as above provided, but in case the debt due the defendant, is not then payable execution against the garnishee shall
not issue for that debt until payable, but in all other cases it
may issue immediately.

SEC. 29. Property attached otherwise than by garnishment
is bound thereby from the timeiof the service of the attachment
only.

Sac. 30. All money attached by the sheriff or coming into
his hands by virtue of the proceeding in attachment shall forthwith be paid over to the clerk to be by him retained till the
further action of the court.
Snc. 31. The defendant ma at any time before judgment

H discharge the property attache or any part thereof, by giving

bond with surety, to be approved by the sheriff, in a penalty at
least double the value of» the property sought to be released,
conditioned that such property or its estimated value shall be
delivered to the sheriff to satisfy any judgment in that suit,
within twenty days after the rendition thereof. This bond shall‘
be filed with the clerk of the court. * Snc. 32. To determine the value of the property in such
cases, unless the parties agree otherwise, the sheriff shall summon two disinterested persons having the qualifications of jurors,
who after being sworn by him to make the appraisement faithfully and impartially, shall proceed to the discharge of their
duty.

Sec. 33. If such persons disagree as to the value of the
property, the sheriff shall decide between them.

Sec. 34. In an action brought on the bond above contemplated, it shall be a sufficient defense that the property for the
delivery of which the bond was given did not at the time of the
levy belong to the defendant against whom the attachment was
issued. A i

Sec. 35. The sheriff must in all cases return an inventory
of the property attached as well as the appraisement above provided for where such appraisement has been made.

Size. 36. When the sheriff thinks the property attached indanger of serious and immediate waste and decay he may summon three persons having the qualification of jurors to examine
the same. If they are of the opinion that the property requires
soon to be disposed of, they shall specify a day beyond which
they do not deem it prudent that it should be kept in the hands
of’ the sheriff‘. He shall thereupon give the same notice asfor
the sale of goods on execution and for the same length of time
unless the condition of the property renders a more immediate
sale necessary. The sale shall be made accordingly.

SEC. 37. The money arising from such sale shall remain in
the hands of the clerk to abide the event of the suit.

Size. 38. The word “sherifi” as used in this chapter is meant
to apply to constables when the proceedings are in a J ustice’s
Court.

Sac. 39. When the proceedings are in a Justice’s Court the
justice is to be regarded as the clerk of the court for all the purposes herein contemplated.

CHAPTER xxxn.

HABEAS CORPUS.

Size. 1. The petition for the writ of habeas corpus must be‘
sworn to and must state : .

lst. That the person in whose behalf it is sought is restrained

of his liberty, and the person by whom, and the place
where he is so restrained, mentioning the names of the
parties if known, and if unknown describing them with
as much particularity as practicable;

2d. The cause or pretense of such restraint according to the

best information of the applicant; and if it be by. virtue
of any legal process, a copy thereof must be annexed or
a satisfactory reason given for its absence ;

3d. It must state that the restraint is illegal and wherein;

' 4th. That the legality of the imprisonment has not already
been adjudged upon aprior proceeding of the same character, to the best knowledge and belief of the applicant ;

5th. It must also state whether application for the writ has

been before made to, and refused by, any court or judge,
and if such application has been made, a copy of the

V petition in that case with reason for the refusal thereto
appended, must be produced or satisfactory reason‘ given
for the failure to do so.

Size. 2. This petition must be sworn to by the person confined
or [by some one in his behalf and presented to some court or]
officer authorized to allow the writ.

SEC. 3. The writ of habeas corpus may be allowed by the
Supreme or District Court, or by any judge of either of those
courts. In such cases it may be served in any part of the Territory.

SEC. 4. It may also be allowed by any Judge of Probate
except when the commitment was made by order of one of the
courts or officers mentioned in the last section, but when allowed
by a Probate judge it [is] valid only within the limits of the
county where issued.

Sac. 5. Application for this writ, when made to the Supreme or District Court or to either of the judges thereof,
must be made to the court or judge most convenient in point
of distance to the applicant, and the more remote court or
judge if applied to for the writ may refuse the" same unlessa
sufficient reason be stated in the petition for not making the
application to the more convenient Supreme or District Court,
or a judge thereof.

Snc. 6. If, from the showing of the petitioner, the plaintifff
would not be entitled to any relief the court or judge may refuse
to allow the writ.

Sec. 7. But if the petition show a sufficient ground for relief

and is in accordance with the foregoing requirements, the writ
shall be allowed and may be substantially as follows :

The Territory of Nebraska,
To the Sheriff of &c. (or to A. B. as the case may be.)

You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D. by you
unlawfully detained as is alledged, before the court (or before
me, or before E. F. judge &c. as the case may be) at
on—-————-- (or immediately after being served with this writ)
to be dealt with according to law and have you then and there
this writ with a return thereon of your doings in the premises.

   

Size. 8. ‘When a writ is allowed by a court it is to be issued
by the clerk, but when allowed by a judge he must issue the
writ himself subscribing his name thereto without any seal.

Size. 9. If the writ is disallowed, the court or judge shall
cause the reasons for such disallowance to be appended to the
petition and returned to the person applying for the writ.

Sac. 10. Any judge, whether acting individually or as a
member of a court, who wrongfully and willfully refuse such
allowance of the writ when properly applied for shall forfeit to
the party aggrieved the sum of one thousand dollars. ’

S20. 11. Whenever any court or judge authorized to grant
this writ has evidence, from a judicial proceeding before them,
that any person within the jurisdiction of such court or officer
is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the duty
of such court or judge to issue or cause to be issued the writ as
aforesaid though no application be made therefore.

Sac. 12. The writ may be served by the sheriff or by any
other person appointed for that purpose by the court or judge
by whom it is issued or allowed. If served by any other person
than the sheriff, he possesses the same power and is liable to
the same penalty for non-performance of his duty as though he
were the sheriff.

Size. 13. The proper mode of service is by leaving the original
writ with the defendant and preserving a copy thereof, on which
to make the return of service.

Sac. 14. If the defendant cannot be found or if he have
not the plaintifff in custody, the service may be made upon any
person having the plaintifff in his custody in the same manner
and with the same effect as though he had been made defendant
therein.

Sac. 15. If the defendant conceal himself or refuse admittance to the person attempting to serve the writ, or if he attempt
wrongfully to carry the plaintifff" out of the county or Territory
after the service of the writ aforesaid, the sheriff or the person
who is attempting to serve or who has served the writ as above
contemplated is authorized to arrest the defendant and bring him
forthwith with the plaintifff ‘ before the officer or court before
whom the writ is made returnable.

Size. 16. In order to make such arrest the sheriff or such

person having the writ possesses the same poweras is given to a
sheriff for the arrest of a person- charged with a felony.

Sec. 17. If the plaintifff can be found and if no one appear
to have charge of him, the person having the writ may take
him into custody, and make return accordingly. And to get
possession of the plaintifff’s person in such cases he possesses the
same power as is given by the last section for the arrest of the
defendant.

Sec. 18. The court or judge to whom the application for the
writ is made, if satisfied that the plaintifff would suffer any irreparable injury before he could be relieved by the proceedings as
above authorized, may issue a precept to the sheriff or any
other person selected, commanding him to bring the plaintifff
forthwith before such court or judge.

SEC. 19. When the evidence aforesaid is further sufficient
to justify the arrest of the defendant for a criminal offense committed in connection with the illegal detention of the plaintifff,
the precept must also contain an order for the arrest of the
defendant.

SEC. 20. The officer or person to whom the precept is directed must execute the same by bringing the defendant, and
also the plaintifff if required, before the court or judge issuing
it, and thereupon the defendant must make return to the writ of
habeas corpusin the same manner as if the ordinary course had
been pursued.

S1-.c. 21. The defendant may also be examined and committed, or bailed and discharged, according to the nature of the
case. .
Sec. 22. The writ of habeas corpus must not be disobeyed
for any defect of form or misdescription of the plaintifff or defendant provided enough is stated to show the meaning and intent
of the writ.

Sec. 23. Service being made in any of the modes herein-P
before provided, the defendant must appear at the proper time
and answer the said petition.

Sec. 24. He must also bring up the body of the plaintifff‘, or
show good cause for not doing so.

Sec. 25. A willful failure to comply with the above requisitions render the defendant liable to be attached for a contempt
and to be imprisoned till a compliance is obtained, and also subject him to a forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party
thereby aggrieved. 2

SEC. 26. Such attachment may be served by the sheriff or
any other person thereto authorized by the judge, who shall also
be empowered to bring up the body of the plaintifff forthwith,
and has for this purpose the same powers as are above conferred
in similar cases.

See 27. The court or officer allowing the writ must cause
the prosecuting attorney of the proper county to be informed of
the issuing of the writ and of the time and place where it is
made returnable.

Sec. 28. The defendant in his answer must state plainly

and unequivocably whether he then has, or at any time had the
plaintifff under his control and restraint, and -if so the cause
thereof. 3

Snc. 29. If he holds him by virtue of a legal process or
written authority, a copy thereof must be annexed.

Sac. 30. The plaintifff must demur or reply to the defendant’s answer, and all issues joined thereon shall be tried by
the judge or court.

Sec. 31. Such replication, except when the hearing is before
the judge of the county court may deny the sufficiency of the
testimony to justify the action of the committing magistrate, on
the trial of which issue all written testimony before such magistrate may be given in evidence before the court or judge in
connection with any other testimony which may then be produced. Sac. 32. But it is not permissible to question the correctness
of the action of the grand jury in finding a ‘bill of indictment,
or of the petit jury in the trial of a cause, nor of a court or
judge when actingwithin their legitimate province and in a lawful manner.

Sac. 33. If no sufficient legal cause of detention is shown,
the plaintifff must be discharged.

Size. 34. Although the commitment of the plaintifff may have
been irregular, still if the court or judge is satisfied from the
evidence before them that he ought to be held to bail or committed either for the offenses charged or any other, the order
may be made accordingly. SEC. 35. The plaintifff may also in any case be committed,
let to bail, or his bail be mitigated or increased, as justice may
require.

Size. 36. Until the sufficiency of the cause of restraint is
determined, the defendant may retain the plaintifff in his cus‘tody, and may use all necessary and proper means for that
purpose.

Sac. 37. The plaintifff in writing, or his attorney,may waive
his right to be present at the trial in which case the proceedings
may be had in his absence. The writ will in such cases be modified accordingly.

SEC. 38. Disobedience to any order of discharge subjects the
defendant to attachment for contempt, and also to the forfeiture
of one thousand dollars to the party aggrieved, besides all dainages sustained by him in consequence of such disobedience.

Size. 39. If the defendant attempt to elude the service of the
writ of habeas corpus, or to avoid the effects thereof by transferring the plaintifff to another, or by concealing him, he shall
on conviction be imprisoned in the penitentiary or county jail
not more than one year, and fined not exceeding one thousand
dollars. And any person knowingly aiding or abetting in any
such act shall be subject to like punishment.

Size. 40. Any officer refusing to deliver a copy of any legal
process by which he detains the plaintifff in custody, to any person who demands such copy and tenders the fees therefore, shall
forfeit two hundred dollars to‘ the person detained.

Snc. 41. When the roceedings are before a Judge (except
when the writ is refuse ) all the papers in the case, including
his final order, shall be filed with the clerk of the District Court
of the county wherein the final proceedings were had, and a
brief memorandum thereof shall be entered by the clerk upon
his judgment docket.

CAAPTER XXXIII.

EVIDENCE.

Sac. 1. Every human being of sufficient capacity to understand the obligation of an oath, is a competent witness in all
cases, both civil and criminal, except as otherwise herein declared.
But an Indian, a negro, or mulatto or black person shall not be
allowed to give testimony in any cause.

Sac. 2. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion
of testimony, may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its
credibility.

Sec. 3. A person who has a direct, certain, legal interest
in the suit is not a competent witness unless called on for that
purpose by the opposite party, as hereinafter provided.

Size. 4. The husband can in no case be a witness against
the wife, nor the wife against the husband, except in a criminal proceeding for a crime committed by the one against the
other, but they may in all criminal prosecutions be witnesses for
each other.

SEC. 5. Neither husband nor wife can be examined in any
case as to any communication made by the one to the other

' while married, nor shall they, after the marriage relation

ceases, be permitted to reveal, in testimony, any such communication made while the marriage subsisted.
SEC. 6. No practising attorney, counsellor, physician, surgeon, minister of the gospel, or priest of any denomination,

shall be allowed, in giving testimony, to disclose any confidential communication, properly intrusted to him in his professional
capacity, and necessary and proper to enable him to discharge
the functions of his office according to the usual course of practice or discipline.

Size. 7. The prohibitions,_ in the preceding sections, do not '

apply to cases where the party in whose favor the respective
provisions are enacted waives the rights thereby conferred.

Sac. 8. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to him in official confidence, when the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

Size. 9. A witness is excused from answering a question

upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subjected to a
civil liability. “' ' s ‘

Srzc. 10. But when the matter sought to be elicited would
tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him to public
ignominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as provided in
the next section.

Sac. 11. A witness may be interrogated as to his previous
convictions for a felony. But no other proof of such conviction
is competent except the record thereof.

SEC. 12. When part of an act, declaration, conversatibn, or
writing, is given in evidence by one party, the whole, on the
same subject, may be inquired into by the other: thus, when a
letter is read, all other letters on the same subject between the
same parties may be given. And when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence, any other
act, declaration, or writing, which is necessary to make it fully
understood, or to explain the same, may also be given in evidence.

Sec. 13. When an instrument consists partly of written and
partly of printed form, the former controls the latter, where the
two are inconsistent. '

SEC. 14. When the terms of an agreement have been intended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense is to
prevail against either party in which he had reason to suppose
the other understood it.

SEC. 15. Historical works, books of science or art, and published maps or charts, when made by persons, indifferent between the parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of general
notoriety or interest. ~

Ssc. 16. ‘ When a subscribing witness denies, or does not
recollect the execution ot the instrument to which his name is
subscribed as such witness, its execution may be proved by other evidence. .

SEC. 17. Evidence respecting hand-writing may be given
by comparisons made by experts or by the jury with writings of
the same persons, which are proved to be genuine.

Size. 18. The entries and other writings of a person deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a
position to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence of such facts, when the entry was made against the interest of the person so making it, or when made in a professional
capacity, or in the ordinary course of professional conduct, or

when made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by
law.

Size. 19. Booksof account, containing charges by one party
against the other, made in the ordinary course of business, are
receivable in evidence only under the following circumstances,
subject to all just exceptions as to their credibility——

1st. The books must show a continuous dealing with persons
generally, or several items of charges at different
times against the other party, in the same book.

2d. It must be shown by the party’s oath, or otherwise, that

they are his books of original entries.

3rd. It must be shown in like manner that the charges were

made at or near the time of the tranasaction therein
entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for not
making such proof.

4th- The charges must also be verified by the party or the

clerk who made the entries, to the effect that. they
believe them just and true, or a sufficient reason must
be given why verification is not made.

Sec. 20. Every private writing, except a last will and testament, after being’ acknowledged or proved and certified in the
manner prescribed for the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real property, may be read in evidence without further
proof. 7

Sec. 21. The judge of the court is a competent witness for
either party, and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such a
case it is in his discretion to order the trial to be postponed or
suspended, and to take place before another judge.

Sec. 22. The usual protest, by a notary public, without
proof of his signature or notarial seal is evidence of the dishonor,
and notice of I bill of exchange ‘or promissory note.

IIQW TESTIIIOICY IS TO BE PROCURED.

Sec. 23. A subpoena is the proper way of bringing a witness
into court. It must require the witness to be present at a prescribed time and place to give testimony in a case therein
stated. It may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents, or other writings under his control, and which he is
not excused by law from producing in evidence.

Sec. 24. Witnesses in. civil cases cannot be compelled to
attend court out of the county where they are served, nor at a
distance of more than twenty miles from the place of the residence, or from that where they are served with a subpoena, unless within the same county.

Sec. 25. Witnesses are enfiled to receive ( in advance, if
demanded ) their traveling fees to and from the court, together
with their fees for one day’s attendance. At the commencement of each day, after the first, they are further entitled, on
demand, to receive the legal fees for that day in advance. If
not thus paid, they are not compelled to attend or remain as
witnesses. ‘

SEC. 26. F or failure to obey a valid subpoena, without a
sufficient cause or excuse, or for a refusal to testify after appearance, the delinquent is guilty of a contempt of court. He
is also liable to the party by whom he was subpoenaed for all
consequence of such delinquency, together with fifty dollars
additional damages.

Snc. 27, Before a witness is thus liable for a contempt for
not appearing, ‘he must be served personally with the process by
reading to him, and by leaving a copy thereof with him if demanded, and it must be shown, that the fees and traveling expenses allowed by law were tendered to him if required, or it
must appear that a copy of the subpoena, if left at his usual place
of residence, came into his hands, together with the said fees
and traveling expenses above mentioned.

Size. 28 If a witness conceal himself, or in any other manner aftempt to avoid being personally served with a subpozna,
any sheriff or constable, having the subpoena, may use all necessary and proper means to serve the same, and for that purpose may break into any building or other place where the witness is to be found, having first made known his business and
demanded admittance.

Snc. 29. In addition to the above remedies, if a party to a _

suit in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed fail to appear
and give testimony, the other party Inay, at his option, have a
continuance of the cause as in cases of other witnesses, and at
‘the cost of the delinquent.

Sac. 30. Or the party so calling his opponent may, in such
a case, himself become a witnes, or, if he show, by his own testimony, or otherwise, that he could not have a full personal
knowledge of the transaction, the court may order his pleadings to be taken as true; such order is, however, subject to be
re-considered during the term of the court, upon satisfactory
reasons being shown for such delinquency.

SEC. 31. The Supreme or District Court may, by rule, require the production of any papers or books which are material
to the just determination of any cause pending before it, for the
purpose of being inspected and copied by or for the party thus

. calling for them.

Size. 32. The petition for that purpose must state the facts
expected to be proved by such books or papers, and that, as the
petioner believes, such books and papers are under the control
of the party against whom the rule is sought, and must show
wherein they are material. The rule shall thereforee be‘ granted to produce the books and papers or show cause to the contrary, if the court deem such rule expedient and proper.

Sac. 33. On failing to obey the rule or show sufficient
cause for such failure, the same consequences shall ensue as if
the party had failed to appear and testify, when subpoenaed by
the party now calling for the books and papers.

Sac. 34. Though a writing called for by one party is by the
other produced, the party thus calling for it is not obliged to use

it as evidence in thecase.

DOCUMENTARY EVIEENCI-J.

SEC. 35. Publications required by law to be made in a
newspaper may be proved by affidavit of any person having
knowledge of the fact, specifying the time when and the paper
in which the publication was made, but such affidavit must, for
the purposes now contemplated, be made within six months after

the last day of publication.

Sec. 36. The posting up or service of any notice or other
paper required by law, may be proved by the affidavit of any
competent witness, attached to a copy of said notice or paper,
and made Within six months of the time of such posting up.

SEC. 37. Any other fact which is required to be shown by
affidavit and which may be required for future use in any action
or other proceeding, may be proved by pursuing the course
above indicated as nearly as the circumstances of the case will
admit. \ » _

Size. 38. Such proof so made may be perpetuated and
preserved for future use by filing the papers above mentioned in
the office of the Judge of Probate, and the original affidavit
appended to the notice or paper if there be one, and if not the
affidavit by itself, is presumptive evidence of the facts stated
therein, but does not preclude other modes of proof now held
sufiic-ient.

Sec. 39. A copy of the field notes of any county surveyor
or a plat made by him and certified under oath as correct, may
be received as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of a
tract of land, or any other fact whose ascertainment requires
only the exercise of scientific. skillor calculation.

l5\'IDIIN(.‘I‘..

Sec. 40. Duly certified copies of all records and entries or
papers belonging to any public officer or by authority of law filed
to be kept therein, shall be evidence in all cases‘ of equal credibility With the original record or paper so filed.

Size. 41. Every officer having the custody of a public record
or writing is bound to give any person on demand a certified
copy thereof on payment of the legal fees therefore.

Sec. 42. The certificate of a public 0fl'lCOI‘ that he has made
diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his office is of the
same efficacy in all cases as if such officer had personally appeared and sworn to such facts. .

Sec. 43. The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of any
land office or; if that be lost or destroyed, or beyond the reach
of the party, the certificate of such receiver that the books of
his office show the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual,
is proof of title equivalent to a patent against all but the holder
of an ‘actual patent. a

Size. 44. In the cases contemplated in the last three sections
the signature of the officer shall be presumed-to be genuine
until the contrary is shown.

Sec. 45. A judicial record of this Territory or of any other
Federal Court of the United States may be proved by the producing of the original, or by a copy thereof certified by the
clerk or the person having the legal custody thereof authenticated
by his seal of office if he have one. .

Sec. 46. That of a sister state may be proved by the attestation of the clerk and the seal _of the court annexed, if there be
a seal, together witha certificate of a judge, chief justice, or

presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form of law.
: Sac. 47. The official certificate of a justice of the peace of
any of the United States to any judgment and the preliminary
proceeding before him, supported by the official certificate of
the clerk of any court of record within the county in which such
justice resides, stating that he is an acting justice of the peace
of that county, and that the signature of his certificate is genuine, is sufiicient evidence of T such proceedings and judgment.

SEC. 48. Copies of records and proceedings in the} courts of
a foreign country may be admitted in evidence upon being authenticated as follows :

lst. By the ofiicial attestation of the clerk or officer-in whose

~ custody such records are legally kept, and
2d. By the certificate of one of the judges or magistrates -of
such court that the person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally entrusted with the custody of such records,
and that the signature to his attestation is genuine, and

3d. By the official certificate of the officer who has the custody of the principal seal of the government under whose
authority the court is held, attested by said seal, stating
that such court is duly constituted, specifying the general
nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the
court.

Sac. 40. Acts of the executive of the United States, or of
this Territory, or of any State in the Unton, or of a foreign
Government are proved by the records of the state department
of the respective governments, or by public documents purported
to have been printed by order of the Legislatures of those governments respectively, or by either branch thereof.

Snc. 50. The proceedings of the Legislatures of this Territory, or any State of the Union, or of the United States, or of
any foreign government, are proved by the journals of those
bodies respectively, or of either branch thereof, and either by
copies ofiicially certified by the clerk of the house in which the
proceeding was had,or by a copy purporting to have been printed
by their order.

SEC. 51. Printed copies of the statute laws of this Territory,
or any of the United States, or of Congress, or of any foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published under
the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing laws in the courts of such state or government, shall be admitted in the courts of this Territory as presumptive evidence of such laws. .

Size. 52. The public seal: of the Territory or county affixed
to a copy of a written. law or other public writing is also admissible as evidence of such law or writing respectively, the unwritten law of any other state or government may be proved as
fact by parol evidence, and also by the books of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts. a t

DEPOSITIONS.

Size. 53. After the commencement of a civil action, or after
an issue is founded in any other civil proceeding, if a witness
resides Within this Territory, but in a different county from the
place of trial, or is about to go beyond the reach of a subpmna,
or is for any other cause expected to be unable to attend court at
the time of trial, the party wishing his testimony may whenever
he judges expedient take his deposition in writing before any
person having authority to administer oaths.

SEC. 54. Reasonable notice of the time and place when and
where the same will be taken must be given to the opposite
party. . ' _ _

Size. 55. Under the state of pleadings above mentioned, if
the case is in the District Court the deposition of witnesses
residing out of the county, whether within or without the Territory, may be taken-before one ‘or more commissioners on written
interrogatories.

SEC. 56. The party wishing to take such deposition may
select any of the officers mentioned in the next session as such
commissioners, or the parties may agree upon, or the court appoint in the commission any other individual for that purpose.

SEC. 57. The clerk or any judge of any court of record, any
notary public, or any commissioner appointed by the governor
of this Territory to take acknowledgments in another State, may
be appointed such commissioners, by his name of office or otherwise, but the name of the court of which such commissioner is
clerk or judge, and the State and county in which such notary
or commissioner of deeds resides must be stated in the commission.

SEC. 58. None of the ab ve named officers is permitted to
take the depositions aforesaid by virtue of a commission directed
to him merely as such oH‘icer, unless taken within the geographical limits to which his official jurisdiction extends.

SEC. 59. Reasonable notice must be given to the opposite
party at the time when a commission will be sued out of the office of the clerk of the District court for taking the deposition of
the witness (naming him) which notice must be accompanied
with a copy of the interrogatories to be asked him.

Size. 60. At or before the time thus fixed the opposite party

may file cross interrogatories.

SEC. 61. The reasonable notice hereinbefore mentioned is at
least five days; and when depositions are to be taken in pursuance of the first of the above methods, one day in addition must
be allowed for every thirty miles travel from the place where the
notice is served to the place where the depositions are to be
taken.

Sec. 62. Subject to the regulations herein contained the
court may establish further rules for taking depositions and all
other acts connected therewith. ’

S20. 63. The commission issues in the name of the court,

and under its seal. It must be signed by the clerk and need
contain nothing but the authority conferred upon the commissioner, a statement of the cause in which the testimony is to be
used and a copy of the interrogatories on each side appended.

SEC. 64. The person before whom any of the depositions
above contemplated are taken must cause the interrogatories
propounded (whether written or oral) to be written out, and the
answers thereto to be inserted immediately underneath the respective questions. The answers must be in the language as
nearly as practicable of the Witness if either party requires it.
The whole being read over by or to the witness must be by
him subscribed and sworn to in the usual manner.

Size. (35. All exhibits produced before the person taking the
deposition, or proved or referred to by any witness, or correct
copies thereof, must be appended to the deposition and returned
with them, unless sufficient reasons be shown for not so doing.

SEC. 66. The person taking the deposition shall attach his
certificate thereto, stating that it was subscribed and sworn to
by the deponent at the time and place therein mentioned. The
whole, including the commission and interrogatories (when any
such were issued,) must then be scaled up and returned to the
clerk of the proper county by mail, unless some other mode be
agreed upon between the parties.

SEC. 67. The depositions when thus returned must be opened by the clerk and placed on file in his office; after which he
shall at any time furnish any person with an attested copy of the
same upon the payment of the customary fees, but must not allow
them to be taken from his office previous to the next term of the
court, unless by the mutual written consent of the parties.

SEC. 68. The depositions when returned by mail must be
directed to the clerk of the court. They ‘shall state on the outside of the envelope the title of the cause in which they are to
be used, and the clerk is not required to take them from the office until the postage is paid by the party wishing to use them.

Sec. 69. Unimportant deviations from any of the above directions shall not cause the depositions to be excluded where no
substantial prejudice could be wrought to the opposite party by
such deviation.

SEC. 70. When depositions are directed to be taken before a
judge or justice of the peace merely by his name of office, the
return must contain an authentication by the clerk of the proper
court of record under his seal of office, verifying the fact that
the person who took the deposition is really such officer.

Sec. 71. The deposition in each of the above cases must
must show that the witness is a non-resident of the county, or
such other fact as renders the taking of the deposition legal, and
no such deposition shall be read on the trial if at that time the
witness himself is produced in court, nor when it is proved that
the cause for taking the deposition has ceased to exist, and that
attachment of the witness could have been produced.

S29. 72. All motions to exclude depositions must be made

before the commencement of the trial, or objections to their
introduction will be deemed waived.

Sec. 73. In cases in a J ustice’s Court, where the deposition
of a witness is to be taken out of the Territory, the commission
shall issue from the clerk of the District Court under his seal of
office. The appointment of the commissioner shall be in point
of form made as from the District Court, but the commission
shall state in what court it is to be used.

Sac. 74. Depositions taken to be used in a J ustice’s Court
shall be transferred to the District Court if the case be appealed,
and may be used on the trial there in the same manner as if
taken regularly after the case was in the District Court.

PBRPETUATING TESTIMONY.

SEC. 75. Any person apprehensive of becoming a party to a
civil action or proceeding may cause the evidence of any fact to
be perpetuated, so as to be used on the trial in case the oral testimony of the witness would be then admissible and camiot, by
the exercise of due diligence, be then taken.

Sec. '76. Such testimony must be taken before the judge or
clerk of the Supreme, District, or Probate Court.

SEC. 77. The same notice must be given to all persons interested, of the subject matter of the testimony, and the time and
place when and where the same will be taken, as is herein provided for taking depositions on mere notice in suits already
pending.

SEC. '78. If any of the parties are minors or otherwise incapable of managing their own affairs, the notice must be given to
their guardians or persons otherwise authorized to act for them,

Sac. 79. The testimony when thus taken is receivable only
as against those persons who have thus been served with notice
and those claiming under them.

SEC. 80. In order to render such testimony receivable against
all persons, the notice above prescribed must be published for
four successive weeks, prior to the time therein fixed, in some
newspaper, printed as convenient as practicable to the place
where the trial may be reasonably expected to take place.

SEC. 81. The officer before whom such depositions are taken
must direct in what clerk’s office they shall be filed for preservation.

SEC. 82. In all cases of taking depositions as hereinbefore
provided, the costs thereof must be paid in the first place by the
party at whose instance they are taken, subject like other costs
to be taxed against the failing party in the suit.

Sec. 83. Affidavits taken out of the Territory, before any
judge or clerk of a court of record, or before any notary public,
or a commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory
to take acknowledgment of deeds in the state where such affidavit is taken, are of the same credibility as if taken within this
Territory.

Sec. 84. The signature and seal of such of the officers
herein authorized to take depositions or. affidavits as have a seal,
and the simple signature of such as have no seal, are presumptive of the genuineness of such signature as well as of the official capacity of the officer, except as herein otherwise declared.

SEC. 85. When by the laws of any other state or country,
testimony may be taken in this Territory to be used in the courts
of such State or country, and also in all cases herein provided
for taking depositions, and persons authorized to take such depositions have power to issue subpoenas and compel obedience
thereto, to administer oaths, and do any other act of a court
which is necessary for the accomplishment of the purpose for
which they are acting.

Size. 86. Subpoenas issued by them are valid to the same
geographical extent as those issued from a J ustice’s Court, and
may be served and returned in the same mamier.

Size. 87. Any sheriff‘ or constable when called upon for that
purpose shall serve such subpoenas and make return thereto.

Size. 88. Where a person is desirous of obtaining the affidavit of another who is unwilling to make the same fully, he
may apply to any officer competent to take depositions as herein
declared, by petition stating the object for which he desires the
affidavit.

Sac. 89. If such officer is satisfied that the object is legal
and proper, he shall issue his subpoena to bring the witness before
him, and if he fails then to make a full affidavit of the facts
wherein his knowledge to the extent required of him by the ofticer, the latter may proceed to take his deposition by question
and answer in writing in the usual way, which deposition may
afterwards be used instead of an ordinary affidavit.

Sac. 90. The officer thus applied to may, in his discretion,
require notice ot the taking of such affidavit or deposition to be
given to any other person interested in the subject matter, and
allow him to be present and cross examine such witness.

SEC. 91. The court or officer to whom any ex-parte affidavit
is presented as a basis for some action, in relation to which any
discretion is lodged with such court or officer, may if deemed
proper require the witness to be brought before some proper officer and subjected to cross examination by the opposite party.

SEC. 92. The ordinary rules of evidence not incompatible
with those herein prescribed are not intended to be hereby
changed.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

VVRIT OF CERTIORARI AND REPLEVIN.

Size. 1. The writ of certiorari may be granted whenever
specially authorized by law and also in all cases where an inferior tribunal or board, or officers exercising judicial functions is

alledged to have exceeded their proper jurisdiction, or is otherwise acting or has acted irregularly or illegally, when in the
judgment of the court or judge applied to for the writ there ts
no other plain, speedy, or adequate remedy.

SEC. 2. The writ may be granted by the Judge of the District Court of the proper county, but if to be directed to a District
Court or a judge thereof then by the Supreme Court, and shall
command the defendant therein to certify fully to the court from
which the same issues, at a specihed time and place, a transcript
of the records and proceedings as well as the facts of the case
(describing and referring to them or any of them with convenient certainty) and also to have then and there the writ.

SEC. 3. If a stay of proceedings is sought the court or judge
may require a bond and fix the penalty and conditions thereof.

Sec. 4. The application for this Writ must be made on affidavit and the court may require a notice of the application to be
given to the adverse party or may grant an order to show cause,
or may grant the writ without notice.

Size. 5. The writ must be served and the proof of such service made in the same manner as is prescribed for the original
summons in a civil action, except that the original shall be left
with the defendant and the return or proof of service made upon
a copy thereof.

Size. 6. If the return to the writ be defective the court may
order a further return to be made, and may compel obedience to
the writ and to such further order by attachment if necessary.

See. 7. VVhen a full return has been made the court must
proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for
that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment affirming or annulling the proceedings below, or in its discretion correcting
those proceedings and prescribing the manner in which the
defendant shall proceed farther in the matter. ,

Sec. 8. From the decision of the District Court an appeal
lies to the Supreme Court as in other cases.

REPLEVIN.

Size. 9. When the object of the action is to recover the possession of personal property the petition must in all cases be
under oath.

SEC. 10. It must state that the property (describing it) is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, that the plaintifff is entitled to the present possession thereof, and that it was not taken
from him by any legal process, or if so taken that it was exempt
from seizure by such process. It must also state the alledged
cause of detention according to his best knowledge and belief
and also the value of property.

Sac. 11. He shall also execute a bond to the defendant with
sureties to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at least equal
to twice the value of the property sought, conditioned that he
will appear at the next term of the court and prosecute his suit
to judgment and return the property if a return be awarded, also

pay all costs and damages that may be adjudged against him.
This bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and is for
the use of any person injured by the proceedings.

SEC. 12. The clerk shall thereupon issue a writ of replevin,
directed to the sheriff‘ to take the property therein described and
deliver the same to the plaintifff. The writ shall contain a direction to the officer to summon the defendant to appear on the
‘return day before the court to which the issue is returnable and
answer to the petition of the plaintifff. The writ shall in addition to the service hereinafter prescribed be served as a summons, and no other service or notice of the commencement of
action shall be required.

Size. 13. In obedience to such writ, the sheriff must forthwith take possession of the property if in the possession of the
defendant or his agent, for which purpose he may open any
dwelling house or other enclosure having first demanded entrance
and exhibited his authority if required.

Sec. 14. If a third person claim the property he must be
made a co-defendant.

Sac. 15. If the property sought be not obtained the plaintifff,
if he establish his right thereto, shall recover the value of that
right. Whether obtained or not he shall recover the damages
he has sustained in consequence of the illegal detention
thereofSac. 16. If the plaintifff fail to establish his right to the
property, the defendant shall recover such damages as under the
circumstances he shows himself entitled to.

CHAPTER XXXV.

PROBATE COURTS.

SEC. 1. There is hereby established in each organized
county in the Territory, a Probate Court which shall be held at
the county seat, on the second Monday of each month, and shall
be a court of record.

S120. 2. Judges of Probate shall have and exercise the ordinary powers and jurisdiction of a justice of the peace.

Size. 3. The Courts of Probate in their respective counties
shall have jurisdiction of the probate of wills, the administration
of estates of deceased persons, and the guardianship of minors,
insane persons, idiots, and such other powers as may be conferred by law.

Sac. 4. They shall have power:

1st. To hear and determine all cases of debts and demands

when executors, administrators, and guardians, shall be
parties, plaintifff or defendant, when the amount claimed
to be due shall not exceed one thousand dollars ;

2d. To hear and determine questions of application for, and

to grant and issue letters of administration, testimony,
and of guardianship, and revoke the same;

3d. To take the probate of wills;

4th. To determine the persons entitled to letters of administration, testamentary, and guardianship;

5th. To cause to be taken, to receive, and file and record all
inventories, sale and appraisement bills, of the estate of
deceased persons;

6th. To require executors, administrators, and guardians to
exhibit and settle their accounts, and for the estates and
property that have come into their possession as such;

7th. To appoint commissioners to partition, real estate, and
to assign dowers;

8th. To authorize guardians to sell and convey the real
estate of their wards; to provide for the—wants, education, and support of minors, insane persons, or idiots;

9th. They shall have power to hear and determine all questions arising under the laws, and enforce the same, in
relation to illegitimate children.

SEC. 5. It shall be the duty of said courts to examine the
bonds of all guardians, administrators, or executors, at least once
in every year, and if, upon such examination, any such courts
shall have doubts of the solvency or sufficiency of the securities
in any such bonds, the court shall notify such guardian, administrator or executor, to show cause why he shall not execute a
new bond, with surety to be approved by said court as provided
by law.

SEC. 6. If, upon hearing of such matter, the court shall
require a new bond, with sureties, and such guardian, administrator or executor, shall fail to comply with the order of the
court, he shall be removed from his said trust, and his letters
revoked, and another guardian appointed in his place.

SEC. 7. The probate books are to be provided at the expense
of the county, and shall consist of a record, entry, estate and
fee book; the record book shall contain a full record of all
wills, testaments and codicils, and the probate thereof, all letters
testamentary, of administration, and guardianship, and all bonds
of executors, guardians and administrators: the original papers
to be filed and preserved in the office.

Size. 8. There shall be entered in the estate book, all inventories, appraisements, sale bills, and other exhibits and reports,
received by the court, relative to the settlement or disposition of
estates, showing the amount of all such estates, as shown by such
instrument.

Sac. 9. The entry book shall contain a fair statement of all
matters, controversies, and suits, that may have arisen for decision or adjudication before said court, with the names of the
parties, date of each entry, and the judgment or opinion of the
court, and all orders thereof.

Sac. 10. The fee book shall contain an exact account of all
fees allowed and paid in each case, showing the names of the

persons receiving the same, and for what such fees were paid.
Size. 11. To said books shall be attached an index, which

shall at all times be kept up with entries therein in alphabetical
order by the names of parties of persons in whose name the
entries are made.

CHAPTER XXXVI.
PARTITION.

SEC. 1. When the object of the action is to effect a partition
of real property among several joint owners, the petition must
describe the property and the respective interests of the several
owners thereof, if known.

SEC. 2. If the number of shares or interests is known but
the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are supposed
to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent, or doubtful,
these facts must be set forth in the petition with reasonable
certainty.

SEC. 3. Creditors having a specific or general lien upon all
or any portion of the property may, or may not, be made parties
at the option of the plaintifff‘.

Size. 4. If the lien is upon one or more undivided interests
of any of the parties, it shall, after partition or sale, remain a
charge upon those particular interests or the proceeds thereof.
But the due proportion of costs is a charge upon those interests
paramount to all other liens.

SEC. 5. The answers of the defendants must state among
other things the amount and nature of their respective interests.
They may deny the interest of any of the plaintifffs and by supplemental pleading if necessary may deny the interest of any of
the other defendants.

SEC. 6. Where there are two or more plaintifffs they may
reply jointly, or either of them may reply to an[y] or all the
answers of the defendants.

SEC. 7. Issues may thereupon be joined and tried between
any of the contesting parties, the question of costs on such issues
being regulated between the contestants agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.

See. 8. Each of the parties appearing, whether as plaintifft"
or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof of title, if (he
has any) and must file the same or copies thereof with the
clerk.

Site. 9. If the statements in the petition and answers are
not contradicted in the manner aforesaid or by the documentary proof exhibited as above required they shall be taken as
true.

SEC. 10. After all the shares and interests of the parties
have been settl-ed in any of the methods aforesaid judgment
shall be rendered confirming those shares and interests and directing partitions to be made accordingly.

Size. 11. Upon entering such judgment the court shall appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number of
shares.

Sec. 12. For good and sufficient reasons appearing to the
court the referees may be directed to allot particular portions
of the land to particular individuals. In other cases the shares
must be made as nearly as possible of equal value.

SEC. 13. If it appears to the referees that a partition cannot
be made without a great prejudice to the owners they shall so
report to the court.

SEC. 14. If satisfied with such report the court shall cause
an order to be entered directing the referees to sell the premises
so situated and shall also fix the terms of sale.

Sec. 15. Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall each
give security, to be approved by the court or judge thereof. conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties. At any time
thereafter the court may require further and better security.

See. 16. The same notice of sale shall be given as when lands
are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the sale shall be conducted in like manner.

SEC. 17. After completing said sale the referees must report
their proceedings to the court with a description of the different
parcels of land sold to each purchaser and the price‘ bid therefore,
which report shall be filed with the clerk.

Sac. 18. After making the order of sale as aforesaid, the
court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be any
general encumbrance by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon
any portion of the property

SEC. 19. If deemed advisable, the court may appoint a
referee to inquire into the nature and amount of encumbrances
and report accordingly. From that report an appeal lies to the
court.

Size. 20. The referees shall give the parties interested at
least five days notice of the time and place when he will receive
proof- of the amount of such encumbrances.

SEC. 21. In taking such proof he may receive, with other
evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested.

Sric. 22. If any encumbrance be ascertained to exist, the
proceeds of the sale of that portion (after the payment of costs)
or so much thereof as is necessary shall, if the owner consent,
be paid over to the encumbrancer.

SEC. 23. If the owner object to the payment of such encumbrance the money shall be retained or invested by order of the
court to direct final action in relation to its disposition, and
notice thereof shall be forthwith given to the encumbrancer, unless he has already been made a party.

Sac. 2-1, The court may direct an issue to be made up be‘tween the encumbrancer and the owner, which shall be decisive

of their respective rights.

SEC. 25. If an estate for life or years be found to exist as
an encumbrance upon any part of said property, and if the parties cannot agree upon the sum in gross which they will consider
an equivalent for such estate, the court shall direct the avails of

the incumbered property to be invested, and the proceeds to be
paid to the encumbrancer during the life time of the encumbrance.

Sac. 26. The proceedings in relation to the encumbrances
shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other shares
in respect to which no difficulties exist.

Size. 27. The court in its discretion may require all or any
of the parties before they receive the monies arising from any
sale authorized in this chapter, to give satisfactory security to
refund such monies with interest in case it afterwards appears
that such parties were not entitled thereto.

SEC. 28. If the sales aforesaid be approved and confirmed
by the court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees or
any two of them to execute conveyance pursuant to such sales.
But no conveyances can be made until all the money is paid,
without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage of the land so
sold or other equivalent security.

SEC. 29. Such conveyances so executed, being recorded in
the county where the premises are situate, shall be valid against
all subsequent purchasers, and also against all persons interested
at the time who were made parties to the proceedings in the
mode pointed out by law.

SEC. 30. If the owner of any share thus sold has a husband
or wife living and if such husband and wife do not agree as to
the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such sale,
the court must direct it to be invested in real estate under the
supervision of such person as it may appoint, taking the title in
the name of the owner of the share sold as aforesaid.

Sec. 31. If the sales are disapproved, the money paid and
the securities given must be returned to the persons respectively
entitled thereto.

Sec. 32. When a partition is deemed proper the referees
must make out the shares by visible monuments, and may employ a competent surveyor and the necessary assistants to aid
them therein.

Sac. 33. The report of the referees must be in writing signed
by at least two of them. It must describe the respective shares
with reasonable particularity and be accompanied by a plat of
the premises.

Size. 34. Unless the shares are allotted to their respective
owners by the referees as herein before contemplated, the
clerk shall number the shares and then draw the names of the
future owners by lot.

Size. 35. When partition can be conveniently made of part
of the premises but not of all, one portion may be partitioned
and the other sold as hereinafter provided.

Sec. 36. On good cause shown, the report may be set aside
and the matter again referred to the same or other referees.

SEC. 37. Upon the report of the referees being confirmed,
judgment thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm
and effectual forever.

SEC. 38. When all the parties in interest have been duly

notified to appear and answer, either by the service of the petition and notice, or by the publication prescribed by law, any of
the proceedings above authorized shall be binding and conclusive
upon them all. If only a portion of such services be served
they only shall be bound by such proceedings.

Sec. 39. This judgment of partition shall be presumptive
evidence of title in all cases, and as between the parties themselves it is conclusive evidence thereof, subject however to be
defeated by proof of a title paramount to, or independent of,
that under which the parties held as joint tenants or tenants in
common.

SEC. 40. All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall
be paid in the first instance by the plaintifffs, but eventually by
all the parties in proportion to their interests, except those costs
which are created by contests above provided for.

Size. 41. Any persons claiming to hold an encumbrance upon
any portion of the property involved in the suit may, in default
of the owner, appear and act as his representative in any of the
proceedings under this act.

S30. 42. Persons having contingent interests in such property
may be made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of the
property so situated (or the property itself in case of partition)
shall be subject to the order of the court until the right becomes
fully vested,

S120. 43. The ascertained share of any absent owner shall
be retained, or the proceeds invested for his benefit.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES BY ACTION.

Size. 1. All petitions for the foreclosure or satisfaction of
mortgages shall be filed in the District Court in chancery where
the mortgage premises are situated.

Sec. 2. Whenever a petition shall be filed for the foreclosure
or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall have power to
decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as
may be sufficient to discharge the amount due on the mortgage,
and the cost of suit.

SEC. 3. When a petition shall be filed for the satisfaction of
a mortgage, the court shall not only have power to decree and
compel the delivery of the possession of the premises to the purchaser thereof, but on the comeing in of the report of sale, the
court shall have power to decree and direct the payment by the
mortgageor of any balance of the mortgage debt that may
remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in the
cases in which such balance is recoverable at law; and for that
purpose may issue the necessary executions as in other cases,
against other property of the mortgageor.

SEC. 4. After such petition shall be filed, while the same is
pending, and after a decree rendered thereon, no proceedings,
whatever shall be had at law for the recovery of the debt, secured by the mortgage, or any part thereof, unless authorized by
the court.

Sec. 5. If the mortgage debt to be secured by the obligation or other evidence of debt of any other person besides the
mortgagor, the complainant may make such person a party to
the petition, and the court may decree payment of the balance
of such debt remaining unsatisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as well against such other person as the mortgag,
or and may enforce such decree as in other cases.

Sec. 6. Upon filing a petition for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage the complainant shall state therein whether any proceedings have been had at law for recovery of the
debt secured thereby, or any part thereof, and whether such
debt or any part thereof, has been collected or paid.

SEC. 7. If it appear that any judgment has been obtained
in a suit at law, for the money demanded by such petition, or
any part thereof, no proceedings shall be had in such case, unless to an execution against the property of the defendant in
such judgment, the sheriff or other proper officer shall have returned that the execution is unsatisfied in whole or in part, and
that the defendant has no property whereof to satisfy such execution, except the mortgaged premises.

Sec. 8. All sales of mortgaged premises under a decree in
chancery, shall be made by a sheriff or other person authorized
by the court, in the county where the premises, or some part of
them, are situated.

Sec. 9. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such sheriff,
which shall vest in the purchaser the same estate that would
have vested in the mortgagee if the equity of redemption had
been foreclosed, and no other or greater; and such deeds shall
be as valid as if executed by the mortgagor and mortgee, and
shall be an entire bar against each of them, and against all parties to the suit in which the decree for such sale was made, and
against their heirs respectively, and all persons claiming under
such heirs.

SEC. 10. The proceeds of every sale made under a decree
in chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by such court to be due, and of the costs awarded, and
if there be any surplus, it shall be brought into court for the
use of the defendant, or of the person entitled thereto, subject
to the order of the court.

SEC. 11. If such surplus or any part thereof shall remain
in said court for the term of three months Without being applied
for, the court may direct the same to be put out at interest under
the direction of the court, for the benefit of the defendant, his
representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order of
such court. ~

SEC. 12. Whenever a petition shall be filed for the satisfaction or foreclosure of any mortgage, upon which there shall be

due any interest on any portion or instalment of the principal,
and there shall be other portions or instalments to become due
subsequently, the petition shall be dismissed upon the defendant’s bringing into court, at any time before the decree of sale,
the principal and interest due, with costs.

SEC. 13. If, after a decree for sale, entered against a defendant in such case, he shall bring into court the principal and
interest due with costs, the proceedings in the suit shall be stayed, but the court shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale,
to be enforced by afurther order of the court,upon a subsequent
default in the payment of any portion or instalment of the principal, or any interests thereafter to grow due.

Sec: 14. If the defendant shall not- bring into court the
amount due, with costs, or if for any other cause a decree shall
pass for the complainant, the court may direct a reference to a
sheriff to ascertain and report the situation of the mortgaged
premises, or may determine the same on- oral or other testimonr, and if it shall appear that the same can be sold in parcels,
without injury to the parties, the decree shall direct so much of
the mortgaged premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay
the amount then due on such mortgage, with costs, and such
decree shall remain a security for any subsequent default.

SEC. 15. If, in the case mentioned in the receding section,
there shall be any default subsequent to such ecree in the payment of any portion or instalment of the principal, or any interest due upon such mortgage, the court may, upon the petition of
the complainant, by a further order, founded upon such first decree, direct a sale of so much of the mortgaged premises to be
made, under such decree, as will be sufficient to satisfy the
amount so due, with the costs of such petition and the subsequent proceedings thereon, and the same proceedings may be
had as often as a default shall happen.

SEC. 16. If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear to
the court that the mortgaged premises are so situated that a sale
of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the decree
shall, in the first instance, be entered for the sale of the whole
premises accordingly. _

Sec. 17. In such case the proceeds of such sale shall be applied as well to the interest, portion or instalment of the principal due as towards the whole or residue of the sum secured by
such mortgage, and not due and payable at the time of such
sale, and if such residue do not bear interest, then the court
may direct the same to be paid with a rebate of the legal interest, for the time during which such residue shall not be due and
payable, or the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of
such sale, after paying the sum due with costs, to be put out at
interest, for the benefit of the complainant, to be paid to him,
as the instalments, or portions of the principal, or the interest
may become due, and the surplus for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them on the
order of the court. '

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

OF THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES BY ADVERTISEMENT.

Sec. 1. Every mortgage of real estate, containing therein a
power of sale, upon default being made in any condition of such
mortgage, may be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases and
in the manner hereinafter specified.

Sec. 2. To entitle any party to give a notice as hereinafter
prescribed, and to make such foreclosure, it shall be requisite :

1st. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall

have occurred by which the power to sell became operative;

2d. That no suit or proceeding shall have been instituted at
law to recover the debt then remaining secured by such
mortgage or any part thereof, or if any suit or proceeding

has been instituted that the same has been discontinued,

or that an execution upon the judgment rendered therein.

has been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, and
that the mortgage containing such power of sale has
been duly recorded, and if it shall have been assigned,
that all the assignments thereof shall have been recorded.

SEC. 3. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by a
sale of the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be
given by publishing the same for twelve successive weeks, at
least once in each week, in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises intended to be sold, or some part of them,
are situated, if there be one, and if no newspaper be printed in
such county then such notice shall be published in a paper nearest thereto ;

Size. 4. Every such notice shall specify :

1st. The name of the mortgagor, and of the mortgagee, and

the assignee of the mortgage if any;

2d. The date of the mortgage and when recorded;

3d. The amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of the

notice; and a

4th. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming

substantially with that contained in the mortgage.

Size. 5. The sale shall be at public vendue, between the hour
of nine o’clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun, at the
place of holding the Circuit Court within the county in which
the premises to be sold, or some part of them, are situated, and
shall be made by the person appointed for that purpose in the
mortgage, or by the sheriff, under sheriff, or a deputy sheriff of
the county, to the highest bidder.

SEC. 6. Such sale may be postponed from time to time, by
inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable,
in the newspaper in which the original advertisement was pubblished and continuing such publication until the time to which
the sale shall be postponed, at the expense of the party requesting such postponement.
Snc. 7. If the mortgage premises consist of distinct farn.s,

tracts, or lots, shall be sold separately, and no more farms,

tracts, or lots, shall be sold than shall be necessary to satisfy the
amount due on such mortgage at the date of the notice of sale,
with interest and the costs and expenses allowed by law.

Size. 8. The mortgagee, his assigns, or heirs, or their legal
representatives may, fairly and in good faith, purchase the premises so advertised, or any part thereof, at such sale.

Site. 9. The officer or person making the sale shall forthwith
execute and deliver to each purchaser a deed of the premises
bid off by him, specifying therein, as the consideration of such
deed, the precise amount for which said parcel was sold, such
deed shall thereupon become operative, and may be recorded,
and shall vest in the grantee therein named, his heirs or
assigns, all the right, title and interest which the mortgagor had
at the time of the execution of the mortgage or at any time
thereafter; but no person having any valid subsisting lien upon
the mortgaged premises, or any part thereof, created before the
lien of such mortgage took effect shall be prejudiced by any
such sale, nor shall his rights or interests be in any way affected
thereby.

Size. 10. If after any sale of real estate made, as herein
prescribed, there shall remain in the hands of the officer or other

' person making the sale, any surplus money, after satisfying the

mortgage upon which such real estate was sold and payment of
the costs and expenses of such foreclosure and sale, the surplus
shall be paid over by such officer or other person, on demand to
the mortgagor, his legal representatives or assigns.

SEC. 11. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence of
any sale made in pursuance of the provision of this chapter, may
procure :

lst. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and

of any notice of postponement, to be made by the printer
of the newspaper in which the same was inserted, or the
facts; and

2d. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be made by the person who acted as auctioneer
at the sale, stating the time and place at which the same
took place, the sum bid, and the name of the purchaser.

Size. 12. The affidavits specified in the last proceeding section may be taken and certified by any officer authorized by law
to administer oaths.

Size. 13. Such affidavits shall be recorded at length by the
register of deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, in a book kept for the record of mortgages; and such original affidavits, the record thereof, and certified copies of such
records, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts therein contained.

SEC. 14. A note refering to the page and book where the
evidence of any sale having been made under a mortgage, is
recorded shall be made by the register recording such evidence
in the margin of the record of such mortgage, if such record be
in his office.


