CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

SECTION 1. The rule of the common law, that statutes
in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no
application to this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings
under it, shall be liberally construed, with a. view to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.

 

TITLE I.

FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 2. The distinction between actions at law, and the
forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, is
abolished; and there shall be, hereafter, but one form of
action, which shall be called a civil action.

SEC. 3. In such action, the part complaining shall be

“known as the plaintifff, and the a verse party as the defendant

SEC. 4. There can be no feigned issues; but a question
of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a
jury, upon an order for the trial, stating, distinctly and plainly, the uestion of fact to be tried, and such order is the
only aut ority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.

TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 5. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the time prescribed in this title, after the cause of action
shall have accrued.

SEC. 6. An action for the recovery of the title or possession of lands, tenements or hereditaments, can only be
brought within twenty-one years after the cause of such
action shall have accrued.

SEC. 7. If a person entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of the title or possession of any lands, tenements or hereditaments, be, at the time his or her right or
title shall first descend or accrue, within the age of twentyone years, a married woman, insane, or imprisoned, every

‘such person may, after the ex iration of twenty-one years
from the time his or her rig t or title first descended or
accrued, bring such action Within ten years after such disability is removed, and at no time thereafter.

SEC. 8. An action for the forcible entry and detainer, or
forcible detainer only, of real property, can only be brought
within one year after the cause of such action shall have
accrued.

SEC. 9. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real
property, can only be brought within the following periods,
after the cause of action shall have accrued:

SEC. 10. VVithin five years, an action upon a specialty,
or any agreement, contract or promise in Writing, or foreign
judgment.

SEC. 11. Within four years, an action upon a contract,
not in writing, expressed or implied; an action upon a.
liability created b statute, other than a forfeiture or penalty.

SEC. 12. Wit in four years, an action for trespass upon
real property; an action for taking, detaining or injuring
personal property, including actions for the specific recovery
of personal property; an action for an injury to the rights
of the plaintifff, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter
enumerated; an action for relief on the ground of fraud,
but the cause of action in such case shall not deemed to
have accrued until the discovery of the fraud.

SEC. 13. Within one year, an action for libel, slander,
assault and battery, malicious prosecution or false imprisonment; an action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture,
but where the statute giving such action prescribes a different limitation, the action may be brought within the period
so limited.

SEC. 14. An action u on the official bond or undertaking of an executor, a ministrator, guardian, sheriff, or
any other olhcer, or upon the bond or undertaking given in
attachment, injunction, or in any case Whatever required by
statute, can only be brought within ten years.

SEC. 15. Actions brought for damages growing out of

' the failure, or Want of consideration of contracts, express or

implied, or for the recovery of money paid upon contracts,
express or implied, the consideration of which has Wholly
or in part failed, shall be brought Within four years

SEC. 16. An action for relief not hereinbefore rovided
for, can only be brought Within four years after t e cause
of action shall have accrued.

SEC. 17. If a person entitled to bring any action mentioned in this title, except for a penalty or forfeiture, be,
at the time the cause of action accrued, Within the age of
twenty-one years, a married woman, insane, or im risoned,
every such person shall be entitled to bring suc action
within the respective times limited by this title after
such disability shall be removed. The absence from the
territory, death, or other disability of a non-resident, save
the cases mentioned in this section, shall not operate to
extend the period within which actions in rem shall be
commenced by and against such non-resident, or his
representatives.

SEC. 18. All actions, or causes of action, which are or
have been barred by the laws of this territor , or any state
or territory of the United States, shall be deemed barred
under the laws of this territory.

SEC. 19. An action shall be deemed commenced, Within

the meaning of this title, as to the defendant, at the

date of the summons which is served on him; Where service by publication is proper, the action shall be deemed
commenced at the date of the first publication, which publication shall be regularly made.

SEC. 20. If, when a cause of action accrues against a
person, he be out of the territory, or shall have absconded
or concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement of the action shall not begin to run until he come
into the territory, or while he is absconded or concealed;
and if, after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the
territory, or abscoud or conceal himself‘, the time of his
absence or concealment shall not be computed as any part
of the period within which the action must be brought

SEC. 21. When a cause of action has been fully
barred by the laws of any state or country where the defendant has reviously resided, such bar shall be the same
defense in t is territory as though it had arisen under the
provisions of this title. .

SEC. 22. In any cause founded on contract, when any
part of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an
acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim, or
any promise to pay the same, shall have been made in
writing, an action may be brought in such case within the
period rescribed for the same, after such payment, acknowledigment or promise.

SEC. 23. In all actions upon bills of exchange or promissory notes, or other Written instruments, whenever any of
the parties thereto are designatedb the initial letter or letters, or some contraction of the christian or first name or
names, it shall be sufficient to designate such person by the
name, initial letter or letters, or contraction of the first
name or names, instead of stating the christian or first
name or names in full.

SEC. 24. Any company or association of ersons formed
for the purpose of carrying on any trade or usiness, or for
the purpose of holding any species of pro erty in this
territory, and not incorporated, may sue an be sued by
such usual name as such company, artnership or association may have assumed to itself or lie known by, and it
shall not be necessary in such case to set forth in the process or pleadings, or to prove at the trial, the names of the
persons composing such company.

SEC. 25. Process against any such company or firm
shall be served by a copy left at their usual p ace of doing
business within the county, with one of the members of
such company or firm, or with a clerk or general agent
thereof, and executions issued on any judgments rendered in such proceedings shall be levied only on partnershi property.

EC. 26. In cases where a company shall sue in its partnership name, such company shall procure the Writ to be
endorsed b a responsible surety, resident of the county, for
costs, or ot erwise give security for costs.

SEC. 27. If the plaintifff, in any judgment so rendered
against any company or partnership, shall seek to charge
the individual property of the persons composing such
company or firm, it shall be lawful for him to file a bill in
chancery against the several members thereof, setting forth
his judgment and the insufficiency of the partnership property to satisfy the same, and to have a decree for the debt,
and an award of execution against all such persons or an
of them as may appear to have been members of such
company, association or firm.

SEC. 28. The remedies hereby given shall not be construed as reipealing any laws now in force in relation to
writs by an against partners, but as an addition thereto.

 

TITLE III.

PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 29. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided
in section thirt -two.

SEC. 30. he assignee of a thing in action may maintain an action thereon in his own name and behalf, without
the name of the assignor.

SEC. 31. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice
to any set-off or other defense now allowed; but this
section shall not apply to negotiable bonds, romissory
notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in goo faith and
upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 32. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee
of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name,
a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action without joinmg with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. Ofhcers may sue and be sued in such name as is
authorized by law, and official bonds may be sued upon
in the same way.

SEC. 33. Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her; except when the action
concerns her separate property, she may sue without her
husband, by her next friend.

SEC. 34. When the action is between herself and her
husband, she may sue or be sued alone ; but in every such
action other than for a divorce or alimony, she shall prosecute and defend by her next friend.

SEC. 35. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right; and if the husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

SEC. 36. The action of an infant must be brought by
his guardian or next friend. When the action is brought
by his next friend, the court has power to’ dismiss it, if it
is not for the benefit of the infant; or, to substitute the
guardian of the infant, or any person, as the next friend.

SEC. 37. The guardian or the next friend is liable for
the costs of the action brought by him, and, when he is
insolvent, the court may require security for them. Either
ma be a witness in an action brou ht by him.

EC. 38. The defense of an in ant must be by a guardian for the suit, who may be appointed by the court in
which the action is rosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by
a probate judge. The appointment cannot be made until
after service of the summons in the action, as directed by
this code.

SEC. 39. The appointment may be made upon the aplication of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
and apply within twenty days after the return of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to
apply, the appointment may be made upon the a plication
of any friend of the infant, or on that of the p aintiff in
the action.

SEC. 40. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may
be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this
title.

SEC. 41. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the
plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involve therein.

SEC. 42. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined, as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of one who should have been

joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a

defendant, the reason being stated in the petition.

SEC. 43. When the question is one of a common or
general interest of many persons, or when the parties are
ve numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them
all efore the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of all.

SEC. 44. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be
included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

SEC. 45. An action does not abate b the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or byt e transfer of any
interest therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In the case of the marriage of a
female arty, the fact being suggested on the record, the
husband) ma be made a party with his wife; and in the
case of the death or other disability of a party, the court
may allow the action to continue by or against his representative or successor in interest In case of any other

transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the
name of the original party; or the court may allow the
person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in
the action.

SEC. 46. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but
when a determination of the controversy cannot be had
without the presence of other parties, the court must order
them to be brought in.

SEC. 47. When, in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, any erson having an interest in the propertiy applies to be ma e a party, the court may order It to

e one.

SEC. 48. Upon the affidavit of a defendant before answer in an action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal property, that some third party, without collusion
with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action,
and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the same, as the
court may direct, the court may make an order for the safe
kee ing, or for the payment, or de osit in court, or delivery
of t e subject of the action, to sucli person as it may direct,
and an order requiring such third party to appear in a
reasonable time and maintain or relinquish his claim against
the defendant. lf such third party, being served with a
copy of the order by the sheriff or such other person as
the court may direct, fail to appear, the court may declare
him barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the
action, against the defendant therein. If such third party
party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself defendant
111 the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall
be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties
in respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance
with the order of the court for the payment, deposit or
delivery thereof.

SEC. 49. The provisions of the last section shall be
ap licable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other
0 cer, for the recovery of personal property taken by him
under execution, or for the roceeds of such pro erty so
taken and sold by him. And the defendant in sucli action
shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions against
the party in whose favor the execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with
his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or
its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken under such
process.

SEC. 50. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer,
for the recovery of property taken under an execution, and

replevied by the plaintifff in such action, the court may,
u on application of the defendant, and of the party in
w ose favor the execution issued, permit the latter to be
substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being

given.

 

TITLE IV.

THE COUNTY IN WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO BE BROUGHT.

SEC. 51. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county in which the subject of the action is
situated, except as provided in section fifty-two:

First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein.

Second. For the partition of real property. .

Tlzircl. For the sale of real property under a mortgage,
lien, or other encumbrance or charge.

SEC. 52. If the real property, the subject of the action,
be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or if
it consists of separate tracts situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county in which any
tract or part thereof is situated, unless it be an action to
recover the possession thereof. And if the property be an
entire tract, situated in two or more counties, an action to
recover the possession thereof may be brought in either of
such counties ; but if it consists of separate tracts in
different counties, the possession of such tracts must be
recovered by separate actions brought in the counties where
they are situated.

SEC. 53. An action to compel the specific performance of a contract of sale of real estate, may be brought in
the county where the defendants, or any of them, reside.

SEC. 54. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose:

First. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture or
penalty, imposed by a statute ; except that, when it is
imposed for an offense committed on a river, or other stream
of water, or road, which is the boundary of two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on such river, water course or road, and opposite to the
place where the offense was committed.

Second. An action against a public ofncer, for an act

done by him in virtue or under color of his office, or for a
neglect of his official duty.

Third. An action on the official bond or undertaking of
a public officer.

SEC. 55. An action other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this title, against a corporation created by the laws of this territory, may be brought
in the county in which it is situated, or has its principal
office or place of business; but if such corporation be
an insurance company, the action may be brought in
the county where the cause of action, or some part thereof;
arose.

SEC. 56. An action against a railroad com any, or an
owner of a line of mail stages, or other coac es, for an
injur to person or property upon the road or line, or upon
a liability as a carrier, may be brought in any county
through or into which the said road or line passes.

SEC. 57. An action other than one of those mentioned
in the nrst three sections of this title, against a turn ike
road compan ,may be brought in any co ..nty in which
any part of t e road lies.

SEC. 58. The provisions of this title shall not apply
in the case of any corporation created by a law of this territory, whose charter prescribes a place where alone a suit
against such corporation may be brought.

SEC. 59. An action other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this title, against a nonresident of this territory or a foreign corporation, may be
brought in any county in which there may be roperty of,
or debts owing to, said defendant, or where sai defendant
may be found; but if said defendant be a foreign insurance
company, the action may be brought in any county where
the cause, or some part thereof, arose.

SEC. 60. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or some one of the defendants, resides, or ma be summoned.

SEO. 61. In al cases in which it shall be made to
appear by allidavit to the satisfaction of the court, that a
fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the county where
the suit is ending, the court may change the place of trial
to some 'a£oining county wherein such impartial trial can
be had; but if the objection shall be against all the counties of the district, then to the nearest county in the adjoining district.

» TITLE V.

C-OMMENCEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.

CHAPTER I.

MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 62. A civil action must be commenced by filing
in the office of the clerk of the proper court a petition, and
causing a summons to be issued thereon.

SEC. 63. The plaintifff shall also file, with the clerk of
the court, a recipe, stating the names of the parties to the
action, and emanding that a summons issue thereon.

SEC. 64. The summons shall be issued b the clerk,
shall be under the seal of the court from which the same
shall issue, and shall be signed by the clerk. Its style
shall be “ Th... Territory of Nebraska, County,” and
it shall be dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed
to the sheriff of the county, and command him to notify
the defendant or defendants named therein, that he or
they have been sued, and must answer the petition filed by
the plaintifff, giving his name, at the time stated therein,
or the petition will be taken as true, and judgment rendered accordingly. And where the action is for the recovery of money only, there shall be endorsed on the writ the
amount to be furnished in the preci e, for which, with
interest, judgment will be taken, if t e defendant fail to
answer. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall
not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs.

SEC. 65. Where the action is rightly brought in any
county, according to the provisions of title four, a summons shall be issued to any other county, against any one
or more of the defendants, at the plaintifff’s request.

SEC. 66. VVhenever the time for bringing arties into
court is not fixed b statute, the summons shal be returnable on the secon Monday after the day of its date, but
when issued to any other county than the one in which the
action is brought, it may be made returnable, at the option
of the party having it issued, on the third or fourth Monda
after its date. It shall state the day of the month on which
it is returnable.

SEC. 67. When a writ is returned “not summoned,”
other writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be summoned; and when defendants reside in

diiferent counties, writs may be issued to such counties
at the same time.

CHAPTER II.

SERVICE OF SUMMONS.

Actual Service.

SEC. 68. The summons shall be served by the officer to
Whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original Writ
the time and manner of service. It may also be served
by any person not a arty to the action, appointed by the
officer to Whom it is directed. The authority of such person shall be indorsed on the writ. When the writ is
served by a person appointed by the oiiicer to whom it is
directed, orwhen the service is made out of this territory,
the return shall be verified b oath or affirmation.

SEC. 69. The service shall’ be by delivering a copy of
the summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving
one at his usual place of residence, at any time before the
return day.

SEC. 70. In all cases the return must state the time and
manner of service.

SEC. 71. The officer to whom the summons is directed
must return the same at the time therein stated.

SEC. 72. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is
equivalent to a service.

SEC. 73. A summons against a corporation may be
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of directors or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its
chief officer is not found in the county, upon its cashier,
treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing agent; or, if
none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a cop
left at the oihce or last usual place of business of suc
corporation.

SEC. 74. When the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county in
which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon

the chief officer of such agency.

SEC. 75. When the defendant is a forei n corporation,
having a managing agent in this territory, t e service may
be upon such agent.

SEC. 76. When the defendant is a minor under the age

'of' fourteen years, the service must be upon him, and upon

his guardian or father; or, if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or the erson having the care or
control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither
of these can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient.

The manner of service may be the same as in the case of
adults.

Cbnstructive Service.

SEC. 77. Service may be made by publication in either
of the following cases:

First. In actions brought under the fifty-first, fiftysecond and fifty-third sections of this code, where any or
all of the defendants reside out of the territory.

Second. In actions brought to establish or set aside a
will, where any or all the defendants reside out of the territo .

T ird. In actions brought against a. non-resident of
this territory, or a foreign corporation, having in this territory property or debts owing to them, sought to be taken
by any of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated
in any way. Fourth. In actions which relate to, or the subject of
which is, real or personal pro erty in this territory, where
any defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partially in excluding him from any interest therein, and
such defendant is a non-resident of the territory, or a foreign

co oration. .
iflh. In all actions where the defendant, being a

resident of the territory, has departed therefrom, or from the
county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein with the like intent.

SEC. 78. Before service can be made by publication, an '
affidavit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be i
made within this territory, on the defendant or defendants
to be served by publication, and that the case is one of
those mentioned in the preceding section. When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make‘ service by
publication.

SEC. 79. The publication must be made four consecu- 2
tive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where ‘
the petition is filed, if there be any printed in such county;
and if there be not, in some newspaper printed in this territory of general circulation in that county. It must contain a summary statement of the object and (prayer of the
petition, mention the court wherein it is file , and notify

the person or persons thus to be served, when they are
re uired to answer.

EC. 80. Service by publication shall be deemed complete when it shall have been made in the manner and for
the time prescribed in the preceding section; and such service shall be proved by the affidavit of the printer, or his
foreman or principal clerk, or other person knowing the
same.

SEC. 81. In all cases where service’ may be made by
publication, and in all other cases where the defendants are
non-residents, and the cause of action arose in the territory,
suit may be brought in the county where the cause of action
arose, and personal service of the summons may be made
out of the territory by the sheriff or some person appointed
by him for that purpose. In all cases where service of a
summons is made on a person without the territory, proof
of such service must be made by afhdavit, stating t e time
and manner of service, and such service shall be made in
the same manner as summonses are served on parties residing within this territory.

SEC. 82. A party against whom a judgment or order

; has been rendered, without other service than by publication in a newspaper, may, at any time within five years
after the date of the jud ment or order, have the same
opened, and be let in to defend. Before the judgment or
order shall be opened, the applicant shall 've notice to the
adverse party of his intention to make sug an application,
and shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if
the court require them to be paid, and make it appear to
the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, that during the
pendency of the action he had no actual notice thereof in
time to appear in court and make his defense; but the title
to any property, the subject of - the judgment or order
sought to be opened, which, by it, or in consequence of it,
shall have passed to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be
affected by any proceedings under this section, nor shall
the affect the title of an pro erty sold before judgment
un er an attachment. he a verse party, on the hearing
of an application to open a judgment or order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed to present counter affidavits, to show that during the pendency of the
action the applicant had notice thereof in time to appear
in court and make his defense.

SEC. 83. In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants,
and it shall appear, by the aliidavit of the plaintifff annexed
to his petition, that the names of such heirs or devisees, or
any of them, and their residence, are unknown to the plaintifff, proceedings may be had against such unknown heirs or
devisees, without naming them, and the court shall make
such order respecting service as ma be deemed proper; if
service by publication be ordered, t e publication shall not
be less than four weeks.

SEC. 84. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not
all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:

First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may roceed against the defendants served, unless the court ot erwise direct.

Second. If the action be against defendants severally
liable, he may, without prejudice to his rights against those
not served, proceed against the defendants served in the
same manner as if they were the only defendants.

SEC. 85. When the summons has been served, or ublication made, the action is pending, so as to char e t ird
persons with notice of its pendency, and while pen ing, no
mterest can be acquired by third persons in the subject
matter thereof, as against the plaintifff ’s title.

SEC. 86. When any part of the real property, the subject matter of an action, is situated in any other county or
counties than the one in which the action is brought, a certifled copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded
in the clerk’s office of such other county or counties, before it shall operate therein as a notice, so as to charge third
persons as provided in the preceding section. It shall operate as such notice, without record, in the county where it
is rendered; but this section shall not apply to actions or
proceedings under any statute now in force, which does not
require such record.

TITLE VI.

J OINDER IN ACTIONS.

SEC. 87. The plaintifff may unite several causes of ac-;
tion in the same petition, when they are included in either.
one of the followlng classes: 1

First. The same transaction or transactions connected!
with the same subject of action.

Second. Contracts, express or implied.

Third. Injuries, with or without force, to person and

property, or either.

Fourth. Injuries to character.

Fiflh. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof

Sixth. Claims to recover real property, with or without
damages for the Withholding thereof, and the rents and
profits of the same.

Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by 0 eration of law.

SEC. 88. he causes of action so united must affect all
the parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial.

 

TITLE VII.

PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

SEC. 89. The pleadings are the Written statements, by
the parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims
and defenses

SEC. 90. The rules of leading heretofore existing in
civil actions are abolished); and hereafter the forms of
pleadingl in civil actions in courts of record, and the rules

y whic their sufficiency may be determined, are those prescribed by this code.

SEC. 91. The only pleadings allowed are —

F irst. The petition by the plaintifff.

Second. The answer or demurrer by the defendant.

Third. The demurrer, or reply by the laintiff

Fourth. The demurrer to the reply by t e defendant

CHAPTER II.

THE PETITION.

SEC. 92. The petition must contain —

First. The name of the court and county in which the
action is brought, and the names of the parties, plaintifff and
defendant.

Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause

of action, in ordinary and concise language, and without
repetition.

Third. A demand of the relief to which the party supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated; and it interest
thereon be claimed, the time from which interest is to be
computed, shall also be stated.

SEC. 93. Where the etition contains more than one

cause of action, each sh 1 be separately stated and numbered.

CHAPTER III.‘
DEMURRER.

SEC. 94. The defendant ma demur to the petition only ,

when it ap ears on its face, eit er—

First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person
of the defendant, or the subject of the action.

Seconal That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue.

Third. That there is another action pending between
the same parties for the same cause. '

Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or
defendant.

 That several causes of action are improperly

o1ne .
J Szlrlh. That the etition does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause 0 action.

SEC. 95. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the
grounds of objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it}
shall be regarded as objecting only that the etition does‘
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause o action.

SEC. 96. When any of the defects enumerated in sec-f
tion ninety-four do not appear upon the face of the petition, -Z
the objection may be taken by answer; and if no 0 jection T
be taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall ,
be deemed to have waived the same, exce t only the ob-4
jection to the jurisdiction of the court, an that the petition does not state facts suiiicient to constitute a cause of
action.

SEC. 97. When a demurrer is sustained on the ground
of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on
motion of the plaintifff, shall allow him, with or without
costs, in its discretion, to file several petitions, each including such of said causes of action as might have been
joined; and an action shall be docketed for each of said

petitions, and the same shall be proceeded in without
further service.

SEC. 98. The defendant may demur to one or more of
the several causes of action stated in the petition, and
answer as to the residue.

CHAPTER IV.
ANSWER.

SEC. 99. The answer shall containFz'r.st. A general or specinc denial of each material alle~
gation of the petition controverted by the defendant.

Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counterclaim or set-off, in ordinary and concise
language, and without re etition.

SEC. 100. The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defense, counterclaim and set-off as he
may have. Each must be separately stated and numbered,
an they must refer in an intelligible manner to the cause of
action which they are intended to answer. —

SEC. 101. The counterclaim, mentioned in the last
section, must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and
against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might
be had in the action, and arising out of the contract or
transaction set forth in the petition as the foundation of
the plaintifff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the
action.

SEC. 102. If the defendant omit to set up the counterclaim or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the laintiff
in any subsequent action thereon; but this section s all not
apply to causes of action which are stricken out of or
withdrawn from the answer, as provided in sections one
hundred and three and one hundred and twenty-six.

SEC. 103. “Then it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the counterclaim, the court may
either permit the new party to be made by a summons, to
reply to the counterclaim, or may direct the counterclaim
to be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a
separate action.

SEC. 10~L A set-off can only he pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising
upon contract, or ascertained by the decision of the court.

SEC. 105. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall
permit the new party to be made, if it also appear that
owin to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff,
or ot or cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing
his claim, unless permitped to use it as a set-off.

SEC. 106. When cross-demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that if one had brought
an action against the other a counterclaim or set-off could
have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit
thereof by the assignment or death of the other, but the
two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they
equal each other.

SEC. 107. The guardian of an infant or person of an
unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny
in the answer all material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.

CHAPTER V.
REPLY.

SEC. 108. There shall be a reply or demurrer to every
material allegation of new matter set u in the defendant’s
answer, and every material allegation 0 new matter in the
answer not controverted by the reply of the plaintifff, shall,
for the purposes of the action, be taken as true; but the
allegations of new matter in the rep] shall be deemed controverted by the adverse arty. A legations of value, or
of amounts of damages, s all not be considered as true by
failure to controvert them.

SEC. 109. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a counterclaim or set-off, the plaintifff may reply
to such new matter, denying generall or specifically eac
allegation controverted by him ; and e may allege, in ordinary and concise language and without repetition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the petition, constituting
a defense to such new matter in the answer; or he may
demur to the same for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer
the grounds thereof; and he may demur to one or more of
such defenses set up in the answer, and reply to the residue.

CHAPTER VI.
GENERAL RULES or PLEADING.

SEC. 110. The answer or demurrer of the defendant
shall be filed on or before the third Monday, and the reply 1
or demurrer of the plaintifff on or before the fifth Monda ,
after the return day of the summons or service by pub iC3.tlO11. .

SEC. 111. The court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
for good cause shown, ma extend the time for filing an
answer or repl , upon suc terms as may be just.

SEC. 112. very pleading in a court of record must be
subscribed by the part or his attorney.

SEC. 113. Every pleading of fact must be verified b
the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney. A plea ing verified as herein required, shall not be used against a
party in any criminal prosecution or action, or proceeding
or a penalty or forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or
alleged in such pleading; and such verification shall not
make other or greater proof necessary on the side of the
adverse party.

SEC. 114. The verification mentioned in the last section
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending
for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person imprisoned; nor in any case where the admission of the truth
of a fact stated in the pleading might subject the party to
a criminal or penal prosecution.

SEC. 115. If there be several persons united in interest
and pleading together, the aiiidavit may be made by any
one of such parties.

SEC. 116. The affidavit’ shall be sufficient if it state.

’1c)hat the afliant believes the_facts stated in the pleading to
e true.

SEC. 117. In all cases where the party pleading is a
non-resident of the county in which the action is brought,
or if he shall be absent from the county where the pleading
is filed, an affidavit made before filing the pleading, stating
the substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit shall
be filed with the pleading intended to be verified thereby.

SEC. 118. The affidavit verifying pleadings, may be
made before any person before whom a deposition might
be taken, and must be signed by the party making the
same; and the officer before whom the_same was taken,
shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed before him, and
signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer,
signed officially by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit
was duly made, that the name of the officer was written by
himself, and that he was such officer.

SEC. 119. The verification of the pleading does not
apply to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on
contracts, express or implied, for the payment of money
only.

SEC. 120. When the affidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it must set forth the reason why it 18 not made by

the party himself It can be made by the agent or attorney, only —

First. When the facts are within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney.

Second. When the plaintifff is an infant, or of unsound
mind, or im risoned.

Third. hen the pleading to be verified is founded
upon a written instrument for the payment of money only,
and such instrument is in the possession of the agent or
attorney.

Fourth. When the party is not a resident of or is absent
from the count .

SEC. 121. n the construction of an pleading, for the}
urpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be.
iberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

SEC. 122. All fictions in pleadings are abolished. 1

SEC. 123. The title of a cause shall not be changed in
any of its stages. <

SEC. 124. If the action, counterclaim or set-off be‘,
founded on an account, or on a note, bill or other written 3
instrument, as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereofmust be attached to and filed with the pleading, except in?
actions founded u on notes issued to circulate as money.
If not so attache and filed, the reason thereof must be
shown in the pleading.

SEC. 125. If redundant, scandalous or irrelevant matter
be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken out, on
motion of the party prejudiced thereby. And when the
allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain
that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not a garent, the court may require the pleading to be made

efinite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 126. The court, at any time before the final submission of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may
allow a counterclaim or setoff, set up in the answer, to be
withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of another action. On motion of either party, to be made at the
time such counterclaim or set-off is withdrawn, an action
on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like
cases after process served; and the court shall direct the
time and manner of pleading therein. If an action be not
so docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in the ordinar wa .

SyEC. 127. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be
sufficient to state that such judgment or determination was
duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted,

the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 128. In pleading the erformance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall e sufficient to state that
the party dul performed all the conditions on his part;
and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading
must establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 129. In an action, counterclaim or set-off, founded
upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or other
instrument, for the unconditional payment of money only,
it shall be sufficient for the party to give a copy of the
account or instrument, with all credits and indorsements
thereon, and to state that there is due to him on such
account or instrument, from the adverse part ', a s ecified
sum, which he claims with interest. When ot ers t an the
makers of a promissory note, or the acce tors of a bill of
exchange, are parties in the action, it sha 1 be necessary to
state also the kind of liability of the several parties, and
the facts, as they may be, which fix their liability.

SEC. 130. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufiicient to refer to such statute
by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 131. In an action for a libel or slander, it shall be
sufficient to state, generally, that the defamator matter was
published or spoken of the plaintifff, and if t e allegation

e denied, the plaintifff must prove on the trial the facts,
showing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of him.

SEC. 132. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating
circumstances to reduce the amount of damages, or he may
prove either.

SEC. 133. In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be described with sufficient certainty to
enable an oiiicer holding an execution to identify it.

SEC. 134. Every material allegation of the petition not
controverted by the answer, and every material allegation
of new matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim or
set-off, not controverted by the re ly, shall, for the purposes
of the action, be taken as true; ut the allegation of new
matter in the answer, not relating to a counterclaim or setoff, or of new matter in reply, shall be deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or
avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value,

or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true,
by failure to controvert them.

SEC. 135. A material allegation in a pleading is one
essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

SEC. 136. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleadmg.

SEC. 137. If an original leading be lost, or witheld by
any poison, the court may a ow a copy thereof to be substitute

CHAPTER VII.

MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.

SEC. 138. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the roof, is to be deemed material, unless it have
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action-or defense upon the merits. Whenever
it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must
be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also
be shown in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended,upon
such terms as may be just.

SEC. 139. Whenever the variance is not material, as
provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact
to be found, according to the evidence, and may order an
immediate amendment without costs.

SEC. 140. When, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not
in some articular or particulars only, but in its general
scope an meaning, it 18 not to be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 141. The plaintifff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without prejudice to the proceeding; but notice of such amendment shall
be served upon the defendant, or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to answer or demur thereto as to the original petition.

SEC. 142. At any time within ten days after a demurrer is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on
payment of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice
of filing an amended leading shall be forthwith served
upon the other party, w 0 shall have the same time thereafter to answer, or reply thereto, as to an original pleading.

SEC. 143. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party

who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied
that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did not
demur for dela .

SEC. 144 '%he court may, before judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend
any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or striking
out t e name of any party, or by correctin a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any ot er respect, or
by inserting other allegations material to the case, or, when
the amendment does not change substantially the claim or
defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the
facts proved. And whenever any proceeding taken by a
party fails to conform, in any res ect, to the provisions of
this code, the court may permit t" e same to be made conformable thereto, by amendment.

SEC. 145. The court, in every stage of an action, must
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,
which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse
party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 146. If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse
party may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of
amendment, with or without costs, as the court in its discretion shall direct.

SEC. 147. When either party shall amend an pleading

. or proceeding, and the court shall be satished, y affidavit
" or otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for

trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted

to some day in term, or to another term of the court.

SEC. 148. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the

name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in

any pleading or proceeding by any name and description,
and when his true name is discovered, the leading or {proceeding may be amended accordingly. he plainti in
such case must state, in the verihcation of his etition, that
he could .not discover the true name, and t e summons
must contain the words, “real name unknown,” and a copy
thereof must be served personall upon the defendant.

SEC. 149. Either party may be allowed, on notice, and
on such terms as to costs as the court may rescribe, to
file a supplemental petition, answer or reply, a leging facts
material to the case, occurring after the former petition,
answer or repl .

SEC. 150. %Vhenever two or more actions are pending
in the same court which mi ht have been joined, the defendant may, on motion an notice to the adverse party,
require him’ to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated, and if no such cause be shown, the said several
actions shall be consolidated.

SEC. 151. The order for consolidation may be made by
the court, or by a judge thereof in vacation.

 

TITLE VIII.

T

PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

CHAPTER I.
ARREST AND BAIL.

SEC. 152. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by
this code, and not otherwise; but this provision does not
apply to proceedings for contempt; nor does it apply to
actions or 'udgments prosecuted in the name of‘ the territory of Ne raska, to recover fines or penalties for crimes,
misdemeanors or oifenses.

SEC. 153. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be made-by the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his authorized agent or attorney, made before any
judge of any court of the territory, or clerk thereof, or
justice of the peace, stating the nature of the p1aintiif’s
claim, that it is just, and the amount thereof, as nearly as
may be, and establishing one or more of the following particulars:

First. That the defendant has removed, or begun to
remove, any of his pro erty out of the jurisdiction of the
court, with intent to de raud his creditors.

Second. That he has begun to convert his property, or a
art thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it
eyond the reach of his creditors.

Third. That he has property, or rights of action, which

he fraudulently conceals. ’

Fourth. That he has assigned, removed, dis osed of or
has begun to dis ose of his property, or a part t ereof, with
intent to defrau his creditors.

 That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or

incurred the obligation, for which suit is about to be or has
been brou ht.

The afii avit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or
more of the above particulars.

SEC. 154. The order of arrest shall not be issued by
the clerk until there has been executed, by one or more
sulficient sureties of the plaintifff, a written undertaking, to
the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if
the order be wrongfull obtained, not exceeding double the
amount of the lainti ’s claim stated in the affidavit.

SEC. 155. he order may be made to accompany the
summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.

I SEC. 156. The order of arrest shall be addressed and

, delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff. The
order shall state the names of the parties, the court in which
the action was brought, and the amount of the laintiff’s
claim specified in the affidavit, and shall require t e sheriff
to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in double the
sum stated in the affidavit, and to make return of the order
on a day to be named therein, with the undertaking of the
bail, if any be given.

SEC. 157. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall
be fifteen days after it issued.

SEC. 158. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant, and delivering to him a copy thereof,
and of the affidavit. If the defendant cannot be found
before the return day, the plaintifff shall be entitled to further orders without other affidavit or undertaking, until
the defendant is arrested; but orders of arrest shall not be
issued to any other than the county in which the action is

brought.
SEC. 159. The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed by the sheriff to the jail of the county, and kept in
custody until discharged by law.

SEC. 160. The defendant ma , before or after giving
bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in the court, the
amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be given,

shall be released.

SEC. 161. The sheriff‘ shall pay into court the money
received by him in lieu of bail; if received in vacation, he
shall pay it on the nrst day of the next term; if received
during a term, he shall pa it in immediately.

SEC. 162. The court sliall make proper orders for the

safe keepin of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may
direct the s eriff to keep the money, and after final judgment in the action, shall order it to be paid to the party
entitled thereto, accordin to the result.

SEC. 163. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu
of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be
held upon his official responsibility; and he and his
sureties shall be liable, and may be proceeded against,
for any default in-relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 164. Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
be done by causing one or more sufficient bail to execute a
Written undertaking to the plaintifff, in the presence of the
sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in
the action against the defendant, he will render himself
amenable to the process of the court thereon. The undertaking, When accepted, shall be returned to the clerk’s
office, and the defendant discharged

SEC. 165. The plaintifff, or his attorney, may object to
the bail for insufficiency, at any time Within ten days after
the undertaking of the bail has been given; within such
time he shall serve upon the sheriff a Written notice that he
does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have
accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from

6 liability. When the undertaking is given after the return

of the order of arrest, the plaintifff shall have notice

thereof.
SEC. 166. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or

defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the
plaintifff or his attorney, notice in writing of the justification of the same or other bail, before a judge, or clerk of
the court, in which the action is brought, a probate judge,
or justice of the peace, at a specified time and lace: the
time to be not less than five nor more than ten ays thereafter. In case other bail be given, there must be a new
undertaking.

SEC. 167. For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the proper officer at the time and‘
place mentioned, and may be examined on oath or affirmation touching his sufliciency, in such manner as the officer
may think pro er.

SEC. 168. ff the officer finds the bail sufficient, he shall
indorse his allowance on the undertaking, and cause the
same to be filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be discharged from liability.

SEC. 169. If after being arrested, the defendant escape
or be rescued, or bail be not taken or be adjudged insufd-I

cient, or a deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable
as bail. But he may discharge himself from liability by
putting in sufiicient bail at any time before judgment.

SEC. 170. The return of “not found” upon an execution against the body of the defendant, shall be necessary
to fix the liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability
shall be the amount of the judgment, interest and costs.
This liability can be enforced only in a separate action
against him, or against him and his sureties on his ofiicial
bond, as in other cases of delin uency.

SEC. 171. The bail adj udge insufficient shall be liable

to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of
such insufficiency.

SEC. 172. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the
manner provided in section one hundred and seventy, for
fixing the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can
be proceeded against in an action only.

SEC. 173. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff
of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of
a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether
such surrender be made by the defendant himself or by his
bail, shall discharge the bail; and such surrender may be
made at any time before the return day of the summons in
an action against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the
bail a written acknowledgment of the surrender, and hold
the defendant in his custody upon said copy of the undertaking of the bail, as upon an order of arrest On the
production of the sheriff's acknowledgment of the surrender, to the clerk of the court, an exoneration of the
bail shall be entered on his undertaking.

SEC. 174. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or place, before he is linally
charged, may himself arrest him, or by a written authority
indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

SEC. 175. The bail will be exonerated by the death
of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or
by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process of the court, or by his surrender
to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested in
execution thereof, within the time fixed in section one
hundred and seveut -three, or within such further time as
the court in which t e action is pending may allow.

SEC. 176. If money be deposited by the defendant in his
discharge, bail may be given and justilied upon notice as
prescribed in section one hundred and sixty-six at any time

efore judgment; and thereupon the court in which the
action is brought, on being satisfied that the bail has been

'ven and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the money
e osited be refunded to the defendant, and it must be
re unded accordingly.

SEC. 177. If, at any time before or after judgment
against the bail, proceedings in error are commenced on
the judgment against the principal in the suit in which
their undertaking was taken, the court may, on motion,
stay proceedin against such bail for a reasonable time, on
their paying a the costs that have accrued against them;
and if, on such proceedings, the judgment against the

rincipal shall be reversed, and the principal ischarged
groin said suit, the bail shall be discharged from the
undertaking.

SEC. 178. A defendant arrested may at any time before
the justincation of the bail, apply, on motion, to the court
in which the suit is brought, if in session, and in vacation
to a judge thereof, or to any judge of a court of record of
the territory, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail. Reasonable notice of such motion must
be given to the plaintifff

SEC. 179. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the:
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may
oppose the same b affidavits or other evidence, in addition

to that on which t e order of arrest was made.
SEC. 180. Any person causing another to be committed r

to jail under the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable, .
in the first instance, for jail fees, and shall, if required b
the jailer, ay such fees Weekl in advance; and suc
fees, so paid, shall be a part of t e costs of the case.

CHAPTER II.

REPLEVIN OF PROPERTY.

SEC. 181. The laintiff in an action to recover the,
possession of speci c personal property, may at the com-;
mencement of the suit, or any time before answer, claim;
the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in
this chapter.

SEC. 182. iAn order for the delivery of roperty to.
the laintiif, shall be made by the clerk of? the court}
in w ich the action is brought, when there is filed in‘
his office an aiiidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
showing —

First. A description of the property claimed.

Second. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property,
or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating the
facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the
immediate ossession of the property.

Third. hat the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant.

Fourth. That it was not taken in execution on any
order or judgment against said plaintifff, or for the ayment of any tax, due or amercement assessed against im,
or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this
chapter, or any other mesne or dual process issued against
the plaintifff

SEC. 183. The order for the delivery of the roperty
to the plaintifff shall be addressed and deliver to the
sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties, the court
in which the action is brought, and command the sheriff to
take the property, describing it, and deliver it to the
plaintifff, and to make return of the order on a day to be
named therein.

SEC. 184. The return day for the order of delivery,
when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the

same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it
shall be twent days after it issued.

SEC. 185. he sheriff shall execute the order b taking
the property therein mentioned. He shall also eliver a
copy of the order to the person charged with the unlawful

detention of the property, or leave such copy at his usual
place of residence.

SEC. 186. The sheriff or other officer shall not deliver to the plaintifff‘, his agent or attorney, the property so
taken, until there has been executed, by one or more
sufficient sureties of the laintiif, a written undertaking
to the defendant, in at east double the value of the
property taken, to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly
prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages whic
may be awarded against him. The undertaking shall be returned with the order.

SEC. 187. For the purpose of fixing the amount of
the undertaking, the value of the property taken shall be
ascertained by the oath of two or more responsible persons,
whom the sheriff or other officer shall swear truly to assess
the value thereof

SEC. 188. If the undertaking, required by section one
hundred and eighty-six, be not given within twenty-four
hours from the taking of the property under said order,
the sheriff or other officer shall return the property to the
defendant And if the sheriff or other officer deliver any
property so taken to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,

or keep the same from the defendant, without taking
such security within the time aforesaid, or if he take
insufficient security, he shall be liable to the defendant in
damages.

SEC. 189. The defendant may, within twenty-four hours
from the time the undertaking referred to in the receding
section is given by the plaintifff, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the suiiiciency of the sureties. If he fail to
do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objections to
them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must

justify u on notice, as bail on arrest The sheriff or other

officer s all be responsible for the sufliciency of the
sureties, until the objection to them is waived as above‘

rovided, or until they justify. The roperty shall be
gelivered to the plaintifff, when the undertaking, required
by section one hundred and eighty-six, has been given.

SEC. 190. If the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff, and judgment be rendered against him on de-4
murrer, or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to
nnal judgment, the court shall, on application of the
defendant or his attorney, impannel a jury to inquire into
the right of property and right of possession of the defendant to the property taken. If the jury shall be satisfied
that said property was the property of the defendant at
the commencement of the action, or if they shall find that
the defendant was entitled to the possession only of the
same at such time, then, and in either case, they shall assess
such damages for the defendant as are right and proper;
for which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant. _

SEC. 191. In all cases, when the pro erty has been
delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury s all find upon
issue joined, for the defendant, they shall also find whether
the defendant had the right of property or the right of
possession only, at the commencement of the suit; and if
they find either in his favor, they shall assess such damages
as they think right and proper for the defendant ; for which,
with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the
defendant

SEC. 192. In all cases, when the property has been
delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury shall find for the
plaintifff, on an issue joined, or on inquiry of damages
upon a judgment by default, they shall assess adequate
damages to the plaintifff for the illegal detention of the
property; for w ich, with costs of suit, the court shall
ren er judgment for defendant.

SEC. 193. When the roperty claimed has not been
taken, or has been returned to the defendant by the sheriff

for want of the undertaking required b section one hundred
and eighty-six, the action may procee as one for damages
only, and the plaintifff shall be entitled to such damages
as are right and proper; but if the property be returned
for want of the undertaking re uired by section one hundred
and eighty-six, the plaintifff s all pay all costs made by
taking the same.

SEC. 194. An order may be directed toany other county
than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery
of the property claimed. Several orders ma issue at the
same time, or successive] ', at the 0 tion 0 the plaintifff;
but only one of them sha 1 be taxe in the costs, unless
otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 195. The sheriff or other oilieer in the execution
of the order of delivery, may break 0 en any building or
enclosure in which the property claimed: or any part thereof,
is concealed ; but not until he has been refused an entrance
into said building or enclosure and the delivery of the
property, after having demanded the same.

SEC. 196. N 0 suit shall be instituted on the undertaking
given under section one hundred and eighty-six, before an
execution issued on a judgment in favor oi‘ the defendant
in the action shall have been returned, that sufficient
property whereon to levy and make the amount of such
Judgment cannot be foun in the county.

SEC. 197. Any order for the delivery of property issued
under section one hundred and eighty-two, without the
afhdavit required thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of
the clerk issuing the same, and such clerk, as well as the
plaintifff, shall also be liable in damages to the party
injured.

CHAPTER III.
ATTACHMENT.

ARTICLE I.

GENERAL ATTACHMENTS.

SUBDIVISION 1.
Grounds of Attachment.

SEC. 198. The plaintifff, in a civil action for the recovery of money, may, at or after the commencement
thereof‘, have an attachment against the pro erty of the
defendant, and upon the grounds herein stated):

First. When the defendant or one of several defendants, is a foreign corporation, or a nonresident. of this
territory; or,

Second. Has absconded with the intent to defraud his
creditors; or,

Third. Has left the county of his residence, to avoid
the service of a summons; or,

Fourth. So conceals himself that a summons cannot
be served upon him; or,

Fifi/2. Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof,
out of the jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to
defraud his creditors; or,

Siacth. Is about to convert his property, ora part thereof,
into mone , for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach
of his cre itors; or,

Seventh. Has property, or rights in action, which he
conceals; or,

Eighth. Has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is
about to dispose of, his pro erty, or a part thereof, with
the intent to defraud his cre itors ; or,

Ninth. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred
the obligation for which suit is about to be or has been
brought.

But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground
that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident
of this territory, for any claim other than a debt or demand
arising upon contract, judgment or decree.

SUBDIVISION 2.

How an Attachment is obtained.

SEC. 199. An order of. attachment shall be made by the
clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any
case mentioned in the preceding section, when there is filed
in his office an afiidavlt of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing—

First. The nature of the plaintifffs claim.

Second. That it is just.

Third The amount which the afiiant believes the plaintifff ought to recover.

Fourth. The existence of some one of the grounds for
an attachment, enumerated in the preceding section.

SEC. 200.- When the ground of the attachment is, that
the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a nonresident of
this territory, the order of attachment may be issued without an undertaking. III all other cases, the order of attachment shal not be issued by the clerk until there has been
executed his office, by one or more snflicient sureties of

the plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk, an undertaking
not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim,
to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment if the order be wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 201. The order of attachment shall be directed
and delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach
the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, stocks or interest in
stocks, rights, credits, monies and effects of the defendant
in his county, not exempt by law from being applied to the
payment of the plaintifff ’s claim, or so muc thereof as
wi 1 satisfy the plaintifff ’s claim, to be stated in the order as
in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not
exceeding fifty dollars.

SEC. 202. Orders of attachment may be issued to the
sheriffs of different counties; and several of them may, at
the option of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time, or in
succession; but such only as have been executed shall be
taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.

SEC. 203. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be
the same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards,
it shall be twenty days after it issued.

SUBDIVISION 3.

Execution and Return thereof.

SEC. 204. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, the shall be executed in the
order in which they are receive by the sheriff.

SEC. 205. The order of attachment shall be executed
by the sheriff without delay. He shall go to the place
where the defendant's property may be found, and there,
in the presence of two residents of the county, declare that
by virtue of said order he attaches said property at the suit
of such plaintifff; and the oliicer, with the said residents,
who shall be first sworn or alhrmed by the officer, shall
make a true inventory and appraisement of all the pro erty
attached, which shall be signed by the officer and resi ents,
and returned with the order. VVhere the property attached
is real property, the officer shall leave with the occupant
thereof, or, if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place
thereon, a copy of the order. Where it is personal property, and accessible, he shall take the same into his
custody, and hold it subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 206. The sheriff shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the
execution by such person, in the presence of the sheriff, of

an undertaking to the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient
sureties, resident in the county, to the effect that the parties
to the same are bound, in double the ap raised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised va ue in money, shall
be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action ; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of
said property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable
accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person
so bound. SEC. 207. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
shall make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to and
does believe that any person or corporation, to be named
and within the county where the action is brought, has property of the defendant (describing the same) in his possession, if the oilicer cannot come at such property, he shall
leave with such garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with a written notice that be appear in court, at the
return of the order of attachment, and answer, as provided
in section two hundred and twenty-one.

SEC. 208. The copy of the order and the notice shall
be served upon the garnishee as follows: If he be a person, they shall be served upon him personally, or left at
his usual place of residence; if a corporation, they shall be
left with the president or other oliicer of the same, or a
managing agent thereof

SEC. 209. Different attachments of the same property
may be made by the same officer, and one inventory and
appraisement shall be sufficient, and it shall not be necessary to return the same with more than one order.

SEC. 210. Where the property is under attachment, it
shall be attached under subsequent orders as follows:

First. If it be real property, it shall be attached in the
manner prescribed in section two hundred and five.

Second. If it be ersonal property, it shall be attached
as in the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous
attachment.

Third. If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a copy of the order and notice shall be left with him,
in the manner rescribed in section two hundred and seven.

SEC. 211. he officer shall return upon every order of
attachment what he has done under it. The return must
show the property attached, and the time it was attached.
When garnishees are served, their names, and the time
each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also
return with the order all undertakings given under it.

SEC. 212. An order of attachment binds the property
attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall
stand liable to the plaintifff in attachment for all property,

monies and credits in his hands, or due from him to the
defendant, from the time he is served with the written notice mentioned in section two hundred and seven ; but
where the property is attached in the hands of a consignee, his hen thereon shall not be affected by the attachment.
SUBDIVISION 4.

Disposition of Attached Property.

SEC. 213. The court, or any judge thereof during vacation, may, on the application of the plaintifff, and on good
cause shown, ap oint a receiver, who shall take an oath
faithfully to disc arge his duty, and shall give an undertaking to the territory of Nebraska, in such sum as the
court or judge may direct, and with such security as shall
be approved by the clerk of the court, for the faithful performance of his duty as such receiver, and to pay over all
money, and account for all property, which may come into
his hands by virtue of his appointment, at such times and
in such manner as the court may direct.

SEC. 214. Such receiver shall take possession of all
notes, due bills, books of account, accounts, and all other
evidences of debt, that have been taken by the sheriff or
other officer, as the property of the defendant in attachment,
and shall proceed to settle and collect the same. For that
purpose, be may commence and maintain actions in his own
name as such receiver; but in such actions no right of defense shall be impaired or affected.

SEC. 215. Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of
his appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in
attachment. The notice shall be written or printed, and shall
be served on the debtor or debtors, by co y ersonally, or by
copy left at the residence; and from the ate of such service, the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintifff in attachment for the amount of monies and credits in their hands,
or due from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall
account therefore to the receiver.

SEC. 216. Such receiver shall, when required, report
his roceedings to the court, and hold all monies collected
by him, and propert ' which may come into his hands,
subject to the order of) the court.

SEC. 217. “There a receiver is not appointed by the
court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and thirteen, the sheriff or other officer attaching the
property shall have all the powers and perform all the
duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge, and
may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his

own name as such officer. He may be required to give
security, other than his official undertaking.

SEC. 218. The court shall make proper orders for the
preservation of the property during the pendency of the
suit. It may direct a sale of property when, because of
its perishable nature, or the costs of keeping it, a sale will
be for the benefit of the arties. In vacation, such sale
may be ordered by the ju ge of the court. The sale shall
be public, after such advertisement as is prescribed for the
sale of like property on execution, and shall be made in
such manner, and upon such terms of credit, with security,
as the court or judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected
by the sheriff, with all the mone s received by him from
garnishees, shall be held and paid over b him, under the
same requirement and responsibilities of lilimself and suretifesb asl are provided in respect to money deposited in lieu
0 a1

SUBDIVISION 5.

Proceedings upon Attachment.

SEC. 219. If the defendant, or any other person on his
behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking
to be executed to the plaintifff by one or more sureties

resident in the county, to be approved by the court, in

double the amount of the plaintifff’s claim as stated in his
affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the
jud ment of the court, the attachment in such action shall
be ischarged, and restitution made of any roperty taken
under it, or the proceeds thereof Such un ertaking shall
also discharge the liability of a garnishee in such action for
any property of the defendant in his hands.

SEC. 220. The undertaking mentioned in the last section, may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the
sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or,
after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same
effect as if executed in court; the sureties in either case to
be approved by the officer before whom the undertaking is
executed.

SEC. 221. The garnishee shall appear as follows: If the
order of attachment be returned during a term of court, he
shall appear at that term; if the order be returned during
vacation, he shall appear at the term next after its return.
He shall appear and answer, under oath, all the questions
put to him touching the property of every description and
credits of the defendant, In his possession or under his control, and he shall disclose truly the amount owing by him
to the defendant, whether due or not, and, in case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for the benefit of
the defendant, at or after the service of notice.

SEC. 222. A arnishee may pay the money owing to
the defendant by im, to the sheriff having the order of
attachment, or into court. He shall be dischar ed from
liability to the defendant, ‘for any money so pai , not exceeding the plaintiff1"’s claim. He shall not be subjected to
costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim
against im; and if he disclose the property in his hands,
or the true amount owing by him, and deliver or pay the
same according to the order of the court, he shall be allowed
his costs.

SEC. 223. If the garnishee do not appear in court and
answer, as required by section two hundred and twenty-one,

the court may proceed against him by attachment as for

a contempt

SEC. 224. If the garnishee a pear and answer, and it is
discovered on his examination, t at at or after the service of
the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted
to him, the court may order the delivery of such property
and the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee,
into the court; or the court may permit the garnishee to
retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintifff by one or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall be
paid, or the pro erty forthcoming, as the court may direct.

SEC. 225. I the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or
if he appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintifff, or if he fail to comply With the order
of the court, or deliver the property and pay the money
owing into court, or give the undertaking required in the
preceding section, the plaintifff may proceed against him in
an action, by filing a petition in his own name, as in other
cases, and causing a summons to be issued upon it; and
thereupon such proceedings may be had as in other actions,
and judgment may be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for
the amount of the property and credits of every kind of the
defendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what
shall appear to be owing by him to the defendant, and for
the costs of the proceedings against the garnishee. If the
plaintifff proceed against the garnishee by action, for the
cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear
in the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintifff shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in
this action may be enforced as judgments in other cases.
When the claims of the plaintifff in attachment are satisfled, the defendant in attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the laintiff .in the judgment. °

SEC. 226. inal judgment shall not be rendered against
the garnishee, until the action against the defendant in
attachment has been determined; and if in such action
judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the
garnishee shall be discharged, and recover costs. If the
plaintifff shall recover a ainst the defendant in attachment,
and the garnishee shall eliver up all the property, monies
and credits of the defendant in his possession, and ay all
the monies from him due as the court may order, t e garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings
against him shall be paid out of the property and monies
so surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper.

SEC. 227. If judgment be rendered in the action for the
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the
property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.

SEC. 228. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it
shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property
remaining in the hands of the officer, after applying the
monies arising from the sale of perishable property, and so
much of the personal property and lands and tenements, if ‘
any, whether held b legal or equitable title, as may be
necessary to satisfy t e judgment, shall be sold by order of
the court, under the same restrictions and regulations as if
the same had been levied on by execution; and the money
arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered
from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment
and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the
judgment shall stand, and the execution may issue thereon,
for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.

SEC. 229. The court may compel the delivery to the 4
sheriff, for sale of any of the attached property for which i
an undertaking may have been given, and may proceed }
summarily on such undertaking, to enforce the delivery of <
the property, or the payment of such sum as may be due
upon the undertaking, by rules and attachments as in cases
0 contempt.

SEC. 230. The court may order the sheriff to repossess I
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached 5
property which may have passed out of his hands without:
having been sold or converted into money; and the sheriff '*
shall, under such order, have the same ower to take the
property as he would have under an or er of attachment.

SEC. 231. If personal propert which has been attached, V
be claimed by any person other t n the defendant, it shall i

be the duty of the officer to have the validity of such claim
tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the
like effect, as In case the property had been seized upon
execution, and claimed by a third person.

SEC. 232. Where several attachments are executed on
the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,
the court, on the motion of any of the plaintifffs, may order
a reference to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of the several attachments.

SUBI>IvIsIoN 6.

General Prom'sz'ons.

SEC. 233. From the time of the issuing of the order of
attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have control of all subsequent proceedin under this chapter; and if, after the issuing of the
ongllar, the defendant, being a person, should die, or a corporation and its charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture
or otherwise, the proceeding shall be carried on; but in all
such cases other than where the defendant was a foreign
corporation, his legal representatives shall be made parties

$0 the action.

SEC. 234-. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the
court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff;
and if, on such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety
in the p1aintilf’s undertaking has removed from this territory,
or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the
order of attachment and direct restitution of any roperty
taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to be ed by
the court, sufficient security is given by the plaintifff

SEC. 235. The defendant may at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move to
discharge an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the
property attached.

SEC. 236. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, or apers and evidence in the case,

ut not otherwise, the p aintiff may oppose the same b
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on whic
the order of attachment was made.

ARTICLE II.

ATTACHMENTS IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.

SEC. 237. A creditor may bring an action on a claim
before it is due, and have an attachment against the property
of the debtor, in the following cases :

First Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise
dis osed of his pro erty, with the fraudulent intent to cheat
or defraud his cre itors, or to hinder or delay them in the
collection of their debts.

Second. Where he is about to make such sale, conveyance
or disposition of his property, with such fraudulent intent.

Third. Where he is about to remove his propert , or a
material part thereof, with the intent or to the egect of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering and
delaying them in the collection of their debts.

SEC. 238. The attachment authorized by the last section, may be granted by the court in which the action is
brought, or by a judge thereof, or by the probate judge of
the county; but before such action shall be brought, or
such attachment shall be granted, the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall make an oath, in writing, showing the nature
and amount of the plaintifff ’s claim, that it is just, when the
same shall become due, and the existence of some one of
the grounds for attachment ennmerated in the preceding
section.

SEC. 239. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order
of attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without
prejudice to a future action ; and in all such actions application for an attachment must be made.

SEC. 240. The order of the court or judge granting the
attachment, shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding asum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff 's claim
and the probable costs of the action.

SEC. 241. The order of attachment as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued b the clerk until there
has been executed in his oiiice suc undertaking on the
part of the plaintifff as is directed by section two undred.

SEC. 242. The plaintifff in such action shall not have
jud ment on his claim before it becomes due, and the proceedings on attachment may be conducted without dela .

SEC. 243. The proceedings in the first article of this c apter subsequent to section two hundred, shall, so far as they
are applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this
article.

ARTICLE III.

GABNISHHENT IN CERTAIN CASES.

SEC. 244. In all cases where an execution issued upon
any judgment of a court of record or of a justice of the
peace, shall be returned by the officer in whose hands the
same was placed for service, unsatisfied for want of sufficient property whereof to levy and collect the same, and

the judgment creditor in such execution, his agent or
attorney, shall file an affidavit in the office of the clerk of

,the court, or justice of the peace, from which said execution issued, that he has good reason to and does believe
that any person or corporation (naming them) have property
of and are indebted to the judgment debtor, the said clerk,
or justice of the peace, shall issue a summons, as in other
cases, requiring such person or corporation to appear in
court and answer such interrogatories as shall be propounded

.to him, it or them, touching the goods, chattels, rights and

credits of the said judgment debtor in his, its or their possession or control. SEC. 245. The summons shall be made returnable,
and the said persons or corporations shall be re uired to
appear, as in ordinary cases of summons, and t ereafter
like proceedings shall be had therein, and said garnishees
shall be held liable, in all respects, as in cases of garnishees
before judgment ,

SEC. 246. The summons shall be served as a summons in
an original action is served; the said persons or corporations
so summoned shall be liable to the judgment creditor in
said execution for all property, monies and credits in his,
its or their hands, or due from him, it or them to the judgment debtor in said execution, at the time of, and which
may come into his, its or their hands or control after, the
service of said summons.

SEC. 247. No proceedings against such garnishee or
garnishees shall be quashed, or such garnishee or garnishees discharged, by reason of any informality or irregularity, merely, of the affidavit or summons provided for in
this article.

SEC. 248. In cases where the garnishee, in answering
such interrogatories, shall disclose that he has property in
his possession or under his control, belonging to the defendant or defendants in execution, the court shall order the
same to be taken and sold by the officers upon execution,
as in other cases.

SEC. 249. _ In cases where the garnishee, in answering
such interrogatories, shall disclose that he is indebted to the
defendant in execution, the court shall order the garnishee
to pay over the amount found to be due from the said garnishee to the defendant in execution, which amount shall
be collected by execution, as in other cases, as near as ma
be, and such amount, when paid or collected, shall be cre ited on the original judgment, and the garnishee shall be
credited for the amount so paid or collected.

CHAPTER IV.

INJ UN CTION.

SEC. 250. The in'unction provided by this code is a

command to refrain mm a particular act. It may be the
final judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a. provisional remedy; and when so allowed, it shall be by order.
The writ of injunction is abolished.

SEC. 251. When it appears by the petition that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission
or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance
of which, during the litigation, would produce great or
irreparable injuryto the plaintifff, or when, during litigation,
it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is rocuring or suffering to be done, some
act in violation 0 the plaintifff ’s rig ts respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment

~ ineffectual, a temlporary injunction ma be granted to ret .

strain such act. may also be gran in any case where
it is specially authorized by statute. ,

SEC. 252. The injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or at any time afterward, before}
judgment, by the supreme court or any judge thereof, the:
district court or an judge thereof, or, in the absence from
the county of sai judges, by the probate judge thereof,
upon it appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by
the aiiidavit of the plaintiE or his agent, that the plaintifff
is entitled thereto.

SEC. 253. If the court or judge deem it proper that the T
defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before?
granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice
to be given to such party to attend for such purpose at a
specified time and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain
such party.

SEC. 254. An injunction shall not be granted against a
party who has answered, unless u on notice; but such
party may be restrained, until the decision of the application for an injunction.

SEC. 255. No injunction, unless provided by special
statute, shall’ operate, until the party obtaining the same
shall give an undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court
granting such injunction, in an amount to be fixed by the
court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the party

enjoined the damages he ma sustain, if it be nnall
decided that the injunction oug t not to have been nte

SEC. 256. The order of injunction shall be dressed
to the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall
be issued by the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed
at the commencement of the action, the clerk shall endorse
upon the summons “injunction allowed,” and it shall not be
necessary to issue the order of injunction; nor shall it be
necessa to issue the same, where notice of the a plication
therefore as been given to the party enjoined. T e service
of the summons so endorsed, or the notice of the application
for an injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.

SEC. 257. Where the injunction is allowed during the
litigation and without notice of the ap lication therefore,
the order of injunction shall be issu , and the sheriff
forthwith serve the same upon each party enjoined, in the
manner prescribed for serving a summons, and make
return thereof without delay. SEC. 258. An in'unction binds the party, from the time
he has notice thereofl, and the undertaking required by the
ap licant therefore is executed

EC. 259. No in'unction shall be granted by a judge,

after a motion there or has been overruled on the merits of

the application, by his court; and where it has been refused
by the court in which the action is brought, or a judge
thereof, it shall not be granted to the same applicant by a
court of inferior jurisdiction or any judge thereof

SEC. 260. An injunction granted by a judge may be
enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of an
injunction may be punished as a contempt by the court, or
by any judge who might have nted it in vacation. An
attachment ma be issued by t e court or judge, upon
being satisfied by affidavit of the breach of the injunction,
against the party guilty of the same; and he may be required, in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine
not exceeding two hundred dollars for the use of the county,
to make immediate restitution to the party injured, and
give further security to obey the injunction ; or, in default
thereof, he may be committed to close custody, until he shall
fully com ly with such requirement, or be otherwise legally
discharge

SEC. 261. A party enjoined may, at any time before
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has
obtained the injunction, move the court for additional
security; and if it appear that the surety in the undertaking
has removed from the territory, or is insufficient, the court
mug vacate the injunction, unless in a reasonable time
s cient security be given.

SEC. 262. On the hearing of an application for. an injunction, each party may read affidavits. All affidavits
shall be filed.

SEC. 263. If the injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
notice, to the court in which the action is brought, or any
judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The application ma be made upon the petition and affidavits upon
which 6 e injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the
part of the part enjoined, with or without answer. The
order of the ju e allowing, dissolving or modifyin an
injunction, shall lie returned to the office of the cleri of
the court in which the action is brought, and recorded and
obeyed, as if made by the court. “

SEC. 264. If the application be made upon affidavits on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff’
ma oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in
adrhtion to that on whic the injunction was granted.

SEC. 265. A defendant may obtain an injunction u on
an answer in the nature of a counterclaim. He s all
proceed in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

CHAPTER V.

RECEIVERS.

SEC. 266. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, or the district court, or by t e judge of either, in
the following cases :

First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others
jointly ownin or interested in any pro erty or fund on the
application 0 any party to the suit, w en the property or
fund is in danger of being lost, removed or materially
injured.

Second. In an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
when the mortgaged property is in dan er of beinfg lost,
removed or materially injured, or is pro ably insu cient
to discharge the mortgage debt

Tlzvird. After judgment, or decree to carry the same into
execution, or to dispose of the property according to the
decree or judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency
of an ap ea]. -Four In all  provided for by special statutes.

Fzfih. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been ap inted by the usages of courts of equity.

f SEC. 267. 0 receiver shall be appointed except in a
suit actually commenced and ending, and after notice
,to all parties tobe affected there y, of the time and place
of the application, the names of the proposed receiver, and
of his proposed sureties, and of the proposed sureties of
the applicant. Such notice shall state upon what apers
the application is based, and be served u on the a verse
party, or his solicitor, at least five ays before the
prciposep. lt1Ieaari111gi,_Tand 311:6 ailditiorial day fortiegeigly tthirtty
m1 es 0 ve om e ace 0 serving o ice
the lace Where the app ication is to be made, by the
usua ly traveled route, or shall be published in the same
manner as notices of the pendency of suits to non-resident
defendants

SEC. 268. Should the delay occasioned by the giving the
notice provided for in the last preceding section be hazardous to the rights of any party, the court or judge may, by
order, direct the sheriff of the county in which such action
is pending, to take temporary ossession of the property,
and shall a point an ear y day or the hearing of the app 1cation, an if at such hearing the application is refused,
restitution shall be made of the property to the party from
whom the same was taken.

SEC. 269. Every order appointing a receivier shall reuire the a plicant to give a bond, conditione to a all
damages which the other parties tothe suit, or any 0 t em,
may sustain, by reason of the appointment of the receiver,
in case it shall be iiéially decided that the orger ought not
to have been grante , and shall also re uire t e receiver to
give a bond conditioned to faithfully ischarge his duties
as receiver, and obey all orders of the court. The said
bonds shall each run to the defendant and all adverse
parties in interest, and be for the use of any party to the
suit, and be in a penal sum e ual to double tie value of
the propert in question, and e executed by two or more
sureties, to e ap roved by the court or judge making the
a pointment, an be filed in the count cler_ ‘s office; nor
8 all the same be considered execute until they are so
filed.

SEC. 270. If a complainant shall desire the appointment of a receiver at the commencement of the action, he
shall pray such appointment in his bill. If the occasion
for a receiver shall arise while the suit is pending, the application shall be made by a petition entitled in the cause,
signed and verified by the applicant, and setting forth the

facts and circumstances making such appointment necessary
or roper.

EC. 271. Any party to the suit may, upon the hearing
of the application, show, by affidavit or otherwise, objections to t e proposed sureties, and to the proposed receiver,
and what is the value of the roperty to be taken possession
of, and that a receiver ought not to be appointed. He
may also nominate a person to be receiver, giving at the
same time the names of his roposed sureties. ,No person
shall be appointed receiver wlho is party, solicitor, counsel,
or in any manner interested in the suit.

SEC. 272. Every order appointing a receiver shall
contain special directionsin respect to its owers and duties,
and upon ap lication of an party to the suit, after due
notice thereo , such further directions may be made in that
behalf by the court or judge as may in the further progress

of the cause become proper.
SEC. 273. Every receiver shall be considered the receiver of any arty to the suit, and no others

SEC. 274. very order appointing a receiver without
the notice provided for herein, shall be void, and every
such order heretofore made, under which the appointee has
not possessed himself of the property in question, shall be
suspended until an order shall have been made, and the
bonds executed and filed in accordance with the provisions

of this chapter.
SEC. 275. When a decree shall be rendered in a suit

in which a receiver has been appointed, and such decree
shall not finally determine the rights of the parties, any
one of them may apply to the court for the possession of
the property and proceeds thereof in the receivers hands.
If such application be resisted, the matter ma be referred
to a master, to take and report to the court t e testimony
of the parties. And on the coming in of said report, the
court shall, by its order, award the possession of the property and the proceeds thereof to the party entitled thereto;
and thereupon the receiver shall surrender the property
and the proceeds thereof to such party. All orders
appointing receivers, giving them further directions and
disposing of the property, may be appealed to the supreme court in the same manner as final orders and
decrees.

SEC. 276. ‘ Whenever, in the exercise of its authority,
the court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of
money, or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the
court, in addition to punishing such disobedience, as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take

the money_ or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity
Wltll the direction of the court.

 

TITLE IX.

PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COURT.

CHAPTER I.
ISSUE.

SEC. 277. Issues arise on the leadings where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained y one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kindsFirst. Of law.

Second. Of fact. SEC. 278. An issue of fact arisesFvirst. Upon a material allegation in the petition denied
by the answer.

Second. Upon a set-off or counterclaim presented in the
answer and denied by the reply.

Third. U on material new matterin the answer or reply,
which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite
party without further pleading.

CHAPTER II.

TRIAL.

ARTICLE I.

TRIAL IN GENERAL.

SEC. 279. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.

SEC. 280. Issues of law must be tried by the court,
unless referred as provided in section two hundred and
ninety-eight. Issues of fact arising in actions for the recover of money, or of specific real or personal pro erty,
shall e tried b a jury, unless a jury trial is W8.1V ,or a
reference be ordered as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 281. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the
court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be

tried by a jury, or referred as provided in this code.

ARTICLE II.

TRIALS BY JURY.

Sunmvrsrox 1.
Formation of the Jury.

SEC. 282. The eneral mode of summoning, impanne1ing, challenging an swearing the jury, is not changed by
this code.

SUBDIVISION 2.
Conduct of the Trial.

SEC. 283. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
shall proceed in the following order, unless the court for
specia reasons otherwise direct:

First. The plaintifff must briefly state his claim, and may
briefly state the evidence by which he expects to sustain
it.

Second. The defendant must then briefly state his defense, and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer
in support of it. i

Third. The party who would be defeated if no evidence
were 'ven on either side, must first produce his evidence;
the a verse arty will then produce his evidence.

Fourth. he parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance
of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original
case.

Fifth. When the evidence is concluded, either party
may re uest instructions to the jury on points of law,
which s all be 'ven or refused by the court; which instructions shall e reduced to writing, if either party require it.

Szlzth. The parties may then submit or argue the case to
the 'ury. In the argument, the party required first to

rotiuce his evidence shall have the opening and conclusion.

f several defendants having separate defenses, appear by
diEerent counsel, the court shall arrange their relative
order.

Seventh. The court may again charge the jury after the
argument is concluded. *

SEC. 284. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of property which is the
subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material
fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body,
under the charge of an oliicer, to the place, which shall be
shown to them b some person appointed by the court for
that purpose. hile the jury are thus absent, no person
other than the person so a pointed, shall speak to them on
any subject connected wit the trial.

SEC. 285. When the case is finally submitted to the
jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation.
If they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer until they agree
upon a verdict, or are discharged by the court, subject to
the discretion of the court to permit them to separate temporarily at night, and at their meals. The officer having
them under his charge, shall not suffer any communication
to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask
them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by
order of the court, and he shall not, before their verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their
deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 286. If the jury are permitted to separate either
durin the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, they
shall e admonished by the court that it is their duty not
to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed by
any other person, on the subject of the trial, and that it is
their duty not to form or express any opinion thereon,
until the cause is finally submitted to them.

SEC. 287. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any
part of the aw arising in the case, they may request the
officer to conduct them to the court, where the information
upon the point of law shall be given, and the court may
give its recollection as to the’ testimony on the point in dispute, in the presence of or after notice to the parties or
their counsel.

SEC. 288. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or
calamity re%uiring their discharge, or by consent of both
parties, or a er they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreemg.

SEC. 289. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it
may be tried again immediately or at a future time, as the
court may direct.

SEC. 290. When the juigly have agreed upon their ver-jj

dict, they must be conducte into court, their names called
by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by the foreman.
When the verdict is announced, either party ma re uire
the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk astldng
each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers in the
negative, the jury must again be sent out for further deliberation.

SEC. 291. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman, and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagree,
the jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement be
expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled,
the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the
case. If, however, the verdict be defective in form only,
the same may, with the assent of the jury before they are
discharged, be corrected by the court.

SUBDIVISION 3.

Verdict.

SEC. 292. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which theypronounce,

' generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of

the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury finds the facts only. It must present the
facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to
prove them ; and they must be so resented as that nothing
remains to the court but to draw om them conclusions of
law.

SEC. 293. In every action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion,
may render a general or special verdict In all other cases,
the court may direct the jur to find a special verdict, in
writing, upon all or any of t e issues; an in all cases may
instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon
garticular questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may

irect a written finding thereon. The special verdict or
finding must be filed with the clerk and entered on the

journal.

SEC. 294. When the special nnding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter,

and the court ma give judgment accordingly.
SEC. 295. When by the verdict either arty is entitled

to recover money of the adverse party, t e jury in their
verdict must assess the amount of recovery.

ARTICLE III.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

SEC. 296. The trial by jury may be waived by the
parties in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in the following manner :

First. By the consent of the arty ap caring, when
the other party fails to appear at t e trial y himself or
attorney.

Second. By Written consent in person, or by attorney,
filed with the clerk.

Third. By oral consent in open court entered on the
journaL ‘

SEC. 297. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the
court, it shall not be necessary for the court to state its

finding, except, generally, for the plaintifff or defendant,
unless one of the parties request it, with the view of excepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of law
involved in the trial; in which case the court shall state
in writing the conclusions of fact found, separately from
the conclusions of law.

ARTICLE IV.

TRIAL BY BEFEBEES.

SEC. 298. All or any of the issues in the action, whether
of fact or law, or both, may be referred, upon the Written
consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court
entered upon the journal.

SEC. 299. When the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference in either of the followin cases:

First. Where the trial of an issue of act shall require
the examination of mutual accounts, or where the account
is on one side only, and it shall be made to appear to the
court that it is necessary that the party on the other side
should be examined as a witness to prove the account; in
which cases the referees may be directed to hear and report

upon the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact

involved therein. A
Second. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court before judgment, in
cases whichjmay bejdetermined by the court, or for carrying
a judgment into effect.

Third. Where a question of fact, other than upon the
pleadings, shall arise upon motion or otherwise, In any
stage of an action.

SEC. 300. The trial before referees is conducted in the}
same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same
power to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses,
to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the case,
and to grant adjournments, as the court u n such trial.
They must state the facts found and the cone usions of law,
separately, and their decision must be given, and may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of
the referees upon the whole issue, stands as the decision of I
the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the]
same manner as if the action had been tried by the court.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the
effect of a special verdict.

SEC. 301. In all cases of reference, the parties, exce t;
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitab e v
person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference
shall be ordered accordingly; and, if the parties do not
agree, the court shall a point one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.

SEC. 302. A reference as provided in this chapter cannot
be ordered by a probate court, except by consent of parties
to the reference and referees.

SEC. 303. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign
any true exceptions taken to any order or decision by
them made in the case, and return the same with their
report to the court making the reference.

SEC. 304. A judge in vacation, upon the written consent of the parties, may make any order of reference which
the court, of which he is a member, could make in term
time. In such case, the order of reference shall be made
on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and shall
be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other papers
in the case.

SEC. 305. The referees must be sworn or affirmed well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make
a just and true report therein according to the best of
their understanding. The oath may be administered by
an person authorized to take depositions.

gEc. 306. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their services as the court may deem just and

proper, which shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the
case.

ARTICLE V.
. EXCEPTIONS.

SEC. 307. An exception is an objection taken to a
decision of the court upon a matter of aw.

SEC. 308. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision is made, and time may be
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond
the term.

SEC. 309. No particular form of exce tion is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence
as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole
as brieliy as possible.

SEC. 310. Where the decision objected to is entered
on the record, and the grounds of objection appear
in the entry, the exception may be taken by the party
causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he
excepts.

SEC. 311. Where the decision is not entered on the
record, or the grounds of objection do not suiiiciently
appear in the entry, the arty excepting must reduce his
exception to writing, an present it to the court for its
allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of a majority of
the judges com osing the court to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall e filed with the pleadings as part of the
record, but not spread at large on the journal. If the
writing is not true, the court shall correct it, or suggest the
coilriection to be made, and it shall then be signed as aforesai

SEC. 312. N o exception shall be regarded, unless it is
material, and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the
party excepting. _ . . .

SEC. 313. Exceptions taken to the decision of any
court of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn
from the files by the party taking the same, at any time
before proceedings in error are commenced, and before the
exceptions are recorded.

ARTICLE VI.

NEW TRIAL.

SEC. 314. A new trial is a re-examination in the same
court of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of
a referee, or a decision by the court. The former verdict,
report or decision shall be vacated and a new trial granted
on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes affecting materially the substantial rights of
such party :

First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
referee or prevailing party, or any order of the court or
referee, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from havin a fair trial.

Second. Miscon uct of the jury or prevailing party.

Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.

Fourth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been
given under the influence of passion or prejudice.

Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large or too small, where the action is
upon a contract, or for the injury or detention of property.

Siacth. That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.

Seventh. Newly discovered evidence material for the
arty applying, which he could not with reasonable diligence
ave discovered and produced at the trial.

Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted

to by the party making the ap lication.

SEC. 315. A new trial shall) not be granted on account
of the smallness of damages in an action for an injury to
the person or reputation, nor any other action where the
damages shall e ual the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

SEC. 316. T e application for a new trial must be made
at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and,
exce t for the cause of newl discovered evidence, material
for t e party ap lying, whic he could not with reasonable
diligence have 'scovered and produced at the trial, shall
be within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.

SEC. 317. The application must be by motion upon
Written grounds, file at the time of making the motion.
The causes enumeratexl in subdivisions two, three and seven,
of section three hundred and fourteen, must be sustained
by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted
by aiiidavits.

SEC. 318. Where the grounds for a new trial could not,
with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but
are discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of
referee or decision was rendered or made, the application
may be made by petition filed as in other cases; on which
a summons shall issue, be returnable and served, or publication made, as prescribed in section seventy-nine. The
facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied
without answer, and if the service shall be complete in vacation, the case shall be heard and summarily decided at
the ensuin term. The case shall be placed on the trial
docket, an the witnesses shall be examined in open court,
or their depositions taken as in other cases, but no such
petition shall be filed more than one year after the final

judgment was rendered.

ARTICLE VII.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 319. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of da es towhich he
ma be entitled for the cause of action esttalgished

EC. 320. The provisions of this title respecting trials
by jur , apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable,
to tria by the court.

ARTICLE VIII.

TIME OF TRIAL.

SEC. 321. The clerk of the district court shall keep at
least five books, to be called the appearance docket, the
trial docket, the journal, the record, and execution docket.

SEC. 322. On the appearance docket, he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they were brou ht, the date of
the summons, the time of the return thereo by the oilicer
and his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, and
all subsequent leading

SEC. 323. he tri docket shall be made out by the
clerk of the court at least twelve days before the first day
of each term of the court; and the actions shall be set for
particular days in the order in which the issues were made
up, whether of law or of fact, and so arranged that the
cases set for each day shall be tried as nearly as may be on
that day. For the pur ose of arranging said docket, an
issue shall be considere as made up when either party is
is in default of a pleadin .

SEC. 324. The trial 0 an issue of fact, and the assessment of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which
they are placed on the trial docket, unless, by consent of
the arties, or the order of the court, they are continued,
or p aced at the heel of the docket. The time of hearin
all other cases shall be in the order in which they are plac
on the docket, unless the court in its discretion shall otherwise direct. The court may in its discretion hear at any
time a motion; and may by rule prescribe the time for
hearing motions.

SEC. 325. In any civil action wherein the defendant
shall answer or demur on or before the first day of the
term next succeeding the service of process, such first term
shall be the appearance term, and such cause shall be continued, on the application of either party, to the next term,

at which time the same shall be tried, unless, for good cause,
the court shall continue the same.

SEC. 826. In actions wherein default is made, judgment:
shall be rendered at the first term after the service of 1

rocess, provided service shall be made not less than ten?
Ea s before the term. ‘

. EC. 327. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial

docket for the use of the bar before the first day of the 5
term of court

 

TITLE X.

EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I.

OOMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.

SEC. 328. Every human being of suiiicient capacity to
understand the obligation of an oath, is a competent witness
in all cases, civil and criminal, except as otherwise herein
declared The following persons shall be incompetent to

testify: ,
First. Persons of unsound mind at the time of their
production.

Second. Indians and negroes who appear incapable of
receiving just im ressions of the facts respecting which
the are examin ' or of relating them intelligently and

tru .

Zylzird. Husband and wife, concerning any communication made by one to the other during the marriage,
whether called as a witness while that relation subsists or
afterward

Fourth. An attorney, concerning any communication
made to him by his client in that relation or his advice
thereon, without the client’s consent in open court or in
writing produced in court.

Fifth. A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession made to him in his professional character in the
course of discipline enjoined by the church to which he
belongs, without the consent of the person making the
confession. _

SEC. 329. No person shall be a competent witness in

any cause or roceeding wherein such person is charged
with a crimina offense against the laws of this territo ;
nor shall any person having a direct legal interest in t e
result of any civil cause or proceeding, be a competent
witness therein, when the adverse party is an executor,
administrator or legal representative of a deceased person.

SEC. 330. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion of testimony, may still be shown for the purpose of
lessening its credibility.

SEC. 331. The husband can in no case be a witness
against the wife, nor the wife against the husband, except
in a criminal roceeding for a crime committed by the one
against the ot er, but they may in all criminal prosecutions
be witnesses for each other.

SEC. 332. Neither husband nor wife can be examined
in an case as to any communication made by the one to
the ot er while married, nor shall the , after the marriage
relation ceases, be permitted to revea, in testimony, any
such communication made while the marriage subsisted.

SEC. 333. No practicing attorney, counselor, hysician,
surgeon, minister of the gospel, or priest of any enomination, shall be allowed, in giving testimony, to disclose any
confidential communication, properly intrusted to him in
his professional capacity, and necessary and properto enable
him to discharge the functions of his oiiice according to
the usual course of practice or discipline.

SEC. 334. The prohibitions in the preceding sections do
not apply to cases where the party in whose favor the
respective provisions are enacted, waives the rights thereby
conferred.

SEC. 335. A public officer cannot be examined as to
communications made to him in official coniidence, when
the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 336. A witness is not excused from answering a
question upon the mere ground that he would be thereby
subjected to a civil liabilit .

SEC. 337. But when t e matter sought to be elicited
would tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose
him to public i nominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as provide in the next section.

SEC. 338. A witness may be interrogated as to his previous conviction for a felony. But no other proof of such
conviction is competent except the record thereof.

SEC. 339. When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing, is given in evidence by one part , the
whole on the same subject may be inquired into y the
other; thus, when a letter is read, all other letters on the
same subject between the same parties may be given. And

when a detached act, declaration, conversation or writing,
is given in evidence, any other act, declaration or writing
which is necessary to make it fully understood, or to explain the same, may also be given in evidence.

SEC. 3-10. When an instrument consists partly of written and partly of printed form, the former controls the
latter, where the two are inconsistent.

SEC. 341. When the terms of an agreement have been
intended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense
is to prevail against either party in which he had reason to
su pose the other understood it.

EC. 3-12. Historical works, books of science or art, and
published ma s or charts, when made by persons indifferent between t e parties, are presumptive evidence of facts
of general notoriety or interest.

SEC. 343. When a subscribing witness denies, or does
not recollect the execution of the instrument to which his
name is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be
proved by other evidence.

SEC. 344. Evidence res ecting handwriting may be
given by comparisons made, %y experts or by the jury, with
writings of the same person which are proved to be genume.

SEC. 345. The entries and other writings of a person deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a position to know the facts therein
stated, are presum tive evidence of such facts, when
the entry was ma e against the interest of the person
so making it or when made in a professional capacity or in
the ordinary course of professional conduct, or when made
in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law.

SEC. 346. Books of account, containind charges by one

arty against the other, made in the ordinary course of ‘
business, are receivable in evidence only under the following circumstances, subject to all just exceptions as to their
credibility :

First. The books must show a continuous dealing with
persons generally, or several items of charges at different
times against the other arty, in the same book.

Second. It must he s own, by the party’s oath, or otherWise, that they are his books of original entries.

Third. It must be shown, in like manner, that the

charges were made at or near the time of the transaction
therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for” not
making such roof

Fourth. T e char es must also be verified by the party
or the clerk who ma e the entries, to the effect that they

believe them just and true, or a sufiicient reason must be
given why the verification is not made.

SEC. 347. Every private writing, except a last will and

I testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certified

' in the manner prescribed for the proof or acknowledgment

of conveyances of real property, may be read in evidence

without further roof
’ SEC. 348. T e judge of the court is a competent witness for either party, and may be sworn upon the trial.
But in such a case it is in his discretion to order the trial

to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before
another judge.

SEC. 349. The usual protest by a notary public, without roof of his signature or notarial seal, is evidence of
the dishonor and notice of a bill of exchange_or promissory note.

CHAPTER II.

MEANS OF PRODUCING WITNESSES.

SEC. 350. The clerks of the several courts and judges
»of the probate courts shall, on a plication of any person
having a cause or any matter pen ing in court, issue a subpoena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all
the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, which
may be served by any person not interested in the action, or
by the sheriff, coroner or constable; but when served by
any erson other than a public officer, proof of service
shall e shown by aiiidavit; but no costs of serving the
same shall be allowed, except when served b an officer.

SEC. 351. The subpoena shall be directe to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time
and place, to testify as a witness; and it may contain a
clause, directing the witness to bring with him any'book,
writing or other thing under his control, which he is bound
by law to produce as evidence.

SEC. 352. Wlien the attendance of a witness before any
oliicer authorized to take depositions is required, the sub
poena shall be issued by such officer.

SEC. 353. The subpoena shall be served either by reading, .or by copy delivered to the witness or left at his usual
place of residence; but such copy need not contain the
name of any other witness.

SEC. 354. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action, exce t in the
county of his residence, nor to attend to give his eposition

out of the county where he resides, or where he may be
when the. subpoena is served upon him.

SEC. 355. A witness ma demand his traveling fees,
and fee for one day’s attendance, when the subpoena is
served upon him, and if the same be not paid, the witness
shall not be obliged to obey the sub na. The fact of
such demand and non-payment sha be stated in the
return.

SEC. 356. Disobedience of a subpoena, or arefusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when lawful} ordered, may be punished as a contempt
of the court or o cer by whom his attendance or testimony
is required.

SEC. 357. When a witness fails to attend in obedience
to a subfpoena (except in case of a demand and failure to
pay his ees), the court or officer before whom his attendance is required, may issue an attachment to the sheriff,
coroner or constable of the county, commanding him to
arrest and bring the person therein named before the
court or officer, at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony, and answer for the contempt. If the‘ attachment be not for immediately bringing
the witness before the court or officer, a sum may be ‘dxed
in which the witness may give an undertaking with surety
for his appearance. Such sum shall be endorsed on the
back of the attachment, and if no sum is so fixed and endorsed, it shall be one hundred dollars. If the witness be
not personally served, the court may, by a rule, order him
to show cause why an attachment should not issue against
him.

SEC. 358. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
in section three hundred and fifty-six, shall be as follows:
When the witness fails to attend in obedience to the
subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to pay
his fees,) the court or officer may fine the witness in a
sum not exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the
court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding
fifty dollars nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him
in the county jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be
sworn, totestiiy, or give his deposition. The line im osed
by the court shall be paid into the county treasury, an that
imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the part for
whom the witness was subpoenaed. The Witness shal also
be liable to the party injured, for any damages occasioned
by, his failure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn, to testify,
or give his deposition.

SEC. 359. A witness so imprisoned by an officer before
whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge

of the supreme court, district court, or probate court, who
shall have power to discharge him if it appear that his imprisonment is illegal.

SEC. 360. Every attachment for the arrest or order of
commitment to prison of a witness by a. court or oilicer,
pursuant to this cha ter, must be under the seal of the
court or officer, if he ave an ofhcial seal, and must specify
particularly the cause of the arrest or commitment; and if
the commitment be for refusing to answer a question, such
question must be stated in the order. Such order of commitment may be directed to the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the count where such witness resides or may be
at the time, and siiall be executed by committin him to
the jail of such county, and delivering a copy of the order
to the jailer. SEC. 361. A person confined in any prison in this territory, may, by order of any court of record, he required to
be produced for oral examination in the county where he is
imprisoned; but in all other cases his examination must be
by deposition.

SEC. 362. While a prisoner’s deposition is being taken,

a he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in

charge, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking

of the deposition.

SEC. 363. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
county in which he does not reside, by being served with a
summons in such county, while going, returning or attenda ing in obedience to a subpoena

SEC. 364. At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness may demand his fees for that day’s attendance in obedience to a sub oena, and if the same be
not paid he shall not be require to remain.

SEC. 365. Before testif ing, the witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the w ole truth, and nothing but the
truth. The mode of administering an oath shall be such
as is most binding upon the conscience of the witness.

CHAPTER III.

MODE OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES.

SEC. 366. The testimony of witnesses may be taken in
three modes:

F irst. B affidavit.
Second. y de osition.
Third. By 0 examination.

SEC. 367. An affidavit is a written declaration under

oath, made without notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 368. A deposition is a written declaration under
oath, made u on notice to the adverse party for the purpose
of enabling im to attend and cross-examine ; or upon
Written inteirogatories.

SEC. 369. An oral examination is an examination in the
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact
or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or
tribunal from the lips of the Witness.

ARTICLE L

AFFIDAVIT.

SEC. 370. An afhdavit may be used to verify a pleading, to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other
process, in an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a Witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a
motion, and in any other case permitted by law.

SEC. 371. An affidavit may be made in and out of this
territory before any person authorized to take depositions,
and must be authenticated in the same way, except as provided in section one hundred and eighteen.

ARTICLE II.

DEPOSITIONS.

SUBDIVISION 1.

When to be used.

SEC. 372. The deposition of any Witness may be used
onl in the following cases:

Igirst. When the witness does not reside in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending or is sent for
trial by change of venue, or is absent therefrom.

Second. When, from age, infirmity or imprisonment, the
Witness is unable to attend the court, or is dead. .

T hird. When the testimony is re uired upon_a motion,
or in any other case where the o examination of the
witness is not reqired. _ _

SEC. 373. Either party may commence taking testimony
by depositions, at any time after service upon the defendant.

SUBDIVISION 2.
Oficers who may take them.

SEC. 37 4. Depositions may be taken in this territory
before a judge or clerk of the supreme or district court,
or before a probate judge, justice of the peace, notary
public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, or before a master commissioner, or any person
empowered by a special commission; but depositions taken
In this territory, to be used therein, must be taken by
an officer or person whose authority is derived Within the
territory.

SEC. 375. Depositions may be taken out of the territor
by a judge, justice, or chancelor of any court of record,
a justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the governor of this territory to take depositions,
or any person authorized by a special commission from
this territory.

SEC. 376. The officer before whom depositions are taken,
must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise interested in the event of the action or proceeding.

SEC. 377. Any court of record of this territory, or any
judge thereof, is authorized to rant a commission to take
depositions within or Without t e territory. The commission must be issued to a person or persons therein named,
by the clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same,
and depositions under it must be taken upon written interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise agree.

SUBDIVISION 3.

Illanner of taking and a»uthenticat£ng them.

SEC. 378. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless
taken under a special commission, a written notice, specifying the action or proceeding, the name of the court or
tribunal in which it is to be used, and the time and place of
taking the same, shall be served upon the adverse party,
his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of
abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party sufficient time by the usual route of travel to
attend, anc one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays
and the day of service, and the examination Inay, if so
stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to day.

SEC. 379. When the party against Whom the deposition is to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the
territory, and has no agent or attorney of record therein,

he may be notified of the taking of the deposition by
publication. The publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, if there be any
printed in such county, and if not, in some newspa er
printed in this territory, of general circulation in t at
county. The publication must contain all that is required
in a written notice, and may be proved in the manner
prescribed in section eighty. SEC. 380. The deposition shall be written in the presence
of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the
vsilitness, or some disinterested person, and subscribed by
1 e witness.

SEC. 381. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up
and endorsed with the title of the cause and the name of
the officer taking the same, and by him addressed and
transmitted to the clerk of the court where the action
or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal until
opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the
request of a party to the action or proceeding, or his
attorney.

SEC. 382. Depositions taken pursuant to this article,
shall be admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil action
or proceeding pending before any justice of the peace,
mayor or other judicial officer of a city, or town corporate,
or before an arbitrators or referees, and such deposition
shall be sealed up, endorsed with the title of the action or
proceeding, the name of the officer taking the same, and
addressed and transmitted by such officer to such justice,
mayor or other judicial oiiicer, arbitrators or referees.

SEC. 383. _When a deposition has once been taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding,
or in any other action or proceeding, upon the same matter
between the same parties, subject, however, to all such
e§cetptions as may be taken thereto under the provisions
0 t is title.

SEC. 384. Depositions taken pursuant to this article,
by any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take
depositions, having a seal of office, whether resident in
this territory or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence
upon the certificate and signature of such officer, under the
seal of the court of which he is an officer, or his official seal,
and no other or further act of authentication shall be required. If the officer taking the same have no official
seal, the de osition, if not taken in this territoiy, shall be
certified and signed by such officer, and shall be further
authenticated, either by parol proof adduced in court,
or by the official certificate and seal of _any secretary

or other officer of state keeping the great seal thereof, or
of the clerk or prothonotary of any court having a seal,
attesting that such judicial or other officer was at the time
of taking the same, within the meaning of this chapter,
authorized to take the same. But if the deposition be
taken within this territory by an officer having no sea], or
within or without this territory under a special commission,
it shall be suliiciently authenticated by the ofiicial signature

of the officer or commissioner taking the same.
SEC. 385. The officer taking the deposition shall annex

> thereto a certificate showing the following facts : ~

First. That the witness was first sworn to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

Second. That the deposition was reduced to writing by
some proper person (naming him).

Thiral That the deposition was Written and subscribed
in the presence of the oliicer certifying thereto.

Fourth. That the deposition was taken at the time and

place specified in the notice.
SEC. 386. When a deposition is offered to be read

in evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the
court, that for any cause specified in section three hundred
and seventy-two, the attendance of the witness cannot be

procured.
SEC. 387. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the
day'of trial.

SEC. 388. The following fees shall be allowed for
taking depositions in the territory, viz.: Swearing each
witness, live cents; for each subpoena, attachment or order
of commitment, fifty cents; for each hundred words contained in such deposition and certificate, ten cents and no

more ;_ and such officer may retain the same until such fees
are paid. Such officer sha lalso tax the costs of the sheriff

or other oliicer who shall serve the process aforesaid, and
fees of the witnesses, and may also, if directed by the
persons entitled thereto, retain such depositions until the
said fees are paid.

SUBDIVISION 4.
Exceptions to Depositiovzs.

SEC. 389. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing,
specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the

papers in the cause.

SEC. 390. No exception other than for incompetency
or irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed
before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 391. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 392. Errors of the court in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions are waived, unless excepted to.

CHAPTER IV.

ADMISSION, INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 393. Either party may exhibit to the other or to
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any pa er or document material to the action, and re uest an a mission in
writing of genuineness. If the a verse party or his
attorney fail to give the admission in Writing within four
days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the
paper or document be afterwards put to any cost or expense to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally
proved or admitted on the trial, such costs and expenses,
to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party
refusing to make the admission, unless it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons for
the refusal.

SEC. 394. Either party or his attorney may demand of
the adverse party an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy, of a book, paper or document in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating
to the merits of the action or defense therein. Such
demand shall be in Writing, specifying the book, paper
or document, with suiiicient particularity to enable the
other party to distinguish it, and if compliance with the
demand within four days he refused, the court or judge, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, ma in their
discretion order the adverse party to give the other, within
a specified time, an inspection and cop , or permission to
take a copy, of such book, pa er or ocument; and on
failure to com ly with such or er, the court may exclude
the paper or dbcument from being given in evidence, or if
Wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the
jury to presume it to be such as the party by affidavit
alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce
any book, paper or document when he.,is examined as a
witness.

SEC. 395. Either party or his attorney, if required, shall
deliver to the other party or his attorney, a copy of any

deed, instrument or other writing, whereon the action
or defense is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence at the trial. If the plaintifff or defendant shall
refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, the party so
refusing shall not be ermitted to give in evidence, at the
trial, the original, of) which a copy has been refused.
This section shall not apply to any paper a copy of which
is filed with a leading.

SEC. 396. rinted copies in volumes of statutes, code,
or other written law, enacted by any other territor or
state, or foreign government, purporting or proved to ave
been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be
commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the
courts or tribunals of such territory, state or government,
shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this territory
on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.
The unwritten or common law of any other territory, state,
or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol
evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in
their courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence
of such law.

SEC. 397. If a witness conceal himself, or in any other
manner attempt to avoid being personally served with a
subpoena, any sheriff or constable, having the subpoena,
may use all necessary and proper means to serve the same,
an for that purpose may break into any building or other

lace where the witness is to be found, having first made
'nown his business and demanded admittance.

SEC. 398. In addition to the above remedies, if a party
to a suit in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed, fail to
appear and give testimony, the other party may, at his
option, have a continuance of the cause as in cases of other
witnesses, and at the cost of the delinquent.

SEC. 399. The supreme or district court may, by rule,
require the production of any papers or books which are
material to the just determination of any cause pending
before it, for the purpose of being inspected and copied by
or for the party thus calling for them.

SEC. 400. The petition for that purpose must state the
facts expected to be proved by such books or papers, and
that, as the petitioner believes, such books and apers are
under the control of the party against whom t e rule is
sought, and must show wherein they are material. The
rule shall thereupon be granted to produce the book and
papers or show cause to the contrary, if the court deem
such rule expedient and proper.

SEC. 401. On failing to obey the rule or show sutiieient
cause for such failure, the same consequences shall ensue

as if the arty had failed to appear and testify, when
subpoenae by the party now cal ing for the books and
pa ers.

EC. 402. Though a Writing called for by one party is
by the other produced, the party thus calling for it, is not
0 liged to use it as evidence in the case.

Documentary Evidence.

SEC. 403. Publications required by law to be made inj

a newspaper, may be proved by affidavit of any person
having knowledge of the fact, specifying the time when
and the paper in which the publication was made, but such
afhdavit must, for the purposes now contemplated, be made
within six months after the last day of publication.

SEC. 404. The (posting up or service of any notice or‘

other paper require
vit of any competent witness, attached to a co y of said
notice or paper, and made within six months of £16 time of
such posting up.

SEC. 405. Any other fact which is required to be shown
by affidavit, and which may be required for future use in
any action or other proceeding, may be proved by pursuing
the course above indicated, as nearly as the circumstances
of the case will admit.

SEC. 406. Such proof so made may be perpetuated and
preserved for future use by filing the papers above mentioned in the office of the judge of probate, and the original
affidavit appended to the notice or paper, if there be one,
and if not, the affidavit, by itself, is presumptive evidence
of the facts stated therein, but does not preclude other
modes of proof now held sufficient.

SEC. 407. A copy of the held notes of any county surveyor, or a plat made by him and certified under oath as
correct, may be received as evidence to show the shape or
dimensions of a tract of land, or any other fact whose
ascertainment requires only the exercise of scientific skill
or calculation.

Evidence.

SEC. 408. Dul certified copies of all records and entries or pa ers be onging to any public oliice, or by authority of aw filed to be kept therein, shall be evidence in
all cases of equal credibility with the original records or
pa ers so filed.

EC. 409. Every oliicer having the custody of a public
record or writing, is bound to give any person on demand
9. certified copy thereof, on payment of the legal fees
therefore.

by law, may be proved by the aflida-'

SEC. 410. The certificate of a ublic officer that he has
made diligent and ineffectual searc for a apcr in his office
is of the same efficacy in all cases as it? such officer had
personally appeared and sworn to such facts.

SEC. 411. The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of
any land office, or, if that be lost or destroyed, or beyond
the reach of the party, the certificate of such receiver, that
the books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to a
certain individual, is proof of title equivalent to a patent
against all but the holder of an actual patent.

SEC. 412. In the cases contemplated in the last three
sections the signature of the officer shall be presumedto be
genuine until the contrary is shown.

SEC. 413. A judicial record of this territory, or of any
other federal court of the United States, ma be proved by
the roducing of the original, or by a copy t ereof, certified
by t e clerk or the person having the le a1 custody thereof,
authenticated by his seal of office if he have one. _

SEC. 414. That of a sister state may be proved by the
attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of a judge,
chief justice, or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is
in due form of law.

SEC. 415. The official certificate of a justice of’ the
peace of any of the United States, to any judgment, and
the preliminary proceeding before him, supported by the
official certificate of the clerk of any court of record within
the county in which such justice resides, stating that he is
an acting justice of the peace of that county, and that the
signature of his certificate is genuine, is sufficient evidence
of such proceedings and judgment.

SEC. 416. Copies of records and roceedings in the

courts of a foreign country may be a mitted in evidence .

upon being authenticated as follows:

First. By the official attestation of the clerk or officer
in whose custody such records are legall kept.

Second. By the certihcate of one of t e judges or magistrates of such court, that the person so attesting is the
clerk or officer legally entrusted with the custody of such
records, and that the signature to his attestation is genuine.

Third. By the official certificate of the officer who has
the custody of the principal seal of the government under
Whose authority the court is held, attested by said seal,
stating that such court is duly constituted, specifying the
general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of
the court

SEC. 417. Acts of the executive of the United States,

or of this terrritory, or of any state in the Union, or of a
foreign government, are proved by the records of the state
department of the respective governments, or by public.
documents purporting to have been printed by order of the
legislatures of those governments respectively, or by either
branch thereof.

SEC. 418. The proceedin of the legislature of this
territory, or any state of the l§1iion, or of the United States,
or of any foreign government, are proved by the journals
of those bodies, respectivel , or of either branch thereof,
and either by co ies oiliciaily certified by the clerk of the
house in which t e proceedings were bad, or by a. copy purporting to have been rinted by their order.

SEC. 419. Printed) copyies of the statute laws of this
territory, or any of the nited States, or of congress, or
of any foreign government, purporting or proved to have
been published under the authority thereof, or proved to
be commonly admitted as evidence of the existin laws
in the courts of such state or government, shall e admitted in the courts of this territory as presumptive evidence of such law. ,

SEC. 420. The public seal of the territo or county:
affixed to a co of a written law or other pu lie writing,
is also admissible as evidence of such law or writing respectively ; the unwritten law of an other state or govern- .
ment may be proved as fact by arol evidence, and also by
the books of reports of cases a judged in their courts.

CHAPTER V.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

SEC. 421. The testimony of a witness may be erpetu-3
ated in the followin manner: The applicant shail file in}
the office of the cler of the district court, a petition, to bej
verified, in which shall be set forth, specially, the subject:
matter relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the '
names of the persons interested, if known to the applicant;
and if not known, such general description as he can give,
of such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees or otherwise.
The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to be
examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to each ;
that the a plicant expects to be a party to an action in a
court of tiiis territory, in which such testimony will, as he
believes, be material ; and the obstacles reventing the immediate commencement of the action, w ere the applicant
expects to be the plaintifff

SEC. 422. The court, or judge thereof; ma forthwith
make an order allowin the examination of suc Witnesses.
;I‘he order shall prescri e the time and (place of the examination, how long the parties intereste shall be notified
thereof, and the manner in which they shall be notified

SEC. 423. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or
judge that the parties interested cannot be personally notined, such court or judge shall appoint acompeteiit attorney
to examine the petition and prepare and file cross-interrogatories to those contained therein.

SEC. 424. The witnesses shall be examined upon the
interrogatories of the applicant, and upon cross-interrogatories, where they are re uired to be prepared, and no
others shall be ropounde to them; nor s all any statement be receive , which is not responsive to some one of
them. The attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall
be allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill
of costs

SEC. 425. Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some
one specially authorized by the court or judge, and shall
be returned to the clerk’s office of the court in which the
petition was filed. '

SEC. 426. The court or judge, if satisfied that the
depositions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve the same and order them to be filed;
and if a trial be had between the parties named in the petition, or their grivies or successors in interest, such depositions, or certi ed copies thereof, may be given in evidence
by either arty, where the Witnesses are dead, or insane,
or where t eir attendance for oral examination cannot be
obtained or required; but such depositions shall be subject
to .the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency as
may be made to depositions taken pending an action.

SEC. 427. The a plicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings under this c apter.

TITLE XI.

JU D GMENT.

CHAPTER I.

JUDGMENT IN GENERAL

SEC. 428. A judgmentis the final determination of the
rights of the parties in an action.

SEC. 429. Judgment may be given for or against one
or more of several plaintifffs and for or against one or more
of several defendants; it may determine the ultimate rights
of the parties on either side as between themselves and it
may grant to the defendant, any affirmative relief td which
he ma be entitled. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judgment
against one or more of them leaving the action to proceed
against the others, Whenever,‘ a several judgment may be
pro er. 'fI‘he court may éilsp dismiss. the peti’tt.ion with cosbtf,
111 avoro one or more e en ants 111 case 0 unreasona e
neglect on the part of the plaintifff to serve the summons on
other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.

d. SEtC(.) 48f“O.t An fcrction may be dismissed without prejuice a u ure ac 1on—

First. By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the
case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the
court _ _

Second. By the court, Where the plaintifff fails to appear
on the trial.

Third. By the court, for Want of necessary parties.

Fourth. By the court, on the application of some of the

defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails
to rosecute with dilicrence.
‘flit. By the couiat, for disobedience by the plaintifff of
an order concerning the proceedings in the action. In all
other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must
be upon themerits.

SEC. 431. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim
has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of
proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff
may have dismissed the action or failed to appear.

CHAPTER II.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

SEC. 432. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
a fact, or the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable
the court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer,
or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may, with
the assent of the party not in default, take the account,
hear the proof, or assess the damages; or may, with the

like assent, refer the same to a referee, master or commis- A

sioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed
by a jury. f a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after
the day on which the action is set for trial.

CHAPTER III
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.

SEC. 433. Any person indebted, or against whom a
cause of action exists, may personally appear, in a court of
competent 'urisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor,
or person aving such cause of action, confess judgment
therefore, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordin ly.

gSEC. 434. The debt or cause of action shall be briefl
stated in the judgment, or in a Writing to be filed as plea ings in other actions.

SEC. 435. Such judgment shall authorize the same
proceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in
actions regularly brought and prosecuted; and the confession shall operate as a release of errors.

‘SEC. 436. Every attorney Who shall confess judgment
in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession,
produce the warrant of attorney for making the same, to
the court before which he makes the confession, and the
original or a copy of the warrant shall be filed with the
clerk of the court in which the judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 437. If any person be in custody in a civil action,
at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney executed by
the person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the
person at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force,
unless some attorney expressly named by the person in
custody be present, and sign the Warrant of attorney as
a witness.

CHAPTER IV.

MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SEC. 438. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be rendered by the clerk in conformity to the
verdict, unless it is special, or the court order the case to be
reserved for future argument or consideration.

SEC. 439. Whe1'e the verdict is s ecial, or where there
has been a special finding on articu ar questions of fact,
or where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it
shall order what judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 440. Wliere, upon the statements in the pleadings,
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict'

has been found against such party.
SEC. 441. If a counter-c aim or set-off established at

the trial, exceeds the plaintifff’s claim so established, judg- ;

ment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or, if
it appear that the defendant IS entitled to any affirmative
relief, judgment shall be given therefore.

SEC. 442. It shall not be necessary toreserve, in a judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause against
it after his attaining full age; but in an case in which, but
for this section, such reservation woul have been proper,
the infant, within one year after arriving at the age of
twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or
judgment.

SEC. 443. All judgments and orders must be entered
on the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief
granted or order made in the action.

SEC. 444. The clerk shall make a complete record of 4

every cause, as soon as it is final] determined, unless such
record, or some part thereof, be uly waived.

SEC. 445. He shall make up such record in each cause,
in the vacation next after the term at which the same was
determined, and the presiding judge of such court shall,
at its next term thereafter, subscribe the same.

SEC. 446. The records shall be made up from the petition, the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto,
reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts
and proceedings of the court; but if the items of an
account or the co ies of a paper attached to the pleadin .
be voluminous, t e court may order the record to be ma e
by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent description thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must
not be recorded.

SEC. 447. When the judicial acts or other proceedings
of any court have not been regularly brought up and
recorded by the clerk thereof, sudh court shall cause the
same to be made up and recorded Within such time as it
may direct. When they are made up, and upon examination found to be correct, the presiding judge of such court
shall subscribe the same.

SEC. 448. No complete record shall be made —

F irst. In criminal rosecutions where the indictment
has been quashed, or Where the prosecuting attorney shall
have entered a nolle prosequi on the indictment.

Second. In cases where an action has been dismissed
Without prejudice to a future action.

Third. In actions in Which, in open court, at the term
at which the final order or judgment shall be made, both
par(t1ies shall declare their agreement that no record shall be
ma e.

SEC. 449. In cases where an action has been dismissed
without prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a
complete record of the proceedings, upon being aid for
making the same by the party desiring the recor to be
made.

SEC. 450. A complete record shall be made in the case
mentioned in section four hundred and thirty-one, unless
waived by the parties.

T

CHAPTER V.

CONVEYANCE BY COMMISSIONERS.

SEC. 451. Real property may be conveyed by master
commissioners as hereinafter provided:

First. When by an order or judgment in an action or
proceeding, a party is ordered to convey such property to
another, and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such
order or judgment.

Second. VVhen specific real property is required to be
sold under an order or judgment of the court.

SEC. 452. A sheriff may act as a master commissioner
under the second subdivision of the preceding section.
Sales made under the same shall conform in all respects to
the laws regulating sales of land upon execution.

SEC. 453. The deed of a master commissioner shall
contain the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged
and recorded, as the deed of a sheriff, of real property sold
under execution.

TITLE XII.

CAUSES OF ACTION WHICH SURVIVE, AND ABATEMENT OF
ACTIONS.

SEC. 454. In addition to the causes of action which sur- '
vive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or}
for an injury to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or‘
fraud, shall also survive, and the action may be brought
notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable
to the same.

SEC. 455. No action ending in any court shall abate.
by the death of either or both the parties thereto, exce t an 1
action for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assau t, or‘
assault and battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of

the (peace for misconduct in office; which shall abate by
the eath of the defendant.

 

TITLE XIII.

REVIVOR.

CHAPTER I.

T REVIVOR or ACTIONS.

SEC. 456. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, if the right of action survive
to or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed ;
the death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being
stated on the record.

SEC. 457. Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants
dies, or his powers as a personal representativecease, if the
cause of action do not admit of a survivorship, and the
court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can
be properly determined, and the principles a plicable to
the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the same as

between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall not
prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial.

SEC. 458. Where one of the parties to an action dies, or
his powers as a personal representative cease, before the
judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of or
against his representatives or successor, the action may be
revived, and proceed in their names.

SEC. 459. The revivor shall be, by a conditional order
of the court if made in term, or by a judge thereof if
made in vacation, that the action be revived in the names
of the representatives or successor of the party who died,
or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against
them.

SEC. 460. The order may be made on the motion of the
adverse arty, or of the representatives or successor of the

art w 0 died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his
geat or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names
and capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be
stated in the order. »

SEC. 461. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not
made by consent, the order shall be served in the same
manner, and returned within the same time, as a summons,
u on the party adverse to the one making the motion, and
ifPsuff1cient cause be not shown against the revivor, the
action shall stand revived.

SEC. 462. When the laintiff shall make an affidavit,
that the representatives 0 the defendant, or an of them,
in whose name the action may be ordered to e revived,
are non-residents of the territory, or have left the same to
avoid the service of the order, or so conceal themselves
that the order cannot be served upon them, or that the
names and residence of the heirs or devisees of the person
against whom the action may be ordered to be revived, or
some of them, are unknown to the afliant, a notice may be
published for four conseculve weeks, as provided by section seventy-nine, notifying them to appear on a day therein
named, not less than ten days after t e publication is complete, and show cause why the action should not be revived
against them; and if sufficient cause be not shown to the
contrary, the action shall stand revived.

SEC. 463. Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action,
it may be revived in the names of his re resentatives, to
whom his right has passed. Where his rig it has passed to
his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his name;
where it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their
names.

SEC. 464. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his
personal representative, the revivor shall be against him:
and it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right of action, or any part
thereof, survives against them.

SEC. 465. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
for the recovery of real propert only, or which concerns
only his rights or claims to suc property, the action may
be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an
order therefore may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding sections of this title.

SEC. 466. An order to revive an action against the
representatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be
made without the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been
first made.

SEC. 467. An order to revive an action in the names of
the representatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of
the defendant, after the expiration of one car from the
time the order might have been first made; but where the
defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased
in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may
be made in the eriod limited in the last section.

SEC. 468. V hen it appears to the court by affidavit
that either party to an action has been dead, or, where a
party sues or is sued as a personal representative, that his
powers have ceased, for a period so long that theiaction cannot be revived in the names of his representatives or successor, without the consent of both parties, it shall order
the action to be stricken from the docket.

SEC. 469. At any term of the court succeeding the
death of the plaintit£ while the action remains on the
docket, the defendant having given to the plaintifff’s proper
representatives, in whose namebthe action might be revived,
ten days notice of the application therefore, ma have an
order to strike the action from the docket an for costs
against the estate of the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith revived.

SEC. 470. When, by the provisions of the preceding
sections, an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall
not be postponed by reason of the revivor, if the action
would have stood for trial at the term the revivor is completc, had‘ no death or cessation of powers taken place.

CHAPTER II.

REVIVOR AND NEW PARTIES TO JUDGMENT,

SEC. 471. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more persons jointly indebted upon contract, those who
were not originally summoned may be made parties to the
judgment by action.

SEC. 472. If either or both the parties die after judgment, and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives,
real or personal, or both, as the case may require, may be
made arties to the same, in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment; and such
judgment may be rendered and execution awarded as might
or ought to be given or awarded against the representatives,
real or personal, or both, of such deceased party.

SEC. 473. If a judgment become dormant, it may be
revived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving
actions before judgment

TITLE XIV.

EXECUTION S.

SEC. 474. Executions shall be deemed rocess of the
court, and shall be issued by the clerk and irected to the
sheriff of the county. They may be directed to different
counties at the same time.

SEC. 475. Executions are of three kinds:

First. Against the property of the judgment debtor.

S.~:concl. Against his person.

T/ufrd. For the deliver of the possession of real property, with damages for wit holding the same, and costs.

CHAPTER I.

EXECUTIONS AGAINST THE PROPERTY OF THE JUDGMENT
DEBTOR.

SEC. 476. Lands, tenements, goods and chattels, not
exempt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts,

and shall be liable to be taken on execution and sold as:
hereinafter provided.

SEC. 477. The lands and tenements of the debtor with-.‘
in the county where the judgment is entered, shall be}
bound for the satisfaction thereof, from the first day of the 1
term at which judgment is rendered; but judgments by
confession, and judgments rendered at the same term at
which the action is commenced, shall bind such lands only
from the day on which such judgments are rendered. All
other lands, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor,
shall be bound from the time they shall be seized in execution. '

SEC. 478. On all judgments and decrees hereafter:
rendered in any of the district courts in this territory, there '
shall he stay of execution or order of sale, as the case may
be, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 479. The order of sale on all decrees for the sale;
of mortgaged premises, shall be stayed for the period of I
one year from and after the rendition of such decree, whenever the defendant shall desire such stay, and shall, within
twenty days after the rendition of such decree, file with the
clerk of such court, a written request for the same: Pro-vided, That if the defendant make no such request within
said twenty days, the order of sale may issue immediately
after the expiration thereofl

SEC. 480. Execution on all judgments hereafter ren-1
dered in said courts, shall he stayed for the period of one?
year from and after the rendition thereof: Providecl, The
defendant shall within twenty days after the judgment is
obtained, show to the satisfaction of the clerk of such
court, that he or she is the owner of real estate in the
county, of sufficient value, over and above encumbrances, to
pay such judgment.

SEC. 481. On other judgments or decrees of said
courts, execution or orders of sale, as the case may he,
shall he stayed for the period of one year, whenever the
defendant, within twenty days after the rendition thereof,
shall enter into a bond to the plaintifff with one or more sufIicient sureties, residents of the county, to be approved by
the clerk of such court, conditioned for the payment of the
amount of such judgment or decree, together with the
interest and costs, and costs that may accrue.

SEC. 482. If execution shall not be sued out within five
years from the date of any judgment that now is or may
hereafter be rendered in any court of record in this territory, or if five years shall have intervened between the
date of the last execution issued on such judgment and the
time of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such

judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate
as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.

SEC. -183. The writ of execution against the property
of the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record
in this territory, shall command the officer to whom it is
directed, that of the goods and chattels of the debtor he
cause to be made the money specified in the writ, and for
want of goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made
of the lands and tenements of the debtor; and the exact
amount of the debt, damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall be endorsed on the execution.

SEC. 484. VVhen two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be sued out during the term in which
judgment was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and
when two or more writs of execution against the same
debtor shall be delivered to the officer on the same day, no
preference shall be given to either of such writs; but if a
sufficient sum of money be not made to satisfy all executions, the amount made shall be distributed to the several
creditors in proportion to the amount of their respective
demands. In all other cases, the writ of execution first
delivered to the officer shall be first satisfied. And it shall
be the duty of the officer to endorse on every writ of execution the time when he received the same; but nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to affect any referable lien which one or more of the judgments on w ich
execution issued, may have on the lands of the judgment
debtor.

SEC. 485. The officer to whom a writ of execution is
delivered, shall roceed immediately to levy the same upon
the goods a11d cliattels of the debtor ; but if no goods and
chattels can be found, the officer shall endorse on the writ
of execution “no goods,” and forthwith levy the writ of
execution l1)OI1 the lands and tenements of the debtor
which may be liable to satisfy the judgment. ,

SEC. 486. If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution issued from any court of record in this territor 1', shall
levy the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any
person other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said
officer forthwith to give notice in writing to some justice of
the peace in the count , in which shall be set forth the
names of the plaintili and defendant, together with the
name of the claimant; and at the same time he shall furnish the said justice of the peace with a schedule of the
property claimed. And it shall be the duty of such justice
of the peace, immediately upon the receipt of such notice
and schedule, to make an entry of the same upon his docket,
and issue a writ of summons, directed to the sheriff or any

constable of the county, commanding him to summon five
disinterested men, having the qualifications of electors, who
shall be named in said summons, to appear before him, the
said justice, at the time and place therein mentioned, which
time shall not be more than three days after the date of said
writ, to try and determine the right of the claimant to the
property in controversy. And it shall be the duty of the
claimant to give two days notice in writing to the plaintifff
or other party for whose benefit such execution was issued
and levied as aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within the
county, of the time and place of such trial; and he shall,
moreover, prove to the satisfaction of said justice that such
notice was given, or that the same could not be given by
reason of the absence of the party, his agent or attorney.

SEC. 487. The jury summoned as aforesaid, shall be
sworn to try and determine the right of the claimant to the
pro erty in controversy, and a true verdict to give, according
to t e evidence. If the jury shall iind the right to sai
goods and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant, they shall also find the value thereof, and the justice
shall render judgment upon such finding of the jury, for
the claimant, that he recover his costs against the plaintifff
in execution, or other party to the same for whose benefit
the execution issued, and also that he have restitution of
said goods and chattels, or any part thereof, according to
the hnding of the jury. But if the right of the said
goods and chattels, and ever part thereof, shall not be in
the claimant according to tie finding of said jury, then
the said justice shall render judgment on such finding, in
favor of the plaintifff in execution, or other party for w ose
benefit the same was issued and levied, against said claimant for costs, and award execution thereon. Said justice
of the peace, in the taxation of costs accruing by reason of
such claim and trial, shall allow each uror summoned and
sworn, the sum of nfty cents; and for the sheriff, constable
or other officer, and witnesses, and for himself, he shall tax
such fees as are allowed by law, to each respectively, for
like services rendered in other cases. Such judgment for
the claimant (unless an undertaking shall be executed, as
provided in the next section,) shall be a justincation of the
officer in returning “ no goods” to the writ of execution, by
virtue of which the levy has been made, as to such part of
the goods and chattels as were found to belong to such
claimant.

SEC. 488. If the jury shall find the property, or any,
part thereof, to be in the claimant, and the plaintifff in ex- ;
ecution shall, at any time within three days after said;
trial, tender to the sheriff or other officer having such

property in his custody on execution, an undertaking, with

ood and sufficient sureties, payable to such claimant, in
double the amount of the value of such property as assessed
by the jury, to the effect that they will pay all damages
sustained by reason of the detention or sale of such (property, then the sheriff or other officer shall deliver sai undertaking to claimant, and proceed to sell such property, as
if no such trial of the right of property had taken place,
and shall not be liable to the claimant therefore.

SEC. 489. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other
officer, shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods
and chattels which shall remain upon his iands unsold, for
Want of bidders, for the Want of time to advertise and sell,
or any other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his
own security, take of the defendant an undertaking, with
security in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the

‘effect that the said propert shall be delivered to the officer

holding an execution for t e sale of the same, at the time
and place appointed by said officer, either by notice given
in writing to said defendant in execution, or by advertisement, published in a newspaper printed in the county,
naming therein the day and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the goods and chattels at the time
and place mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay
to the officer holding the execution, the full value of said
goods and chattels, or the amount of said debt and costs,
the undertaking, given as aforesaid, shall be considered as
broken, and may be roceeded on as in other cases.

SEC. 490. The of‘cer who levies upon goods and chattels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record,
before he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice
to be given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten
days before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by
advertisement published in some newspaper printed in the
county, or in case no newspaper be printed therein, by putting up advertisements in five public places in the county ;
two advertisements shall be put up in the precinct where
the sale is to be held. And where goods and chattels levied upon cannot be sold for want of bidders, the oilicer
making such return shall annex to the execution a true
and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels; and the
plaintifff in such execution may thereupon sue out another
writ of execution, directing the sale of the property levied
upon as aforesaid; but such goods and chattels shall not be
sold unless the time and place of sale be advertised as
hereiubefore provided.

SEC. 491. “Then any writ shall issue, directing the sale
of property previously taken in execution, the officer issuing said writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to
the benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a
command to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed,
that if the property remaining in his hands not sold shall,
in his opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he
shall levy the same upon the lands and tenements, goods
and chattels, or either, as the law shall permit, being the
§r%perty of the judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the
e t

SEC. 492. Whenever hereafter execution may be levied
on any lands and tenements, the officer levying the same
shall call an inquest of two disinterested freeholders, who
shall be residents in the county where the lands taken on
execution are situated, and administer to them an oath impartially to appraise the property so levied upon, and such
officer, together with said freeholders, shall appraise said
property at its real value in money, and such appraisement
shall be signed by such officer and said freeholders respectively.

SEC. 493. The officer holding such appraisement shall f
forthwith deposit a cop thereof in the office of the clerk of 5
the court from which the writ issued, and shall immediately advertise and sell said real estate agreeably to the provi- i
sions of this title, but in no case‘ shall he sell any such land ,
for less than two-thirds the appraised value thereof. ‘

SEC. 494. Nothing contained in this and the preceding‘

'sections of this title shall in anywise extend to affect the.

sale of any land by the territory, but all lands therein, the
property of individuals indebted to the territory for any

ebt or taxes, or in any other manner, shall be sold without
valuation for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably
to the laws for such cases made and rovided.

SEC. 495. In all cases where real estate may hereafter§
be levied upon, by virtue of any execution or order of sale, f
and shall have been appraised, and twice advertised and‘
offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders,
it shall be the duty of the officer to cause a new appraisement
of such real estate to be made, and successive executions or
orders of sale may issue at any time in vacation, after the return of the officer “not sold for want of bidders,” at the
re uest of the plaintifff or his attorney.

EC. 496. If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner, f
justice of- the peace, constable, or any collector of territo-3
rial, county, town or township tax, shall be levied on, for?
or on account of any monies that now are or may hereafter be by them collected or received in their official
capacity, the property so levied on shall be sold without
valuation.

SEC. 497. Lands and tenements, taken in execution,
shall not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the
time and place of sale to be given, for at least thirty days
before the day of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed
in the county, in some newspaper in general circulation
therein, and by putting up an advertisement on the court
house door, and in five other public places in the county,
two of which shall be in the recinct where such lands and
tenements lie. All sales ma e without such advertisement
shall be set aside on motion, by the court to which the
execution is returnable.

SEC. 498. If the court, upon the return of any writ of
execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the proceedings of the officer, be statisfied that the
sale has, in all respects, been made in conformity to the
provisions of this title, the court shall direct the clerk to
make an entry on the journal, that the court is satisfied of
the legality of such sale, and an order that the officer make
to the purchaser a deed of such lands and tenements; and
the officer, on making such sale, may retain the purchasemoney in his hands until the court shall have examined
his proceedings as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same
to the person entitled thereto, agreeably to the order of the
court

SEC. 499. The sheriff or other officer, Who, upon such ‘

writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and ten‘ ements, or any part thereof, shall make to the (purchaser or

purchasers thereof, as good and sufficient a dee of conveyance of lands and tenements sold as the person or persons
against whom such writ or writs of execution were issued
could have made of the same, at the time they became
liable to the judgment, or at any time thereafter.

SEC. 500. The deed shall be sufficient evidence of the

‘legality of such sale and the proceedings therein until the

contrary be proved, and shall vest in the purchaser as good
and as perfect an estate in the premises therein mentioned
as was vested in the party at or after the time when such
lands and tenements became liable to the satisfaction of the
judgment And such deed of conveyance, to be made by
the sheriff or other officer, shall recite the execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the
parties, the amount, and date of term of rendition of each
judgment, by virtue whereof the said lands and tenements
were sold as aforesaid ; and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is or may be provided by law, to
perfect the conveyance of real estate in other cases.

SEC. 501. The officer who levies upon goods and chat- ‘
tels, or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the
duty of selling the same by virtue of any writ or execution, i
may refuse to publish a notice of the sale thereof by advertisement in a newspaper until the party for whose benefit
such execution issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance
to such officer so much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of the printer for publishing such notice.

SEC. 502. Before any officer shall be excused from giving
the notification mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of the party for whose benefit the execution was
issued, his agent or attorney, (provided either of them resides in the count ,) the fees in said section specihed.

SEC. 503. Al sales of lands or tenements under execution shall be held at the court house, if there be one in the
county in which such lands and tenements are situated, and
if there be no court house, then at the door of the house in
which the district court was last held. No sheriff or other
officer making the sale of property, either personal or real,
or any appraiser of such property, shall, either directly or
indirectly, purchase the same; and every purchase so made
shall be considered fraudulent and void.

SEC. 504-. If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid are not sold upon one execution, other executions may
be issued to sell the lands so levied upon.

SEC. 505. In all cases when two or more executions
shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer,
and it shall be necessary to le on real estate to satisfy the
same, and either of the ju gment creditors in whose
favor one or more of said executions is issued, shall require
the sheriff, or other officer, to make a separate levy to satisfy
his execution or executions, it shall be the duty of the
sheriff, or other officer, to levy said executions, or so many
thereof as may be required, on separate parcels of real
property of the judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the
officer making the levy on behalf of the creditor, whose
execution may, by the provisions of this chapter, be entitled to a preference, the choice of such part of the real
property of the judgment debtor or debtors, as will be
sufficient, at two-thirds of the appraised value, to satisfy
the same. And in all cases where two or more executions,
which are entitled to no preference over each other, are put
into the hands of the same officer, it shall be the duty of
the officer, when required, to levy the same on separate

arcels of the real property of the judgment debtor or
debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers, the same
may be divided without material injury; and if the real
property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at two-thirds

of its appraised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on to
satisfy each execution as will bear the same proportion in
value to the whole as the amount due on the execution
bears to the amount of all the executions chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to the appraised value of
each separate arcel of said real property.

_>f SEC. 506. Ef the term of service of the sheriff, or other

5 officer, who has made or shall hereafter make sale of any

‘‘ lands and tenements, shall expire, or if the sheriff or other
officer shall be absent, or be rendered unable, by death or
otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any
succeeding sheriff, or other oiiicer, on receiving a certificate
from the court from which the execution issued, for the sale
of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order
of said court, settin forth that sufficient proof has been
made to the court t at such sale was fairly and levally
made, and, on tender of the purchase money, or if the
same or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof of such
payment and tender of the balance, if any, may execute to
the said purchaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of conveyance of said lands and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as good and valid i_n
law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other
officer who made sale had executed the same.

SEC. 507. If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall
be in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money

» than is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution,
with interest and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on
demand, pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or
his legal representatives.

SEC. 508. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any
time thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or
affect the title of the purchaser or purchasers; but in such
case restitution shall be made by the judgment creditor, of
the monies for which such lands or tenements were sold,

with lawful interest from the day of sale.
SEC. 509. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which

hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not
have been taken out and levied, before the expiration of
one . ear next after its rendition, shall operate as a lien upon t e estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other
bona jide judgment creditor. But in all cases where judgment has been or may be rendered in the supreme court,
and a special mandate awarded to the district court to carry
the same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor
shall continue for one year after the nrst day of the next term

of ‘the district court to which such mandate may be directed.

Nothing in this section contained shall be construed to

defeat the lien of any judgment creditor who shall fail to

take out execution and cause a levy to be made as herein

provided, when such failure shall be occasioned by appeal,

proceedings in error, injunction, or by a vacanc in the

office of s eriif and coroner, or the inabilit of suc officer,

until one year after such disability shall lie removed In;
all cases where real estate has been or may hereafter be
taken on execution and appraised, and twice advertised and‘
offered for ‘sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from which such

execution issued, on motion of the plaintifff, to set aside

such . praisement, and order a new one to be made, or to

set asi e such levy and appraisement, and award a new

execution to issue, as the case may require.

SEC. 510. The sheriff or other officer, to whom any
writ of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ:
to the court to which the same is returnable, within sixty
days from the date thereof

SEC. 511. In all cases where judgment is rendered inj
any court of record within this territory, upon any other
instrument of writing, in which two or more persons are
jointly and severally bound, and it shall be made to appear
to the court, by parol or other testimony, that one or more
of said persons so bound signed the same as surety or
bail for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty
of the clerk of said court, in recording the judgment
thereon, to certify which of the defendants is principal
debtor, and which are sureties or bail And the clerk of
the court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment,
commanding the sheriff or other oiiicer to cause the money
to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the principal debtor, but for want of sufficient property
of the princi al debtor to make the same, that he cause
the same to e made of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases the property,
both personal and real, of the principal debtor, within
the jurisdiction of the court, shall be exhausted before
any of the property of the surety or bail shall be taken

in execution.

SEC. 512. Each freeholder, summoned to ap raise real
estate under the provisions of this chapter, shall e allowed
and receive for his services the sum of fifty cents, for each
day he ma be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on t e execution, b virtue of which the property
appraised was levied on, ify claimed at the time of making
t e return of such appraisement. And when any freeholder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at
the time and place appointed by the officer, and ischar e
his duty as appraiser, he shall, on complaint being in e
to any justice of the peace of the precinct in which
such freeholder resides, forfeit and pay the sum of fifty
cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a
reasonable excuse Such sum shall be collected by said
justice, and paid into the county treasury for the use of

the county.
SEC. 513. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or

_neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed,

which has come to his hands ; or shall neglect or refuse to
sell any goods and chattels, lands and tenements; or shall
neglect to call an in uest, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the clerk’s dhice; or shall neglect to return any
Writ of execution to the pro er court, on or before the
return day thereof; or shal neglect to return a. just
and perfect inventory of all and singular the goods and
chattels by him taken in execution, unless the said sheriff
or other officer shall return, that he has levied and made
the amount of the debt, damages and costs; or shall
refuse or neglect on demand to ay over to the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney of record, all)monies by him collected
or received, for the use of said party, at any time after
collecting or receiving the same, except as rovided in
section four hundred and ninet -ei ht; or shall neglect or
refuse, on demand made by t e efendant, his agent or
attorney of record, to pay over all monies by him received
for any sale made, beyond what is sufficient to satisfy the
Writ or Writs of execution, with interest and legal costs,
such sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court and
two days notice thereof in Writing, be amerced in the
amount of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per
centum thereon, to and for the use of said plaintifff or
defendant, as the case may be.

SEC. 514. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse,
on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his a ent
or attorney of record, to pay over all money by im
received, in his official capacity, for the use of such person,
every such clerk may be amerced; and the proceedings
against him and his sureties shall be the same as rovided for in the foregoing section against sheriffs and t eir
sureties.

SEC. 515. When the cause of amercement is for refusing to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the
said sheriff or other officer shall not be amerced in a
greater sum than the amount so withheld, with ten per
centum thereon.

SEC. 516. When execution shall be issued in any
county in this territory, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of another county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff
or coroner having the execution, after having discharged
all the duties required of him by law, to inclose such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the
same. On proof being made by such sheriff or coroner,
that the execution was mailed soon enough to have reached
the office where it was issued within the time prescribed
by law, the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any
amercement or penalty if it do not reach the office in due
time.

SEC. 517. No sheriff shall forward by mail, any money
made on any such execution, unless he shall be specially
instructed to do it by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of
record. In all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or
other officer of any county other than the one from which
the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to
such officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with
him, or at his office, at least fifteen days before the first
day of the term at which such motion shall be made, or by
transmitting the notice by mail at least sixty days rior to
the first day of the term at which such motion shall be
made. All amercements, so procured, shall be entered on
the record of the court, and shall have the same force and
eifect as a judgment. 1

SEC. 518. Each and every surety of an sheriff or
other officer may be made a party to the juc gment rendered as aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by
action, to be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases;
But the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any
such surety shall not be liable to be taken on execution,
when sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements of
the sheriff or other officer, against whom execution may
be issued, can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent either party from proceeding
against such sheriff or other officer by attachment, at his
election.

SEC. 519. In cases where a sheriff or other officer may
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an execution, and collect the amount of said judgment in the
name of the original plaintifff, for his own use.

SEC. 520. The pro ierty owned by a married Woman
before her marriage, anil that which she may acquire after
marriage by descent, gift, grant, devise or otherwise, and
the use an profits thereof, shall be exem t from all debts
and liabilities of her husband, contracte or incurred by

him previous to their marriage or subsequently thereto, or
previous to the time the wife came into the possession of
such property: Provided, however, That all debts contracted
for necessary articles for the use and benefit of the family
of such married woman, shall be excepted from the opera.tion of this section.

Homestead and other Exemptions.

SEC. 521. All heads of families, who have neither
lands, town lots, or houses subject to exemption as a homestead, under the laws of this territory, shall have exempt
from forced sale on execution the sum of hve hundred dollars in personal property.

SEC. 522. Any erson desiring to avail himself of the
exemption as provi ed for in the preceding section, must
file an inventory, under oath, in the court where the judgment is obtained, or with the officer holding the execution,
of the whole of the personal property owned by him or
them, at any time before the sale of the property; and it shall
be the duty of the officer to whom the execution is directed, to call to his assistance three disinterested freeholders
of the count where the pro erty may be, who, after being
duly sworn y said officer, s all appraise said property at
its cash value.

SEC. 523. Upon such inventory and appraisement bein
completed, the defendant in execution, or his authoriz
agent, may select from such inventory an amount of such
property, not exceeding, according to such appraisal, the
amount or value herein exempted, but if neither such
defendant nor his agent shall appear and make such selection, the officer shall make the same for him.

SEC. 524. Nothing in this subdivision shall be considered as exempting any real or personal property from levy
and sale for taxes.

SEC. 525. A homestead, consisting of any quantity of
land not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, and the
dwelling house thereon and its ap urtenances, to be selected
by the owner thereof, and not inc uded in any incorporated
town, city or village, or, instead thereof, at the option of
the owner, a quantity of contiguous land, not exceeding in
amount two lots, being within an incorporated town, city
or village, and the dwellin house thereon and its appurtenances, owned and occupie b any resident of the territor ,
being the head of a family, shall not be subject to attac ment, levy or sale, upon execution or any other process
issuing out of any court within this territory, so long as
the same shall be owned and occupied by the debtor as

such homestead. This section shall be deemed and construed to exempt such homestead in the manner aforesaid
during the time it shall be occupied by any one or more of
the family of the debtor, or by the widow or minor child
or children of any deceased person who was, when living,
entitled to the benefit of this subdivision: Provided, That
the homestead mansion and twenty acres of the land whereon the mansion is situate, and land adjoining the same to
the extent of live hundred dollars in value, all being without an incorporated town, city or village, shall be exempted,
and no more.

SEC. 526. Whenever a levy shall be made upon the
lands or tenements of a householder being the head of a
family, whose homestead has not been selected and set
a art by metes and bounds, such householder may notify
t e officer, at the time of making the levy, of what he
regards as his homestead, with a description thereof within
the limits above prescribed, and the remainder alone shall
be subject to sale under such levy.

SEC. 527. If the plaintifff in execution shall be dissatis-i
fied with the quantity of land selected and set apart as.
aforesaid, the officer making the levy shall cause the same '

to be surveyed, and the excess over twenty acres to be
appraised in the same manner provided by the general laws
regulating appraisements, beginning the survey at a point
to be designated by the owner, and set off, 111 a compact
form, including the dwelling house and its appurtenances,
the amount specified in section live hundred and twentyfive, and the ex ense of such survey and appraisement,
shall be chargea le on the execution and collected thereupon.

SEC. 528. After the survey shall have been made, the
officer making the levy may sell the propert levied upon <

and not included in the portion thus assigne , in the same
manner as provided in other cases for the sale of real estate
on execution; and in giving a deed of the same he may
describe it according to his original levy, excepting therefrom by metes and bounds, according to the certificate of
the survey, the quantity set off as aforesaid.

SEC. 529. Nothing in this subdivision shall be considered as exempting any real estate from taxation or sale
for taxes.

SEC. 530; No property hereinafter mentioned shall be
liable to attachment, execution or sale on any iinal process
issued from any court in this territory, against any person being a resident of this territory and the head of a
family:

First. The family Bible.

Second. Family pictures, school books and library for
use of the family.

Third. A seat or pew in any house or place of public
worship.

Fourth. A lot in any burial ground.

F2’/2h. All necessary wearing apparel of the debtor and
his family. All beds, bedsteads and bedding necessary for
the use of such family. All stoves and appendages put up
or kept for the use of the debtor and his family, not to
exceed four. All cooking utensils, and all other household
furniture not herein enumerated, to be selected by the
debtor, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars

Sixth. One cow, three hogs, and all pigs under six
months old, and if the debtor be at the time actually
engaged in the business of agriculture, in addition to the
above, one yoke of oxen, or a pair of horses in lieu thereof;
ten sheep, and the wool therefrom, either in the raw material or manufactured into yarn or cloth; the necessary food
for the stock mentioned in this section, for the eriod of
three months; one wagon, cart or dray, two p ows and
one drag; the necessary gearing for the team herein exempted, and other farming implements not exceeding fifty dollars in value.

Seventh. The provisions for the debtor and his family
necessary for six months’ support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for six months.

Eighth. The tools and instruments of any mechanic,
miner or other person, used and kept for the purpose of
carrying on his trade or business. The library and implements of any professional man.

All of which articles hereinbefore intended to be exempt,
shall be chosen by the debtor, his agent, clerk or legal
representative, as the case may be.

SEC. 531. Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed
as to exempt any pro erty in this territor from execution
or attachment for cler s’, aborers’, or mec anics’ wages.

CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS IN AID or EXECUTION.

SEC. 532. Where a judgment debtor has not personal
.or real property subject to levy on execution, sufficient to
satisfy the judgment, any interest which he may have in
any banking, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company, or any interest he may have in any money, contracts,

claims or choses in action, due or to become due to him, or I‘
in any judgment or decree, or any money, goods or effects:
which he may have in possession of any person, body‘
politic or corporate, shall be subject to the payment of suc
judgmqntd by proceedings in equity, or as in this chapter
prescri e .

Sec. 533. When an execution against the property of a
judgment debtor, or one of ‘several debtors in the same ji1dg- 3
ment, is issued to the sheriff’ of a county where he resides, .
or, if he do not reside in the territor , to the sheriff of the;
county where the judgment was rendered, or a transcript of i
a justice's judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an
order from a probate judge or a judge of the district court
of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring
such debtor  appear and answer concerning his property,
before such judge, or _a referee a pointed by such judge, at
a time and place specified in suc order, within the county
to which the execution was issued.

SEC. 534. After the issuing of an execution against:
property, and upon proof by affidavit of the judgment
creditor or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the district
court,_or a judge thereof’, or a probate judge of the county
‘in which the order may be served, that the judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards
the satisfaction of the. judgment, such court or judge may,
by order, require the judgment creditor to appear at a time
and place in said county to answer concerning the same.
And such roceedings may thereupon be had for the application of t e property of the judgment debtor towards the
satisfaction of the judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 535. Instead of the order re uiring the attendance:
of the judgement debtor, as provided in the last two sec-f
tions, the judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by afii- i
davit of the party, or otherwise, that there is danger of the
debtor leaving the territory or concealing himself to avoid
the examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant, requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him before such
judge within the county in which the debtor may be arrested. Such warrant can be issued onl by a probate
judge, or a judge of the district court o the county_ in
which such debtor resides or may be arrested. _ U on being
brought before the judge, he shall be examine on oath,
and other witnesses may be examined on either side, and
if on such examination it appear that there is danger of the
debtor leaving the territory, and that he has property which
he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he may be
ordered to enter into an undertaking, in such sum as the

in such manner as may seem to him prop

judge may prescribe, with one or more sureties, that he will
from time to time attend for examination before the judge
or referee, as shall be directed. In default of entering into
such undertaking, he may be committed to the jail of the
county by warrant of the judge, as for a contempt

SEC. 536. No person shall, on examination pursuant to
this chapter, be excused from answering any question on
the ground that his examination will tend to convict him
of a fraud, but his answer shall not be used as evidence
against him in a prosecution for such fraud.

SEC. 537. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay
to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff ’s
receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so
paid or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on
the execution.

SEC. 538. After the issuing or return of an execution
against roperty of the judgment debtor, or of any one of
several ebtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by
affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the jud e, that
any person or corporation has property of such ju gment
debtor, or is indebted to him, the judge may, by an order,
require such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to ap ear, at a specified time and place, within
the county in w ich such person or corporation may be
served with the order to answer, and answer concerning the
same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice
of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action,
er.
SEC. 539. Witnesses may be require , u on the order of
the judge, or by a subpoena issued by t e clerk of the
district court, to appear and testify upon any proceedings
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of
an issue.

SEC. 540. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the
court or judge. If before a referee, the examination must
be taken by the referee and certified by the judge. All
examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under
this chapter, must be on oath, but when a cor oration answers, the answer must be on the oath of an o icer thereof

SEC. 541. The judge ma order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands of either
himself or any other person or corporation, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of
the judgment; but the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within three months next preceding the order, cannot be so applied, where it is made to
appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported
Wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 542. The judge may also, by order, appoint the
sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, a
receiver of the roperty of the judgment debtor, in the
same manner an with the like authority as if the a pointment was made by the court. The judge may a so, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property
of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference therewith.

SEC. 543. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he
and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties as such receiver; if any
other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a
Written undertaking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by
the judge, with one or more sureties, to the effect that he
will faithfully disehar e his duties of receiver, and he shall
also take an oath to t e same effect before acting as such
receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section shall
be to the territory of Nebraska, and actions may be prose_cuted for a breach thereof, by any person interested, 111 the
same manner as upon a sheriff ’s ofhcial bond.

SEC. 544. The judge or referee, acting under the provisions of this chapter, shall have ower to continue his
proceedings from time to time until t ey are completed.

SEC. 545. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to
report the evidence of the facts

SEC. 546. If any person, party or witness disobey an
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such erson,
party or witness may be punished by the judge as or contempt.

SEC. 547. The orders to judgment debtors and witnesses, rovided for in this chapter, shall be in writing and
signed y the judge making the same, and shall be served
as a summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all
his orders to writing, which, together with a minute of his
proceedings, signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk
of the court of the county in which the 'udgment is rendered, or the transcript of the justice file , and the clerk
shall enter" on his execution docket the time of filing the
same.

SEC. 548. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, referees, receivers and witnesses, such compensation as is
allowed for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs

in the case, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof
from such party or parties as ought to ay the same.

SEC. 549. The probate judge shall)be allowed for his
services, under this chapter, the sum of three dollars in
each case, and such fees as are allowed by law to clerks of
the district court for similar services.

CHAPTER III.

EXECUTIONS AGAINST THE PERSON.

SEC. 550. An execution against the person of a judgment debtor, shall require the officer to arrest such debtor
and commit him to the jail of the county until he pay the
judgment or be discharged according to law.

SEC. 551. An execution against the person of the
debtor may be issued upon any judgment for the payment
of money —

First. When the judgment debtor has removed or
begun to remove any of his property out of the jurisdiction
of the court, with intent to prevent the collection of the
money due on the judgment.

Second. “Then he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt, or some interest or stock in some corporation or company, which he fraudulently conceals with the
like intent

Third. VVhen he has assigned or disposed of all or any
part of his property, or rights in action, or has converted
the same into money, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or with the intent to prevent such property from being
taken in execution.

Fourth. When he fraudulently contracted the debt or
incurred the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered.

lief!/2. When he was arrested on an order before judgment, and has not been dischar ed as an insolvent debtor,
or the order has not been set aside as improperly made.

SEC. 552. An execution against the erson of the
debtor can be issued only when the same is a lowed by the
supreme court, district court, or probate court, or any judge
of either, upon being satisfied, by the afhdavit of the judgment creditor or his attorney, and such other evidence as
may be presented, of the existence of one or more of the
particulars mentioned in the last preceding section.

_ SEC. 553. A justice of the peace ma ' issue an execution against the person of a judgment de tor, upon being

satisfied of the existence of one or more of the same particulars, by the like affidavit and evidence.

SEC. 554. In all cases in which the judgment debtor
was arrested before judgment, and where the order for such
arrest has not been adjudged improper, an execution
against the person of such judgment debtor may issue of
course.

SEC. 555. , Any erson taken in execution as aforesaid,
shall be discharge by delivering or setting off to the
officer serving the same, if issued from a court of record,
real or personal property, if issued from a justice of the

peace, personal roperty only, sufficient to satisfy the judg-‘

ment and costs or which the Writ issued.

SEC. 556. The death of a person under arrest in an action does not satisfy the judgment, but an execution may
issue thereon, as if the arrest had been made.

SEC. 557. If a person imprisoned under an order of
arrest made before judgment, is not charged in execution
Within ten days after judgment, he shall be discharged from
such imprisonment. ’

SEC. 558. In cases of commitment under this chapter,
or upon arrest before or after judgment in civil cases, the

person imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the

act or endure the imprisonment, may be ‘discharged from
imprisonment by the court or judge committing him, or the
court or judge thereof in which the judgment Was or might
be rendered, on such terms as may be just.

T

CHAPTER IV.

EXECUTIONS FOR THE DELIVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 559. If the execution be for the delivery of the
possession of real property, it shall require the officer to
deliver the same, articularly describing the property, to
the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered in the
same jud ment, out of the goods and chattels of the part
against W om it was rendered, and for want of such goo s
and chattels, then out of the lands and tenements, and in
this respect it shall be deemed an execution against the
property.

SEC. 560. When the judgment is not for the recovery
of money or real property, the same may be enforced by
attachment by the court rendering the judgment, u on motion made, or by a rule of the court upon the de endant ;

but in either case, notice of the motion, or a service of a
co y of the rule, shall be made on the defendant 9. reasonable time before the order of attachment is made.

CHAPTER V.
JUDGMENT BEFORE JUSTICES or THE PEACE.

SEC. 561. In all cases in which judgment shall be rendered by a justice of the peace, the part in whose favor

the judgment shall be rendered may {i e a transcript of

such j ud ent in the oilice of the clerk of the district
court of t e county in which the judgment was rendered,
and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which the
same shall be filed, enter the case on the execution docket,
together with the amount of the judgment and the time of

filing the transcript

SEC. 562. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be
filed in term time, shall have a lien on the real estate of
the judgment debtor from the da of the filing; if
filed in vacation, as against the ju gment debtor said
judgment shall have a lien from the day of the filing, and
as against subsequent judgment creditors from the first
day of the next succeeding term, in the same manner
and to the same extent as if the judgment had been rendered in the district court.

SEC. 563. Execution may be issued thereon to the
sheriff’ by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as
if the 'udgment had been taken in court, and the
sheriff s all execute and return the same, as other executions; and in case of sale of real estate, his proceedings
shall be examined and approved by the court, as in other
cases.

SEC. 564-. The justice of the peace shall certify on the
transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment.
The costs of the transcript, the tiling of the same, and the
entry of the case on the execution docket, shall be paid
by the party nling the same, and not be taxed to the other

party.

TITLE XV.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

CHAPTER I.

OFFER TO COMPROMISE.

SEC. 565. The defendant in an action for the recovery I
of money only, may, at any time before the trial, servei
ulpon the laintiff, or his attorney, an offer in Writing, to
a ow ju crment to be taken against him for the sum
specified therein. If the plaintifff accept the offer, and
give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within
five days after the oifer was served, the offer, and an
affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the
time limited, may be nled by the plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer verified
b affidavit; and, in either case, the offer and acceptance
s all be noted in the journal, and judgment shall be
rendered accordingly. If the notice of acce tance be not
given in the eriod limited, the offer shal be deemed
Withdrawn, an shall not be given in evidence, or mentioned
on the trial. If the laintiff fails to obtain 'udgment for
more than was offere by the defendant, he s all pay the
defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 566. The making of an offer pursuant to the
provisions contained in the foregoing section, shall not be

a cause for a continuance of an action, or a postponement
of a trial.

CHAPTER II.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY.

SEC. 567. Parties to a question which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon
a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any
court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been
brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon
hear and determine the case and render judgment, as if an
action were pending.

SEC. 568. The case, the submission and the judgment
shall constitute the record.

SEC. 569. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless
otherwise provided in the submission.

CHAPTER III.
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.

SEC. 570. After an action for the recovery of money is
brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed, or art of the causes
involved in the action. Whereupon, if t e plaintifff, being
present, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full
of his demands against the defendant in the action, or
having had such notice that the offer would be made, of
its amount, and of the time of making it, as the court shall
deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the trial, do not
recover more than was so oifered to be confessed, such
plaintifff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred
after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an
admission of the cause of action or amount to which the
plailntiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the
tria

SEC. 571. Before an action for the recovery of money
is brought against any person, he may go into the court of
the county of his residence, or of that in which the person
having the cause of action resides, which would have
jurisdiction of the action, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a speciiied sum on such cause of
action. Whereupon, if such person, having had such
notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of
the time and place of making it, as the court shall deem
reasonable, do not attend to accept the confession, or
attending, refuse to accept it, and should afterwards commence an action upon such cause, and not recover more
than the amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay
all the costs of the action; and on the trial thereof, the
offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause
of action, or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled,

nor be given in evidence.

CHAPTER IV.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

SEC. 572. A motion is an application for an order
addressed to the court or a judge in vacation, by any party
to a suit or proceeding, or one interested therein.

SEC. 573. Several objects may be included in the same
motion, if they all grow out of or are connected with the
action or proceeding in which it is made.

SEC. 574. Where notice of a motion isrequired, it must
be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to
the action or proceeding in which it is to be made, the
name of the court or judge before whom it is to be made,
the place where and the day on which it will be heard, the
nature and terms of the order or orders to be applied for, and
if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice shall
state that fact. It shall be served a reasonable time before
the hearing.

SEC. 575. Notices of motions mentioned in this chapter
may be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any
disinterested person, and the return of any such officer, or
affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of service.
The service shall be on the party or his attorney of record,
if the said party or his attorney be resident within the
county in which the motion is made, and in case there is
more than one party adverse to such motion, service shall

be made upon each party or his attorney.
SEC. 576. The service of a notice shall be made, as

is required by law for the service of a summons, and
when served by an officer, he shall be entitled to like
fees.

SEC. 577. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
the files may be made with or without notice, as the court
or judge shall direct.

SEC. 578. Every direction of a. court or judge, made
or entered in Writing and not included in a judgment,
is an order.

SEC. 579. Orders made out of court, shall be forthwith
entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the
same manner as orders made in term.

TITLE XVI.

ERROR IN CIVIL CASES.

CHAPTER I.

PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, VACATE OR MODIFY J UDG«
MENTS AND ORDERS IN COURTS OF APPELLATE JURISDICTION.
SEC. 580. A judgment rendered, or final order made,

‘by a probate court, justice of the peace or any other
. tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial functions, and

inferior in jurisdiction to the district court, may be reversed,
vacated or modified by the district court.

SEC.-581. An order affecting a substantial right in an
action, when such order in effect determines the action and
prevents. a judgment, and an order affecting a substantial
right made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary
application in an action after judgment, is a final order
which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as provided in
this title.

SEC. 582. A judgment rendered or final order made
by the district court, may be reversed, vacated or modiiied
by the supreme court, for errors appearing on the record.

SEC. 583. A. judgment rendered or final order made by
any court, board or tribunal, mentioned in the preceding
sections, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the supreme court, for errors appearing on the record; but the
petition in error, in such case, can be nled only by leave of
the supreme court, ora judge thereof.

SEC. 584:. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation or modification, shall be by tition, to be entitled,
“petition in error,” filed in a court aving power to make
such reversal, vacation or modification, setting forth the
errors complained of, and thereu on a summons shall issue
and be served, or publication made, as in the commencement
of an action. A service on the attorney of record in the
original case shall be suilicient The summons shall notify
the adverse party that a petition in error has been filed in a
certain case, naming it, and shall be made returnable on or
before the first day of the term of the court, if issued in

vacation; if issued in term time, it shall be returnable on a
day therein named; if the last publication or service of the
summons shall be made ten days before the end of the
term, the case shall stand for hearing at the term.

SEC. 585. The summons mentioned in the last section,
shall, upon the written precipe of the laintiff in error or
his attorney, be issued by the clerk of t e court in which
the etition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which
the defendant in error or his attorney of record may be;
and if the writ issue to a foreign county, the sheriff' thereof
may return the same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to the same fees as if the same had been returnable
to the district court of the county in which such officer
resides. The defendant in error, or his attorney, may waive
in writing the issuin or service of the summons.

SEC. 586. The p aintiff in error shall file with his etition a transcri t of the proceedings containing the nal
judgment or ordbr sought to be reversed, vacated or modified

SEC. 587. Judges of probate courts, justices of the
peace, and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and
clerks of every court of record, shall, upon request and
being paid the lawful fees therefore, furnish an authenticated
transcript of the proceedings, containing the judgment or
final order of said courts, to either of the parties to the
same, or to any person interested in procuring such transcript.

SEC. 588. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify,
any judgment or final order rendered in the probate court, a
or district court, except as provided in the next section, and
the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay
execution, unless the clerk of the court in which the record
of said judgment or final order shall be, shall take a written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintifff
in error to the adverse party, with one or more suiiicient
sureties, as follows:

First. When the judgment or final order sought to be;
reversed, directs the payment of money, the written under- 1
taking shall be in double the amount of the judgment or‘
order, to the effect that the plaintifff in error will pay the
condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment or
final order shall be affirmed in whole or in part.

Second. When it directs the execution of a conveyance
or other instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum
as may be prescribed by any court of record in this territory
or any judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintifff in error
will abide the judgment, if the same shall be ailirmed,

and ay the costs.
T ird. When it directs the sale or delivery of possession

of real property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by an court of record of this territory,
or any judge thereof, to t e effect that during the ossession
of such property by the plaintifff in error, he wil not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and if the
judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the possession, pursuant to the
judgment, and all costs.

Ivourtlz. When it directs the assignment or delivery of
documents, they may be placed in the custodv of the clerk
of the court in which the judgment was rendered, to abide
the judgment of the appellate court, or the undertaking
shall be in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to
abide the judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be
affirmed.

SEC. 589. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the

second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or

other instrument may be executed and deposited with the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered or
order made, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 590. Before the written undertaking herein mentioned in section five hundred and eighty-eight, shall operate
to stay execution of the judgment or order, the execution
of the undertaking and the sufficiency of the sureties,
must be approved by the court in which the judgment was
rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the
clerk shall endorse said approval, signed by himself, upon
the undertaking, and file the same in his olfice, for the defendant in error.

SEC. 591. In an action arising on contract, for the payment of money only, notwithstanding the execution of the
undertaking in the last section mentioned to stay proceedings, if the defendant in error give adequate security to
make restitution in case the judgment is reversed or modined, he may, upon leave obtained from the court below, or
a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such security must be an undertaking executed to
the plaintifff in error by at least two sufficient sureties, to
the effect that if the judgment be reversed or modified, he
will make full restitution to the plaintifff in error of the
money by him received under the judgment

SEC. 592. N o proceeding for reversing, vacating or modifying judgments or final orders, shall be commenced unless
within three years after the rendition of the judgment, or
making the iinal order complained of; or, in case the person entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a married
woman, a person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within

three years as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.

SEC. 593. No rocéedings to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment rendbred or final order made by a justice of
the peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the
clerk of the district court shall take a written undertaking
to the defendant, executed on the part of the plaintifff in
error, by one or more sufiicient sureties, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay all the costs which have accrued or
may accrue on suc 1 proceedings in error, together with the
amount of any judgment that may be rendered against such
plaintifff in error, either on the further trial of the case,
after the judgment of the court below shall have been set
aside or reversed, or u on and after the adirmance thereof!
in the district court. he person entitled to such proceedings shall have the same time for prosecuting the same, before he is barred, as is provided in the last section, unless
the said judgment has been paid off or satisfied prior to the
commencement of such proceedings.

SEC. 594. When a judgment or dual order shall be reversed, either in whole or in part, in the supreme court, the
court reversing the same shall roceed to render such judgment as the court below should ave rendered, or remand the
cause to the court below for such judgment; and the court
reversing such judgment or dnal order, shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before them on error, on
which they ronounced judgment as aforesaid, but shall
send a special mandate to the court below, as the case may
require, to award execution thereupon; and such court to
which such special mandate is sent, shall proceed in such
cases in the same manner as if such judgment or dual
order had been rendered therein. And on motion, and
good cause shown, it ma suspend any execution made returnable before it by or er of the supreme court, in the
same manner as if such execution had been issued from its
own court, but such power shall not extend further than to
stay proceedings until the matter can be further heard by
the supreme court.

SEC. 595. When a judgment or dual order is reversed,j
the plaintifff in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed in part, and affirmed in part, costs shall be equally
divided between the parties. .

SEC. 596.» When a judgment or dual order shall be,
adirmed in the supreme court, the said court shall also ren- 3
der judgment against the plaintifff in error for dve per cent. 2
upon the amount due from him to the defendant 111 error,
unless the court shall enter upon its minutes, that there was
reasonable ground for the proceedings in error.

I SEC. 597. A. mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk
shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been
presented and acted upon in the court in which the mistake,
ne lect or omission occurred.

glaze. 598. Rendering judgment before the action stood

r for trial according to the provisions of this code, shall be
deemed a clerical error.

SEC. 599. Writs of error and certiorari to reverse, vacate
or modify judgments or final orders in civil cases, are abolished, but courts shall have the same power to compel complete and perfect transcripts of the proceedings containing
the jud ment or final order sought to be reversed, to be
furnished, as they heretofore had under writs of error and
certiorari.

SEC. 600. If the judgment of a justice of the peace,
taken on error as herein provided to the district court, be
affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render judgment against the plaintifff in error, for the costs of suit, and
to award execution therefore; and the court shall thereupon
order its clerk to certify its decision in the premises, to the
justice, that the judgment afiirmed may be enforced, as if
such proceedings in error had not been taken; or such
court may award execution to carry into effect the judgment of such justice, in the same manner as if such judgment had been rendered in the district court.

SEC. 601. When the proceedings of a justice of the
peace are taken on error, to the district court, in manner
aforesaid, and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set aside, the court shall render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that have accrued up to that time,
in favor of the plaintifff in error, and award execution
therefore; and the cause shall be retained by the court for

trial and ‘dual judgment, as in cases of appeal.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, VACATE. OR MODIFY JUDGMENTS AND ORDERS IN THE COURTS IN WHICH THEY

ARE RENDERED.

SEC. 602. A district court shall have power to vacate
or modify its own judgments or orders, after the term at

which such judgment or order was made :— _
First. By granting a new trial of the cause, within

the time and in the manner prescribed in section three
hundred and eighteen.

Second. By a new trial granted in proceedings against
defendants constructively summoned, as provided in section
seventy-seven.

Third. For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk,
or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order.

Fourth. For fraud practiced by the successful party in
obtaining the judgment or order.

Fi/‘Zh. For erroneous proceedings against an infant,
married woman, or person of unsound mind, where the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor
the error in the proceedings.

Sixth. For the death of one of the parties before the
judgment in the action.

Seventh. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the arty from prosecuting or defending.

Eighlh. ]!Eor errors in a judgment shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in
section four hundred and forty-two.

Ninth. For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney, for more than was due to the plaintifff, when the defendant was not summoned, or otherwise legally notified of
the time and place of taking such judgment.

SEC. 603. The proceedings to vacate or modify the?
judgment or order on the grounds mentioned in subdivis- S

ions four, five, six, seven, eight and nine of the last preceding section, shall be by petition verified by affidavit,
setting forth the judgment or order, the grounds to vacate
or modify it, and the defense to the action, if the party
applying was defendant On such petition a summons sha 1
issue and be served as in the commencement of an action :
Provided, Such summons shall not issue in any ‘case in
which there is upon the minutes of the court, or among the
files of the case, a waiver of error by the party or his
attorney, unless the court, or a judge thereof, shall endorse
upon the petition permission to issue such summons.

SEC. 604-, The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment
or order, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to
the adverse party or his attorney in the action. The
motion to vacate a judgment because of its rendition before
the action regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the
first three days of the succeeding term.

SEC. 605. The court may first try and decide upon
the grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order,
before trying or deciding upon the validity of the defense
or cause of action.

SEC. 606. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion
or petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in which the judgment is rendered,
or, if the plaintifff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid
cause of action; and where a judgment is modified, all
liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to
the modified judgment.

SEC. 607. The party seeking to vacate or modify a
judgment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending
proceedings on the who e or part thereof, which injunction
may be granted by the court or any judge thereof, upon its
being rendered robable, by affidavit or by exhibition of
the record, that t e party is entitled to have such judgment
or order vacated or modified.

SEC. 608. When the judgment was rendered before
the action stood for trial, the sus ension may be granted as
provided in the last section, alt ouch no valid defense to
the action is shown; and the court shall make such orders
concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment,
as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay
he would have had if the judgment had been rendered at
the proper time.

SEC. 609. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment

. or order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five

and seven of section six hundred and two, must be commenced within two years after the judgment was rendered,

’ or order made, unless the party entitled thereto be an infant,

married woman, or, person of unsound mind, and then
within two years after removal of such disability. Proceedings for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three
and six of the same section, shall be within three years,
and in subdivision nine within one year, after the defendant
has notice of the judgment.

SEC. 610. The provisions of this title subsequent to
section six hundred and one, shall apply to the supreme

court and probate court, so far as the same may be applicable
to the judgments or final orders of such courts. The
parties shall be limited to the same time in which to commence proceedings; and in estimating time, the robate
court shall, for this purpose, be considered as ho] ing, in
each year, three terms of four months each, the first commencing on the first day of January of each year.

SEC. 611. Cases pending in appellate courts on writs of
error or otherwise, w en this code takes effect, shall be conducted to final judgment, as if it had not been adopted,
and the liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it
takes effect shall be preserved.

TITLE XVII.

COSTS.

SEC. 612. In all cases in which the plaintifff is a nonresident of the county in which the action is to be brought,
before commencing such action the plaintifff must furnish a
sufficient surety for costs The surety must be a resident
of the county Where the action is to be brought, and approved by the clerk. His obligation shall be complete,
simply by endorsing the summons, or signing his name on
the complaint as security for costs. He shall be bound for
the payment of all costs, which may be adjudged against
the plaintifff in the court in which the action is brought, or
in any other to which it may be carried, and for costs of
the plaintifff’s witnesses, whether the plaintifff obtain judgment or not .

SEC. 613. An action in which security for costs is required by the last section, and has not been given, shall
be dismissed on motion and notice by the defendant at any
proper time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to

e allowed by the court, such security for costs be given.

SEC. 614. If the plaintifff" in an action, after its commencement, become a nonresident of the county in which
it is brought, he shall give security for costs in the manner
and under the restrictions provided in the two preceding

sections. _ _ _ _
SEC. 615. In an action in which security for costs has

been given, the defendant may at any time before judg-‘

ment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the
court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff;
and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that the surety has removed from this territory, or is not sufficient,
t e action may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time
to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given by the
plaintifff.

SEC. 616. After final judgment has been rendered in
an action in which security for costs has been given, as required by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person having a right to such costs, or
any part thereof‘, after ten days notice of such motion, may
enter up judgment in the name of the defendant, or his
legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or administrators, for the amount of the costs adjudged

against the plaintifff, or so much thereof as may be unpaid.
Execution may be issued on such 'udgment, as in other
cases, for the use and benefit of I. e persons entitled to
such costs.

SEC. 617. If any informer, under a penal statute, to
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is
given, shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the
same, he shall pa all costs accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless he e an officer whose duty it is to commence
the same.

SEC. 618. Where defendants disclaim having any title
or interest in land or other property, the subject matter of
the action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special
reasons the court decide otherwise.

SEC. 619. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the
costs of motions, continuances, amendments, and the like,
shall be taxed and paid as the court in its discretion may
direct.

SEC. 620. Where it is not otherwise provided by this
and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the
plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the
recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific real
or personal prgperty. SEC. 621. f it shall appear that a justice of the peace
has jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been
brought in any other court, the plaintifff shall not recover
costs; and in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, assault and battery, false imprisonment,
criminal conversation, seduction, actions for nuisance, or
against a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, if
the damages assessed be under five dollars, the plaintifff
shall not recover any costs.

SEC. 622. Costs shall be allowed of course to any defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in the last two sections

SEC. 623. In other actions the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the
same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right
and equitable.

SEC. 62-1. Where several actions are brought on one
bill of exchange, promissory note, or other obligation or
instrument in writing, against several parties, who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, as
allowed by section fortv—four, no costs shall be recovered by
the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action, openly within the
territory.

SEC. 625. When a summons is issued to another county
than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it
may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled
to the same fees as if the summons had issued in the county

of which he is sheriiii

 

TITLE XVIII.

ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 626. In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be sufficient, if the plaintifff state in his petition
t at he has a legal estate therein, and is entitled to the possession thereof, describing the same, as re uired by section
one hundred and thirty-three, and that the(defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession. It shall not be
necessary to state how the plaintifff ’s estate or ownership is

derived.
SEC. 627. It shall be sufficient in such action, if the

defendant in his answer deny, generally, the title alleged in
the petition, or that he witholds glossession, as the case may
be; but if he den the title of t e plaintifff, possession by
the defendant sha 1 be taken as admitted. Where he does
not defend for the whole premises, the answer shall describe
the particular part for which defense is made.

SEC. 628. 11 an action by a tenant in common of real
property, against a co-tenant, the plaintifff must state, in
addition to what is required in the first section of this chapter, that the defendant either denies the plaintiffI"'s right, or
did some act amounting to such denial.

SEC. 629. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has
terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict
and judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintifff may recover for witholding the property.

SEC. 630. In an action for the recovery of real proper-i

ty, the party against whom judgment is rendered, may, at
any time during the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another trial by notice on the journal, and
thereupon the judgment shall be vacated, and the action
shall stand for trial at the next term.

SEC. 631. No further trial can be had in such action,

’ except upon appeal, unless for good cause shown as in other

actions.

SEC. 632. The parties in an action for the recovery of
property, may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the
relief of the statutes in force for the relief of occupying
claimants of land. ’

SEC. 633. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant, or tenant in common, of real property, commit waste
thereon, he is liable to pay three times the damages which
have resulted from such waste, to the person who is entitled
to sue therefore.

SEC. 634. Judgment of forfeiture and conviction may
be rendered against the defendant, whenever the amount of
damages so recovered is more than two-thirds the value of
the interest such defendant has in the property wasted, and
when ‘the action is brought by the person entitled to the
reversion.

SEC. 635. Any person whose duty it is to prevent waste,
and who has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it, is deemed to have committed it.

SEC. 636. For willful trespass, injuring any timber,
tree, or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or
highway in front of another’s cultivated ground, yard or
town lot, or on the public grounds of any town, or any land
held by this territory for any purpose whatever, the trespasser shall pay treble damages at the suit of any person
entitled to protect or enjoy the property aforesaid.

SEC. 637. Nothing herein contained authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated wood land for the repair of a public
highway or bridge in its immediate neighborhood.

SEC. 638. The owner of an estate in remainder or reversion, may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for
injuries done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate for life or years.

SEC. 639. An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may
maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his
ancestors as well as in his own time, unless barred by the
statute of limitations. SEC. 640. “There lands or tenements are sold by virtue
of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain

his action against any person, for either of the causes above
mentioned, occurring or existing after his purchase.

SEC. 641. This provision is not intended to prevent the
person who occupies the lands, in the meantime, from
using them in the ordinary course of husbandry, or from
using timber for the purpose of making suitable repairs
thereon.

SEC. 642. But if for this purpose he employ timber
vastly su erior to that required for the occasion, he will

be deeme to have committed Waste, and will be liable
accordingly.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES.

SEC. 643. When an officer, executor or administrator
Within this territory, by misconduct or neglect of duty,
forfeits his bond or renders his sureties liable, any person
injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit of
the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name,
against the officer, executor or administrator, and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by
reason of the delinquency. The action may be instituted
and proceeded in on a certified copy of the bond, which
copy shall be furnished by the person holding the original
thereof

SEC. 644. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not preclude the same or another party from
an action on the same security for another delinquency.

CHAPTER III.

PROCEEDINGS UPON MANDAMUS.

SEC. 645. The writ of mandamus may be issued to
any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compe the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as aduty resulting from an office, trust or station.
But though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise
its judgment, or proceed to the discharge of any of its
functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.

SEC. 646. This Writ may not be issued in any case

Where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary

course of the law. It may issue on the information ‘of the

party beneficiall interested.
SEC. 647. T e writ is either alternative or peremptory.

, The alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing

the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it, and command him, that immediately
upon the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified
time, he do the act required to be performed, or show cause
before the court whence the writ issued, at a s ecified time
and place, why he has not done so; and that e then and
there return the writ, with his certificate of having done as
he is commanded. The peremptory writmust be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant to
show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be
omitted.

SEC. 648. When the right to require the performance of
the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can
be given for not performing it, a perempto mandamus
may be allowed in the first instance. In a1 other cases,
the alternative writ must be first issued.

SEC. 649. The motion for the writ must be made upon
affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or ma grant an order
to show cause why it should not be allowe , or may grant
the writ without notice.

SEC. 650. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed
thereon, si ned by a judge of the court granting it, and the
writ must c served personally upon the defendant. If the
defendant duly served neglect to return the same, he shall
he proceeded against, as for a contem t.

SEC. 651. On the return day of t e alternative writ, or
such further da as the court may allow, the party on
whom the writ shall have been served, may show cause, by
answer made, in the same manner as an answer to a petition
in a civil action.

SEC. 652. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandamus must be allowed against the defendant If an answer
be made containing new matter, the same shall not in any
respect conclude the plaintifff, who may, on the trial or
other proceeding, avai himself of any valid objection to
its sufficiency, or may couutervail it by proof, either in
direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 653. N 0 other pleading or written allegation is
allowed, than the writ and answer. These are the pleadings in the case, and have the same effect and are to be
construed and may be amended in the same manner as
pleadings in a civil action; and the issues thereby joined

must be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had in
the same manner as in a civil action.

SEC. 654. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he
shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, i

to be ascertained by the court or a jury, or by referees, in
a civil action, and costs ; and a peremptory mandamus shall
also be granted to him Without delay.

SEC. 655. A recovery of damages by virtue of this
chapter, against a party, who shall have madea return to a
writ of mandamus, is a bar to an other action against the
same party for the making of suc return.

SEC. 656. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is die
rected to any public officer, body or board, commanding:

the performance of an public duty, specially enjoined by
law, if it appear to tlie court that such oiiicer, or any
member of such body or board, has, Without just excuse,
refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the
court may impose a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars,
upon every such officer, or member of such bod or board.
Such fine, when collected, shall be aid into t e treasury
of the county Where the duty oug t to have been performed; and the payment thereof is a. bar to an action for
any penalty incurred by such oiiicer, or member of such
body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to
per orm the duty so enjoined.

 

TITLE XIX.

J URIES.

SEC. 657. All free White males residing in any of the
counties of this territory, having the qualifications of
electors, and being over the age of twenty-one years, and‘
of sound mind and discretion, and not being judges of
the supreme court or district courts, clerks of the supreme
or district courts, sheriffs, Coroners or jailers, or subject to
any bodil infirmity amounting to a disability, and who
have not een convicted of a criminal offense, punishable
by im risonment in the penitentiary, and are not subject to
disability for the commission of any offense which by
special rovision of law does or shall disqualify them, are
and sha 1 be competent persons to serve on all grand and

petit juries, within their counties respectively: Provided,
That persons over sixty years of age, ministers of the
gospel, probate judges, county commissioners, licensed
attorneys, practicing physicians, postmasters, and carriers of
the United States mails, shall not be compelled to serve as

jurors.

SEC. 658. In each of the counties of this territory,
wherein a district court is appointed or directed to be holden,
the county commissioners of the county shall, at least
nfteen days before the first day of the session of the court,
meet together, or any two of them may meet, and select sixty
persons (possessing the qualidcations prescribed in section
six hun red and iifty-eight, and as nearly as may be, a proportionate number from each precinct in the county, and
shall, within five days thereafter, furnish to the clerk of the
district court of the county, or his deputy, a list of the

names of the persons selected.

SEC. 659. The clerk or deput clerk receiving the
names, shall Write the name of eac person selected on a
separate ticket, and place the Whole number of tickets into
a box, or other suitable and safe receptacle, and shall
preserve the list of names furnished by the commissioners,
1n the files of his office.

SEC. 660. The clerk of the district court or his deputy,
and the sherifi", or if there is no sheriff, the dc )uty sheriff,
or if there is no deputy sheriff, the coroner o the county,
shall, at least ten days before the first day of the session of
the district court, meet together and draw by lot out of the
box or receptacle wherein shall be kept the tickets aforesaid,
sixteen names, and the persons whose names are drawn
shall be grand jurors ; and the clerk and sheriff shall then
draw twcntv-four additional names, and the persons Whose
names are drawn shall be the petit jurors.

SEC. 661. The clerk shall, on the day of the drawing
albrementioned, issue an order to the sheriff, deputy sheriff,
or coroner, as the case may be, commanding him to summon the persons whose names are drawn, to appear before
the district court, at or before the hour of eleven o’clock,
on the morning of the first day of the term (stating in
the order, the day of the week and month, and the place
of the sitting of the court), to serve as grand jurors, and
a like order commanding the sheriff, deputy sherifI' or coroner to summon the petit jurors.

SEC. 662. The sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner having
received the order, shall, at least five days before the first
day of the session of the court, serve upon each person
whose name Was selected and drawn as grand juror, a true
copy of the command, except that the copy shall contain

only the name of the grand juror served, and not the name
of any other grand juror; and the sheriff, deputy sheriff
or coroner, shall, at least live days before the first day of
the session of the court, in like manner summon each
person whose name was selected and drawn as petit juror;
and such service shall be made by reading or delivering
the copy to the (person to be summoned, or by leaving the
copy at his resi ence.

SEC. 663. Each grand juror and petit juror summoned
shall appear before the court on the day and at the hour
specific in the summons, and shall not depart without
leave of court.

SEC. 664. Whenever the proper officers fail to summon;
a grand or petit jury, or when all the persons summoned;
as grand or etit jurors do not appear before the district;
courts, or w enever at any general or special term, or at
any eriod of a term for any cause there is no panel of 1
gran jurors or petit jurors, or the panel is not complete,f
said court may order the sheriff, deputy sherifi" or coroner, 3
to summon without delay, good and lawful men, havin
the qualifications of jurors, and each person summoned
shall forthwith a pear before the court, and if competent,
shall serve on the grand jury or petit jury, as the case
ma be, unless such crson may be excused from serving,
or awfully challenged).

SEC. 665. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners, in selecting and furnishing to the clerk the names
of persons qualified to serve as grand or petit jurors, so to
select and arrange that no one person shall serve on the
jury a second time before all qualified persons shall have
served respectively in rotation, according to the best information that can be obtained. ' ,

SEC. 666. The sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner, having
received the order or service issued by the clerk, shall make
return thereof with his proceedings, to the clerk, before the
session of the court.

SEC. 667. If any person summoned to appear as grand
juror or etit juror, fails, refuses or neglects to appear, such
person s all be considered guilty of contempt of the court,
and may be fined by the court in any sum not less than five
dollars nor more than fifty dollars; and if any person, when a
second order or attachment is issued, neglects or refuses to?
appear, such person may be fined as above provided, and
imprisoned by the court not longer than ten days in the
county jail; and if the county commissioners in any county
neglect or fail to select and furnish to the clerk names of persons as hereinbefore provided, such persons so offending may
be nned by the court not less than five dollars nor more than

fifty dollars; and if any clerk of the district court, or deputiy
clerk or sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner, neglects or fai s
to perform the duties imposed by this chapter, the person
so offending shall be considered guilty of contempt of court,
and may be fined by the court not less than five dollars nor
more than fifty dollars; and if guilty of gross misconduct in
office and contem t, may be imprisoned by the court not
longer than thirty ays in the county jail.

SEC. 668. If a sheriff or other officer, corruptly or
through favor or ill will, summon a juror, with the intent
that such juror shall find a verdict for or against either
party, or shall summon a grand juror from like motives,
with intent that such grand juror shall or shall not find an
indictment or presentment against any particular individual,
he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and
forfeit his office, and be forever disqualified from holding
any office in this territory.

 

TITLE XX. if

CONTEMPTS.

SEC. 669. Every court of record shall have wer to
punish by fine and imprisonment, or by either, as or criminal contempt, persons guilty of any of the followin acts:

First Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent be avior
towards the court, or any of its otficers, in its presence.

Second. Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance tendin to interrupt its proceedings.

Third. illful disobedience of, or resistance willfully
offered to any lawful rocess or order of said courts

Fourth. Any willfijil attempt to obstruct the proceedings,
or hinder the due administration of 'ustice in any suit, proceedings or rocess pending before t e courts.

F2’/Z12. T e contumacious and unlawful refusal of any
person to be sworn or affirmed as a witness, and, when
sworn or afiirmed, the refusal to answer any legal and
proper interrogatory.

SEC. 670. Contem ts committed in the presence of the
court may be punishe summarily; in other cases the party
upon being brought before the court, shall be notified of
the aCCl1S3.tlOIl against him, and have a reasonable time to
make his defense.

SEC. 671. Persons punished for contempt under the
preceding provisions, shall nevertheless be liable to indictment, if such contempt shall amount to an indictable offense; but the court before which the conviction shall be
had, may, in determining the punishment, take into consideration the punishment before inflicted, in mitigation of
the sentence.

SEC. 672. A justice may punish, as for contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no others:

First. Disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior
towards the justice, tending to interrupt the due course
of trial or other judicial proceedings be ore him.

Second. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or
violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding.

Third. Willful resistance, in the presence of the justice,

to the execution of a lawful order or process made or 1SS118d
by him.

SEC. 673. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such

'ustice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and

rought before the justice, where an opportunity to be
heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The justice
may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him for the
offense, and adjudge a punishment by nne or imprisonment,
or both; such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such
imprisonment ten days.

EC. 67 4. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered in his
docket. A warrant of commitment to the jail of the county
until the line he paid, or for the term of imprisonment,
may then be issued; such warrant must contain a transcript
of the entry in the docket, and the same must be executed
by any constablg or sheriff to whom it may be given, and
by the jailer of the county.

 

TITLE XXI.

APPEALS mom THE DISTRICT TO THE SUPREME COURT.

SEC. 675. A peals hereafter to be tried must be taken
within one mont from the time judgment is rendered, by

service of notice in writing on the adverse party, his agent

or attorney, and also on the clerk of the court in which the
proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the same or
some specific part thereof

SEC. 676. Upon receiving the notice and the payment
of the legal fees therefore, by the appellant, the clerk shall
forthwith transmit to the supreme court a. transcript of the
record in the cause, or so much thereof as the appellant
directs, to which shall be appended the notice of the appeal
and the written directions of the appellant applying t erefor.

SEC. 677. All proper entries made by the clerk, and all
papers pertaining to the cause and filed therein, (except
su poenas, depositions, and other papers that are used as
mere evidence,) are to be deemed parts of the record. But
the transcript of motions, affidavits and other papers, when
they relate to collateral matters, should not be certified,
unless by the direction of the appellant If so certified,
when not material to the determination of the appeal, the
court may direct the person blamable therewith to pay the
costs thereof

SEC. 678. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they are
precluded from any benelits arising from the ap eal, unless
from the necessity of the case; but should t ey fail to
appear, and refuse to join in the appeal, they shall be liable
for their share of the costs already made, only.

SEC. 679. The death of any or all the parties shall not
abate the suit, but the names of the proper persons being
substituted, the cause may proceed; but to promote the
ends of justice, the court may grant a continuance in such
cases.

SEC. 680. An appeal from the judgment of the court
shall be a stay of execution, except to any portion of the
judgment not appealed from.

SEC. 681. If execution has been issued before such
appeal is taken, the clerk shall recall it.

SEC. 682. Property levied upon and not sold at the
time of such recall, shall be returned forthwith by the
sheriff to the judgment debtor.

SEC. 683. The court may reverse or affirm the judgment, or render such judgment as the district court should
have done.

SEC. 684. If the judgment be affirmed, the court shall
award the appellee such damages as they may deem just,
not exceeding twelve per cent. per annum.

SEC. 685. If the court affirm the judgment, it may
remand the cause to the district court to be carried into
effect, or it may issue the necessary process for that purpose
to the sheriff of the proper county.

SEC. 686. If by the determination of the cause, the
appellant is entitled to a restoration of money or property
t at was taken from him under the judgment below, then
either court may award a writ of restoration or execution
for the purpose of restoring the property or the value
thereofl

SEC. 687. Property ac uired by a bona fide urchaser
under a judgment reversed, shall not be alfecte by such
reversal. .

SEC. 688. Where judgment is rendered against the
appellant, the court shall on motion render judgment
against both ap ellant and his sureties for the amount of
the judgment, amages and costs, in case such damages
can be ascertained by the court without trial.

 

TITLE XXII.

(BOATS.

SEC. 689. Any boat found in the Waters of this territory is liable —
First. For all debts contracted by the master, owner,

' agent, clerk or consignee, on account of supplies furnished

for the use of such boat; or on account of work clone or
services rendered for such boat; or on account of work
done or materials furnished in building, repairing, fitting
out, furnishing or equipping such boat.

Second. For all demands or damages accruing from the
non-performance or mal-performance of any contract of
affreightment, or, any contract relative to the transportation
of persons or property entered into by the master, owner,
agent, clerk or consignee thereof.

Third. For all injuries to persons or property by such
boat, or by the officers or crew, done in connection with the
business of said boat.

SEC. 690. Claims growing out of any of the above
causes are liens upon the boat, its apparel, tackle, furniture,
and appendages, including barges and lighters, if owned
by the owners of the boat and used therewith at the time
the suit is commenced.

SEC. 691. Such liens take preference of any claims
against the boat itself, or any or all of its owners, growing
out of any other causes thanthose above enumerated, an
between themselves they are to be preferred in the following

order :

i for the defendant,

First. Those resulting from wages for services rendered
on board of such boat within the year then past: Provided,
Suit be commenced within twenty days after the cessation
of such labor.

Second. Those resulting from contracts made within this
territory.

Th2'rd. All other causes.

SEC. 692. Actions against boats under the provisions
of this title cannot be brought after the lapse of one year
from the time the cause of action accrued.

SEC. 693. The lien attaches from the commencement of
the suit, subject only to such other liens as are of a preferred class.

SEC. 69-1. The original petition must be in writing,
sworn to and filed with the clerk, or justice of the peace,
who shall thereupon issue a warrant to the proper officer,
commanding him to seize the boat. The warrant shall
be served according to the directions it contains.

SEC. 695. The usual notice shall also be issued, directed
to the boat by name, and served upon the master, owner,
agent, clerk or consignee thereof, and if none of them be
found, it may be served by posting up a copy in some conspicuous part of the boat. The warrant shall be served
according to the directions it contains.

SEC. 696. Any erson interested in the boat may appear

by himself, his agent or attorney, and
conduct the defense of the suit, and no continuance
shall be granted to the plaintiH while the boat is held in
custody.

SEC. 697. The boat may be discharged at any time
before final judgment, by the giving of a bond with sureties,
to be approved by the officer serving the warrant, or by
the clerk or justice who issued it, in a penalty double the
plaintifff ’s demand, conditioned that the obligor therein will
pay the amount which may be found due to the plaintifff,
together with costs.

SEC. 698. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff
before the boat is thus discharged, a special execution shall
be issued against it. If it have been previously discharged,
the execution shall issue against the principal and sureties
in the bond, without further proceedings.

SEC. 699. The sheriff may sell any of the furniture or
appendages of the boat to satisfy the demand. If he sell
the boat itself he must sell it to the bidder who will advance
the amount required to satisfy the execution for the lowest
fractional share of the boat, unless the person appearing
f<}r tfile boat desire a different and equally convenient mode
0 sa e.

SEC. 700. If a fractional share of the boat be thus sold, 1
the purchaser shall hold such share or interest jointly with
the other owners.

SEC. 701. If an appeal be taken by the defendant
before the boat is discharged as above provided, the appeal
bond, if one be filed, will have the same effect in discharging the boat as the bond above contemplated, and
execution shall issue against the obligor therein after judgment in the same manner. ,

SEC. 702. Nothing herein contained is intended toaffect the right of a plaintifff to sue in the same manner
as though the provisions of this title had not been
enacted.

SEC. 703. In actions commenced in accordance with the ~
provisions of this title, it is sufficient to allege the contract to have been made with the boat itself

 

TITLE XXIII.

INFORM ATIONS.

SEC. 704. An information may be filed against any
person unlawfully holding or exercising any public office
or franchise within this territory, or any office in any corporation created by the laws of this territory, or when any

ublic officer has done or suffered any act which works a
Forfeiture of his office, or when any persons act as a corporation within this territory without being authorized by
law, or if, being incorporated, they do or omit acts which
amount’ to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and
privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise powers
not conferred by law.

SEC. 705. Such information may be filed by the prosecutin attorney of the proper county whenever he deems
it his uty so to do.

SEC. 706. He must file such information when directed
to do so by the governor, the legislative assembly, or the
district court.

SEC. 7 07'. Such information shall consist of a lain
statement of the facts which constitute the grounds 0 the
proceeding, addressed to the court, which shall stand for
an original petition.

SEC. 708. Such statement shall be filed in the clerk’s
office, and summons issued and served in the same manner

as hereinbefore provided for the commencement of actions
in the district court

SEC. 709. The defendant shall appear and answer such
information in the usual way, and issue being joined it

shall be tried in the ordinary manner.
SEC. 710. When the defendant is holding an office to

which another is claiming the right, the information should
set forth the name of such claimant, and the trial must, if
practicable, determine the rights of the contesting parties.

SEC. 711. If judgment be rendered in favor of such
claimant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the
office, after he has qualified as required by law.

SEC. 712. The court, after such judgment, shall order
the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his
custody or under his control belonging to said office.

SEC. 713. When the judgment has been rendered in
favor of the claimant, he may at any time within one year
thereafter, bring suit against the defendant and recover the
damages he has sustained by reason of the act of the defendant.
SEC. 714. When several persons claim to be entitled to

the same office or franchise, an information may be filed
against all or any portion thereof in order to try their respective rights thereto.

SEC. 715. If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding or exercising an office, franchise or privilege,
or if a corporation be foun to have violated the law by
which it holds its existence, or in any other manner to have
done acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its
privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant

e ousted, and altogether excluded from such office, franchise or privilege, and also that he pay the costs of the

proceeding.
SEC. 716. If the defendant be found to have exercised

merely certain individual powers and privileges to which
he was not entitled, the judgment shall be the same as
above directed, but only in relation to those particulars in
which he is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights
and privileges.

SEC. 717. When an information is upon the relation of
a private individual, it shall be so stated in the petition and
proceedings, and such individual shall be responsible for
costs in case they are not adjudged against the defendant.
In other cases the title of the cause shall be the same as in
a criminal prosecution, and the payment of costs shall be
regulated by the same rule.

SEC. 718. In case judgment is rendered a ainst a pretended, but not real, corporation, the costs may e collected

&om any person who has been acting as an officer or proprietor of such retended corporation.

SEC. 719. I a corporation is ousted and dissolved by
the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall appoint
three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and
stockholders.

SEC. 720. Such trustees shall enter into bond, in such
a pena.lty and with such security as the court may approve, gonditioned for the faithful discharge of their trust.

SEC. 721. Suit may be brought on such bond by any
person injured by the negligence or Wrongful act of the
trustees in the discharge of their duties.

SEC. 722. The trustees shall roceed immediately to
collect the debts and pay the liabi ities of the corporation,
and to divide the surplus among those thereto entitled.

SEC. 7 23. The court shall, upon an application for that
purpose, order any officer of such corporation, or any other
person having possession of any of the effects. books or
papers of the corporation in any wise necessary for the
settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the same to t he
trustees.

SEC. 7 24. As soon as practicable after their appointment, the trustees shall make and file in the office of the
clerk of the court, an inventory of all the effects, rights
and credits, which come to their possession or knowledge,
the truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.

SEC. 725. They shall sue for and recover the debts and
pro erty of the corporation, and shall be responsible to the
cre itors and stockholders, res ectively, to the extent of
the effects which come to their ands, in the same manner
as though they were the executors of a deceased person.

SEC. 726. When judgment of ouster is rendered against ,
a corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors ‘

or officeis thereof, such officers shall be jointly and severally liable to an action by any one injured thereby.
SEC. 727. Any person who, without good reason, refuses

to obey any order of the court as herein provided, shall be ;
deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and shall be fined‘

in any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars and imprisoned in the county jail until he comply with said order,
and shall be further liable for the damages resulting to any
person on account of his refusal to obey such order.

SEC. 728. A proceeding of this kind may be instituted ,

in the manner above contemplated, for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent granted by the proper
authorities of this territory, where there is reason to believe
that the same were obtained by fraud, or through mistake
or ignorance of a material fact, or when the patentee, or

those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act in
violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters
were granted, or have by any other means forfeited the
interest acquired under the same.

 

TITLE XXIV.

GHANCERY.

SEC. 729. All actions in chancery shall be commenced by

' filing in the office of the register of the proper court a bill

of complaint, setting forth the nature of the complaint
agreeably to the usages and practice of courts of equity,
and causing a subpoena to be issued thereon, except as
hereinafter provided for service on non-residents.

SEC. 730. The subpoena shall be issued and signed by
the register of the said court, under the seal thereof, dated
on the day it is issued; it shall run in the name of the territory of Nebraska, and shall be directed to the defendant
or defendants named in the bill, requiring him or them to
appear and answer the said bill on or before the day therein named, as hereinafter provided. If one or more defendants reside in any other county of this territory than that
in which the action is rightly brought, then, on request
of the complainant or corn lainants, subpoena may be
issued as aforesaid against sue defendant or defendants to
such county. The subpoena may be served by the sheriff
or coroner of the county in which the defendant or defendants to be sued reside, and if there be no sheriff or coroner
in such county, then by such person as the register shall
designate: Provided, That whenever any subpoena shall be
served bya erson designated by such register, the person
making suci service shall verify the same by his own
affidavit.

SEC. 731. The subpoena shall be made returnable on
the second Monday after the day of its date, except when
issued to any other county than that in which the action
is brought. It maybe made returnable, at the option of
the party having it issued, on the third or fourth Monday
after its date, and shall require the defendant or defendants
therein named to appear and answer the bill on the third
Monday after the date of the return thereof, and the day

of the month on which the defendant is required to answer
the bill shall be inserted in the subpoena.

SEC. 732. Service of subpoena shall be made by delivering a certified copy thereof to each defendant personally,
or by leavin one at his usual lace of residence, at any
time before t e return day. T e return must state the
time and manner of service, and the oiiicer or person
serving the subpoena must make his return at the time
therein stated. If the subpoena shall not be returned
served on the defendant or defendants, or on any one or
more of them, on the return day thereof, the register shall,
if required, issue alias or pluries subpoena against such
defendant or defendants, as the case may be.

SEC. 733. In actions against corporations, service may
be made upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of managers, directors or trustees, or other chief officer, or
if its chief officer is not found in the county, then upon
its secretary, cashier, clerk or managing agent, or if none
of the aforesaid officers can be found, then by copy left at
the office or the usual place of business of such corporation ;’ and service of subpoena and return thereof shall be
made at the time and in the manner provided in the last
preceding section.

SEC. 734. If it shall be shown by the bill properly;
sworn to, or by affidavit filed in the office of the register, a
that the action relates to, or the subject thereof is, real estate
or personal property in this territory, or that the defendant
or defendants has or have claims in interest, actual or contingent, therein, or that the relief sought consists wholly or
partially in excluding him or them from any interest therein, and that such defendant or defendants is or are nonresidents of, and service of subpoena cannot be made upon
him or them in, this territory, then, service on such defendant or defendants who are non-resident, may, without
issuance of subpoena, be made by publication of notice
four consecutive weeks in some newspaper regularly printed
in the county in which the action is brought, and if no
newspaper is printed in such county, then in some newspaper printed in this territory in general circulation in said
county; and such service shall be deemed complete when
publication shall have been made in the manner and for
the time prescribed as aforesaid, and shall be proved by
the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or principal
clerk, or other erson knowing the fact. The notice by

ublication as a oresaid shall state the court in which the
ill is filed and the parties to the action, shall contain a
summary statement of the object and prayer of the bill,
and shall require the defendant or defendants to appear

and answer said bill on the third Monday after the completion of such service as aforesaid.

SEC. 735. If the defendant or defendants shall fail to
appear and file in the office of the register, his or their
answer, plea, demurrer or exceptions to the bill within the
time hereinbefore required, after service is made by subpoena or by publication of notice, the complainant or complainants may in term time take and enter the default of
such defendant or defendants, and thereupon the bill shall
be taken pro confesso and as true, and the cause shall he
proceeded in ea: parte, and such decree shall be rendered or
order made therein by the court as the nature of the case
may require, if the same can be done without answer. If
the complainant or complainants require any discovery or
answer to enable him or them to obtain a proper decree, he
or they may, on leave of court, have process of attachment
against the defendant or defendants, to compel an answer,
or may have sequestration of the property of such defendant or defendants, and have his or their demand aid out
of the proceeds of the property sequestered: rovided,
ho-waver, That for good cause shown on due notice to the
adverse party, the court in term, or a judge thereof or
master in vacation, may extend the time of pleading required as aforesaid.

SEC. 736. Every defendant shall fully answer all the
allegations and interrogatories of the bill of complaint,
except such as are not required to be answered by reason
of exceptions, plea or demurrer thereto allowed, unless the
court shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 737. Exceptions to bills and answers for impertinence and scandal, shall be in writing, signed by counsel,
describing the particular passages which are considered to
be scandalous or impertinent, and shall be ‘nled to bills
within the time limited for answering the same, and to
answers within the time limited for replying to the same.
If the court shall find such exceptions to be well taken, it
shall order the register to expungc the scandalous or impertinent matter, describing the matter so to be expunged with
such particularity that the same may be identified. The
register shall expungc such matter by drawing lines in red
ink through the same, and in the margin referring to the
order of the court by its date and page of the journal in
which it is entered. Exceptions to answers for insuffieieney shall be in writing, signed by counsel, and shall state
fully the matter or interrogatory of the bill remaining
unanswered, and shall be filed within the time limited for
replying to answers. If the court shall find the answer
insufficient, it shall fix the time for putting in a further

answer, and specify the same in the order. If such further ,
answer shall still be insuiiicient, exceptions thereto may be ;
filed in the same manner, and within the same time, as tof
original answers; and if the court shall find such answer
insufficient, it shall fix the time for putting in a second
further answer, and specify the same in its order. If such
second further answer shall be insufhcient, like exceptions
may be filed; and if the same shall be found by the
court to be insufficient, the matter of the bill to which
such exceptions apply, and no other parts of the bill,
shall be taken as confessed, unless for cause the court
shall otherwise oilicially order. When exceptions are filed
to pleadings, the cause shall be deemed set down to be
heard thereon by the court without reference thereof to a
master.

SEC. 738. Replications shall be general, and shall be
filed on the second Monday after the filing of the answer
or plea of the defendant. And thereupon either party’
may enter in the appearance docket the name of the master
before whom he will take his testimony, and may proceed
therein according to law.

SEC. 739. After replication is filed, the cause shall be
deemed at issue. On default of filing such replication
within the time required in the last preceding section, the

cause may be set for hearing on bill and answer, unless the
court shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 740. In all cases where a decree or final order
shall be made upon a bill taken pro confesso, and the defendant or defendants shall have been brought before the court

by publication only, such non-resident defendants may,
upon motion in open court, have such decree or order
opened for a bearing, upon such non-resident defendant or
defendants showing to t e satisfaction of the court that he or
they have a meritorious defense to the bill, and did not have
actual notice of the pendency of the suit in season to make
said defense: Provided, Such motion shall be made within
three years from the entering of such decree or final order:
Provided, fu7'lhe7', That infants, idiots and insane persons
shall have the right to have such decree or order opened at
any time within three years after such disability shall be
removed.

SEC. 7 41. Amendments of pleading may be allowed by
the court "upon motion and notice thereof to the adverse
party, or his solicitor, either by a new engrossment of the
pleadings containin the matter of the amendment, or, when
the adverse party s all consent thereto in writing, by an
interlineation of the amendment. Before the time allowed
by the court for amending a pleading has elapsed, the same

may be extended; but after such time has elapsed, further
time shall not be granted, unless the court, for special reasons shown, shall by order grant a further extension. Matter
arising after a party has filed his pleading, shall be pleaded
only by the proper su plemental pleading. A defendant
shall plead to an amen ed bill on or before the fifth Monday
after service upon him, or his solicitor, of notice of the

filing thereof
SEC. 742. The bill of complaint and the answer thereto,

‘ except when the affidavit to the answer is expressly waived
e

by the bill, shall be verified by the aiiidavit of t party
filing the same, or by his agent or solicitor. The verification to the bill, and also to the answer or other pleading
when required to be made under oath, may be made by the
agent or solicitorFafrst. When such party is a non-resident of or is absent
from the county in which the action is brought ,

Second. VVhen all the facts are within the personal
knowledge of the agent or solicitor.

Third. When the party is an infant, or of unsound
mind, or imprisoned.

SEC. 743. The verification of the bill, answer or other
pleading may be made before and certified by a person
authorized to administer an oath in the state, territory
or foreign country in which the party may be or resides at the time. The official character of such officer,
if out of this territory, must be attested by the seal
of some court of record within such state, territory or
foreign power. The veriiication of a pleading shall be to
the effect that the deponent has read the pleading, or has
heard it read, and knows the contents thereof, and that the
same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters
which are therein stated to be on his information and
belief, and as to those matters that he believes it to be
true, and the substance of the _oath administered shall be
as stated in the jurat.

SEC. 744. “Then the complainant or com lainants shall
waive the necessity of the answer being ma e on the oath
of the defendant or defendants, the answer shall have no
other or greater force as evidence than the bill.

SEC. 745. When a bill is taken pro confesso, before
nnal decree is made, if deemed requisite, the court may
order the complainant to produce documents and witnesses to prove the allegations of the bill, or may examine
him, on oath or affirmation, touching the facts therein
alleged
_ SEC. 7-l;_6. Whenever an execution shall have been
issued against the property of any defendant, on a judgment

at law or decree in equity, and shall have been returned
unsatisfied, in Whole or in part, the party issuing such execution may file a bill in chancery against such defendant or
defendants, and any other person or ersons, to compel the
discovery of any real estate, personal) property, money or
other thing in action due to him or them, or held in trust
for him or them; and from and after the date of the
service of the subpoena issued on such bill, or the first
publication of notice as hereinbefore re uired, as the case
may be, the action shall be deemed pen mg so as to charge
all real estate, personal property, money or other thing in
alctioni belonging to or held in trust as aforesaid for said

efen ant or defendants, with a lien thereon, as in case of
attachment at law, and the same shall be subject to the
final decree or order of the court which shall be made in
the cause. And like proceedings may be had to compel
the discover of a decedent’s property Whose administrator
conceals an misapplies the same.

_SEC. 747. _ The court shall have power_to compel such
discovery as is provided in the last preceding section, and
todecree satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such
judgments or decrees out of the proceeds of the sale
of any real estate or personal property, or out of any
money or thing in action belonging to the defendant or
defendants, which shall be discovered by the proceeding
in cliancer ; and the court is empowered to make all
necessary clyecrees for the sale of real estate or personal
property, and to_ enforce the collection of all money or
other thing in action, of such defendant or defendants, discovered as aforesaid:. Provided, That no answer made to
any bill filed under this and the last preceding section shall
be read in evidence against the defendant or defendants
on the trial of an indictment for the fraud charged in the

bill.
SEC. 7 48. No action shall abate by reason of the death, ,

marriage or disability of any party, if the cause of action g
survive and continue. In either case, the action may be;
revived and continued by or against the representative of ,
such deceased, or disabled, or married party, by motion
made in open court within one year after the death, marriage or disability of the party, or afterwards by supplemental bill and service of subpoena or publication of notice
thereof, according to the provisions of sections seven hundred and thirty-two or seven hundred and thirty-four of
this code, as the case may be. In case of any transfer of
interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party; or the court may allow the person to Whom

the interest is transferred tobe substituted in the action by
motion or supplemental bill as aforesaid.

SEC. 749. In all actions in chancery and actions to
obtain title to lands, if there be persons interested in the
same Whose names are unknown, it shall be lawful to
make such persons parties to such suits or proceedings
by the name and description of persons unknown, or
unknown heirs or devisees of any deceased person who
has been interested in the subject matter of the action
previous to his or her death; but in all such cases an
affidavit shall be filed in the office of the register by the
party desiring to make any unknown person a party,
stating that the names of such persons are unknown to him,
and that he has made diligent inquiry to ascertain the
name or names of such unknown person or persons,
and process shall be issued against all parties by the name
and description given as aforesaid, and publication of
notice, as is required in section seven hundred and thirtyfour, shall be sufficient to authorize the court to hear and
determine the action as though all parties had been sued
by their proper names. ,

SEC. 750. All decrees, orders and proceedings made or
had with respect to such unknown persons shall have the
same effect and be as binding and conclusive upon them,

“as though such action or proceeding had been instituted

against them by their proper names.

SEC. 751. 'Whencver a decree shall be made in any suit
in chancery, directing the execution of any deed or other
writing, and the arty against whom the same shall have
been entered shall not comply therewith within the time
required it shall be lawful for the court, by an order, to
direct a master or specially appoint a commissioner to
execute the same. The execution thereof by such master
or commissioner shall be as valid in law to ass, release or
extinguish the right, title and interest 0 the party on
whose behalf it is executed, as if it had been executed by
such party in proper person in conformity with such decree;
and such deed or other writing, if it relate to land, shall
be recorded in the office of the clerk of the county wherein
the lands lie, in the same manner and with like effect as
deeds are therein recorded.

SEC. 752. In all cases where a sale of property is
decreed, the court may direct the same to be made for
cash, or on such credit and on such terms as it may
deem best and most equitable to the interests of the several
parties.

SEC. 753. All decrees rendered for the payment of
money, and for the sale of real estate or personal property,

shall be and remain a lien upon all real estate of the
defendant or defendants within the county in which the
action is brought, for the period of five years; and if the
amount of such decree, or any balance thereof, shall remain
uncollected by the usual proceedings in chancer ,the same
may be collected by execution, as in cases ofy execution
upon' judgments at law.

SEC. 754. When the subpoena has been served, or publication of notice is first made, the action is deemed
pending, so as to charge third persons with notice of its
pendency, and while pending, no interest can be acquired

y third ersons in the subject matter thereof, as against
the comp ainant’s right or title thereto.

SEC. 755. Any defendant may, after tiling his answer,
exhibit and file his cross-bill, containing interrogatories to
the complainant or com lainants, and call upon him or
them to make answer t ereto. In such case, the complainants shall be held to answer, plead, demur or except
to such cross-bill, in the same manner and under the same
penalties that a defendant or defendants are hereinbefore
required to answer, plead, demur or except to an original
bill. If the cross-bill is filed in term time, the complainant
or complainants shall answer within such time as the
court may order; if filed in vacation, the complainant or
complainants shall answer such cross-bill within the time
hereinbefore prescribed for defendants to answer original
bills; and the issuance, service and return of sub oena, or
publication of notice in case of non-residents, shal be the
same as hereinbefore provided in the commencement of
actions in chancer .

SEC. 756. If t e complainant or complainants shall fail
to answer all the allegations and interrogatories of the crossbill, his bill shall be dismised with costs, or the new matters
set out in the defendant’s cross-bill shall be taken pro con- ‘
fesso and as true, and a decree entered accordingly.

SEC. 757. The complainant or complainants shall not;
be compelled to file his or their answer to any cross-bill;
until the defendant shall have filed a sufficient answer to 5
the complainant’s bill. _

SEC. 758. No complainant shall be allowed to dismiss,
his bill, after a cross-bill has been filed, without the consent 3
of the defendant.

SEC. 759. When a bill is defective for want of parties, :
the same not appearing on the face of the bill, the defend- 
ant may suggest the defect in his answer, stating the name
and residence of the party who should be impleaded in the
bill, together with his interest in the subject matter in controversy. The complainant may have the cause set down

for argument on that objection onilfy by entering on the
appearance docket an entry to the e ect following, to wit:
“Set down upon the defendant’s objection for want of parties.” Where the complainant shall not so set down his
cause, but shall proceed therewith to a hearing notwithstanding an objection for want of parties, he shall not, at
the hearing of the cause, if the defendant’s objection be
then allowed, be entitled to an order as of course for liberty
to amend his bill, but the court shall be at liberty to dismiss
the bill. If a defendant shall, at the hearing of a cause,
object that a suit is defective for want of parties, not having by plea or answer taken the objection and therein
s eciiied by name and descri tion the parties to whom the
o jection applies, the court, if) it shall think fit, shall be at
liberty to make a decree saving the rights of the absent
parties.

SEC. 760. The master who is charged by a party with
the taking of testimony, shall, by order in each case, fix a
time and lace for the taking of such proofs, iving not
less than fi)ve days notice thereof to the parties, t eir counsel or solicitors, and the proofs shall be taken in presence
of the parties or their agents, or such of them as ma
attend, and the examination of witnesses shall be conduc ,
as near as may be, in the mode now used in common law
courts. The deposition shall be reduced to writing by the
master, and shall be taken in form of interrogatories and
answers, unless the parties agree that it may be taken in
form of narrative, and when complete, shall be signed b
the witness in the presence of the parties or their counse ,
or such of them as may attend, but if the witness refuse to
sign his deposition, then the master shall state the fact and
sign the same. Any question or other matter of evidence
which may be objected to, shall be noted by the master at
the time, stating the objection, but he shall not have power
to decide on the competency, materiality or relevancy of
the question or other matter of evidence. If either party
shall fail to attend at the time and place of examination,
the master may proceed ex parte, or in his discretion may
adjourn the examination to a future day, giving notice to
the absent party or his solicitor, of such adjournment. The
master is empowered to issue subpoena to witnesses and
process of attachment against such as make default,
and to adjourn the examination and proceedings before
him, from time to time, until the same is completed, subject,
however, to the order of the court.

SEC. 761. Upon the application of either party, the

court may, in its discretion, appoint a ‘special master in any
cause.

SEC. 762. The deposition of any Witness residing in
any other county in this territory than that in which the
action is pending, may be taken, upon notice to the adverse
party, stating the title of the cause, the name of the court
1n which the same is pending, the time and place of taking
the de osition, and that the same will be used on the hearing o the cause. Such notice shall be served on the
adverse party, his agent or attorney of record, by delivering
to said party, his agent or attorney, a copy thereof, or by
leaving a copy at his usual place of residence, and shall be
served so as to allow said party sufficient time, by the usual
route of travel, to attend, and one day for preparation,
exclusive of Sunda s and the da of service; and the
examination may, i so stated in t e notice, be adjourned
from da to day.

SEC. ;63. Depositions taken under and by virtue of the
last preceding section, may be taken before a judge or
clerk of the supreme or district court, or before a justice of
the peace, notary public, or mayor or chief magistrate of
any city of this territory.

SEC. 764. On application of the parties to an action, or
of any one or more of them, to the register of the court of
the county in which the action is pending, the said register
shall issue a commission or commissions to take the depositions of Witnesses in any other county of this territory, or
in any state, territory or foreign country, upon interrogatories filed in his office.

SEC. 765. Before the issuance of any such commission,
the party applying therefore shall give ten days notice to
the adverse party, of the filing of such interrogatories, and
that unless crossinterrogatories shall be filed in the office
of said register Within that time, a commission will be issued
ex parte. The party making the application shall name on
his part a commissioner, with the name of the county,
city or town, and state, territory or foreign country, of his
residence; and the adverse party, on filing cross-interrogatories, may also name on his part a commissioner of
the same place. The testimony may be taken before
the commissioners, jointly, or before one of them,
upon notice to the other, of the time and place of takin
the same; and the fact of giving such notice must be state
in the return of the commissioner taking the same.

SEC. 766. The commissioner or commissioners thus
designated and appointed, shall have full power and authority to administer oaths and affirmations to the witnesses or
parties examined before him or them, to issue subpoena to
said witnesses, and issue process of attachment against such
as make default.

’ SEC. 767. When the party against whom the deposition
is intended to be taken, is a non-resident of this territory,
and has no agent or attorney of record in the county in
which the action is pending, then a copy of the notice reqtpired by section seven hundred and sixty-two for taking
t e deposition, or a copy of the notice required by section
seven hundred and sixty-five of filing mterrogatories, as
the case may be, shall be filed in the oiiice of the register
of the court in which the action is pending fifteen days
prior to the time of taking the deposition or the issuance of
the commission; and a minute thereof, and of the date
of filing such copy, shall be entered on the appearance
docket of said court in the cause.

SEC. 768. Every deposition taken under the provisions
of this title, shall be written in the presence of the officer
or person taking the same, either by such officer or person,
the witness or some disinterested person, and subscribed
by the witness

SEC. 769. The officer, commissioner or commissioners
taking the deposition, shall annex thereto a certificate,
showingT First. That the witness was first duly sworn to testify
the truth, the Whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

Swond. That the deposition was reduced to writing in
his or their presence, by him or them, or b the Witness or
some disinterested person, naming him, an that the same
was written in the presence of the Witness and by him subscribed at the time of taking the same.

SEC. 7 70. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up
and endorsed with the title of the cause and the name of
the person taking the same, and by him addressed and
transmitted to the register of the court where the action is
pending. It shall remain sealed until opened by order of
the court, or at the request of a. party to the action or his
counsel or solicitor.

SEC. 771. The deposition taken as aforesaid, may be
read in evidence on the trial or hearing of the cause in
which it is taken, and also in any subsequent action wherein the same matter shall be in dispute between the same

parties or persons, their heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns.

SEC. 772. Exceptions to depositions taken as aforesaid, .

shall be in Writing, specifying the grounds of objection,
and shall be filed with the papers in the cause, and no
exceptions shall be regarded except for incompetency, immateriality or irrelevancy, unless made in writing as aforesaid, and filed in the oiiice of the register before the commencement of the trial or hearing of the cause.

SEC. 773. The master or commissioner is empowered to
issue summons and command the presence of witnesses, and
to punish witnesses for neglect or refusal to obey his summons, or for refusal to testify when present, unless exempt
by statute from giving evidence, by commitment to the jail
of the county for contempt; and all sheriffs and constables
in this territory are hereby required to serve and return all
process issued by masters or commissioners in the taking
of depositions. The master shall nle the depositions within
ten days from the taking thereofi

SEC. 7 7 4. In all actions in chancery, either part may
appeal from the decree rendered or final order made y the 3
district court, to the supreme court of this territor . The;
part appealing shall, within thirty days from t e date *
of t e rendition of such decree or the making of such final
order, file in the oiiice of the register of the court in which
the action is brought, a notice in writing of such appeal;
and upon the filing of such notice as aforesaid, and causing a
minute thereof and of the date of such filing to be made
in said cause upon the appearance docket of said court, the
ap eal shall be deemed ro erly taken.

EC. 775. No appea ta en as aforesaid shall 0 erate as 1
a supersedeas, unless the appellant or appellants sha 1, within 1
the time aforesaid, execute, or cause to be executed, a bond j
on his or their part, to the adverse party, with one or more
sureties, as follows: ~

First. When the decree or final order ap ealed from
directs the payment of money, the bond shall e in double
the amount of the decree or nnal order, conditioned that
the appellant or appellants will prosecute such appeal
Without delay, and pay all condemnation mone and costs
which may be found against him or them on t e final determination of the cause by the supreme court

Second. When the decree or final order directs the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the bond shall
be in such sum as may be prescribed by any district court
of this territory, or any judge thereof in vacation, conditioned that the ap ellant or ap ellants will prosecute such
appeal without delay, and will a ide and erform the decree
which shall be rendered, or the final or er which shall be
made by the supreme court intthe cause; but instead of
such bond, the appellant or appellants may execute the
conveyance or other instrument, and de osit the same with
the register of the court, to abide the dpecree or final order
of the appellate court.

Third. When the decree or final order directs the sale
or delivery of possession of real estate, the bond shall be
in such sum as may be prescribed as last aforesaid, conditioned that the appellant or appellants will not, during
the pendency of such appeal, commit, or suffer to be committed, any Waste upon such real estate, and will prosecute
such ap eal Without delay, and abide and perform in all
things t e decree which shall be rendered, or the final
order which shall be made by the supreme court in the
cause.

Fourth. When the decree or final order directs the assignment, cancellation or delivery of conveyances, documents or other instruments, the assignment or cancellation
may be made, and the conveyance, documents or other
instruments thus assigned or canceled, or to be delivered,
may be placed in the custod of the register of the court
in which the decree was ren ered or final order made, to
abide the decree which shall be rendered, or the final order
which shall be made, by the supreme court in the cause;
or the appellant or appellants may give bond as aforesaid
in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, conditioned
that he or the will prosecute such a peal Without delay,
and abide an perform the decree whic shall be rendered,
or the final order which shall be made, by the supreme
court in the cause : Provided, That when the application to
fix the amount of the bond hereinbefore required, in any
case of a peal, is made to any district court or judge
thereof, ot er than the district court in which or the judge
before whom the cause has been heard and decided, the
party making such application shall give to the adverse
party, his agent, counsel or solicitor, at least five days
notice in Writing, of the time and place of making such
ap lication.

EC. 776. Before any bond executed as aforesaid shall

operate as a supersedeas, the execution of such bond, and

the sufficiency of the sureties therein, must be ap roved by
the court in which such decree was rendered, or gnal order
made, or by the judge thereof, in vacation, or by the register of said court; and such approval must be endorsed
upon the bond, and si ed by said court or erson taking
the same, and the bon filed 111 the office of t e register for
the adverse part .

SEC. 777. The appellant or appellants shall, within six
months from and after the date of the filing in the register’s office a notice of his appeal, procure from said register
and file in the office of the clerk of the supreme court of
this territory, a certified transcript of the proceedings had
in the cause in the district court, containing the pleadings
and the decree rendered, or final order made thereon, and
all the depositions of record offered in evidence, and all
other evidence of record offered, on the hearing of the

cause, and have the cause pro erly docketed in the said
supreme court; and on failure t ereof, the decree rendered
or final order made in the district court shall stand and be
prosceedezdz in as if no appeal had been taken.

EC. 8. Actions in chancer ma be commenced and i
prosecuted and defended by infgjnts 3; other ersons who:
are under guardianship, or otherwise incapabe to sue for]
themselves, by their general guardians, by guardians ad!
litem, or by their next friend. A guardian ad litem shall
be appointed b the court, upon the petition of the party
who 18 incapab e of rosecuting or defending a cause for
himself. If the application for the appointment is not
made Within the usual time for the appearance, the adverse
party may apply to the court to appoint a suitable person
as the guardian. N 0 person shall e appointed a guardian
ad litem who has any interest adverse to the person for
Whom he is appointed, or is connected in business with the
solicitor or counsel for the adverse part . N 0 money or
property belonging to the person for W cm the appointment is made, shall be delivered to any guardian ad lwitem,
unless he shall, under such directions as the court shall by
order make, give a bond with suiiicient securities for the
faithful a plication of such money or property, as the
court shal direct. Summary application b petition to the
court,dmlay be made for all necessary orders irecting guardians a item.

SEC. 779. All proceedings in actions in chancery not
herein provided for, shall be agreeably to the rules and

. . rou n
praScI:i3ce71 181000112181 lgcliliqoiltiyri chancery may be b ht a d
prosecuted to nnal decree, judgment or order, gand all:
necessary subseguent proceedings thereon, in order to carry
into effect such ecree, judgment or order,may be had by any i
person who holds an absolute title to real. estate against any
plerson whoocélacimtz an_ advemehestzppe or intgzresg thlgiiieivri/Jlf3cC>l1,'

epur ose e rmmm suc es or 1n res : o
h0weve7'I,) That the persongclaiming such adverse estate or
interest, is not in the possession of the property: And provided further, That the provisions of this title shall not apply
to the settlement, partition or division of real estate among
the heirs of a decedeng, where the same is provided for by
the intestate laws 0 t is territor .

SEC. 781. The. district judggs in each of the districts
of this territo shall have power to appoint some person
residing in eadli of the organized counties of said district,
as a master in chancer , for said counties respectively, who
shall hold his office fdr three years, unless sooner removed
by said judge, and shall keep his office at the county

seat; said judges shall only have power to remove any
master in chancery within their respective districts upon
proof, in open _court, of incompetency or negligence in discharging l1]S duty; and the shall have power at any timeto
fill all vacancies, occasione by removal as herein provided,
by death, resignation or otherwise: Provided, There may be
two masters appointed in each of the counties of Douglas
and Otoe.

SEC. 782. Said masters in chancery shall be sworn to
faithfully perform the duties of their office, and they shall
have power to perform the ordinary duties of masters
in chancery, together with the duties of a judge of the
district court of chancery in vacation.

SEC. 783. Whenever the master in chancery for any
county shall remove therefrom, or become otherwise incapacitated to discharge the duties of his office, the district
court for such county shall declare the office vacant, and
appoint another person thereto, in the same manner as if
the same had never been filled.

 

TITLE XXV.

PROBATE COURTS.

CHAPTER I.

POWERS AND DUTIES.

SEC. 784. There is hereby established in each or anized county in the territory, a robate court, which shal be
held at the county seat, on t e second Monday of each
month, and shall be a court of record.

SEC. 785. Judges of probate shall have and exercise
the ordinary powers and jurisdiction of a justice of the

eace. .
P SEC. 786. The courts of probate in their res ective
counties shall have urisdiction of the probate of wi Is, the
administration of estates of deceased ersons, and the guardianship of minors, insane persons, i iots, and such other
powers as may be conferred by law: Provided, N o judge
of robate shall act in any case or matter where he is next
of in to the deceased, nor where he is legatee or devisee
under a will, nor where he is named as executor or trustee

in a will, or is one of the subscribing witnesses thereto, nor
where he is so related to any party in interest, in any case
before him, by consanguinity or affinity, or has such an
interest therein as would exclude him from acting as a
juror in such case or matter, nor where he has acted as
attorney or counsel in any case or matter before him.

SEC. 787. They shall have power —

First. To hear and determine all cases of debts and
demands when executors, administrators and guardians
shall be parties, plaintifff or defendant, when the amount
claimed to be due shall not exceed one thousand dollars.

Second. To hear and determine questions of application
for, and to grant and issue letters of administration, testamentary, and of guardianship, and revoke the same.

Third. To take the probate of wills.

Fourth. To determine the persons entitled to letters of
administration, testamentary, and of guardianship.

Fzjlh. To cause to be taken, to receive, file and record
all inventories, sale and appraisement bills, of the estates
of deceased persons.

Szltcth. To require executors, administrators and guardians to exhibit and settle their accounts, and account
for the estates and property that have come into their possession as such.

Seventh. To appoint commissioners to partition real
estate, and to assign (lower.

Eighth. To authorize guardians to sell and convey the
real estate of their wards, -to provide for the wants, education and support of minors, insane persons, or idiots.

Ynth. To hear and determine all questions arising
under, and to enforce, the laws in relation to illegitimate
children.

SEC. 788. It shall be the duty of said courts to examine the bonds of all guardians, administrators or executors at least once in every year, and if, upon such examination, any such courts shall have doubts of the solvency
or sufficiency of the securities in any such bonds, the court
shall notify such guardian, administrator or executor to
show cause why he shall not execute a new bond, with
surety to be approved by said court as provided by law.

SEC. 789. If, upon the hearing of such matter, the court
shall require a new -bond, with sureties, and such guardian,
administrator or executor shall fail to com ly with the
order of the court, he shall be removed from his said trust,
and his letters revoked, and another guardian appointed in
his place.

SEC. 790. The probate books are to be provided at the
expense of the county, and shall consist of a record, entry,

estate and fee book; the record book shall contain a full
record of all wills, testaments and codicils, and the probate
thereof, all letters testamentary, of administration, and
guardianship, and all bonds of executors, guardians and
administrators. The original papers shall be filed and preserved in the ofnce.

SEC. 791. There shall be entered in the estate book, all
inventories, appraisements, sale bills, and other exhibits
and reports, received by the court, relative to the settlement
or disposition of estates, showing the amount of all such
estates, as shown by such instruments.

SEC. 792. The entry book shall contain a fair statement
of all matters, controversies and suits, that may have arisen
for decision or adjudication before said court, with the
names of the parties, date of each entry, and the judgment
or opinion of the court, and all orders thereo£

SEC. 793. The fee book shall contain an exact account
of all fees allowed and paid in each case, showing the
names of the persons receiving the same, and for what
such fees were aid.

SEC. 7 94. 0 said books shall be attached an index,
which shall at all times be kept u with entries in such
books, and in which shall be inserte , in alphabetical order,
the names of parties or persons in whose names the entries
in said books are made.

SEC. 795. When any probate judge shall be disqualiJfied from acting in any case or matter before him, or is

temporarily absent from his county, the county commis. sioners of such county may appoint a completent and disinterested pcrson to act in the place of suc disqualilied or
absent judge, in such case or other matter, during such
absence or disqualification, who shall give bonds in the

' same manner and possess the same owers, and be subject

to the same duties, restrictions an liabilities therein as
are prescribed by law respecting probate judges.

CHAPTER II.

ADOPTION OF CHILDREN.

SEC. 796. Whenexrer it may be desirable that any person or persons shall adopt the child of another, the same
may be consummated in the manner hereinafter provided.

SEC. 797. The iarents, guardians, or other person or persons having lawful control or custody of any minor child,
may make a statement in writing before the probate judge

_ with the provisions and requirements of this chapter, sha

of the county where the person or persons desiring to adopt
said child reside, that he, she or they voluntarily relinquish
all right to the custody of and power and control over
such child (naming him or her), and all claim and interest
in or to the services and wages of such child, to the end
that such child shall be fully adopted by the part or parties (naming them) desiring to adopt such chil , which
statement shall be signed and sworn to by the party making
the same, before said probate judge, in the presence of
at least two witnesses; and the person or persons desiring
to adopt such child, shall also make a statement in writing,
to the effect that he, she or they freely and voluntaril
adopt such child (naming him or her) as their own, with suc
limitations and conditions as shall be agreed upon by the
parties, which said statement shall also be signed and sworn
to by the parties making the same before said probate
'udge, in the resence of at least two witnesses: Provided,

n all cases where such child shall be of the age of fourteen years and upward, the written consent of such child
shall be necessar to the validity of such proceeding: And
prov~z'dedfurrtIzer, henever it shall be desirable, the party or
parties ado ting such child may, b stipulations to that
effect in sucli statement, adopt such c ild, and bestow upon
him or her equal ri hts, privileges and immunities of
children born in lawfu wedlock, and such statement shall
be filed with and recorded by said probate judge, in a book
ke t in his office for that purpose.

EC. 798. And said probate judge shall appoint a time 1
and place for the hearing of said matter, and shall give}
three weeks notice thereof to all persons who may be interested in said matter, by publication thereof in a newspaper
published in said count , and in case no paper is ublished
in said county, then t e notice shall be publis ed in a
newspaper printed in this territory, and of general circulation in said county.

SEC. 799. At the time and place of the hearing of such 1
matter, if said hearing shall not be adjourned, the said?
probate judge shall render a decree therein, in accordance}
with the conditions and stipulations of said statement: <
Provided, In case it shall appear to the satisfaction of said
probate judge, that such proceedings are not for the best
interest of the child or c ildren, he may refuse to enter
such decree, and the matter shall thereupon be dismissed.

SEC. 800. All decrees entered in such casein conformity 
be conclusive upon all the persons interested in such proceedings or matter, and the child or children thus adopted
shall take the surname of the person or persons adopting

the same, and all relations of parent and child, agreeably
to such stipulations and the decree of the probate court,
shall attach, and such child or children, if so stated in such
decree, shall be subject to the exclusive control and custod
of such parent or parents, and shall possess and enjoy
the rights, privileges, inheritance, heirships and immunities
of children born in lawful wedlock.

SEC. 801. The probate judge shall be entitled to charge

the same fees for such serv1ces as now are or hereafter may

be provided by law for like services in other cases.

TITLE XXVI.

PARTITION.

SEC. 802. VVhen the object of the action is to effect a
partition of real property among several joint owners, the
petition must describe the property and the respective
interests of the several owners thereof, if known.

SEC. 803. If the number of shares or interestsis known,
but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent or doubtful, these facts must be set forth in the petition
with reasonable certainty.

SEC. 804. Creditors having a specific or general lien
upon all or any portion of the roperty ma or may not
be made parties, at the option 0; the plaintifff?’

SEC. 805. If the lien is upon one or more undivided
interests of any of the parties, it shall, after partition or
sale, remain a charge upon those particular interests or the
proceeds thereof But the due proportion of costs is a
charge upon those interests paramount to all other liens.

SEC. 806. The answers of the defendants must state,
among other things, the amount and nature of their res ective interests. They may deny the interest of any 0 the
plaintifffs, and by supplemental pleading, if necessary, may

eny the interests 0 any of the other defendants.

S130. 807. VVhere there are two or more plaintifffs they
may reply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or
all the answers of the defendants.

SEC. 808. Issues may thereupon be joined and tried
between any of the contesting parties, the question of costs

on such issues being regulated between the contestants
agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.

SEC. 809. Each of the parties appearing, whether as
plaintifff or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof
of title, if he has an , and must file the same, or copies
thereof, with the cler

SEC. 810. If the statements in the petition and answers
are not contradicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the
documentary proof exhibited as above required, they shall
be taken as true.

SEC. 811. After all the shares and interests of the
parties have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid,
judgment shall be rendered confirming those shares and
interests, and directing partition to be made accordingly. '

SEC. 812. Upon entering such judgment the court shall
appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number of shares.

SEC. 813. For good and sufficient reasons appearing
to the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular
portions of the land to particular individuals. In other
casies the shares must be made as nearly as possible of equal
va ue.

SEC. 814. If it a pears to the referees that partition
cannot be made wit out great prejudice to the owners,
they shall so report to the court.

SEC. 815. If satisfied with such report, the court shall
cause an order to be entered, directing the referees to sell
the premises so situated, and shall also fix the terms of
sa e.

SEC. 816. Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall
each give security, to be approved by the court or judge
thereof, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
At any time thereafter the court may require further and
better secuiity.

SEC. 817. The same notice of sale shall be given as
when lands are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the
sale shall be conducted in like manner.

SEC. 818. After completing said sale, the referees must
report their proceedings to the court, with a description of
the different arcels of land sold to each purchaser, and
the price bid t erefor, which report shall be filed with the
clerk.

SEC. 819. After making the order of sale as aforesaid,
the court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be
any general encumbrance b mortgage, judgment or otherwise, upon any ortion of t e propert .

SEC. 820. Ifp deemed advisable, t e court may appoint
a referee to inquire into the nature and amount of encumbrances, and report accordingly. From that report an

ap eal lies to the court.
EC. 821. The referee shall give the arties interested

at least five days notice of the time an place when he
will receive proof of the amount of such encumbrances.

SEC. 822. In takin such proof he may receive, with
other evidence, the affi avit of the parties interested.

SEC. 823. If any encumbrance be ascertained to exist,
the proceeds of the sale of that portion, after the ayment
of costs, or so much thereof as is necessary, sha 1, if the
owner consent, be paid over to the encumbrancer.

SEC. 824. If the owner object to the payment of such
encumbrance, the money shall be retained or invested by
order of the court to await final action in relation to its
disposition, and notice thereof shall be forthwith given to
the encumbrancer, unless he has already been made a party.

SEC. 825. The court may direct an issue to be made up
between the encumbrancer and the owner, which shall be
decisive of their respective rights.

SEC. 826. If an estate for life or years be found to exist as an encumbrance upon any part of said property, and
if the parties cannot agree upon the sum in gross which
they Wlll consider an equivalent for such estate, the court
shall direct the avails of the incumbered property to be
invested, and the proceeds to be paidto the encumbrancer
during the existence of the encumbrance.

SEC. 827. The proceedings in relation to the encumbrances shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of
other shares in respect to which no difliculties exist.

SEC. 828. The court in its discretion may require all
or any of the parties before they receive the monies
arising from any sale authorized in this title, to give
satisfactory security to refund such monies with interest, in case it afterwards appears that such parties were
not entitled thereto.

SEC. 829. If the sales aforesaid be approved and
confirmed by the court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees, or any two of them, to execute conveyances pursuant to such sales. But no conveyance can
be made until all the money is paid, without receiving from
the purchaser a mortgage of the land so sold, or other
equivalent security.

SEC. 830. Such conveyances so executed, being recorded in the county where the premises are situate, shall
be valid against all subsequent purchasers, and also
against all persons interested at the time who were made

Earties to the proceedings in the mode pointed out by
w.

SEC. 831. If the owner of an share thus sold has a
husband or wife living, and if suc husband and wife do
not agree as to the disposition that shall be made of the
proceeds of such sale, the court must direct it to be invested
in real estate under the supervision of such erson as it may
appoint, taking the title in the name of t e owner of the
s are sold as aforesaid.

SEC. 832. If the sales are disapproved, the money paid
and the securities 'ven must be returned to the persons
res ectively entitle? thereto.

EC. 833. When partition is deemed roper, the referees must make out the shares by visib e monuments,
and may employ a competent surveyor and the necessary
assistants to aid them.

SEC. 834. The report of the referees must be in writing,
signed by at least two of them. It must describe the
respective shares with reasonable particularity, and be
accompanied by a plat of the premises.

SEC. 835. Unless the shares are allotted to their respective owners by the referees as hereinbefore contemplated,
the clerk shall number the shares and then draw the
names of the future owners by lot.

SEC. 836. When partition can be conveniently made of
part of the premises but not of all, one portion may be
partitioned and the other sold as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 837. On good cause shown, the report may be
set aside, and the matter again referred to the same or other

referees.
SEC. 838. Upon the report of the referees being confirmed, judgment thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm and effectual forever.

SEC. 839. When all the parties in interest have been
duly notified to appear and answer, either by the service of
the petition and notice, or by the publication prescribed by
law, any of the roceedings above authorized shall be
bindinrr and cone usive upon them all. If only a portion
of sucbh parties be served, they only shall be bound by

such proceedings.
SEC. 840. The judgment of partition shall be presumptive evidence of title in all cases, and as between the

parties themselves it is conclusive evidence thereof, subject,
owever, to be defeated by proof of a title paramount to,
or independent of, that under which the parties held as
joint tenants or tenants in common.

SEC. 841. All the costs of the proceedings in partition
shall be paid in the first instance by the plaintifffs, but
eventually by all the parties in proportion to their interests,

except those costs which are created by contests above
provided for.

SEC. 842. Any persons claiming to hold an encumbrance upon an ortion of the property involved in the
suit, may, in e ault of the owner, ap ear and act as
his representative in any of the procee 'ngs under this
title.

SEC. 843. Persons having contingent interests in such
property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the
proceeds of the property so situated (or the property itself,
1n case of partition,) shall be subject to the order of the
court until the right becomes fully vested.

SEC. 844. The ascertained share of an absent owner
shall be retained, or the proceeds invested or his benefit

 

TITLE XXVII.

FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES BY ACTION.

SEC. 845. All petitions for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages shall be filed in the district court in
chancery where the mortgaged premises are situated.

SEC. 846. Whenever a etition shall be filed for the
forcclosu re or satisfaction 0 a mortgage, the court shall
have power to decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or
such part thereof as may be sufficient to discharge the
amount due on the mortgage, and the cost of suit.

SEC. 847. When a petition shall be filed for the satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall not only have the
power to decree and compel the delivery of the ossession
of the premises to the urchaser thereof, but on t e coming
in of the report of sa e, the court shall have power to
decree and direct the payment by the mortgagor of any
balance of the mortgage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in the cases in
which such balance is recoverable at law; and for that
purpose may issue the necessary executions as in other
cases, against other property of the mor oagor.

SEC. 848. After such petition shall e filed, while the
same is pending, and after a decree rendered thereon, no
proceedings whatever shall be had at law for the recovery
of the debt secured b the mortgage, or any part thereof,
unless authorized by t e court.

SEC. 849. If the mortgage debt be secured by the A
obligation or other evidence of debt of any other person
besides the mortgagor, the complainant may make such
person a party to the petition, and the court may decree
payment of the balance of such debt remaining unsatisfied
after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as Well against such
other person as the mortgagor, and may enforce such decree
as in other cases.

SEC. 850. Upon filing a petition for the foreclosure or
satisfaction of a mortgage, the com lainant shall state
therein whether an proceedings have een had at law for
the recovery of t e debt secured thereby, or any part
thereof, and whether such debt, or any part thereof, has been
collected and aid. ,

SEC. 851. it appear that any jud ment has been ob- ,
tained in a suit at law for the money emanded b such;
petition, or any part thereof, no proceedings shall e had‘,
in such case, unless, to an execution against the property of 3
the defendant in such jud ment, the sheriff or other proper
officer shall have returned that the execution is unsatisfied
in Whole or in part, and that the defendant has no property
whereof to satisfy such execution except the mortgaged
premises.

SEC. 852. All sales of mortgaged premises under a de- j
cree in chancery, shall be made ya sheriff or other person '
authorized by the court, in the county where the premises,
or some part of them, are situated.

SEC. 853. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such}
sheriff, which shall vest in the purchaser the same estate:
that would have vested in the mortgagee if the equity of
redemption had been foreclosed, and no other or greater;
and such deeds shall be as valid as if executed by the
mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall be an entire bar against
each of them, and all parties to the suit in which the decree for such sale was made, and against their heirs respectively, and all ersons claiming under such heirs.

SEC. 854. he proceeds of every sale made under a,7
decree in chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the <
debt adjudged by such court to be due, and of the costs
awarded, and if there be any sur lus, it shall be brought
into court for the use of the de endant, or of the person
entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 855. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall re- ;

main in said court for the term of three months without
being applied for, the court may direct the same to be put
out at interest under the direction of the court, for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be
paid to them by the order of such. court.

SEC. 856. ‘ Whenever a petition shall be filed for the
satisfaction or foreclosure of any mortgage, upon which
there shall be due an interest on any portion or installment
of the princi al, an there shall be other portions or installments to ecome due subsequently, the petition shall
be dismissed upon the defendant bringing into court, at
any time before the decree of sale, the principal and interest
due, with costs.

SEC. 857. If, after a decree for sale, entered ainst a
defendant in such case, he shall bring into court t e principal and interest due, with costs, the proceedings in the suit
shall be stayed, but the court shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a further order of the
court, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any
portion or installment of the principal, or any interest
thereafter to grow due.

SEC. 858. If the defendant shall not bring into court
the amount due, with costs, or if for any other cause a decree shall pass for the complainant, the court may direct a
reference to a sheriff to ascertain and report the situation
of the mortgaged premises, or may determine the same on
oral or other testimony, and if it shall appear that the same
can be sold in parcels, without injury to the parties, the decree shall direct so much of the mortgaged premises to. be
sold as will be sufiicient to pay the amount then due on
such mortgage, with costs, and such decree shall remain a
security for an subsequent default.

SEC. 859. , in the case mentioned in the preceding
section, there shall be any default subsequent to such decree in the payment of an portion or installment of the
principal, or any interest ue u on such mortgage, the
court may, upon the petition of t e complainant, by a further order, founded upon such first decree, direct a sale of
so much of the mortgaged premises to be made, under such
decree, as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due,
with the costs of such petition and the subsequent roceedings thereon, and the same proceedings may be has as
often as a default shall happen.

SEC. 860. If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear to the court that the mortgaged premises are so situated
that a sale of the whole will e most beneficial to the parties, the decree shall, in the first instance, be entered for the
sale of the whole premises accordingly.

SEC. 861. In such case the proceeds of such sale shall
be applied as well to the interest, portion or installment of
the principal due as towards the whole or residue of the
sum secured by such mortgage, and not due and payable at
the time of such sale, and if such residue do not bear interest, then the court may direct the same to be paid with a.
rebate of the legal interest, for the time during which such
residue shall not be due and payable, or the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of such sale, after paying
the sum due, with costs, to be put out at interest, for the
benefit of the complainant, to be paid to him as the installments or portions of the principal or the interest ma

become due, and the surplus for the benefit of the defend:

ant, his re resentatives or assigns, tobe paid to them on the
order of t e court.

 

TITLE XXVIII.

ARBITRATION S.

SEC. 862. All controversies which might be the subject <
of civil actions, ma be submitted to the decision of one or
more arbitrators asiereinafter provided.

SEC. 863. The parties themselves, or those persons who j
might lawfully have controlled a civil action in their behalf, ‘
for the same subject matter, must sign a written agreement
specifying particularly what demands are to be submitted,
t e names of the arbitrators, and the court by which the
judgment on their award is to be rendered.

SEC. 864. They shall then appear before some justice
of the peace of the county and ac nowledge the instrument
by them signed to be their free act and deed.

SEC. 865. The submission may be of some particular
matters or demands, or of all demands which the one part
has against the other, or of all mutual demands on hot
sides. ‘

SEC. 866. A. submission to arbitrators of the subject
matter of a suit may also be made" by an order of court,
upon an agreement of parties, after suit is commenced

SEC. 867. All the rules prescribed by law in cases of
referees are ap licable to arbitrators, except as herein otherWise expressed? or except as otherwise agreed upon by the
parties.

SEC. 868. Neither party shall have the power to revoke
the submission without the consent of the other.

SEC. 869. If either party neglect to appear before the
arbitrators, after due notice, they may nevertheless proceed
to hear and determine the cause upon the evidence which
is produced before them.

SEC. 870. If the time within which the award is to be
made is fixed in the submission, no award made after that
time shall have any legal effect, unless made upon a recommitment of the matter by the court to which it is reported.

SEC. 871. If the time of iilin the award is not fixed
in the submission, it must be 131 within one year from the
time such submission is signed and acknowledged, unless
by mutual consent the time is prolonged.

SEC. 872. The award must be in writing, and shall be
delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated
in the agreement, or it may be enclosed and sealed by them
and transmitted to the court, and not opened until the court
so orders.

SEC. 873. The cause shall be entered on the docket of
the court at the term to which the award is returned, and
shall be called up and acted upon in its order. But the
court may require actual notice to be given to either party,
when it appears necessary and proper, before proceeding to
act on the award.

SEC. 87 3. The award may be rejected by the court for
any legal and sufiicient reasons, or it may be recommitted
for a re-hearing to the same arbitrators or any others agreed
upon by the parties.

SEC. 874. When the award has been confirmed, it shall
be filed and entered on the record, and shall have the same
force and effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may
be entered and execution issued accordingly.

SEC. 875. When an appeal is taken from such jud ment, copies of the submission and award, together wit
all aiiidavits, shall be returned to the supreme court

SEC. 876. If there is no provision in the submission
respecting costs, arbitrators may award them at their discretion.

SEC. 877. The compensation of the arbitrators shall be
two dollars per day, for the time actually and necessarily
pent, unless the court fix a less amount; and the fees of

e justice of the peace shall be twenty-five cents for makg out the agreement of submission (in case he does so?,
and the like amount for taking and certifying the acknow edgment thereto.

SEC. 878. Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to affect in any manner the control of the district court over
the parties, the arbitrators, or their award, nor to impair or
affect any action u on an award or upon any bond or other
engagement to abi e an award.

s
t
in

TITLE XXIX.

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.TO THE WHOLE CODE. ,

T

CHAPTER I.

PROCESS.

SEC. 880. The style of all process shall be “The Territory of Nebraska, County.” It shall be under the
seal of the court from whence the same shall issue, shall be
signed by the clerk, and dated the day it issued.

SEC. 881. An order for a provisional remedy or any
other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or
is interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these
officers are interested, the process shall be directed to and
executed by a erson appointed by the court or judge.

SEC. 882. he court or judge, for good cause, may
appoint a person to serve a particular process or order, who
s all have the same power to execute it which the sheriff
has. The person may be appointed on the motion of the
party obtaining the process or order, and the return must
be verilied by affidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees
allowed to the sheriff for similar services.

T:

CHAPTER II.
DUTIES or CLERKS.

SEC. 883. All writs and orders for provisional remedies,
and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of
the several courts. Before the shall be issued, a precipe
shall be filed with the clerk, emanding the same; which
precipe shall be for the direction of the clerk, and not material to the papers in the case after the issuing of such
writ or process.

SEC. 884. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the
courts, to file together and carefully preserve in his office,
all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in every action
or special proceeding.

SEC. 885. He shall endorse upon every paper filed with
him, the day of filing it; and upon every order for a provisional remed , and upon every undertaking given under
the same, the day of its return to his office.

SEC. 886. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or
defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon
each one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of
the summons, in case of the loss thereof

SEC. 887. He shall keep the records, and books and
papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.

EC. 888. The provisions of article ei ht, of title nine,
of this code, prescribing the duties of cleris of the district
court, shall, as far as they are applicable, apply to the clerks
of other courts of record.

SEC. 889. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed
upon him by other provisions of this code, by other statutes,
and by the common law. In the performance of his duties
he shall be under the direction of his court.

CHAPTER III.
DUTIES or SHERIFFS.

SEC. 890. The sheriff shall endorse u on every summons, order of arrest, or for the delivery oi‘) property, or of
attachment or injunction, the day and the hour it was
received by him.

SEC. 891. He shall execute every summons, order, or
other process, and return the same as required by law ; and
if he fail to do so, unless he make it a pear to the satisfaction of the court that he was prevented by inevitable accident from so doing, he shall be amerced by the court in a
sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and shall be
liable to the action of any person aggrieved by such
failure.

SEC. 892. The sheriff shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by
other provisions of this code, by other statutes,gand by the
common law.

CHAPTER IV.
LMISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 893. An duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial officer, an any act permitted to be done by him,
may be performed by his lawful deputy.

SEC. 894. Whenever an oath is required by this code,
the ailirmation of a erson conscientiously scrupulous of
taking an oath, shall ave the same effect.

SEC. 895. The time within which an act is to be done
as herein provided, shall be com uted by excluding the
first day and including the last; the last day be Sunday,
it shall be excluded

SEC. 896. Section four hundred and thirty-two shall
not be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury,
if he appear at the trial by himself or attorney, and demand
the same.

SEC. 897. The ministerial officer, whose duty it is to
take security in any undertakin provided for by this code,
shall have the right to require tie person offered as surety
to make an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit
may be made before such officer. The taking of such an
affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to
which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient
security.

SEC. 898. The surety in every undertaking provided for
by this code, must be a resident of this territory, and worth
double the sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his
debts, and have property liable to execution in this territory
equal to the sum to be secured. Where there are two or
more sureties in the same undertaking, they must in the
aggregate have the qualifications prescribed in this section.

SEC. 899. The judges of the supreme court shall,
during the month of the first January after this code shall
take effect, and every two years thereafter, meet at the
capitol of the territory and revise their general rules, and
make such amendments thereto as may be necessary to
carry into effect the provisions of this code; and they shall
make such further rules consistent therewith, as the may
deem proper. The rules so made shall apply to t e supreme court and the district courts.

CHAPTER V.

PROVISIONS RESPECTING EXISTING ACTIONS.

SEC. 900. The provisions of this code do not apply to
roceedings in actions or suits ending when it takes effect.
hey shall be conducted to final) jud ment, or decree, in all
respects as if it had not been adopted; but the provisions

of this code shall apply after a judgment, order or decree heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate, modify or reverse it

CHAPTER VI.
PROVISIONS AS TO THE OPERATION or THE cons.

SEC. 901. Rights of civil action %'ven or secured by
existing laws, shall be prosecuted in t e manner provided
b this code, except as provided in the followin section.
It? a case ever arise in which an action for the en orcement
or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a
wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far as may e necessary to
prevent a failure of justice.

SEC. 902. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide,
this code shall not affect proceedings on habeas covpus, quo
warranto, or to assess dam es for rivate property taken
for ublic uses; nor procee ings un er the statutes for the
sett ement of estates of deceased ersons; nor proceedings
under statutes relating to dower, ivorce or alimony, or to
establish or set aside a will; nor proceedings under statutes
relating to apprentices, arbitration. bastardy or insolvent
debtors; nor any special statutory remedy not heretofore
obtained by action; but such proceedings may be prosecuted under the code, whenever it is apphcable.

SEC. 903. Where, by general or special statute, a civil
action, legal or equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall not affect the roceedings under such statute, until the legislature shall 0 erwise provide; but in all such cases, as far as it maybe consistent with the statute giving such action, and practicable under
this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity
thereto. Where the statute designates by name or otherwise the kind of action, but does not rescribe the mode of
proceedin therein, such action shal be commenced and
prosecute in conformity to this code; where the statute
gives an action, but does not designate the kind of action,
or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action
sha 1 be held to be the civil action of this code, and proceeded in accordingly.

TITLE XXX.

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

CHAPTER I.

JURISDICTION.

SEC. 904. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in
civil cases shall, unless otherwise directed by la‘ be limited to the county wherein they may have been el cted, and
where they shall reside.

SEC. 905. Justices of the peace, within and co—extensive
with their respective counties, shall have jurisdiction and
authority —

First. '1‘o administer an oath or affirmation authorized
or required by law to be administered.

Second. To take the acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages, and other instruments of writing.

Third. To solemnize marriages.

Fourth. To issue subpoena for witnesses and coerce
their attendance in causes or matters pending before them,
or other cause or matter wherein they may be required to
take depositions.

Fzjlh. To try the action for forcible entry and detention,
or the detention only, of real property.

Sixth. To proceed against security for costs and bail for
the stay of execution on their dockets.

Seventh. To issue attachments, and proceed against the
goods and effects of debtors in certain cases.

Eighth. To issue executions on judgments rendered by
them.

Ninth. To proceed against constables, failing to make
return, making false return, or failing to pay over money
collected on execution, issued b such justice.

Tenth. To try the right 0 the claimant to property
taken in execution or on attachment.

SEC. 906. Justices shall have jurisdiction in actions for
trespass on real estate, where the damages demanded for
such trespass shall not exceed one hundred dollars, and no
claim of title to such real estate set up by the defendant,
shall take away or affect the jurisdiction hereby given.

I

SEC. 907. Justices shall not have cognizance of any
action —

First. To recover damages for an assault, or assault and
battery.

Second. In any action for malicious prosecution.

Third. In actions against justices of the peace or other
officers for misconduct in office, except in the cases provided for in this title. .
Fourth. In actions for slander, verbal or written.

Fzjith. In actions on contracts for real estate.

Sixth. In actions in which the title to real estate is
sought to be recovered, or may be drawn in question, except
actions for trespass on real estate which are provided for in
this title. 9

.--1CHAPTER II.

COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS, SERVICE AND RETURN OF PROCESS, AND PROCEEDINGS IN ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.

SEC. 908. Actions before justices of the peace are commenced by summons, or by the ap earance and arrreement
of the parties without summons. In the former the action
is deemed commenced, upon delivery of the Writ to the
constable to be served ; and he shall note thereon the time
of receiving the same. In the latter case the action is
deemed commenced at the time of docketing the case.

SEC. 909. When a guardian to the suit is necessary, he
must be appointed by the justice as follows:

First If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment must
be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or
upwards; if under that age, upon the application of some
friend. The consent in Writing of the guardian to be
appointed, and to be res onsible for costs if he fail in the
action, must be filed wit the justice.

Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must
be appointed before trial. It is the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen
years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and
consent in Writing to be appointed. Otherwise the justice
may appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.

SEC. 910. The style of the summons shall be: “The
Territory of Nebraska, County ;” it shall be dated the
day it is issued, and signed by the justice issuing the same;
be directed to the constable or sheriff of the proper county,

(except in case a person be deputed to serve it, in which
case it shall be directed to such person); must contain the
names of the defendant or defendants, if known, and if
unknown, give a description of him or them, and command
the officer or person serving the sa.me, to summon the
defendant or defendants to appear before such justice, at
his office, in county, at a time specified therein; and
must describe the plaintifff’s cause of action in such general
terms as to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim
against him. There shall be endorsed on the Writ, the
amount for which the plaintifff will take judgment if the
defendant fail to ap ear. If the defendant fail to appear,
judgment shall not ‘be rendered for a larger amount and
‘the costs.

_ SEC. 911. The summons must be returnable not more‘
than twelve days from its date, and must, unless accom-]
panied with an order to arrest, be served at least three da s

efore the time of appearance, by delivering a cop of t e
summons, with the endorsement thereon, (certified by the
constable or erson serving the same to be a true copy),
to the defen ant, or leaving the same at his usual lace of
residence: Provided, That an acknowledgment on t e back
of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant,
is equivalent to service.

SEC. 912. A summons against a corporation may be,
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of
directors or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief
officer be not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing agent; or, if none of
the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the
office or usual place of business of such corporation, with
the person having charge thereof

SEC. 913. When the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county in
which there IS an agency thereof, the service may be upon
the chief officer of such agency.

SEC. 914. When the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this territory, the service may
be upon such agent.

SEC. 915. When the defendant is a minor under the age ,
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon;
his guardian or father; or if neither of these can be found, 1
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or control
of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these
can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years
of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient The manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults.

Appearance.

SEC. 916. The parties are entitled to one hour in which
to appear, after the time mentioned in the summons for
appearance, but are not bound to remain lon er than that
time, unless both parties have appeared, an the justice
being present, is engaged in the trial of another cause. In
such case, the justice ma 3-postpone the time of appearance

until the close of such tri

Arrest before Judgment.

SEC. 917. An order for the arrest of the defendant in
a civil action, shall be made by the justice of the peace
before whom the same is brought, when there is filed in his
oihce an affidavit of the plaintifff, his authorized agent or
attorney, made before an person authorized by law to administer oaths, stating t e nature of the plaintifff ’s claim,
that it is just, the amount thereof as near as may be, and
establishing one or more of the following particulars:

First. That the defendant has removed or begun to remove any of his property out of the county, with intent to

defraud his creditors.
Second. That the defendant has begun to convert his

pro erty, or any part thereof, into money, for the purpose
of efrauding his creditors.

Tlzird. That he has property or rights in action which
he fraudulently conceals.

Fourth. That he has assigned, removed or disposed of,
or begun to assign, remove or dispose of his property, or
any part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors.

Fzft/2. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the
debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to
be brought.

The atiidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or more
of the above particulars.

SEC. 918. The order of arrest may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment.

SEC. 919. The order of arrest shall not be issued by a
justice of the peace until there has been executed by the
plaintifff, if a resident freeholder of the county where suit is

rought, otherwise by one or more sufficient sureties of the
plaintifff, a written undertaking, to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order be wrongfully
obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff s
claim, stated in the affidavit.

SEC. 920. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to a constable or
sheriff of the proper count ; it shall state the names of
the parties, the amount of t e plaintifff ’s claim specified in
the affidavit, be signed by the 'ustice of the peace issuing
it, and shall require the consta le or sheriff to arrest the
defendant and bring him forthwith before said justice.

SEC. 921. The officer receiving said order shall execute
the same by forthwith arresting the defendant and delivering
to him a copy thereof, and of the affidavit. And the defendant, so arrested, unless the claim of the plaintifff specified in the affidavit, and costs of suit, are paid, or unless
discharged from custody by order of the plaintifff, shall be
taken by such constable or sheriff forthwith before the
justice of the peace by whom said order of arrest was issued,
and kept in custody until discharged by law.

SEC. 922. Upon the return of said order of arrest, executed in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of
said cause shall proceed, unless for good cause shown, upon
the application of either arty, or at the instance of the
justice himself‘, the same s all be continued, as is provided
for in other cases before justices of the peace. And when
the trial of said cause is continued for any period, the defendant, upon executing with one or more sufficient sureties,
a written undertaking to the effect that he will pay the
amount of the judgment that ma be rendered against him
upon the final determination of t e action, or upon depositing in the hands of the justice of the peace the amount of
money mentioned in the order of arrest, and the probable
amount of costs of suit, shall be forthwith discharged from
custody: Provided. however, That in no case shall the defendant be detained in the custody of the officer, when said
continuance has been for a period of more than forty-eight
hours, unless said continuance has been made at the instance
or with the consent of the defendant himself

Arrest after Judgment.

SEC. 923. On the judgment against the defendant in any
civil suit before a justice of the peace, when the defendant
is in the custody of the officer, as hereinbefore provided for,
or if, after judgment against him, there is filed in the office
of such justice an affidavit of the plaintifff, his authorized
agent or attorney, made before any person competent to
administer an oath, stating the amount of said judgment
remaining unpaid, and establishing one or more of the particulars mentioned in section nine hundred and seventeen,
said justice of the peace shall, unless otherwise ordered

by the plaintifff, issue an execution, and accompany the
same with an order for the arrest of the defendant

SEC. 924. Said order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered, with a cop of the affidavit, to the officer having
said execution, and s all state the names of the parties, be
signed by the justice issuing it, and state the amount of
the judgment and costs unpaid, and shall require the officer,
in case the same shall not be paid, or an amount of property of the defendant Whereon to levy execution sufficient
to satisfy the same cannot be found in his county, to a est
the defendant, if not already in the custody of the o cer,
and deliver him to the sheriff of the proper county, to
be committed by him to the jail of the county, and ke t in
custod until discharged by law: Provided, owever, hat
no sucii order of arrest be issued until the undertaking required by the nine hundred and nineteenth section of this
code shall have been executed.

Attachment.

SEC. 925. The plaintifff shall have an order of attachment against the property of the defendant, in a civil action
before a justice of the peace, for the recovery of money
before or after the commencement thereof, when there is
filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, showing the nature of the plaintifff ’s claim, that
it is just, the amount which the affiant believes the plainti:E'
ought to recover, and the existence of some one or more
of the following particulars:

First. That the defendant, or one of the several defendants, is a foreign corporation, or is a non-resident of the territory; or,

Second. Has absconded, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,

Third. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the
service of a summons; or,

Fourth. So conceals himself, that a summons cannot be
served upon him; or,

F2_.'ftlL. Is about to remove his property, or 23. art thereof, out of the county, with the intent to defrau his creditors; or,

Sixth. Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for the purpose of p acing it beyond the
reach of creditors; or,

Seventh. Has property or rights in action, which be conceals; or,

Ezylzth. Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is about

to dispose of his property, or a part thereof, with intent to
defraud his creditors; or,

Ninth. Fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred
the obligation for which suit is about to be or has been
brought. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, or
a non-resident of the territory, the attachment shall not be
granted, unless the claim is for a debt or demand arising
upon contract, judgment or decree.

SEC. 926. When the ground of attachment is, that the
defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the
territory, the order of attachment may be issued without an
undertaking, but in all other cases the order of attachment
shall not be issued by the justice until there has been executed in his office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the
plaintifff, to be a proved by the justice, an undertaking not
exceeding doub e the amount of the plaintifff’s claim, to the
effect that the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the
order be wrongfully obtained

SEC. 927. The order of attachment may be made to
accompany the summons, or it may be issued at any time
afterwards before judgment; it shall be addressed and delivered to any constable or sheriff of the roper county,
and shall require him to attach the goods, c attels, stocks,
or interest in stocks, rights, credits, monies and effects of
the defendant in his county, not exempt b law from being
applied to the payment of the plaintifff ’s claim, or so much
t ereof as will satisfy the plaintifff ’s claim, to be stated in
the order as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the
action, not exceeding fifty dollars.

SEC. 928. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be
the same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards,
it shall be executed and returned forthwith.

SEC. 929. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same person, in the hands of the same officer,
they shall be executed in the order in which they are
received by said officer ; he shall go to the place where the
defendant’s property may be found, and there, in the resence of two credible ersons, declare that, by virtue o said
order, he attaches said) property at the suit of said plaintifff;
and the officer, with two residents of the county, who shall
be first sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true
inventory and appraisement of all property attached, which
shall be signed by the officer and said residents, and returned
with the order; when the property can be come at, he shall
take the same into his custody, and hold it subject to‘ the
order of the justice.

SEC. 930. The officer shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the

execution by such person, in the presence of the officer, of
an undertaking to the plaintifff, with one or ‘more sufficient
sureties resident in the county, to the effect that the parties
to the same are bound, in double the ap raised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised v ue in money, shall
be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of
said property has been 0st or destroyed by unavoidable
accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person

or ersons so bound.

EC. 931. Different attachments of the same propefny
may be made, and one inventory and appraisement sh
be suthcient. The lien of the attachments shall be in the
order in which they are served, and the subsequent attachments shall be served on the property, as in the hands of
the officer, and subject to the prior attachments The justice who issued the attachment having the priori of lien,
shall determine all uestions as to the priority 0 liens on
the property attache&

SEC. 932. If the order of attachment is made to accompany the summons, a copy thereof, and the summons, shall

e served upon the defendant in the usual manner for the
service of a summons, if the same can be done within the
county; and when any property of the defendant has been
taken under- the order of attachment, and it shall appear
that the summons issued on the action has not been and
cannot be served on the defendant in the countv, in the
manner prescribed by law, the justice of the peace shall continue the cause for a eriod not less than fort days nor more
than sixty days, W ereupon the plaintifffy shall proceed
for three consecutive Weeks to pubhsh, in some newspaper
printed in the county, or if none be printed therein, then
in some newspa er of general circulation in said county,
a notice, stating t e names of the parties, the time when, by
What justice of the peace, and for what sum said order was
issued, and shall make proof of such ublication to the
justice; and thereupon said action shall be proceeded with,
the same as if summons had been duly served.

SEC. 933. When the cause is continued as provided
for in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any
of the property taken under the attachment is live stock,
or is of a perishable nature, the justice may issue his
order, directing the officer having the custody thereof to
dis se of the same as upon execution; and the monies
rea ized therefrom shall be paid over to the justice, and
applied as other mone, realized from the sale of the
property attached is a piied.

SEC. 934. VVhen the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall

make oath in writing,that he has good reason to believe, and
does believe, that any person or corporation, to be named,
and within the county where the action is brought, has
property of the defendant (describing the same) in his
possession, if the officer cannot come at such pro erty, he
shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the or er of attachment, With a Written notice, that he appear before the
justice at the return of the order of the attachment, and
answer as provided in section nine hundred and thirtysix. ~- .
SEC. 935. The copy of ‘the’ order and the notice shall

be served upon the garnishee,_as follows: If he beta person, ,

they shall be served upon him personally, or left at his
usual place of residence; if a corporation, they shall be
left with the president or other head of the same, or the
secretary,‘ cashier or managing ent thereof.

SEC. 936. Thegarnishee sh a pear before the justice,
in accordance with the command of) the notice, and shailll
answer, under oath, all questions put to him touchin t e
property of every description, and credits of the defen ant,

is ossession or under his control, and he shall disclose,
truly, t e amount owing by him to the defendant, whether
due or not, and, in the case of a corporation, any stock
therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at
or after the service of the notice. th S](31C.f 9137. t g glarnisthfeihmaympay tlhe _moi:e13]y owiing tg.

eeenan yim, eocer aving eoero

attachment, or into the court. He shall be discharged from
liability to the defendant for mg money so aid, not .exceeding the plaintifff ’s claim. e shall not e subjected
to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim
against him; and if he disclose the pro rty in his hands,
or the true amount owing by him, and eliver or  the
same according to the order of the court he s al be
allowed his costs. ’

SEC. 938. If the gamishee do not appear and answir,  
as required by section nine hundred and thirty-six t e.
justice may proceed against him by attachment, as for a:
contempt.

SEC. 939. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it‘
is discovered, on his examination, that at or after the!
service of the order of attachment and notice upon him‘
he was ossessed _of_ any ‘property of the defendant, or
was inde ted to him, the justice may order the delivery
pit)" such piopertyoapgl the ptayment of the airrhiunt owiilig bty)

e garnis ee in e cou ,or may permi e garnis ee
retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintifff, by one or more

sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall
be paid, or the property forthcoming, as the court may
direct. SEC. 940. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or
if he appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintifff, or if he fail to comply with the
order of the justice to deliver the pro erty and ay the
money owing, into court, or give t e unde -ing required in the preceding section, the plaintifff may; proceed
against him in an action in his own name, as in ot er cases ;
and thereupon such proceedings ma be had as in other
actions, and judgment may be ren ered in favor of the
plaintifff, for the amount of the property and credits of
every kind of the defendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be owing by him
to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings
against the garnishee. If the plaintifff proceed against the
garnishee by action, for the cause that his disclosure was
unsatisfactory, unless it a pear in the action that such disclosure was incomplete, t e plaintifff shall pay the costs of
such action. The judgment 111 this action ma be enforced
as judgments in other cases. When the c aims of the
plaintifff in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in the
attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintifff
in the judgment.

SEC. 941. Final judgment shall not be rendered against
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in
attachment has been determined; and if, in such action,
judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the
garnishee shall be discharged, and recover costs. If the
plaintifff shall recover ainst the defendant in attachment,
and the garnishee shalladeliver up all property, monies and
credits of the defendant, in his possession, and pay all the
monies from him due as the court may order, the garnishee
shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against
him shall be paid out of the property and monies so
surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper.

SEC. 942. If judgment be rendered in the action for
the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and
the property attached or its proceeds shall be returned to

1m.

SEC. 943. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it
shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining in the hands of the officer, after applying the
monies arising from the sale of perishable roperty, if any,
whether held by legal or equitable rigllt, as may be
necessary to satisf the judgment, shall be sold by order
of the justice, un er the same restrictions and regulations

as if the same had been levied on by execution ; and the
money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be
recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisgy
the judgment and costs. If there be not enough to satis y
the same, the 'udgment shall stand, and execution may
issue thereon or the residue, in all respects as in other
cases. Any 81 lus of the attached property or its proceeds,
shall be returne to the defendant.
SEC. 944. The justice may order the officer to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached
roperty which may have passed out of his hands without
eing sold or converted into money, and the officer shall
under such order have the same power to take the property
as he would have under an order of attachment.
SEC. 945. If an of the property which has been attached, be claimed y any person other than the defendant, 5
the claimant may have the validity of such claim tried, I

and such proceedings must be had thereon, with like effect,
as in case the property had been seized upon execution
issued by the justice and claimed by a third person.

SEC. 946. Where several attachments are executed on
the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,
the justice issuing the first order, served on the motion of
any of the plaintifffs, may determine the amounts and priorities of the several attachments, and the proceeds shall be
applied accordingly.

EC. 947. The officer shall return upon every order of
attachment what he has done under it. The return must
show the property attached, and the time it was attached.
When garnis trees are served, their names, and the time each
was served, must be stated. The oihcer shall also return,
with the order, all undertakings given under it.

SEC. 948. An order of attachment binds the property
attached from the time of service, and the garnishees shall
stand liable to the plaintifff in attachment for all property,
monies and credits in his hands, or due from him to the
defendant, from the time he is served with a Written notice,
mentioned in section nine hundred and thirty-four; but
when property is attached in the hands of a consi ee or
other person having a rior lien, his lien thereon s all not
be affected by the attachment.

SEC. 949. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertakin to
be executed to the plaintifff b one or more sureties resi ent
in the count , to be a prove by the justice, in double the
amount of t e plainti ’s claim, to be stated in his affidavit,
to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the justice, the attachment in such action shall be discharged, and restitution made of any property taken under
it, or the roceeds thereof; such undertaking shall also
discharge t e liability of a garnishee in such action, for
any property of the efendant in his hands.

* . SEC. 950. If in any case where an order of attachment
has been issued by a justice of the peace, it shall appear
from the return of the officer, and from the examination of
the garnishee, that no property, monies, rights, credits or
effects of the defendant have been taken under the attachment, but that the defendant is the owner of an interest in
real estate in the county, the justice before whom said
action is pending, shall, at the request of the plaintifff, forthwith certify his proceedings to the district court of the

ro er county, and thereupon the clerk of said court shall
ociet said cause, and the action shall he proceeded with
in said court, in all respects as if the same had originated

therein.

CHAPTER I11.

BILL OF PARTICULARS.

SEC. 951. In all cases before a justice, the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, shall file with such justice a bill of the
particulars of his demand, and the defendant, if required

y the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall file a like bill
of the particulars he ma claim as a set-off; and the evidence on the trial shall e confined to the items set forth
in said bills.

SEC. 952. The bill of particulars must state, in a plain
and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action,
or the claim to be set 011‘.

SEC. 953. The bill of particulars may be amended at
any time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appea l, to suppl any dehciency or omission in the items,
When, b suc amendments, substantial justice will be
promote If the amendment be made at the time of or

uring the trial, and it be made to appear, to the satisfaction of the justice, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary
to the adverse party, in consequence of such amendment,
an adjournment must be granted. The justice ma also,
in his discretion, require, as a condition of an amen ment,
the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by
the justice; but such payment cannot be required unless
an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment.

CHAPTER IV.
CHANGE or THE PLACE or TRIAL.

SEC. 954. The place of trial may be changed, if, on the T
return of (process, or at any time before trial shall have;
commence , it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the‘
justice of the eace before whom any cause is instituted,
or is pending or trial, b the affidavit of either of the parties in the case, that sucli justice is a material witness for
either arty, or, if a jury be demanded by the adverse party,
then Slat he cannot, as he verily believes, have a fair and
impartial trial in the precinct or place for which, said justice
may have been elected, on account of the bias or prejudice
of the citizens thereof »

SEC. 955. If the place of trial he changed on account,
of the justice being a material witness in the cause, such;
cause may be transferred for trial before some other justice ‘
of the peace in the same precinct.’ If the place of trial he
changed on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens
of such precinct or place, the case shall be taken to some

justice in an adjoining precinct in the same county.

SEC. 956. The justice granting such change shall deliver or transmit the apers in the cause, together with a
certified transcript of t e proceedings before him, to the
justice to whom such change may be granted, who shall
proceed therein and have the same jurisdiction, powers and

uties, in all respects whatever, as if suit had been originally
instituted before him.

SEC. 957. Before any such change shall be allowed, the
costs, as specified in the next following section, shall be
paid by the pagtvy applying for such change.

SEC. 958. hen such change is at the instance of the‘
plaintifff, he "shall be taxed with all the costs which have
accrued, and which shall accrue in the cause, until such

"transcript and papers shall be delivered to the justice to

whom such cause is removed for trial; and when on the
application of the defendant, he shall be taxed for the costs
which have accrued for issuing subpoenas for witnesses, and
service thereof, witness fees, and costs of the justice for
transferring the cause to the docket of the other justice.

CHAPTER V.

ADJ OURNMENTS.

SEC. 959. Upon the return day, if a jury be required,
or if the justice be actually engaged in other official business, he ma adjourn the trial without the consent of either
party, as fo lows:

First. Where a party is in attendance who is not a resident of the county, or where the defendant is in attendance
under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed forty-eight
hours, and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in
custody.

&conaL In other cases, not to exceed eight days, unless
by consent of parties.

If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place immediately upon the return of the summons.

SEC. 960. The trial may be adjourned upon the appli' cation of either party, Without the consent of the other, for

a period not exceeding thirty days, as follows: The party
asking the adjournment must, if required by his adversary,
prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for
Want of material testimony which he expects to procure,
safely proceed to trial.

SEC. 961. An adjournment may be had either at the

- return da , or at any subsequent time to which the cause

may stan adjourned, on the application of either party, for
a period longer than thirty days, but not to exceed mnety
days from the time of the return of the summons, upon
compliance with the provisions of the preceding section,
and upon proof by the oath of the part , or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the justice, that suc party cannot be
ready for trial before the time to which he desires an adjournment for the Want of material evidence, describing it,
that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or
negligence on his part since the action was commenced, and

that he expects to procure the evidence at the time stated
by him.

CHAPTER VI.
WITNESS.

SEC. 962. Any justice may issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of Witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending before himself, or for the purpose of taking depositions,
or to perpetuate testimony.

SEC. 963. A subpoena may be served by a constable or
any other erson, and shall be served by reading the same
or stating t e contents thereof to the witness, or by leaving
a copy thereof at his usual place of residence.

SEC. 964. When not served by a constable or sheriff, or
some erson deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees
shall e charged in the suit for serving it.

SEC. 965. If any Witness, having been subpoenaed, attend and be not examined by either party, the costs of such
Witness shall be paid by the party ordering the subpoena,
unless the adverse party, by confessing the matter, or otherwise, render unnecessary the examination of such witness

SEC. 966. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction
of a justice, by proof made before him, that any erson
has been duly served with a subpoena to a pear an 've
testimony before him in any matter in whic he has aut ority to require such Witness to appear and testify, that his
testimony is material, and that e refuses or neglects to
attend as such Witness in conformity with such subpoena,
the justice shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the delinquent, for the purpose of compelling his attendance, and
punishing his disobedience.

SEC. 967. When a person arrested is brought before the
justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify as
a witness, and no valid excuse be shown, the justice may
impose a fine on him not exceeding five dollars. An entry
of such fine, stating the reason therefore, must be made by
the justice in his docket, and thereupon shall have the
effect of a judgment in favor of the territory of Nebraska
against the delinquent, and may be enforced against his
person or property.

SEC. 968. Every person subpoenaed as aforesaid, and
neglecting to appear, or refusing to testify, shall also be
liable to the part in Whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed, for all amages Which such party shall sustain by
reason of such delinquency.


SEC. 969. De ositions may be taken to be read in aj

cause ending be ore a justice_of the peace, in like manner, I
and su ject to the same restrictions and rules of law as in

cases pending in the district court.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TRIAL, AND ITS INCIDENTS.

SEC. 970. At the time appointed for trial, if no j
shall have been demanded by either party, the justice sha
proceed to try the action, shall hear the proofs, and determine the cause according to law and the right.

SEC. 971. Where parties agree to enter, without process,
before a justice, any action of which such justice has cognizance, such justice shall enter the same on his docket, and
proceed to trial, judgment and execution, in all respects in
the same manner as if summons had been issued, served
and returned.

Jury.

SEC. 972. In all civil actions, after the appearance of
the defendant, and before the court shall proceed to inquire
into the merits of the cause, either part may demand a.
jury to try the action, which jury shal be composed of
twelve good and lawful men, having the qualifications of
electors, unless the parties shall agree on a less number.
VVhen a jury is demanded, the trial of the cause must be
adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the j . If
neither arty desire an adjournment, the time must e determine by the justice, and must be on the same day, or
within the next two da s; the jury must be immediately
selected, as herein provi ed.

SEC. 973. The justice shall write in a panel, the names

of twenty-four ‘persons, citizens of the county, from which

the defendant, is agent or attorney, shall strike one, and
then the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall strike one, and
so alternately, until eac shall have stricken six names, and
the remaining twelve shall constitute the jury to try such
case; and if either party neglect or refuse to aid in striking
the jury as aforesaid, the justice shall strike the same in
behalf of such arty. .

SEC. 974. T e justice thereupon shallissue a summons
for the jury, in which the following form shall be observed
in substance as near as practicable:

Tn: TERRITORY or NEBRASKA,
Cousrr.
To any Constable or Shenjf of County :

You are hereby commanded to summon to appear before me at
, in said county, on the —— day of —, A. D. —, at— o’clock
in the ——noon; to serve as jurors in a case pending before me, then and

there to be tried. And this they shall in no wise omit.

And have you then and there this writ, with your doings thereon.
Given under my hand this —— day of ——, A. D. ——. , Justice of the Peace.

SEC. 975. The officer shall serve such summons by a
personal service thereof‘, and return the same, endorsed with
the names of the persons summoned, at the time appointed
for the trial of the case. Jurors, for neglecting to attend
when properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in
attendance, shall be liable to the like penalty, and be ro-.
ceeded against in the same manner, as witnesses who f to
attend or refuse to testify. - ,

SEC. 976. The constable or sheriff shall be in attendance on the court at and during the progress of the trial;
and if, from challenge or other cause, the panel shall not be
full, he may 811 the same in the same manner as is done by
the sheriff in the district court.

SEC. 977. When a ju shall be in attendance and the
cause shall be continued, t e jurors must attend at the time
and place appointed for trial without further notice. 7

SEC. 978. If either party object to the competency of a
juror, the question thereon must be tried in a summary
manner by the 'ustice, who may examine the juror or
other witness un er oath.

SEC. 979. The justice shall administer an oath or affirmation to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in difference between the parties, and a true verdict to give
according to the evidence.

SEC. 980. After the jury shall have been sworn, they
shall sit together and hear proofs and allegations of the
parties ; and after hearing the same, shall be kept together
In some convenient place, under the charge of a constable
or sheriff, until the have agreed upon their verdict, or shall
be discharged by t e justice.

SEC. 981. When the jury shall have agreed upon their‘
verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice, publicly, who!
shall enter it u on his docket.

SEC. 982. lilnienever the justice shall be satisfied that
a jury, sworn in any cause before him, cannot agree in the
verdict, after having consulted upon it a reasonable time,
he may discharge them and continue the cause, and may, if
required by either party, roceed to strike another jury, as
hereiubefore provided. T e cause shall be continued to such
time as the justice thinks reasonable, unless the parties or
their attorneys agree on a longer or shorter time, or unless
they agree that the justice may render judgment on the
evidence alread ' before him.

SEC. 983. t shall be lawful for the justice before whom
a cause has been tried, on motion, and being satisfied that
the verdict was obtained by fraud, artiality or undue
means, at any time within four da s a er the entering of
judgment, to grant a new trial, an he shall set a time for

the new trial, of which the opposite party shall have at
least three days notice.

SEC. 984. The opposite party shall also have a reasonable notice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is
not made on the day of the former trial, and in the presence of such party; such notice to be given by the applying
party. If the new trial shall be granted, or the jury be
unable to agree, the proceedings shall be in all respects as

13

upon the return of e summons.

SEC. 985. If either the plaintifff or defendant, in his
bill of particulars, claims more than twenty dollars, the case
may be appealed to the district court; but if neither party
demands a greater sum than twenty dollars, and the case is
tried by jury, there shall be no appeal.

SEC. 986. If, on a peal by t e plaintifff, he shall not
recover a larger sum t an twenty dollars, exclusive of interest since the rendition of the judgment before the justice,
he shall be adjudged to pa all costs in the district court
(including a fee of live dol ars to defendant’s attorney); and
in case the defendant shall demand a set-off greater than
twenty dollars, and he appeal, and do not recover’ twenty
dollars, he shall in like manner pa all costs in the appellate
court, including a like fee to the plaintiff1" ’s attorne .

SEC. 987. Upon the verdict being delivere to the
justice, and before judgment being rendered thereon, each
juror shall be entitled to receive fifty cents at the hands of
the successful party, which shall be taxed in the cost bill
against the losing party. When the jury shall be unable
to agree upon a verdict, the same compensation shall be
paid them by the party calling the jury, and the same shall

e taxed in the cost bill against the losing party.

SEC. 988. In all cases which shall be tried by a jury
before a justice of the peace, either party shall have the
right to except to the opinion of the justice, upon any
question of law arising during the trial of the cause; and
when either arty shall allege such exception, it shall be
the duty of t 1e justice to sign and seal a bill, containing
such exception, if truly alleged, with the point decided, so
that the same may be made part of the record in the cause.

Arbitratiowis.

SEC. 989. At any time before trial and judgment rendered, the plaintifff and defendant consenting thereto, may
have the cause submitted to the arbitrament of three disinterested men, who shall be chosen by the parties; and if
the arbitrators be present, they shall hear and determine the
cause on oath or afiirination, to be administered by the jusjustice rendered on any suc

tice. But if the ersons chosen as arbitrators be not
present, the justice s all issue summons for them to attend
at the time and place appointed for the trial, which shall be
served b any constable, sheriff, or the parties, as they may
agree. he fees of arbitrators shall be the same as that
paid to jurors.

SEC. 990. When the arbitrators shall convene and be
qualified, they shall proceed to hear and determine the
cause, and make out their award in writing, which shall be 5
valid when signed by an two of them, and return the
same to the justice, who s all thereupon enter such award
upon his docket, and thereon render judgment and issue
execution as in other cases.

SEC. 991. Every judgment rendered on such award,
shall conclude the rights of the parties thereto, unless it,
shall be made to appear to the justice of the eace who
rendered such judgment, and within ten days 0 the rendition of the same, or to the district court, on appeal, that
such award was obtained by fraud, corruption, or other
undue means.

SEC. 992. Whenever satisfactory proof shall be adduced,
before such justice, within the period aforesaid, that such.
award was obtained by fraud, corru tion or other undue?
means, it shall be com etent for such justice to set aside
such award and his juc gment thereon rendered, and thereupon proceed to such final trial and judgment as if such
award had never been made.

SEC. 993. But no appeal shall be allowed to the district ,
court from a judgment of a justice of the eace rendered?
on an award, unless the party praying suc appeal shallf
file with such justice an afhdavit, therein stating that he or
she does verily believe that such award was obtained by
fraud, corruption or other undue means.

SEC. 994. And if, on a peal from the judgment of aj

E award, the district court shall:
be satisfied that the award was obtained by fraud, corru - ‘
tion or other undue means, such court shall set asi‘ e
the award, and proceed to hear and determine the cause
on the merits, as in other cases of ap eal.

SEC. 995. But if the court shall be of opinion that,
the award was not obtained by fraud, corruption or
other undue means, they shall render judgment thereon:
for the costs of suit, and award execution as in other‘

cases.
Trial of the Right of Property Levied on or Attached.

SEC. 996. When a constable or sheriff shall levy on or
attach property, claimed by any person or persons other

than the part against Whom the execution or attachment
issued, the claimant or claimants shall give three days
notice, in Writing, to the laintiff or his agent, or if not
found within the county, ten such notice shall be served
by leaving a cotpy thereof at his usual place of abode in
such county, o the time and place of the trial of the right
to such property, which trial shall be had before some jus'tice of the county, at least one day prior to the time

apgointed for the sale of such roperty.

EC. 997. If, on the trial, t e justice shall be satisfied,
from the proof, that the property, or any part thereof,
belongs to the claimant or claimants, such justice shall
render judgment against the part in Whose favor such
execution or attachment issued, i<y)r the costs, and issue
execution therefore, and shall, moreover, give a written order
to the officer who levied on or who may be charged with
the duty of selling such property, directing him to restore
the same, or so much thereof as may have been found to
belong to such claimant or claimants.

SEC. 998. But if the claimant or claimants fail to
establish his or their right to such property or any part
thereof, the justice shall render judgment against such
claimant or claimants for the costs that have accrued on
account of such trial, and issue execution therefore; and
the officer shall not be liable to the claimant or claimants
for the property so taken.

CHAPTER VIII.

J UDGMEN TS.

SEC. 999. Judgment, that the action be dismissed with- .

out prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs,
in the following cases :

First. When the laintiff voluntarily dismisses the
action before it is final y submitted.

A vconcl. When he fails to appear at the time specified
in the summons, or upon adjournment, or Within one hour
thereafter.

SEC. 1000. If the laintiff fail to appear at the return day
of the summons, and is bill of particulars be not filed, and
there be no evidence before the justice, the action must be
dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day
of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at the time
to which a trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the
necessary bill of particulars, or fail in the proof on his

part, the cause may proceed at the request of the adverse
arty, and judgment must be given in conformity with the
ills of particulars and proofs.

SEC. 1001. When jud ment shall have been rendered
against a defendant in his a%>
upon the following conditions:

First. That his motion be made within ten days after
such judgment was entered.

Second. That he pay or confess judgment for the costs
awarded against him.

T/u'rd. That he notify in writing the opposite party, his
agent or attorney, or cause it to be done, of the opening of
such judgment and of the time and place of trial, at least
five days before the time, if the party reside in the county,
and if he be not a resident of the county, by leavin a
written notice thereof at the office of the justice ten ays
before the trial.

SEC. 1002. Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately

sence, the same may be set aside‘

render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the‘

justice, judgment must be entered immediately after the
close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested or his
pro ert attached; in other cases it must be entered either
at t e c ose of the trial, or if the justice then desire further
time to consider, on or by the fourth day thereafter, both
days inclusive.

SEC. 1003. When the amount due to either arty exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorize to enter

judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment

may be entered for the residue. A defendant need not
remit such excess, and may withhold setting the same
off, and a recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or
any art thereof, shall not be a bar to his subsequent action
for t e amount withheld.

SEC. 1004. If the defendant, any time before trial,
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a s ecihed sum, the plaintifff may immediately have
judgment therefore, with the costs then accrued. But if he
do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover
in the action a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover
costs accrued after the offer; but costs must be adjudged
against him. But the offer and failure to accept it, cannot
be given in evidence, to affect the recovery, otherwise than
as to costs as above provided.

SEC. 1005. Where judgment is rendered in a case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment,
it must be so stated in the judgment, and entered in the
justice’s docket.

CHAPTER IX.

APPEALS.

SEC. 1006. In all cases not otherwise specially provided

for by law, either party may appeal from the final judgment of any justice of the peace, to the district court of the

countyiwhere the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 1007. The arty appealing shall, within ten days
from the rendition o judgment, enter into an undertaking
to the adverse party, with at least one good and sufficient
surety to be a proved by such justice, in a sum not less
than fifty dol ars in any case, nor less than double the
amount of judgment and costs, conditioned First. That the appellant will prosecute his appeal to
effect and without unnecessary delay.

Second. That if judgment be adjudged a ainst him on
the ap eal, he will satisfy such judgment an costs.

Sue undertaking need not be signed by the appellant.

SEC. 1008. The said justice shall make out a certified
transcript of his proceedin s, including the undertaking
taken for such ap cal, and s all, on demand, deliver the
same to the appel ant, or his agent, who shall deliver the
same to the clerk of the court to which such appeal may
be taken, on or before the second day of the term thereof
next‘ following such a eal; and such justice shall also
deliver or transmit the gill or bills of particulars, the depositions and all other original papers, if any used on the
trial before him, to such clerk, on or before the second day
of such term; and all other proceedings before the justice
of the peace, in that case, shall cease and be stayed from
the time of entering into such undertaking.

SEC. 1009. The clerk, on receiving such transcript and
other papers as aforesaid, shall file the same and docket the
ap ea .

EC. 1010. The plaintifff in the court below shall be
the dplaintifff in the district court; and the parties shall procee , in all respects, in the same manner as though the
action had been originally instituted in the said court

SEC. 1011. If the appellant shall fail to deliver the
transcript and other papers, if any, to the clerk, and have
his appeal docketed as aforesaid, on or before the second
day of the term of the said court next after such appeal,
the appellee may, at the same term of said COU.1't, file a.
transcript of the proceedings of such justice, and the said
cause shall, on motion of the said appellee, be docketed;

and the court is authorized and required, on his application,
either to enter up a judgment in his favor, similar to that
entered by the justice of the peace, and for all the costs
that have accrued in the court, and award execution thereon; or such court may, with the consent of such appellee,
dismiss the appeal, at the cost of the appellant, and remand
the cause to the justice of the peace, to be thereafter proceeded in as if no a peal had been taken; and if the plaintifff in the action beiore the justice shall ap eal from any
judgment rendered against such plaintifff, and after havin
file his transcript and caused such appeal to be docketeg
according to the provisions of this chapter, shall fail to file
his petition, or otherwise neglect to prosecute the same to final
judgment, the said plaintifff shall become non-suited, and
it shall be the duty of said court to render 'udgment against
such appellant for the amount of the judgment rendered
against im by the justice, together with interest accrued
thereon and for costs of suit, and to award execution therefore, as in other cases

SEC. 1012. If both parties fail to enter such appeal
within the time limited as aforesaid, the justice, on receiving a certificate from the clerk of the court, stating that

the appeal was not entered, or, being entered, was dismissed‘

as aforesaid, shall thereupon issue execution upon the judgment, in the same manner as if such appeal had never been
taken.

SEC. 1013. If any erson appealing from a judgment;

rendered in his favor, s all not recover a greater sum than

the amount for which jud ment was rendered, besides costs

and the interest accruing t ereon, every such appellant shall
pay the costs of such appeal. '

SEC. 1014. When any appeal shall be dismissed, or
when judgment shall be entered in the district court against
the appellant, the surety in the undertaking shall be liable
to the appellee for the whole amount of the debt, costs and
damages, recovered against the appellant.

SEC. 1015. When an appeal taken to the district court
shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking:

or consummating the same, the cause for quashing shall be
stated in the order of the court, and a transcri t of such
order shall be lodged with such justice, who shall thereupon proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as if
no appeal had been taken.

SEC. 1016. In proceeding on appeal when the surety in
the undertaking shall be insuilicient, or such undertaking
may be insufficient in form or amount, it shall be lawful
for the court, on motion, to order a change or renewal of
such undertaking, and direct the same to be certified to the

justice from whose judgment the appeal was taken, or that
it be recorded in said court.
SEC. 1017. Appeals in the following cases shall not be
allowed:
First. On judgments rendered on confession.
Second In jury trials, where neither part claims in his
bill of particulars a sum exceeding twenty ollars.
Third. In the action for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible detention only, of real property.
Fourth. In trials of the right of property, under the
statutes, either levied u on by execution or attached.
> SEC. 1018. When t e term of office of a justice shall
expire between the date of the judgment and the time
limited for appeal, such justice may take the undertaking
for appeal at any time before he has delivered the docket
to his successor, and give the appealing part a transcri t.
After the delivery of the docket, the underta °ng shall e
given to his successor, and it shall be his duty to °ve the
transcript, and do and perform all things requir of his
predecessor.

CHAPTER X.

OF THE ACTION FOR THE FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETENTION, OR FORCIBLE DETENTION ONLY, OF PROPERTY.

SEC. 1019. Any justice, within his proper county, shall
have ower to inquire, in the manner hereinafter dlrected,
as wel against those who make unlawful and forcible entry
into lands and tenements, and detain the same, as acrainst
those who, having a lawful and eaceable entry into clands
or tenements, unlawfully and by Force hold the same; and if
it be found, u on such inquiry, that an unlawful and forcible entry has been made, and that the same lands or tenements are held by force, or that the same, after a lawful
entry, are held unlawfully, then said justice shall cause
the party complaining to have restitution thereof.

SEC. 1020. Proceedings under this article may be had
in all cases against tenants holding over their terms; in
sales of real estate, on executions, orders, or other judicial
process, when the judgment debtor was in possession at the
time of the rendition of judgment or decree, by virtue of
which such sale was made; in sales by executors, administrators or guardians, and on partition, where any of the parties to
the petition were in possession at the commencement of the
suit, after such sales, so made on execution or otherwise,
shall have been examined by the proper court, and the
same by such court adjudged legal; and in cases where the

defindant is a settler or occupier of lands or tenements,

wit out color of title, and to which the com lainant has

the right of possession. This section shall not e construed

gs lcilmitgig the provisions of section one thousand one hunre an nineteen.

SEC. 1021. Judgments, either before the justice or in
Elfie district court, under this chapter, shall not be a bar to any

ter action brought by either party.

SEC. ‘1022. It shall be the duty] of the party desiring to
commence an action under this c apter, to notify the advcijrseil plzlirty to leave the premises for the possession of
W ic t e action is about to be brought, which notice shall
be served at least three days before commencing the action,
by leaving a written copy with the defendant, or at his usual
P aSci€ic0f1?)gg.de"iIf‘hhe cannot be fcllullllll t ' til th

. . e summons s a no issue un e
plaintifff shall have filed his complaint in writing with the
justice, which shall particular] describe the tpreniises so
entered upon or detained, an shall set for either an
unlawful and forcible entry and detention, or an unlawful
and forcible detention after a peaceable or lawful entry of
the described premises. The complaint shall be copied
into and made a art of the record.

SEC. 1024. T e summons shall be issued and directed,

‘ 5% state the cause of the complaint, and the time and

of trial, and shall be served’ and returned as in other
cases. Such service shall be three days before the day of
trial appointed by the 'ustice.

SEC. 1025. If the efendant does not appear in accord-,
ance with the reqluisitions of the summons, and it shall
r

have been prope
as though he was present.
SEC. 1026. N o continuance shall be granted for a longy served, the justice shall try the cause‘

er period than eight days, unless the defendant applying

therefore shall give an undertaking to the adverse party,
with good and sufficient surety to be approved by the justice, conditioned for the payment of the rent that may
accrue, if judgment be rendered against the defendant.

SEC. 1027. If the suit be not continued, place of trial
changed, or neither party demand a jury, upon the’

return day of the summons, the justice shall try the cause;
and if, after hearing the evidence, he shall conclude that
the complaint is not true, he shall enter judgment against
the plaintifff for costs; if he find the com laint true, he
shall render a. general judgment against the efendant, and
in favor of the laintiif, for restitution of the premises and
costs of suit; i he find the complaint true in part, he shall
render a judgment for the restitution of such part only,

and the costs shall be taxed as the justice shall deem just
and equitable.

SEC. 1028. If a jury be demanded by either party, the
proceedings, until the empanneling thereof, shall be in all respects as in other cases. he jury shall be sworn or affirmed,
to well and truly try and determine Whether the complaint
of (namin the plaintiii‘ about to be laid before them is
true accor ing to the evi ence. If the jury shall hnd the

» complaint true, they shall render a general verdict of guilty

ainst the defendant; if not true, then a general verdict
0 not guilty; if true in part, then a verdict setting forth
the facts they find true.

SEC. 1029. The justice shall enter the verdict upon his
docket, and shall render such judgment in the action as if
the facts authorizin the finding of such verdict had been

found to be true by imself

. SEC. 1030. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in
cases under this chapter, upon questions of law and evidence, may be taken by either party, whether tried by a
jury or otherwise.

SEC. 1031. Where a judgment of restitution shall be
entered by a justice, he shall, at the re nest of the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, issue a writ of execution thereon,
Which shall be in the following form, as near as practicable:

._ '‘ I
COUNTY. 88'

To any Oonslable or Shem)?‘ of County: '

Whereas, In a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or the
forcible detention, as the case may bc,) of the following described premises,
to wit: , lately tried before me, wherein was plaintin‘,
and was defendant, judgment was rendered on the day of
—, A. D. —-—, that the plaintifff have restitution of said premises; and
also that he recover costs in the sum of -——. You thereforee are hereby
commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith removed from said
premises, and the said plaintifff to have restitution of the same; also, that
you levy of the goods and chattels of the said defendant, and make the
costs aforesaid, and all accruing costs; and of this writ make legal service
and due return.

Witness my hand, this —— day of —, A. D. —.

, Juaioc of the Peace.

Tun Tnnmroav or Nsmusxn, '

   
   

SEC. 1032. The officer shall, within ten days aher receiving the writ, execute the same by restoring the (plaintifff
to the possession of the premises, and shall levy an collect
the costs, and make return as upon other executions. If
the officer shall receive a notice from the justice that the
proceedings have been sta ed by an allowance of a  of
error, he shall immediate y delay all further proceedings
upon the execution; and if the premises have been restored
to the plaintifff, he shall immediately place the defendant

in the possession thereof, and return the writ, with his proceedings and cost taxed thereon.

CHAPTER XI.
or THE REPLEVIN or PROPERTY.

SEC. 1033. The plaintifff may recover possession of
specific personal property of‘ less value than one hundred
dollars, before a justice of the peace as herein rovided.

SEC. 1034. An action for this purpose s all not be
brought until there is filed in the office of the justice, an
affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing —

First. A descri tion of the pro erty claimed

Second. That t e laintiff is t e owner thereof, or has
a special ownership t erein, stating the facts in relation
thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession
of the property.

Third. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant.

Four!/L. That it was not taken in execution on any order
or judgment against said plaintifff, or for the payment of
any tax, fine or amercement assessed against im, or by
virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chapter, or
any other mesne or final process issued against said plaintifff.

SEC. 1035. Upon such affidavit being made, and filed
with the justice, he shall issue a summons as in other cases,
but in addition commanding the officer immediately to seize
and take into his custody, wherever they may be found in
the county, the oods and chattels ment1oned in the affidavit, and deliver t e same to the plaintifff.

SEC. 1036. The constable or sheriff shall execute the
writ by taking the property therein mentioned; he shall
also deliver a copy of the summons to the person charged
with the unlawful detention of property, or leave such copy
at his usual place of residence; and shall make return of
the time and manner of service, the appraisement of the
property, and an undertaking taken by him.

SEC. 1037. he officer shall not de iver to the laintiff, f

his agent or attorney, the property so taken, until t ere has
been executed by one or more sufficient sureties of the
plaintifff, a written undertaking to the defendant, in at least
double the value of the propert taken, but in no case less
than fifty dollars, to the effect t at the plaintifff shall dul
prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages whic
may be awarded against him.

SEC. 1038. For the purpose of fixing the amount of
the undertaking, the value of the proper taken shall be
ascertained by the oath of two responsib e persons, whom
the officer shall swear truly to assess the value thereof

SEC. 1039. Whenever the appraised value of the property so taken shall exceed one hundred dollars, the justice
shall certify the roceedings upon the said writ to the
district court of is county, and thereupon shall file the
original papers, together with a certified transcript of his
docket entries, in the clerk’s office of said court; the case
there to be proceeded in as if said suit had commenced in
said court

SEC. 1040. If the undertaking required by section one
thousand and thirty-seven, be not given within twenty-four
hours fron1 the taking of the property under said order,
the officer shall return the property to the defendant. ~And
if the officer deliver any property so taken, to the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, or keep the same from the defendant,
without taking such securi Within the time aforesaid, or if
he take insufficient security, e shall be liable to the defendant
in damages

SEC. 1041. If the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff, and judgment be rendered against him, or if he
otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the
justice shall, on application of the defendant, or his attorney,
im anel a jury to inquire into the right of property and
rig t of possession of the defendant to the property taken.
If the jury shall be satisfied that the said property was the
property of the defendant at the commencement of the
action, or if they shall find that the defendant was entitled
only to the possession of the same, at such time, then in
either case they shall assess such damages for the defendant as are right and proper, forwhich, with costs of suit,
the court shall render judgment for the defendant And
in all cases Where the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff, unless the jury shall find for the defendant, they
shall also find whether the defendant had the right of
property, or the right of possession only, at the commencement of the suit; and if they find either in his favor, they
shall assess such dam es as the think right and proper
for the defendant, for W ich, Wit costs of suit, the court
shall render judgment for the defendant.

SEC. 1042. In all cases, when the pro erty has been
delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury sli)al1 find for the
plaintifff, on trial, or on in uiry of damages, they shall
assess adequate damages to t e plaintifff for the illegal detention of the propert , for Which, with costs of suit, the
justice shall render ju gment against the defendant

SEC. 1043. When the roperty claimed has not been}
taken, or has been retumecf) to the defendant, for want of 1
the undertaking required by section one thousand and i
thirty-nine, the action may proceed asone for damages only, 1
and the plaintifff shall be entitled to such dama es as are
right and proper; but if the property be returne for Want
0 the undertaking required by said section, the plaintifff
shall pay all costs made by taking the same.

SEC. 1044. The officer, in executing the Writ, may
break open any building or enclosure in which the property i
claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed; but not until he
has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure, and the delivery of the property, after having demanded the same.

SEC. 1045. No suit shall be instituted on the undertak-‘
ing given under section one thousand and thirt -seven, before
an execution, issued on a 'udgment in favor o the defendant
in the action, shall have een returned that suiiicient property whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment cannot be found in the county.

SEC. 1046. If any justice shall issue a writ to replevin
pgoperty, as is rovided by this chapter, without the afhdavit

ing made an filed in his office as is provided in section
one thousand and thirt -four, the same shall be set aside at

his costs, and he shall e liable in damages to the party
injured.

CHAPTER XII.

EXECUTION —- RETURN -— STAY OF EXECUTION —- NOTICE
OF SALE —- DELIVERY —- UNDERTAKING.

SEO. 1047. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment before a justice of the peace (except where it has
been taken to the district court on error or ap al, or docketed therein, or during the time it may be staye , as rovided
by this title), may issue by the justice before W om the
judgment was rendered, or y his successor in office, on the
application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within

» five years of entry of the judgment, or the date of the last

execution issued thereon.

SEC. 1048. It shall be the duty of the justice if the
case be not appealed, taken up on error, docketed in the
district court, or bail has not been given for the stay of
execution, at the expiration of ten days from the entry of
the judgment, to issue execution, without a demand, and

roceed to collect the judgment, unless otherwise directed
y the judgment creditor.
SEC. 1049. Any person against whom judgment may

be rendered under the provisions of this title, except as

hereinafter excepted, may have stay of execution for the
several eriods hereinafter mentioned, by entering into an
underta 'ing with the adverse party, within ten days after
the rendition of such judgment, with good and sufficient
surety, resident of the county, as the justice shall approve,
conditioned for the payment of the amount of such jud ment, interest and costs, and costs that may accrue; whici
undertaking shall be entered on the docket of the justice,
and be signed by the surety.

SEC. 1050. The stay of execution hereby authorized,
shall be graduated as follows, namely:

First. On any judgment for five dollars and under, the
stay shall be for sixt days, and on all sums over lift dollars and under one un ed dollars the stay shall be or six
months.

Second. On any judgment exceeding five dollars and
under fifty dollars the stay shall be for ninety days.

Third. Where judgment is obtained against a surety,
and he takes a stay thereon, and he obtains judgment
against the principal, stay of execution must be allowed on
the judgment against the rincipal only so long, that the
stay will expire one month efore that allowed to the surety
on the judgment against him.

SEC. 1051. No stay of execution on judgments rendered in the following cases shall be allowed:

First. On judgments rendered against justices of the
peace, for refusing to pay over money by them collected or
received in their official capacity.

Second. On any judgment rendered against an officer
for failing to make return, making a false return, or refusing to pay over money collected in his official capacity.

7_'h2'rd. On judgments against bail for the stay of execution.

Fourth. Where judgment is rendered in favor of bail,
who have been compelled b judgment to pay over money
on account of their principal.

Eftlz. On judgments obtained by constables or sheriffs,
on undertakings executed to them for the delivery of
property.

SEC. 1052. If the execution issued before the undertaking for stay, or that required in case of appeal, be given,
and such undertaking be given afterward and within the
time allowed, the 'ustice shall recall the execution.

SEC. 1053. W ere any person who has become bail for

stay of execution, shall remove out ‘of the count
be ore the expiration of such stay, the justice shal,
on demand, issue execution against the goods and chattels of the ddefendant, or other party against whom the
original ju gment was rendered, to e proceeded with as
in other cases.

SEC. 1054. When any surety for the stay of execution
shall become apprehensive, that, by delaying the execution
until {the expiration of the full time of such stay, he or she
may e compelled to pay the judgment, it shall be lawful
for such surety to make and file affidavit of that fact before
the justice on whose docket the judgment is entered;
whereupon such justice shall issue execution against the
judgment debtor, which shall be proceeded in as in other
cases :. Promkled, Such bail shall not thereby be discharged
from liability, but may be proceeded against after the expiratiog oif theternidof stay, in_(tihe same manner as if execution a not issue as a oresai

SEC. 1055. If the judgment debtor shall, within ten
days after levying such execution, enter into a further
undertaking for the stay of execution, during so much of
the first stay as remains then unexpired and shall pay costs
of the execution issued against him, as aforesaid, it shall be
theldutylpfhthe j ustice to tzggethsuch furthe}i'lu1ridtei'btaking,
an reca e execu 1011' an e erson w o as ecame
surety shall first be proceeded 'a.gainsI3)t, until it shall appear
by the return of the officer that he or she has no goods
whereon to levy,iibef'ore proceedings shall be instituted on
the undertaking rst given.

SEC. 1056. When any judgment shall be obtained

against any person who shall have entered himself bail on‘
the docket of any justice of the peace, agreeably to the
provisions of this title, the original judgment shall remain ,
good and valid in law, for the use of such bail, who, at;
any time thereafter may sue out execution on such judg- ‘

ment, against the goods and chattels of the defendant, for
the use of such bail, which shall be so endorsed by the
justice; and such bail shall also be entitled to a transcri t
of such judgment, for his own use, which shall have t e
same force and effect as transcri ts in other cases.

SEC. 1057. At any time be ore the stay shall expire, if
the justice taking the surety, or his successor in office, shall
become satisfied’ that the surety is insuiiicient, it shall be
his duty to cause written notice thereof to be given to the
defendant, or if he be absent, that the same be left at his
residence, requiring him to give additional surety, on or by
the third -day after the giving of such notice; such facts
shall be entered on the docket, and he shall immediately

issue execution against the defendant for the collection of
the judgment. If within ten days after the issuing of such
execution, surety to the satisfaction of the justice be given,
the execution shall be recalled and stayed until the expiration of the original stay.
SEC. 1058. The execution must be directed to a consta. ble or sheriff of the county, and subscribed by the justice
by whom the judgment was rendered, or by is successor
in office, and must bear date the day of its delivery to the
officer to be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the
judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the
name of the justice before whom, and of the county where
and the time when, it was rendered, the amount of the
judgment, and, if less than the whole is due, the true
amount due thereon. It must require the oiiicer substantially as follows:

First. If it be a case where the defendant cannot be
arrested, it must direct the oiiicer to collect the amount of
the judgment out of the personal property of the debtor,
and pay the same to the party entitled thereto.

Second. If it be a case where any of the judgment
debtors are certified on the docket as surety, it shall command that the money be made of the personal roperty of
the principal debtor, and for want thereof, of t e personal
property of the surety. In such cases the personal property
of the principal, subject to execution within the jurisdiction,
shall be exhausted, before any property of the bail shall be
taken in execution.

Third. If it be a case where the defendant may be
arrested, in addition to the foregoing it must direct the
officer, if suihcient property of the defendant subject to the
execution cannot be found to satisfy the judgment, that he
arrest the debtor and commit him to the jail of the county
until he pay the judgment, or be discha ed according to
law, unless the execution be accompanie by an order of
arrest, as provided in sections nine hundred and twentythree, and nine hundred and twenty-four.

Fourth. It must in all cases direct the officer to make
return of the execution and the certificate thereon, showing
the manner in which he has executed the same, in thirty
days from the time of his receipt thereof

SEC. 1059. Upon an execution on a judgment against
joint debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons

was not served, the execution must contain a direction to
collect the amount out of the joint property of all the
defendants, or the separate property o the ersons upon
whom the summons was served, to be speci ed by name.
If such judgment be also such that the defendants are

subject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify
the names of those defendants served with the summons,
who may be arrested for want of property.

SEC. 1060. The officer may, at l’l1S peril, omit to arrest
a debtor, or after arrest suffer him to go at large before the
return day, subject only for his liability for an escape, or
for omitting to arrest, if he fail to have either the money
or the (person of the debtor in custody at the expiration of
thirty ays.

SEC. 1061. It shall be lawful for the sheriff or jailer
receiving any person imprisoned on execution issued in any
civil proceeding, at any time when there is no money in
his hands to pay for the sustenance of such prisoner, to
discharge him from rison. The jailer may, however, detain such prisoner, t e adverse party being liable for such
sustenance.

SEC. 1062. The debtor committed as herein provided,
may be held in prison ten days, and, if he be a person
without a family for which he provides, one day in addition
for every dollar over ten due on the execution; or if he
has a family for which he provides, one day in addition for
every two dollars over twenty due on the execution.

SEC. 1063. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that
he has a family for which he provides, s ecifying by name
one or more persons, members of suc family, and the
place of their residence, is sufncient evidence thereof to
authorize his discharge by the jailer.

SEC. 1064. The officer is liable to the party in whose
favor an execution issued to him for the amount thereof, in
the following cases:

First. Where he suffers thirty days to elapse without
making a true return thereof to the justice, and paying to
him, or to the party entitled, the money collected thereon
by him.

Second. Where he willfully and carelessly omits to
levy on pro erty within thirty days, or if the defendant
be liable to be imprisoned, then to arrest and commit him
to the jail of the county within thirty days

SEC. 1065. When an execution shall be returned unsatisfied for the want of goods and chattels, the justice‘

shall, unless otherwise directed by the party for whom the
execution issued, commence an action on the undertaking
for the stay of execution, and, so soon as judgment is obtained thereon, shall issue execution, and if such execution
be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, for want of
goods and chattels of the bail whereon to levy, then the
plaintifff may demand and have execution on the original
judgment, for the amount remaining due.

see. 1066. Where bail is given for the sta of execu-tion, and the defendant against whom the ju gment was

rendered shall die before the same is satisfied, the creditor
may proceed against the surety in the undertaking in like
manner as if execution had been issued against the defendant, and returned not satisfied for want of goods and
chattels whereon to levy.

Sale on Execution.

SEC. 1067. All property taken in execution under the
provisions of this title, shall be advertised for sale at four
of the most public places within the precinct where such
property was seized, at least ten days revious to the time
appointed for such sale, which shall e held within the
hours of ten o’clock A. M., and four o’clock P. M., at the
house or on the premises where such property was taken,
or at one of the most public places within the precinct.

SEC. 1068. It shall not be lawful for any justice of
the peace who issued the execution, nor for the officer
holding the execution, to purchase, either directly or indirectly, any property sold on such execution. And any
justice or officer who shall offend against the provisions of
this section, shall forfeit and ay, for every such offense, any
sum not exceeding one hundred dollars nor less than five
dollars, to be recovered by civil action in the name of the
territory of Nebraska, before any court having jurisdiction
thereof, for the use of the county where such offense was
committed; and shall, moreover, be liable to the action of
the party injured thereby.

SEC. 1069. When any cattle or other live stock shall be
taken in execution, it shall be the dut of the justice who
issued the execution, or other justice c arged with the dut
of collecting the judgment whereon such execution issued:
to allow the officer, for keeping the same, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed and collected as other costs in the
suit...

SEC. 1070. When a constable or sheriff shall levy on
and sell any goods and chattels, he shall make out and
annex to his return to the execution in virtue of which
such sale was made, a true inventory of all such property,
and of each article thereof, and the price at which the same
was sold.

SEC. 1071. Wliere a constable or sheriff shall have
levied on any goods and chattels which remain unsold for
want of bidders or other just cause, it shall be his duty to
return, with the execution, a schedule of all such goods and
chattels. And the justice shall, unless otherwise directed
by the party for whom such execution issued, or his agent,

immediately thereafter issue an order, thereby commanding
any oliicer to whom the same may be directed or delivered,
to expose such pro erty for sale; which sale, and the roceedings thereon, siiall be the same as if such property ad
been sold on the original execution.

SEC. 1072. Any officer having levied on goods and
chattels, of which he permits the party against whom the
execution issued to retain the possession, is hereby authorized to take such security for his own indemnity as he may
re uire, that such roperty shall be delivered at the time
an place appoin for the sale thereofl

SEC. 1073. In all cases where any lands may have been
let, reserving rent in kind, and when the crops or emblements owing or grown thereon shall be levied on or
attache , by virtue of any execution, attachment or other
process against the landlord or tenant, the interest of such

andlord or tenant, against whom such process did, not
issue, shall not be affected thereby.

SEC. 107 4.-. In cases where the constable or sheriff shall
make it appear to the satisfaction of the justice that he has
been de rived of an op rtunity of levying an execution
within t e time prescri ed by this cha ter, or otherwise
prevented from making the whole of t e money therein
required to be made, and shall make return to the justice
who issued the same to that effect, such justice is hereby
authorized and required to issue further process of execution, for the amount of balance remaining unsatisfied;
which shall be served and returned, in all respects, as other
executions are under this chapter.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF CONSTABLES AND SHERIFFS, AND THEIR DUTIES.

SEC. 1075. All constables and sheriffs shall be ministerial officers in justices’ courts, in their respective counties, in civil and criminal cases, and civil and criminal
process may be executed by them throughout the county.

SEC. 1076. It shall be the duty of every constable to
serve and execute all warrants, writs, recepts, executions
and other process to him directed and elivered, and in all
respects whatever to do and perform all things pertaining
to the office of constable. And sheriffs shall have all the
powers and be subject to all the liabilities of constables in

the service and return of all processes issued by justices
of the peace in their respective counties.

SEC. 1077. In discharging their duties, constables may
call to their aid the power of the county, or such assistance
as may be necessary. It shall be the duty of every constable or sheriff to make due return of all process to him
directed and delivered, at the proper office and on the
proper return day thereof; or if the judgment be docketed
1n the district court, appealed or stayed, upon which he has
an execution, on notice thereof to return the execution,

stating thereon such fact.

SEC. 1078. It shall be the duty of every constable or
sheriff, on the receipt of any writ or other process (subpoenas excepted), to note thereon the time of receiving the
same; ‘he shall also state in his return on the same, the time
and manner of executing it.

SEC. 1079. No officer shall make a return on any
process of “not found,” as to any defendant, unless he
shall have been once at least to the usual place of residence of the defendant, if such defendant have any in the
county.

SEC. 1080. It shall be the duty of every constable and
sheriff to apprehend, on view or warrant, and bring to justice, all felons and disturbers, and violaters of the criminal
laws of this territory, to suppress all riots, aifrays and unlawful assemblies, which may come to his knowledge, and,
generally, to keep the peace in his proper county.

SEC. 1081. In serving all process, either civil or criminal,
and in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise restricted by law, the authority of a constable shall extend
throughout the whole county in which he may be appointed ;
and in executing and serving process issued by a justice of
the peace, he shall have and exercise the same authority
and powers over goods and chattels, and the ersons of
parties, as is granted by law to a sheriff, under li e process
issued from courts of record.

SEC. 1082. When it shall become the duty of the
officer to take the body of any person to the jail of the
county, he shall deliver to the sheriff or jailer a certified
copy‘ of the execution, commitment or other process,
whereb he holds such erson in custody, and return the
origina to the justice w o issued the same; which copy
shall be sufficient authority to the sheriff or jailer to
keep the prisoner in jail, until discharged by due course of

aw.

SEC. 1083. Constables and sheriffs shall pay over to the
party entitled thereto, all money received by them in their
oliicial capacity, if demand be made by such party, his

agent or attorney, at any time before he returns the writ
upon which he has received it; if not paid over by that
time, he shall pay the same to the justice when he returns
the writ.

SEO. 108$ Constables and sheriffs shall be liable to
twenty per cent. penalty upon the amount of damages for
which judgment may be entered against them, for failing
to make return, makin false return, or failing to pay over
money by them collecte or received in their ofhcial capacity,
and such judgment must include, in addition to the damages
and costs, the penalty herein provided

CHAPTER XIV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 1085. The provisions of this code which are in
their nature applicable, and in res ect to which no special
provision is made by statute, shall apply to proceedings

efore justices of the peace.

SEC. 1086. Ever justice must keep a book, denominated a docket, in which must be entered by him First. The title of every action in which the Writ is
served, or where the parties voluntaril y appear.

Second. The date of the Writ, the time of its return, and
if an order to arrest the defendant or attach propert was
made, such fact must be stated, together with the agdavit
upon which such order was made.

Third. The iiling of the bill of particulars of either
party, and nature thereof, and when not of too great length,
the same shall be entered at length on the docket.

Fourth. Which of the parties, if either of them, appear
at the trial.

Fzjlh. Eve adjournment, stating on whose application,
whether on cat or consent, and to what time.

Siatth. When trial by jury is demanded, the demand
must be stated, and by whom made, the names of the jurors
selected, and the time appointed for the trial '

Seventh. The names of the jurors who appear and of
those sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose
re uest. ighth. The exceptions to the ruling of the justice, on
questions of law, taken by either party.

Ninth. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if
the jury disagree and are discharged, that fact must be

stated.

Tenth. The jud ment of the justice, specifying the
items of costs inclu ed, and the time when rendered.

E'leven.lh. The issuing of execution and orders to sell,
when issued and to whom, the renewals thereof, if any,
and when made, the return and when made, and a statement
of any money paid to the justice, and by whom.

Twelfth. The giving of a transcript to be filed in the
clerk’s office, and when given.

Tlufrteentlz. If appeal be taken, the undertaking and
the time of entering into the same, and by which party
taken.

Fourteenth. The undertaking for stay of execution, and
the time of giving the same.

F2.‘/‘Zeentlz. The satisfaction of the judgment, and the
time of satisfyin the same.

SEC. 1087. be several particulars in the last section
specified, must be entered under the title of the action to
which they relate, and at the time when they occurred,
except that bills of exceptions, in regard to the rulings on
questions of law or evidence, need not be entered until
after the judgment, unless required by the justice or one
of the parties; such entries in a justice’s docket, or a
transcript thereof, certified by the justice or his successor
in office, shall be evidence to prove the facts stated therein.

SEC. 1088. A 'ustice must keep an al habetical index
to his docket, in w ich must be entered t e names of the
parties to each judgment, with reference to the page of the
entry; the names of the plaintifffs must be entered in the
index in the al habetical order of the nrst letter of the
family names; e shall number the cases progressively
upon his docket, and shall correspondingly number the
papers in each case; he shall keep the entire papers in
each action together, and in packages of a proper and convenient size, and in the order in which the cases are numbered on his docket.

SEC. 1089. It is the duty of every justice, u on the
expiration of his term of office, to deposit with is successor, his official docket, as well his own as those of
his predecessor which may be in his custody, together with
all files and papers, laws and statutes, pertaining to his
oilice, there to be kept as public records. and property. If
there be no successor elected and ualified, or if the office
become vacant by death, removal rom the county or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the
docket and papers in the possession of such justice must be
deposited Wltll the nearest justice in the county, there to be
ke t until a successor be chosen and qualified, then to be
de ivered over to such successor on request

SEC. 1090. A justice receivin by succession or on
deposit, any such docket, papers and laws, shall, if request- 3
ed, give a receipt therefore to the person from whom he
receives the same.

SEC. 1091. The justice with whom the docket of ,
another may be deposited, either during a vacancy or as a
successor, is hereby authorized, while having such docket‘
legally in his possession, to issue execution on any judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not docketed in the
district court, in the same manner and with the same effect
as the justice by whom the jud ent was rendered might
have done; to take bail in appeaitanor for stay of execution,
to issue certified transcripts of judgments on such docket,
and proceed in all cases in like monner as if the same had
been originally had or instituted before him.

SEC. 1092. In case of the sickness or other disability
or necessar absence of a justice, at the time appointed for,
trial, anot er justice of the same county may, at his
request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become
vested with the powers, for the time being, of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable. In that case‘
the pro er entry of the proceeding before the attending justice, su scribed by him, must be made in the docket of the
'ustice before whom the writ was returnable. If the case

e adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was
returnable must resume jurisdiction.

SEC. 1093. The summons, execution and every other
paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up without
a blank to be filled by another; otherwise it is void.

SEC. 1094. A justice, at the request of a party, and on
being satisfied that it is ex edient, ma specially de ute
any discreet person of suita le age, an not intereste in
the action, to serve a summons or execution with or without
an order, to arrest the defendant, or to attach property.
Such deputation must be in writing on the process.

SEC. 1095. The person so deputed has the authority of
a constable, in relation to the service, execution and return
of such process, and is sub'ect to the same obligation, but
there can be no fee for his services taxed in the bill of
costs. SEC. 1096. A justice may punish, as for contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no others:

First. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
towards the justice, tending to interru t the due course of
the trial, or other judicial roceedings efore him.

Second. A breach of t e peace, boisterous conduct or
violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding.

Tlzird. Willful resistance in the presence of the justice,
to the execution of a lawful order or process made or
issued by him.

» SEC. 1097. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and
brouoht before the justice, when an opportunity to be
heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The justice
may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him for the
offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment,
or both; such line not to exceed twenty dollars, and such
imprisonment ten days.

SEC. 1098. The conviction, specifyin particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, must e entered in his
docket; a warrant of commitment to the jail of the county,
until the line he paid, or for the term of imprisonment,
may then be issued; such warrant must contain a transcript
of the entry in the docket, and the same must be executed
by any constable or sheriff to whom it may be given, and
by the jailer of the county.

SEC. 1099. When a person intending to bring an action
before a justice of the peace, is a nonresident of the county in which he intends to commence such action, the justice
may, previous to his issuing process, re uire such person to
give security for the costs of suit; whic may be done by

epositing a sum of money, deemed by the justice to be
sufficient to discharge the costs that may accrue in the
action, or by giving an undertaking, with security approved
by the justice, payable to the adverse party, for the payment of all costs that may accrue in the action. If any
plaintifff or plaintifffs, a&er commencing an action before a
justice in the county in which he or they reside, afterwards
remove out of the county, the justice may require such
plaintifff or plaintifffs to de osit a sum of money, equal to
the costs that have accrue , and that probably will accrue,
or require, in place thereof, that such party give sufficient
security for all costs that have accrued, or which may accrue
in the action, and in default to do either, shall enter a nonsuit against the laintiff or plaintifffs.

SEC. 1100. n all actions instituted before a justice of
the peace, founded upon any bond, bill, promissory note or
other instrument of writing, for the payment of a sum of
money certain, of which the whole amount of money promised t erein is due, it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, to file said bond, bill, promissory note or
other written evidence of indebtedness, upon which said
suit is brou ht, with such justice of the peace; and if upon
the trial judgment shall be entered thereon, in favor of the
plaintifff, such bond, bill, promissory note or other instru‘ possession; and for so doing, and

ment in writing, shall be retained by the justice so rendering judgment, who shall endorse thereon the sum for which
he shall have entered jud ment( rovided the same shall
in no wise exceed one hun red do lars), and shall subscribe
his name thereto. And upon payment, or tender of the
amount of such payment, together with the costs accruing
thereon, or securing the payment of the same by utting in
bail for the stay of execution, it shall not be lawiiil for the
plaintifff to institute any other suit or suits upon such bond,

ill, promissory note or other instrument of writing, for the
recovery of an other sum or sums, the payment of which
is secured by t e same bond, bill, promissory note or other
written evidence of indebtedness: Provided, That when an
appeal shall be taken from the judgment of such justice,
it shall be his duty to transmit any bond, bill, promissory
note or other written evidence produced before him on tria ,
to the clerk of the district court, to which such cause shall
have been appealed, on or before the second da of the
term of the court next after taking such ap eal: rovided,
also, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to
lessen or in anywise affect the right which any creditors
now have to demand from any justice of the peace, any
joint and several obligation for the purpose of prosecuting
any party to said obligation, other than the party against
Whom judgment may have been rendered.

SEC. 1101. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the

peace to purchase any judgment, upon any (locket in his

or every such offense,
such justice shall forfeit and pay a sum not more than fifty
dollars nor less than ten dollars, to be recovered by an action
before any court having jurisdiction thereof, and when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county where
such offense was committed.

SEC. 1102. The provisions of this title do not apply to

roceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes e ect.
ghey shall be conducted to final judgment and determination in all respects as if it had not been adopted.

SEC. 1103. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace
shall not extend to any case when the sum in question shall
exceed one hundred dollars, but may extend to that sum in
all cases except as limited in this title.


