Section 1. The supreme court shall consist of a chief jus
tice and six associate justices, appointed and commissioned as
prescribed by the constitution.
1859,2211:4. 1874,97:1. 1876,25:1. 6.8.189:1. 1877,25:1. G. L. 208:1.
Sec. 2. The court shall have general superintendence of all
courts of inferior jurisdiction to prevent and correct errors and
abuses, and shall have exclusive authoritv to issue writs of error,
7 . .. ..... , . " . nil
certiorari, and prohibition, and may issue writs ot habeas corpus
and all other writs and processes to other courts, to corporations,
a,1(3 to individuals.
Sec. 3. The court, at the law terms, shall have jurisdiction B
of proceedings for the forfeiture of estates and franchises granted k
by the state, unless otherwise specially provided; of questions of l
law arising at a trial term, reserved or assigned for decision ; ^
and of all other proceedings and matters to he entered in, or ?
it i*i •* pi
heard at, the law terms by special provisions ot law. w
Sec. 4. The court, at the trial terms, shall take cognizance J
of civil actions and pleas, real, personal, and mixed, according to
the course of the common law; of writs of mandamus and quo
warranto, and of proceedings in relation thereto; of bastardy
cases; of petitions and appeals relating to highways and property taken therefore and for other public use; of appeals from
probate courts and applications thereof; of appeals from commissioners of insolvent estates; of actions commenced in a po
lice or justice court wherein the title to real estate is brought
in question, or which for other reason are transferable to the
supreme court ; of appeals from police and justice courts in cases
where final judgment has been there rendered ; of suits in equity ;
of petitions for divorce, nullity of marriage, alimony, custody of
children, and allowance to wife from husband's property for sup
port ofherself and children; of petitions for new trials; of peti
tions fo r partition and for the redemption and foreclosure of
mortgages ; of all other proceedings and matters to be entered
in, or heard at, the trial terms by special provisions of law ; and
of all other proceedings and matters cognizable in the supreme
court for which other special provision is not made.
Sec. 5. The court may from time to time establish rules and
orders of practice, consistent with the laws, for conducting and
regulating its business, and may prescribe forms of proceedings
in all oasei not nrovided for 1859,2213:2. G. s. 189:0. g.l.208:<s.
in an oases 1101 proviueu iui. xxxvin,872. ziii, iss. ivi, 579. lxiv,
Sec. 6. The court may issue writs of execution scire facias,
and other proper process, upon judgments, records, and files of
any court or justice required to be kept by the clerk of the
supreme court as records of his office, and may amend the same
in like manner as if they had been originally records and files of
the supreme court.
Sec. 7. Scire facias may be issued in the supreme court, upon
judgments and other proceedings in police courts when the
amount of the judgment or other demand claimed, including
costs and interest, exceeds one hundred dollars, and upon judgments and other proceedings injustice courts, when the amount
of the judgment or other demand claimed, including costs and
interest, exceeds thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, upon
attested copies of such judgments or other proceedings being filed
in the supreme court.
Sec. 8. Causes which the court have authority to refer shall,
as far as practicable, be tried by one or more justices of the court,
unless one of the parties objects. _ }*«. ™>-*%M% &»■£
Sec. 9. Suits in equity, petitions for divorce, nullity of marriage, alimony, custody of children, allowance to wife from husband's
property, new trials, partition, redemption and foreclosure
of mortgages, writs of mandamus and quo warranto, and other similar
proceedings, may be heard upon oral testimony or depositions, or both, at the trial term ; or when both parties consent,
or service having been made and a notice of the time and place
of the hearing having been given, when both parties appear, such
suits may be heard by any justice of the court in vacation as of
the trial term ; but nothing herein contained shall be construed
as limiting the power of the court to have issues of fact framed
and tried by a jury, according to the rules in equity, or the
course of such proceedings at common law.
Sec. 10. The court or justice trying causes under the two
preceding sections shall, if either party request it, give his deci
sion in writing, stating the facts found and his rulings of law,
which shall be filed and recorded.
xlviii, 446.
Sec. 11. Any person aggrieved by any opinion, ruling, direc
tion, or judgment of the court, at a trial term, or of a justice
upon the trial of a cause in vacation, may except thereto, and
the exceptions being reduced to writing within a time to be lim
ited by the court or justice, and being conformable to the truth
of the case, shall be signed by the justice, and be a part of the
record in the case.
65.
Sec. 12. Such bill of exceptions may be entered by the party
excepting, upon the docket of the court, at the next law term for
the county, and the questions arising thereon shall be considered
and determined, as upon a writ of error or other proper process
for bringing the same before the whole court for decision.
Sec. 13. Questions arising upon such exceptions, upon a
special verdict, an issue of law, motion for a new trial or in
arrest of judgment, or other motion or proceeding, or upon a
statement of facts agreed to and signed by the parties, may be
reserved and assigned by the presiding justice or by any justice
of the court in vacation, if he think fit, to the determination of
the court at the next law term.
Sec. 14. In a case so reserved upon a statement of facts
agreed to by the parties, the plaintifff, and in other cases reserved,
and upon a bill of exceptions allowed, the party excepting or
moving, shall furnish to the court copies of the case and papers
referred to, sufficient for the justices sitting in the case; and
each party who desires to be heard shall furnish to each of the
justices, to one of the opposing counsel, to the state reporter,
and to the state library a brief of the points and authorities upon
which he relies ; but no party shall be compelled to furnish a
brief until the first day of the term at which the case is to be
heard, nor shall any case be dismissed for want of a brief.
Sec. 15. Upon the determination of the questions arising
upon a bill of exceptions or case reserved, such judgment shall
be rendered or order made at the law term as the case requires;
and if judgment has been rendered in the case it may be vacated
as if rendered by mistake, and such further proceedings may be
had therein as to law and justice appertain.
Sec. 16. When a bill of exceptions is allowed, the court
may stay execution upon the judgment rendered in the case,
upon such terms and conditions as the court deems just.
Sec. 17. If, through accident, mistake, or misfortune, the
{mrty excepting fails to enter his bill of exceptions at the next
•1 ii_ 6 i-i- m i -xi • n. a
aw term, the court, on petition filed within one year alter the
bill of exceptions is signed, may allow it to be entered upon such
terms as the court thinks just.
CHAPTER 205,
SUPREME COURT, — EQUITY POWERS AND PROCEEDINGS.
Section
1. Equity powers.
2. Disputed title to real estate may be
settled In an equity suit, when.
3. Water lights may be settled in an
equity suit.
1. Certain buildings, etc., declared to be
common nuisances.
6. Court lias equity Jurisdiction in such
cases.
6. Equity Jurisdiction when goods are
unlawfully withheld.
7. Creditor's bill, when.
8. Provisions of preceding section do not
apply to property exempt from at
tachment, etc.
9. Lien oreatcd by filing copy in town
clerk's office.
10. Upon real estate, in town where it is
situated.
Section
11. Writs of attachment may be Issued in
equity suits.
12. Form of writ.
13. Attachments, how made.
14. Writs, where filed.
15. Court to make necessary orders to ob
tain benefit of attachment for secur
ing performance of decree.
16. Liens may be discharged or modified
by court.
17. Equity causes In one county may be
heard In another.
18. Appointment of commissioners, re
ceivers, etc., by one justice.
Decrees and orders by one Justice to
19.
20.
be transmitted to clerk, etc.
Interlocutory decrees and orders may
be reversed or modified, how.
Section 1. The supreme court shall have the powers of a
court of equity in the following cases : Charitable uses, trusts,
fraud, accident, and mistake ; the affairs of copartners, joint ten
ants or owners, and tenants in common ; the redemption and
foreclosure of mortgages ; the assignment of dower ; contribu
tion; waste and nuisance ; the specific performance of contracts ;
discovery ; cases in which there is not a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy at law ; and in all other cases cognizable in a
court of equity. The court may hear and determine such cases
according to the course of equity, and may grant writs of in
junction whenever the same are necessary to prevent fraud or
ininatir»o xxlli, 281. xxv, 148, S81. xxvl, 806. xxvii, 503. xxxl, 193, 405. xxxiii, 76.
lUJUBUU!. xxxvi, 326. xxxvil, 55, 254. xxxvili, 400. xxxlx, 182. xl, 352, 453, 548. xli,
xliv, 78, 539. xlv, 28, 226, 490. xlvl, 83, 272, 464. xlviii, 219. 1,143,175,336,353,591.
llv, 347, 444, 463. lv, 36, 215, 218, 355, 399. lvi, 216, 373, 478. lvli, 152, 200. lx, 178, 374,
Sec. 2. Any person in possession of real property claiming
an estate of freehold, or an unexpired term of not less than ten
years, may maintain a bill in equity against a person who makes
a claim adverse to his estate, — whether such adverse claim is
based upon a record, a written instrument, or otherwise, — to
determine the question of title as between the parties, and the
court's decree thereon shall be conclusive.
Sec. 3. Any legal right, public or private, infringed by a
change in the water level of a natural lake or pond, or by cast
ing or dropping into a water-course sawdust or other waste of a
saw or lumber mill, or any other material, and the water rights
of riparian proprietors on a stream, may be ascertained and en
forced in a constitutional manner on a bill in equity without
prior ascertainment of the right by a suit at law; and rights of
boating, fishing, and navigation may be enforced on a bill in
equity brought by the attorney-general in the name of the state.
Sec. 4. Any building, place, or tenement that is resorted to
for prostitution, lewdness, or illegal gamine, or that is used for
o»
the illegal sale or keeping for sale of spirituous or malt liquors,
wme, or cider, is declared to be a common nuisance,
Sec. 5. The supreme court shall have jurisdiction in equity,
upon information filed by the solicitor for the county, or upon
petition of not less than twenty legal voters of the town or city
m wjjjcjj the building, place, or tenement is situated, to restrain,
enjoin, or abate such nuisance; and an injunction for that pur
pose may be issued by the court or by any justice thereof,
Sec. 6. When goods or chattels are unlawfully withheld
from the owner, proceedings in equity may be had for a discovery, for a restoration of the property, and for such other relief
as the nature of the case and justice may require,
Sec. 7. When any estate, property, interest, right, or credit,
legal or equitable, of a debtor against whom execution has been
issued and returned unsatisfied is alleged to be so holden that it
cannot be reached, or to have been conveyed by the debtor in
fraud of his creditors, or to be held by others for the debtor's
use, proceedings in equity may be had for a discovery, and for
relief; and the court shall make proper decrees and orders, and
issue proper process to compel a discovery, to prevent a transfer
of the property, and to make application of so much thereof as
in justice ought to be applied in satisfaction of the debt
Sec. 8. The provisions of the preceding section shall not
apply to property exempt from attachment, nor to trust funds,
where the trust has been created by or the fund has proceeded
from some person other than the debtor, and such application
may not be made consistently with the trust, nor to cases where
the amount due is not greater than the sum to which the juris
diction of justices of the peace is limited.
Sec. 9. When a bill is filed under the provisions of section
seven, the plaintifff may cause a certified copy thereof, and of the
order issued thereon, to be filed in the office of the clerk of the
town in which any defendant resides; and the names of the
... *L „,. .. . i'iii >ii
parties, the time of filing, and the court in which the bill is
pending shall be entered by the clerk upon the index of attach
ments, as in case of an attachment of real estate; and such filing
and the service of the bill upon such defendant shall constitute
a lien, as against him and others having after-acquired rights,
upon the estate, property, interest, right, or credit to which the
bill relates, or which may be discovered by the proceedings, for
the performance of any decree or order relative thereto, in favor
of the plaintifff against the defendant.
Sec. 10. In the case of real estate, the lien shall be created
by filing the certified copy in the office of the clerk of the town
in which the real estate is situate instead of the town in which
the defendant resides. g.s.i»:6.
Sec. 11. The plaintifff in a bill in equity, or the libelant in
a libel for divorce, shall have a writ of attachment or a trustee
process as of right, for the attachment of the goods, estate,
money, rights, or credits of the defendant or libelee to secure
the performance of any decree or order that may be made in
the Suit. G. L.209.7. 1879,57:28. 1, MS.
Sec. 12. In such writ, the following may be substituted for
a declaration : " Said attachment is to be made to secure the
performance of any decree or order that may be made in the
bill in equity (or libel for divorce) of which a copy is hereto an
nexed," and a copy of the bill or libel may be annexed to the
writ. In the summons, the words " in a bill in equity " or
" in a libel for divorce " may be substituted for the words " in
a plea of," but it shall not be necessary to annex a copy of the
bill or libel thereto.
Sec. 13. The officer to whom the writ is directed may attach
property thereon as upon writs in civil actions, and such attachment shall constitute a lien upon the property attached to secure
the performance of any decree or order that may be made in
the suit.
Sec. 14. The writ shall be filed in the clerk's office with the
papers in the suit, and a memorandum of it shall be entered
upon the docket.
Sec. 15. If the decree or order requires the performance of
any other thing than the paj'ment of money, the court may make
necessary orders and issue necessary process to secure or compel
the performance of the decree or order by means of the property
attached or held by trustee process.
Sec. 16. Any lien acquired by proceedings in equity may be
released, discharged, or modified by the court or any justice
thereof, in such manner and upon such terms as justice may
■ ' r J J
require.
Sec. 17. Causes in equity pending in one county, and motions and applications therein, may, upon reasonable notice to
the parties or their attorneys, be heard and determined in any
other county.
Sec. 18. The appointment of commissioners and receivers,
the reference of questions to masters, granting writs of injunction
to stay proceedings or waste, making interlocutory decrees
and orders, and other incidental proceedings, may be had and
done by one justice, in term time or vacation, in any county;
but injunctions so issued shall continue, unless sooner dissolved,
only until the end of the next term for the county in which the
proceedings are pending.
Sec. 19. Decrees and orders, made by one justice, or by the
court, when the clerk for the county in which the suit is pending
is not in attendance, shall be certified and forthwith transmitted,
with the papers connected therewith, to the clerk, and be by him
entered of record.
Sec. 20. Interlocutory decrees and orders, and other proceedings
had and made by one justice, maybe reversed, annuue(^ or modified by the court, at any law term, as justice may
require.
CHAPTER 206.
TERMS OF COURT.
Section
1. Law terms to be holden at Concord;
order of business.
Section
2. At law terms cognizance to be token
of matters in each county.
3. Trial terms, when and where holden.
Section 1. The supreme court shall hold two law terms in
each year for the whole state at Concord, one commencing on
the first Tuesday of December, and the other on the first Tues
day of June, and at each of said terms shall attend to the busi
ness of the respective counties in the following order: Rock
ingham, Strafford, Belknap, Carroll, Merrimack, Hillsborough,
Cheshire, Sullivan, Grafton, Coos. Such terms may be held in
the senate chamber, whenever the legislature is not in session.
Sec. 2. The court sitting at law terms shall have jurisdic
tion and take cognizance of all matters arising in either of the
counties, in the same manner as if sitting in such county.
L. 210:2.
Sec. 3. Trial terms of the court shall be holden annually, at
the times and places following :
L. 210:3.
For the county of Rockingham, — at Exeter, on the third
Tuesday of January and the second Tuesday of April ; and at
Portsmouth, on the third Tuesday of October.
For the county of Strafford, — at Dover, on the second Tues
day of February and the first Tuesday of September.
For the county of Belknap, — at Laconia, on the fourth Tues
day of March and the fourth Tuesday of September.
For the county of Carroll, — at Ossipee, on the third Tuesday
of April and the third Tuesday of October.
For the county of Merrimack, — at Concord, on the first Tues
day of April and the first Tuesday of October.
For the county of Hillsborough, — at Manchester, on the third
Tuesday of March; and at Nashua, on the third Tuesday of
September.
For the county of Cheshire, — at Keene, on the first Tuesday
of April and the third Tuesday of October.
For the county of Sullivan, — at Newport, on the fourth Tues
day of January and the first Tuesday of September.
For the eastern district of the county of Grafton, — at Ply
mouth, on the second Tuesday of May and the second Tuesday
of November.
For the western district of the county of Grafton, — at Haverhill,
on the third Tuesday of March and the third Tuesday of
September.
For the northern district of the county of Cobs, — at Colebrook, on the first Tuesday of February and the first Tuesday
of September.
For the southern district of the county of Coos, — at Lancaster,
on the third Tuesday of April and the third Tuesday of
r\ I v J f J
October.
CHAPTER 207.
ATTENDANCE OF JUSTICES AT TERMS, ADJOURNMENTS, AND DISQUALI
FICATION OF JUDGES.
Section
1. Four justices to attend law terms ; one
at trial terms, except in cases other
wise provided.
i. If number required do not attend, se
nior Justice present, sheriff, or clerk
may adjourn.
8. Court may adjourn at discretion, and
in case of war, etc., to another place
in the county.
4. Adjournment to another place to be
by order filed with clerk, and pub
lished.
8. Court may adjourn to another place
Tor trial of an action, by consent of
parties, etc.
6. When term is changed or now term
established, business transferred to
new term.
Section
7. If justice disqualified to sit, others to
exercise powers of court.
8. No Justice to sit when he has been
party, attorney, etc., nor to give ad
vice, etc.
9. Justice not to sit in certain cases at
law term.
10. Judges or county commissioner not to
hear txparte statements.
11. Parties making such statements, guilty
of contempt.
12. Such statements ground for contin
uance.
13. Justice not to be officer in a railroad
corporation.
Section 1. At least four justices of the court shall attend at
the law terms. Trial terms may be holden by one justice, ex
cept in cases otherwise provided. 185(1,1669:16. 1869,2211:4. G. 8.192:1.
Sec. 2. If the number of justices required do not attend, the
senior justice present may open and adjourn the court from day
to day, to a future day, or to the next term ; if no justice is pres
ent, the sheriff, or, in his absence, the clerk, may adjourn the
court from day to day until one of the justices attends.
Sec. 3. The court may adjourn from time to time at discre
tion, but not beyond the next term ; and if, by reason of war,
pesfilence, or other public calamity, it is unsafe or inexpedient
to hold the term at the place appointed therefore, it may be ad
journed to any other place in the county.
Sec. 4. Such adjournment to another place shall be made by
an order, in writing, of the presiding justice, or the justice desig
nated to preside, filed with the clerk, who shall publish the same
in some newspaper designated, and in such other manner as may
be directed in the order.
Sec. 5. The court may adjourn the trial of a cause, by consent
of the parties and for their convenience, to any other place than
that in which the term is required to be holden ; but no other
business shall be transacted at such adjourned sitting.
Sec. 6. When the time or place of holding a term of the
court is changed, all writs and processes, and every matter or
thing returnable at or continued to such term, shall have day in
the court at the time or place to which such term is changed ;
and when a new term is established, matters pending or com
menced prior thereto, and which might in conformity with law
be entered or returnable at or continued to such term, shall have
day therein.
Sec. 7. If any justice is disqualified to sit in any case, the
other justices may hear and determine it, and exercise all the
powers of the court in relation thereto ; but no justice shall be
disqualified to sit because he is an inhabitant or tax-payer in the
city or town which is a party to the case or is interested therein.
Sec. 8. A justice shall not sit in any case in which he has
been concerned as party or attorney, nor in any appeal in which
he has acted as judge in the court below, nor act as attorney or
be of counsel for either party, nor give advice in any matter
pending or which may come before the court for adjudication.
xxil, 473. xlv, 52.
Sec. 9. A justice shall not sit at the law term in cases trans
ferred thereto by him except cases transferred upon agreed state
ments of facts or upon referees', auditors', or commissioners'
reports on which he made no ruling, unless it shall be necessary
for him to sit in order that the cases may be decided.
Sec. 10. No judge, justice, magistrate, county commissioner
or commissioners, in whose court or before whom any suit at
law or in equity, petition, or other proceeding is pending or to
be heard or tried, shall listen to any statements in regard thereto,
except in open court, or in the presence of all parties thereto.
Sec. 11. Any person who shall make any statements in
regard to the merits of any such cause, suit, or proceeding, to
any judge, justice, magistrate, or county commissioner, except
in open court, or in the presence of all parties, shall be deemed
guilty of contempt, and shall be fined not more than fifty dollars.
Sec. 12. Any such statement, if made by a party to the suit
or proceeding, shall be the ground for a continuance thereof,
with costs.
L. 211 : 11.
Sec. 13. No justice of the supreme court shall be an officer
in any railroad corporation in this state.
1881,55: 2.
Section 1. The justices of the supreme court shall appoint a
clerk for each county, and may remove him at pleasure.
C. 8. 183:1. 1855,1659:21. G. S. 193:1.
Sec. 2. Before entering upon his duties, the clerk shall give
bond to the county, in such sum as the justices shall direct, with
sureties to be approved by them, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duties, for the payment according to law of
all monies which may come to his hands, and for the safe-keeping
and delivery to his successor of the records, files, and papers
Eertaining to his office. The bond shall be lodged with and
ept by the secretary of state.
Sec. 3. The office of the clerk shall be kept in a town in
which a term of court for the county is required to be holden.
He shall keep his office open daily except Sundays. ^•s.'Vsts, «?i.:
Sec. 4. The clerk shall keep all books, records, files, and papers
belonging to his office in the safe provided for that purpose
when they are not in use. not muse. 0. 8.22:9.
Sec. 5. The clerk for each county shall attend at each law
term of the court, and shall discharge the duties of his office in
relation to the business of his county as if the court were sitting
therein. C.S. 181:15. 1856, 1659: 20. G. 8. 193 3. 1878, »:1. G. L. 212:3.
Sec. 6. At the close of each trial term, the clerk shall render
. .,...-,,, /. ,1
to the presiding justice a full and correct account 01 all monies
belonging to the county, and of all fines, forfeitures, and costs
imposed by the court in criminal cases, received by him and not
before accounted for, and of all his legal fees and charges against
the county ; and the justice shall ascertain and certify the balance,
which, if in favor of the county, shall be forthwith paid by the
clerk to the county treasurer. He shall, within ten clays after
the close of each term, render to the county commissioners an
itemized account of all his receipts and disbursements as clerk,
and the account shall be printed by the commissioners with their
report.
G. L.23: is'; 212':
Sec. 7. No money shall be paid to the clerk from the county
treasury or be retained by him out of any money in his hands
belonging to the county, on account of fees or charges, except
upon such adjustment of his account and certificate.
Sec. 8. Any clerk who neglects to render an account as
required in section six, or who knowingly renders a false account
of monies received, or of his fees and charges mentioned in that section, shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars.
Sec. 9. At or before the close of each term of the court, theclerk
shall deliver to the sheriff proper executions, warrants, or
other processes for the collection of fines, costs, or other money
accruing to the county during the term, and transmit a list
thereof to the county commissioners.
Sec. 10. Any clerk who neglects to deliver to the sheriff any
such execution, warrant, or other process, or to transmit such
list to the county commissioners, shall forfeit twenty dollars for
each neglect, to the person who will sue therefore.
Sec. 11. The clerks shall furnish to the state library copies
of all reserved cases at the same time they are furnished to the
court, and shall also furnish to the library a statement of the
final order made in each case, immediately after it is made.
Sec. 12. All records, files, and papers required to be depos
ited in the office of the clerk, by any law now or heretofore in
force, shall be and remain records, files, and papers of the office,
unless otherwise provided; and the clerk shall be the proper
officer to attest copies thereof.
20S. liii, 434.
Sec. 13. The court may make such allowance as it thinks
proper to the clerks of the several counties, in full for services
by them rendered for which no fees are established by law.
Section 1. The selectmen of each town shall annually, in
Decemher, make a list of such persons as they judge hest qualified to serve as jurors; and the list shall be kept by them and
delivered to their successors in office. c.s. im: i. g.s. 194.1.
Sec. 2. The lists shall not contain the names of more than
fifteen persons in towns containing less than six hundred inhabitants;
twenty-five, in all other towns containing less than
twelve hundred; thirty, in all other towns containing less than
sixteen hundred; thirty-five in all other towns containing less
than two thousand ; forty, in all other towns containing less than
five thousand ; and forty-five in all towns containing more than
five thousand inhabitants ; and they shall not contain less than
one half the number fixed as the highest number of names to
be put on the list.
Sec. 3. The governor, secretary, and treasurer of the state,
judges and clerks of the courts, registers of deeds and of probate, sheriffs and their deputies, counselors and attorneys at law,
ordained ministers, practising physicians and surgeons, postmasters
and their assistants, fire engineers, firewards, and nre_
men, and any person interested in the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquors or renting buildings for that purpose, are exempt from
serving as jurors, and their names shall not be placed on the
lists.
Sec. 4. The names on the list in each town shall be written
upon separate and similar pieces of paper, which shall be so
rolled up that the name cannot be seen, and shall be placed in a
box provided for that purpose by the selectmen, to be kept by
the town clerk under lock.
Sec. 5. When the number of names in the jury box is reduced below the smallest number which the list is required to
contain, the selectmen, before the day appointed for drawing,
shall revise the list, and place in the box the names thereon, as
required to be done in December.
Sec. 6. No jurors shall be summoned to attend the lawJ
terms, but grand and petit jurors shall attend the trial terms, except as otherwise provided; and they may be summoned at the
discretion of the court during its session. lssMowrie. G.s.m.-s.
Sec. 7. The court shall direct the number of jurors to be
summoned, and from what towns, so that each may furnish its
proportion of jurors in each year. R.s.iw:». c.s.i86:6. G.s.i94:6.
Sec. 8. Jurors for any term of the court in either judicial
district of the county of Coos may be summoned to attend from
the body of the entire county in the same manner as though the
county were not divided into judicial districts, whenever the
court shall so direct.
Sec. 9. The clerk of the supreme court shall issue writs of
venire facias, directed to the clerks of such towns as the court
may order, forty days before the sitting of the court, requiring
them to cause to be selected and returned so many jurors as are
therein mentioned.
Sec. 10. He shall cause the venires to be delivered to such
town clerks twenty-five days, or to the sheriff forty days, before
the sitting of the court; and the sheriff shall cause the venires
received by him to be delivered to the town clerks twenty-five
days before such sitting.
Sec. 11. Upon the receipt of the venire, the town clerk shall
notify the selectmen of the time aud place by him appointed for
drawing jurors, and shall post a notice thereof in some public
place in the town, seven days at least before the time appointed.
Sect- 12- The selectmen shall attend at the time and place
appointed, and the town clerk, in their presence and in the presence of such other persons as choose to attend, shall draw from
the box, so holden that the papers therein cannot be seen, the
names of so many persons as are required by the venire. In the
absence of the clerk, one of the selectmen shall draw the names.
Sec. 13. If any person whose name is so drawn is dead, in8ane>
or disabled by sickness, or has removed from town, the
town clerk shall certify the fact on the venire and draw another
J
name.
Sec. 14. The persons whose names are drawn shall be re
turned as jurors, and the names of those who actually attend the
court to which they are so returned shall not be again placed in
the box within two years.
Sec. 15. The town clerk shall record the notice posted by
him, the names of the selectmen present, and of the persons
drawn as jurors.
L. 213: 13.
Sec. 16. The town clerk, a constable, or one of the selectmen
shall give to each iuror, or shall leave at his abode, four
days at least before the sitting of the court, a notice in writing
0f njs gelection as a juror, of the court he is to attend, and of
the day and hour he is to appear,
Sec. 17. The town clerk shall certify upon the venire the
names of the persons so drawn, and that they have been notified
as aforesaid, and shall cause such venire to be returned to the
clerk of the court before the hour at which the juror is required
to attend.
Sec. 18. Venires may be issued while the court is in session.
In such case notice of the time and place of drawing and notice
•
to the jurors drawn shall be given forthwith; and they shall at{en(j tae court a8 directed in the venire.
Sec. 19. If any clerk, sheriff, or town clerk neglects to perform any of the duties enjoined by this chapter, he shall be fined
by the court twenty dollars.
S. 194: 17. G. L. 213:17.
Sec. 20. If any person selected as a juror and duly notified
to attend, neglects, without sufficient cause, to attend agreeably
to SQCn notice> ne shall be fined by the court not exceeding
twenty dollars.
Sec. 21. If any selectman willfully neglects to perform any
duty required by this chapter, or puts upon the list a greater
number of names than is allowed by law, or the name of a person
at his own request, or on the request of any other person, or
unlawfully withdraws from the box the name of a person upon
the list, or is guilty of any fraud or collusion with respect to the
drawing of jurors, he shall be fined fifty dollars for each offense.
Sec. 22. If a town clerk draws from the box a greater num, , . , . & .
ber of names than are mentioned in the venire, except in cases
provided, or unlawfully puts a name, or suffers it to be put, into
the box after the box is delivered to him, or is guilty of any
fraud or collusion in respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall
be fined fifty dollars.
Sec. 23. The sheriff, coroner, or other officer, under the
direction of the court, may return jurors of the persons present,
G. 8.194:21.
Sec. 24. No person shall serve as a petit juror at a term of
court at which he has a cause pending which may be tried by
jury at that term, but he shall be discharged from service as
a juror. cause pending for trial. 1878,12:1.
Sec. 25. Any juror may be required by the court, on motion
of a party in the cause to be tried, to answer upon oath whether
he expects to gain or lose by the issue of the cause; whether he
is related to either party; whether he has advised or assisted
either party, or directly or indirectly given his opinion or has
formed an opinion ; whether he is sensible of any prejudice in
the cause; or whether any one of the counsel in the cause is
employed by him in any action then pending in said court. If
it appears that any juror is not indifferent, he shall be set aside
on that trial.
Sec. 26. The oath to be administered to jurors in civil cases
i. 11 i p 11
shall be as follows :
"You swear that in all causes betwixt party and party that
shall be committed unto you, you will give a true verdict,
according to law and the evidence given you. So help you God."
Section 1. Every justice of the peace within his county may
try and determine civil causes iu which the title to real estate is
not drawn in question, and in which the damages demanded do
not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
viil, 353, 507. ix, 257. XV, 212. xvUi, 167. xxlv, 169. XXV, 482. xxvl, 125. xxxlli, 247.
lvii, 148. lxl, 340.
Sec. 2. The trial of a civil cause before a justice may be ad
journed, at his discretion, not exceeding three months.
S. 195: 11. G.L. 214:11.
Sec. 3. If the justice fails to attend at the time and place to
which civil process is returnable or continued before him, another
justice may attend and adjourn the cause not exceeding thirty
days, without costs to either party, and saving the rights of all
parties. If the justice before whom the process was originally
returnable or continued shall decease, or shall be absent and
shall not return within said thirty days, the justice so adjourning
the cause shall have jurisdiction to try and determine it, and
may issue execution to carry his judgment into effect as fully as
if the process had been originally returnable before him.
Sec. 4. In the trial of an action before a justice, no evidence
shall be offered in defense which brings the title to real estate
in question, but such defense may be pleaded specially; and
when such plea is filed no further proceedings shall be had
before the justice than to record the plea, and, if the plaintifff
elects, to enter a nonsuit.
Sec. 5. If such special plea is filed, and the plaintifff does
not elect to be nonsuited, he may enter the action at the next
trial term of the supreme court, filing with the clerk attested
copies of the writ, plea, and other papers used before the justice,
and may prosecute the action in that court, as if originally commenced
therein.
Sec. 6. If the plaintifff does not enter the action at such trial
term, costs, including those before the justice, may be allowed
to the defendant upon his complaint therefore, in the supreme
COUrt. C. S. 184 : 5. G. S. 195 : 4.
Sec. 7. Either party may appeal from the judgment of a
justice, in a civil cause, to the next trial term of the supreme
COUrt. G.S. 195:5. G.L. 214:5. xxlil,251. iit, 216. xxvl, 125, 173. xlll,
Sec. 8. No such appeal shall he allowed unless claimed
within two hours after the judgment is rendered, nor unless the
party appealing, within twenty-four hours, enters into recognizance,
or files with the justice a hond to the adverse party, with
sufficient sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, to pay the
costs which may be recovered against him. "^."xiv.^uo.'Vui;
Sec. 9. The party appealing shall enter his appeal, and file
with the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken attested
copies of the record, and of all papers in the cause before the
lUStice. G.S. 196:7. G. L.214:7. xxvl, 132.
Sec. 10. If he neglects to enter his appeal, to file such copies,
or to pay the jury fee, the judgment of the justice shall be
affirmed, with costs, to the appellee. G.S. 196:8.
Sec. 11. If in an action on contract the plaintifff appeals and
does not recover greater damages than those awarded by the
justice, he shall recover no costs other than those before the justice, and the defendant shall recover his costs on the appeal.
Sec. 12. If a judgment of the justice that the writ abate be
reversed on appeal, the cause shall not be remanded, but shall
be determined in the appellate court. k.s. 175:10. cs.im.io. g.s.]9S:io.
Sec. 13. A justice shall not be of counsel, nor act as attorney
for nor advise or assist either party, in a cause pending or
which may come before him. c- 8- 184: «• G- s- 195 : 1S- G- *••»*' 1S- v11Sect.
14. Every justice shall keep a fair record, in one or
more books kept by him for that purpose, of all official proceedings
before him. g.s.im.h.
Sec. 15. In proceedings begun before a justice, he may, after
the expiration of his term of office, complete the proceedings,
issue execution, and attest copies of his records, as if in office;
and in relation thereto he shall have the powers and be subject
to the duties and liabilities of a justice, in like manner, to the
same extent, and with like effect as if he continued in office.
Sec. 16. A justice in commission or whose commission has
expired, removing from his county, shall deposit his official
records and files with the clerk of the supreme court for the
county. If he neglects so to do, he shall forfeit the sum of five
dollars for every month's neglect after such removal, to any person
who will sue therefore.
Sec. 17. The executor or administrator of a justice deceased,
or of a person who has been a justice, and every person to whose
hands any of the official records or files of such justice, or of a
justice removed from his county, may come, shall forthwith deposit the same with said clerk. Whoever neglects so to do for
the space of six months shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars for
each month's neglect after said six months, to any person who
will sue therefore.
Sec. 18. The records and files of justices deceased and removed
from their counties shall be kept by the clerk of the
supreme court for the county, aud are records and files of his
office.
CHAPTER 211.
SECTION
1. Towns may establish courts; cities or
POLICE COURTS.
towns may increase or diminish
compensation of justices.
2. Court to consist of one justice; special
justice to be appointed.
3. Justice shall appoint clerk, or shall be
clerk.
4. If Justice and special Justice disquali
fied, justice of peace may hear. etc.
5. Court to have jurisdiction ot justice
and powers of Justice of quorum.
6. Courts to have concurrent jurisdiction
with supreme court in certain cases;
writs returnable, where.
7. Writs in civil cases to be returnable
within the town or city, to police
court.
8. Writs brought by any justice of the
court not returnable to the court.
9. To be under seal, bear teste of justice,
etc., and signed by clerk.
10. Session once each month, and may be
adjourned, etc.
Section
11. Writs, etc., except against tenants, to
12.
13.
be then returnable.
Executions to be returnable in sixty
days from date.
Appeals to be taken as from Justices of
peace, and like fees allowed.
14. Special justice and justice of peace at
tending police courts in towns, to
receive per diem from town.
15. Fees accruing to police Justice to bo
ior use of town unless otherwise pro.
16
IT.
18
vided.
Town may rescind vote establishing
salary ; fees to be taken by justice.
Associate, assistant, or special justice
of court heretofore established, to be
deemed special justice.
Suits, etc., begun before Justice of the
peace, to be determined as if this chapter not enacted.
Section 1. A town may by vote provide a suitable compensa
tion, not less than one hundred dollars per annum, for the jus
tice of a police court therein ; and upon a certificate made by
the town clerk to the governor, of the vote, and of the article in
the warrant for the town meeting under which it was passed,
authorizing the same, a justice and special justice of such court
may be appointed, and the court shall thereby be established.
A town or city having a police court may increase or diminish
the compensation of its police justice, but such compensation
shall not be reduced below one hundred dollars.
Sec. 2. Police courts shall consist of one learned, able, and
discreet person, appointed and commissioned justice thereof by
the governor, with advice of the council ; and a special justice,
appointed and commissioned in like manner, who, in the absence,
inability, or disqualification of the justice, shall perform the du
ties and exercise the powers of the office.
Sec. 3. The justice shall appoint a clerk of the court if pro
vision is made for his compensation ; but if no such provision is
made, the justice, or in his absence the special justice, shall be
clerk as to all business before them respectively transacted in
the court, and such clerk or justice shall keep a full record of
the proceedings.
Sec. 4. If the justice and special justice are disqualified or
unable from any cause to sit in any case, a disinterested justice
of the peace, attending by request of the court, may hear and
determine the case, and keep a record thereof, with like effect
as if it were heard and determined by the justice of said court.
Sec. 5. Police courts shall have the jurisdiction and cognizance of all suits and proceedings which may be heard before a
justice of the peace, shall have the powers of a justice of the peace
and quorum throughout the state, in civil and criminal cases,
and may make suitable rules for conducting and regulating the
business of the court. xxxii, 179. xiii, ks.
Sec. 6. Police courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction with
the supreme court of civil causes, if the defendant resides within
the county where the court is established to which he is summoned,
and the damages demanded do not exceed one hundred
dollars, and the title of real estate is not concerned. Actions before police courts wherein more than thirteen dollars and thirtythree
cents is claimed as damages shall be made returnable in
the city or town where one of the plaintifffs or defendants resides.
Sec. 7. Writs and proceedings in civil actions shall not be
made returnable before a justice of the peace within a town or
city having a police court, but shall be returnable and returned
before such police court. g. s. im:6. g.l.215:7.
Sec. 8. Writs in civil actions brought by the justice of a
police court shall not be made returnable to the court of which
he is a member. G- L- 216: 8Sect.
9. Writs and other process issuing from police courts
shall be under the seal thereof, shall bear teste of the justice, if
not disqualified, otherwise of the special justice, and shall beG
signed by the clerk.
Sec. 10. A session of the court shall be holden at some suitable place, to be provided therefore by the city or town, on one
day at least in each month, as may be appointed by law or by a
rule of the court, and at such other times as may be necessary,
and may be adjourned from day to day, or to a future day, not
beyond the next established session.
Sec. 11. Writs and processes in civil actions, except those
for the removal of tenants, shall be returnable at such session of
the court; writs of summons against tenants may be returnable
on any day. G.s.i96:».
Sec. 12. Executions on judgments in civil suits in police
courts may be made returnable within sixty days from the dates
+V„_^„P
thereof.
Sec. 13. Appeals may be taken from judgments of police
«/ *» " sr
courts in the same manner and upon the same conditions as from
justices of the peace. The same fees shall be allowed, in proceedings in such courts, as may be allowed in like cases before a
justice of the peace.
Sec. 14. The special justice of a police court shall be paid
by the town two dollars a day for the time of actual service by
him. A justice attending by request of the court, as provided in section four, shall be paid by the town like compensation, and
six cents a mile for his travel to and from the court.
Sec. 15. The fees accruing to the justice of a police court
shall be for the use of the town, unless a different disposition
thereof is made by the town.
xxvi, 330. xxx, 409. lvl, 54.
Sec. 16. A town may rescind its vote establishing an annual
salary for a police justice, and shall be no longer liable therefore.
In such case the justice and special justice of the court may
receive and hold all fees accruing to them to their own use.
Sec. 17. The assistant, associate, or special justice of any
police court heretofore established shall be deemed to be a spe
cial justice of such court, agreeably to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 18. Suits and proceedings begun before a justice of the
peace in a town, when a police justice is first appointed for the
town, shall be heard and determined as if the provisions of this chapter had not been enacted.
CHAPTER 212.
SHERIFFS, CORONERS, AND CONSTABLES.
Section
1. Sheriffs may appoint deputies; depu
tation to be under seal and re
corded.
2. May appoint special deputy for ser
vice of particular process.
3. Sliall serve writs, etc, and act as crier
of the court.
4. When sheriff a party, etc, coroner to
serve writ, etc.
5. Constables to serve writs to them di
rected, when.
6. Sheriffs, etc., not disqualified to serve
writs, etc., where their town, etc., Is
a party.
7. Penalty for neglect of officer when
fees tendered, etc.
8. Sheriff, etc., may require aid ; penalty
for refusal.
9. Sheriff resigning or removed to com
plete business begun.
10. When office vacant, deputies to con
tinue in office till vacancy filled.
11. Defaults, etc., of deputies, to be deemed
breach of bond.
Section
12. Sheriff to account to commissioners
for fines for which he has warrants.
13. Penalty for neglect of sheriff to pay to
county treasurer.
14. List of uncollected warrants, etc., for
fines, etc., to be given to county
commissioners ; penalty for neglect.
15. Sheriff annually to submit account to
county commissioners.
16. Penalty for neglect of sheriff to pay to
execution creditor.
17. When trusteed, and bond of indemnity
tendered, sheriff, etc., to pay inter
est.
18. Execution not to issue against body of
sheriff.
19. If execution returned unsatisfied, the
sheriff may be removed.
20. Sheriff and deputy not to appear as
attorney; writ, etc., made by him
void.
21. May discharge deputy, etc.
22. But liable for his conduct until dis
charge, etc., recorded.
Section 1. A sheriff may appoint so many deputies as he
thinks proper, by deputation in writing, under his hand and seal,
and not otherwise, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge
of their duties. The deputation and certificate of oath thereon
shall be recorded at length by the clerk of the supreme court in
a book kept for that purpose, and no deputy shall act as such
until the record is made.
Sec. 2. A sheriff may appoint a special deputy for the service
and return of any process, by warrant indorsed thereon, in the
manner heretofore practiced. G. 3.197:2. G.L.216:2. II, 66, 184.
r x, 167. xlil, 184. xxxlv,381. lvili, 125.
Sec. 3. He shall, by himself or his deputies, serve and execute,
in his count}', all writs and other precepts to him directed,
issuing from lawful authority ; and shall perform the duties of
pripr nf trip frmrt G.L. 216:3. vili, 382. xi, 493.
oriel Ul Uie CUUIL. xxl, 262. xxvi,315. xxxlv,281.
Sec. 4. When the sheriff is a party, or related to either party,
or interested in the suit, the writ shall be directed to and served
by a coroner; and on the trial of the suit the coroner shall return
talesmen and attend the jury, and shall bave the powers and be
subject to the liabilities, in relation thereto, of the sheriff in like
0 ' '
cases.
Sec. 5. Constables shall serve and return writs and other
civil precepts to them directed, wherein the amount demanded
*
in damages does not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty -three
cents, and no others, and shall have similar powers and be subject to similar liabilities in relation thereto as sheriffs.
Sec. 6. No sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable is
disqualified to serve a writ or other precept in which a town or
other corporation is aparty by reason of his being a citizen of
the town or a member of the corporation.
Sec. 7. If any such officer refuses or neglects to serve a legal
precept to him directed and delivered for service, his fees therefore
being first tendered, or without such tender in criminal cases,
when the precept is indorsed by the attorney-general or solicitor,
or by the clerk by order of court, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to
any person aggrieved thereby who shall sue therefore within three
months.
Sec. 8. An officer having authority to serve process or make
an arrest may require suitable aid in the execution of his office,
Any person who neglects or refuses to give such aid when so
required shall be fined not exceeding twenty dollars. S'-iLils:^!
Sec. 9. Upon the resignation, removal from office, or expiration
of the term of office of a sheriff, he shall execute all precepts
in his hands, complete all official business previously committed
A V
to him, and deliver to his successor all prisoners in his custody.
Sec. 10. Whenever a vacancy happens in the office of" sheriff,
the deputies and jailers then in office shall continue to execute
the same in the name of the late sheriff, until another is appointed
and qualified, and until they have completed all business previously intrusted to them. g.s. 197:10.
Sec. 11. The defaults and misfeasances of such deputies or
jailers during such time shall be deemed a breach of their
respective bonds to the sheriff who has ceased to hold office,
The executor or administrator of a deceased sheriff shall have
like remedy for such defaults and misfeasances as the sheriff
would have if in office.
Sec. 12. The sheriff is accountable to the county commissioners for money in his hands belonging to or for the use of the
county, and for fines, forfeitures, and costs, for which warrants
xxxvl, 246.
or other process are issued to him by the clerk, unless he satis
fies the commissioners that the same have not been and cannot
be collected.
Sec. 13. A sheriff who fails to pay to the county treasurer
any money received by him for the county, immediately on re
ceipt thereof, or the amount of any fine, forfeiture, or costs, im
mediately after he has voluntarily or negligently suffered a
prisoner liable therefore to escape, shall forfeit treble the amount
thereof, with double costs of suit, to be recovered by the treas
urer for the use of the county, and he may be removed from
office by the supreme court.
Sec. 14. At each trial term of the supreme court, the sheriff
shall deliver to the county commissioners a list of the warrants
or other process for fines, forfeitures, or costs, delivered to him
by the clerk before the term, and then uncollected without fault
on his part, and shall return them to the clerk for renewal. For
any neglect to deliver such list or to return such warrants or
other process he shall forfeit fifty dollars.
Sec. 15. The sheriff shall, once in each year, submit to the
county commissioners, at a trial term of the supreme court, a
statement in detail of all services of himself or of his deputiesfor
which the county is chargeable, and such amount shall be
allowed thereon as is just. No such account shall be allowed
unless presented within one year after the service was performed.
Sec. 16. Any sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable
who refuses or neglects, on demand, to pay to an execution credi
tor any money received by him on the execution for the credi
tor, shall pay five times the lawful interest thereon for the time
he detains it after demand.
Sec. 17. Whenever an officer is trusteed for such money, and
refuses to pay the same to the creditor upon his tendering to the
officer a bond, with sufficient sureties, to repay so much thereof
as may be held by the trustee process, with costs, the officer
shall be liable for interest thereon from the time of tendering
the bond.
Sec. 18. Whenever judgment is rendered against a sheriff,
execution may issue against his estate, but not against his body ;
and when he ceases to hold the office, execution may issue
against his body as in other like cases.
Sec. 19. When an execution against the estate of a sheriff is
returned unsatisfied, the creditor may give notice thereof to
such sheriff, and if the execution, with the costs of such notice,
is not paid within forty days after the notice is given, the court
shall remove him from office.
Sec. 20. No sheriff or deputy sheriff, police officer, con
stable, or city marshal shall be suffered to appear in any court or
before a justice as attorney for any party in a suit. Any writ,
declaration, plea, complaint and warrant, or other process made
by a sheriff, deputy sheriff, police officer, constable, or city mar
shal for another person, shall be void.
Sec. 21. A sheriff may discharge from office any of his dep
uties, by writing under his hand and seal, which shall be served
by another deputy by reading the same or giving an attested
copy thereof to the deputy so discharged ; and such discharge,
with a certificate of the service thereof, shall be recorded in the
manner prescribed for recording deputations.
Sec. 22.
The sheriff is liable for the official conduct of his
If a deputy is discharged, the sheriff's
deputies respectively. , ,- , liability
shall continue until the discharge and certificate of service
thereof are recorded.
... .. *..•'. , ° .:« »
CHAPTER 213.
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS.
Section
1. Party may appear in person, or by any
citizen of good cbaraoter.
2. Any citizen twenty-one years of age
and of good moral character and
suitable qualifications shall be ad
mitted on application.
3. Attorney or counselor in other state
admitted to practice upon evidence
of good character.
4. Attorney admitted may practice in
any court, upon filing copy of ad
mission with clerk.
Section
5. Form of oath to be administered to
attorney.
6. No person allowed commonly to prac
tice unless admitted and sworn.
7. Court to proceed in summary way
with attorney charged with fraud,
etc.
8. No person to act as attorney In cause
in which be lias acted as judge.
Section 1. A party in any cause or proceeding may appear,
plead, prosecute, or defend, in his proper person or by any_citizen of good character. et0- *• s- 177: l- c- 8- 187: »• G"s- ]99: >• G- LSect.
2. Any citizen of the age of twenty-one years, of good
moral character and suitable qualifications, on application to the
supreme court shall be admitted to practice as an attorney.
G. S. 199: 2. 1872,36:1.
Sec. 3. Any person who has been admitted to practice as an
attorney or counselor of the highest judicial court of another
state of which he was then an inhabitant may be admitted to
practice as an attorney in this state upon satisfactory evidence 01
his good moral character, without examination concerning his
other qualifications, when such examination is rendered unneces
sary by the circumstances of the case.
Sec. 4. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid may practice as
attorney in any court, upon filing with the clerk a copy of the
record of his admission. G- 8- 199: «■ G- LSect.
5. Every attorney admitted to practice shall take and
subscribe, in open court, the oaths to support the constitution of
this state and of the United States, and the oath of office in the
following form :
"You solemnly swear that you will do no falsehood, nor con
sent that any be done in the court, and if you know of any, that
you will give knowledge thereof to the justices of the court, or
some of them, that it may be reformed ; that you will not wittingly or willingly promote, sue, or procure to be sued any false
or unlawful suit, nor consent to the same ; that you will delay no
man for lucre or malice, and will act in the office of an attorney
within the court according to the best of your learning and dis
cretion, and with all good fidelity as well to the court as your
client. So help you God."
Sec. 6. No person shall be permitted commonly to practice
as an attorney in court unless he has been admitted by the court,
and taken the oath aforesaid.
G. L.218:6. xU, *89.
Sec. 7. The court shall inquire in a summary manner into
any charges of fraud, malpractice, or contempt of court, against
an attorney, and upon satisfactory evidence of his guilt shall sus
pend him from practice, or may remove him from office. No
person while so suspended from practice, or until his restoration
to office, shall be permitted to practice as an attorney before any
court or magistrate, or elsewhere ; and any writ or other process
made by such person for another, while thus disqualified, shall
be void.
Sec. 8. No person shall act as attorney in any cause in which
he has acted as judge.
S. 187:8. G.S. 199:8. G. L. 218 : 8. v,S86. lx, 215.
CHAPTER 214.
state reporter and reports.
Section
1. Reporter of the decisions of the court,
how appointed.
2. Justices to furnish copies of opinions
to the reporter within sixty days.
3. Clerks of courts to furnish copies of
cases and petitions to reporter.
4. Reporter shall attend law terras, take
notes of decisions, etc.; steno.
grapher.
5. Statement of facts to he prepared and
made part of the report ; head note.
Section
6. ririefs and arguments may be inserted.
7. Shall publish decisions within one
hundred and twenty days.
8. Title, size, style, and price of publish
ed volumes.
9. Reports shall give dates of decisions.
10. Reporter to dispose of the copyright,
etc.; net proceeds to be paid to the
state treasurer.
11. Compensation of stenographer.
12. Salary of reporter.
Section 1. The supreme court shall appoint a suitable person
to be reporter of its decisions, and may remove him at pleasure.
Before entering upon his duties he shall be sworn.
1850,961:2. 1855, 1659 : 32._ G.S. 200:1. G. L. 219:1. 1879, 57: 29. 1883,109: 7.
Sec. 2. Each justice of the court shall furnish to the reporter
the opinions delivered by him, within sixty days after their an
nouncement, with a memorandum stating who concurred, who
dissented, and who did not sit.
Sec. 3. The clerks of courts shall furnish to the reporter a
copy of every case reserved, at the time copies thereof are fur
nished to the members of the court, and of every petition originally
commenced in the law term, with a concise statement of
the proceedings thereon, within three days after a final disposition
of the petition is made.
Sec. 4. The reporter shall attend the law terms of the court
and shall take, or cause to be taken, full and accurate notes of
each decision announced, and of the grounds and reasons assigned
therefore. He may employ a stenographer to assist him
at such terms whenever necessary.
Sec. 5. He shall revise and condense the statements of fact
i , . , « . , .
in each case, and print them as a part of the reports, taking care
that all facts necessary for a fair presentation of the questions of
law involved shall be made to appear. He shall make a brief
head note to each case, stating the substance of the law ques
tions therein decided, unless such note is seasonably furnished
by the court.
Sec. 6. He may insert in the report of each case such portions
of the briefs and arguments of counsel as he deems useful,
Sec. 7. He shall, within one hundred and twenty days after
a decision is announced, publish a report of each case, including
the opinion furnished by the court, if any.
C. S. 188: 6. 1850, 961:6. G. S. 200:4. G. L. 219:4.
Sec. 8. The reports shall be published in volumes entitled
"New Hampshire Reports." The size, style, and price of the
volumes shall be prescribed by the justices of the court, but the
price shall not exceed three dollars and fifty cents for a volume
in size and style like the thirteenth volume of the New Hampshire
Reports. A proportionate increase of price may be made
for an increase of matter.
Sec. 9. Law reports shall give the extreme dates of the decisions on the title pages, and the date.
Sec. 10. He shall dispose of the copyright of the reports as
he shall deem expedient, or otherwise provide for their publication,
and shall pay into the state treasury the net proceeds
thereof after deducting the reasonable and necessary expenses of
publishing and Selling. CS.188:6. 1850,961:6. G.S.200:4.
Sec. 11. The stenographer shall be allowed a reasonable
compensation for his services, which shall be audited and allowed
by the court, and shall be paid from the state treasury as an incidental
expense of the law term.
Sec. 12. The salary of the reporter shall be one thousand
dollars annually, payable in equal quarterly payments.
serted.
Section 1. No action shall be maintained upon a contract for
the sale of laud unless the agreement upon which it is brought,
or some memorandum thereof, is in writing and signed by the
party to be charged, or by some person by him thereto author
ized by writing.
237, 522. lx, 355. xi, 102, 148, 547. xlll, 284. xlv, 393. xviii, 293. xxi, 291. xxli, 10. xxlv,
xxxv, 235. xxxyii, 185. xl, 352. xlv, 313, 323. xlix, 204. lv, 420. lvl, 170, 364.AAAIV,»11. AAA*, AAAVXt, X.
120. lx, 36. lxi, 421, 583. lxili, 54.
"
2. No action shall be brought to charge an executor or
administrator upon a special promise to answer damages out of
his own estate, nor to charge any person upon a special promise
to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another, or
upon any agreement made in consideration of marriage, or that
is not to be performed within one year from the time of making
it, unless such promise or agreement, or some note or memoran
dum thereof, is in writing and signed by the party to be charged,
or by some person by him thereto authorized.
xxxix, 259. xli, 388. xlili, 485. xlvi, 151. xlvill, 420. llv, 67. lx, 36.
Sec. 3. No contract for the sale of goods, wares, or mer
chandise, for the price of thirty-three dollars or more, is valid,
unless the buyer accepts and actually receives part of the prop
erty sold, or gives something in part payment or in earnest to
bind the bargain, or unless some note or memorandum thereof
•
is in writing, and signed by the party to be charged, or by some
person by him thereto authorized. »• ra- m'eo°- llvSec. 4. No assignment of, or order for. wages to be earned
10 1 ii 1 t -1 • i- f °i 1
in the future shall be valid against a creditor of the person making
it, until it has been accepted in writing and a copy of it and
of the acceptance has been filed with the clerk of the town or
city where the party making it resides. The clerks of towns
and cities shall keep for public inspection an alphabetical list of
all such orders and assignments filed with them.
G.L.249:48. 11,407. lvll, 306. ix, 38. 1x111,287.
CHAPTER 216.
Section
1. Transitory actions, where brought.
2 One partner or Joint owner may have
assumpsit against another for share
ACTIONS.
Section
not liable, action of debt on the
judgment may be brought in six
years.
of goods, etc., taken. 6. Sheriffs, etc., liable for default, etc., to
3. One cotenant of real estate may have
such action against another for share
of trees, etc., severed, etc.
4. And when excluded from possession
may have action for damages.
5. When execution satisfied by property
answer for damages only in action
on the case.
Person compelled to pay damages for
escape of prisoners may recover of
prisoner escaping or others aiding.
Section 1. Transitory actions, in which any one of the parties
is an inhabitant of the state, shall be brought in the county and
judicial district where some one of them resides. If no one of
the parties is an inhabitant of the state, the action may be
brought in anv countv I877> i2:1- G- L-20 :19; 220 : 1- ,885>
uiuugui 111 aiy ^uuny. 1,331,484. 111,430. llv, 376, 578.
Sec. 2. One copartner or joint owner may recover, in an action
of assumpsit against another, his just share of any property
received and wrongfully withheld by the other.
C. 8. 191:5. G. S. 201:2. G. L.220:2. xxi, 339.
xl, 403. xllii, 52, 402. xliv, 376. xlv, 226. 1x111,
Sec. 3. One cotenant of real estate may recover, in such action
against another, for his share of any trees, fixtures, or other part of the estate destroyed, severed, or carried away by the
Other. GTl. 220:8. xlv, 213. xxlx, 420, 501. xl,403. xlvii, 468.
Sec. 4. One cotenant of real estate may recover, in such action,
of another taking the income thereof without his consent,
and wrongfully withholding the same, all damages he may susa.
• J.-L X. ° e
tain thereby. xxviu, 520.
Sec. 5. Whenever an execution is returned, satisfied in whole
or in part by an extent or levy upon estate or property not liable
to be taken upon the execution, an action of debt may be brought
upon the judgment, within six years after the extent or levy, for
the amount equitably due and costs of levying.
11, 79, 148. vlli, 114, 121. xil, 119. lvlll, 698.
Sec. 6. Sheriffs, constables, and other officers liable for de
fault or misconduct in office, shall be holden to answer for thedamages
in an action on the case, and in no other form.
xviii, 386. xxi, 550. xxll, 134. xxiv, 237. lvlll, 150. lix, 60.
Sec. 7. A person compelled to pay damages for the escapeof
a prisoner in his custody may recover the same of the prisoner
escaping, or of others aiding the escape.
L. 220:7.
CHAPTEE 217.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
Section
1. Real actions to be brought in twenty
years after right first accrued.
2. If disability of insanity, Infancy, etc.,
in five years after removed.
3. Trespass to person and for slander In
two years; other personal actions in
six years.
4. Debt on judgments, recognizances,
etc., In twenty years.
5. On notes secured by mortgage of real
estate, as long as action on mort
gage.
Section
6. Writs of error in three years after
Judgment.
7. Infants, insane persons, etc., in two.
years after disability removed.
8. Time of defendant's absence from state
to be excluded In personal actions.
9. New action in one year after judgment
against plaintifff, etc., if judgment
not a bar.
10. This chapter not to apply where differ*
ent time limited.
Section 1. No action for the recovery of real estate shall be
brought after twenty years from the time the right to recover
first accrued to the party claiming it, or to some person under
whom he claims.
205, 246. xx, 187. xxii, 491. xxvili, 26. xxxiii, 524. xxxix, 439. xlvli, 224. xlix, 131.
12,77, 402, 562. lxiv, 405, 461.
Sec. 2. If the person first entitled to bring such action is an
infant, or insane person, at the time the right accrues, the action
maybe brought within five years after such disability is removed.
xxiv,417. xxx, 434. xxxvii, 355. xlviii, 66. lvi, 857.
Sec. 3. Actions of trespass to the person and actions fqr de
famatory words may be brought within two years, and all other
personal actions within six years, after the cause of action ac
crued, and not afterward.
235,367. ix, 46, 359. 377. xi, 170. x ill, 486. xiv, 422. xv, 140. xvli,389. xviii, 384. xx, 180.
219. xxiv,319. xxviil, 26, 151. xxx, 136, 329. xliv, 306, 591. xlviii, 23. lxix, 131. 1,303.
lvi, 143. lvlll, 30, 201, 225,318. lix, 685. Ix, 179. 1x1,157. lxiv, 271, 461.
Sec. 4. Actions of debt upon judgments, recognizances, and
contracts under seal may be brought within twenty years after
the cause of action accrued, and not afterward.
vi, 150. vlli, 64. xxvlii, 151.
Sec. 5. Actions upon notes secured by mortgage of real
estate may be brought so long as the plaintifff is entitled to bring
an action upon the mortgage.
x, 429. xxviil, 533. xxxix, 140. lxiv, 295, 619.
Sec. 6. Writs of error may be sued out within three years
after judgment, and not afterward, unless allowed by the court
for sufficient cause, upon petition and notice.
lix, 207. lxiv, 350.
Sec. 7. An infant or insane person may bring a personal
action within two years after such disability is removed.
G. 8. 202 : 7. G. L. 221 : 7. xxiv, 417. xxxvti, 355. xlvi, 80.
Sec. 8. If the defendant in a personal action was absent from
and residing out of the state at the time the cause of action ac
crued, or afterward, the time of such absence shall be excluded
in computing the time limited for bringing the action. J^.1 "km
xxxii, 462. xxxviii, 35. xliv, 306, 446. Hi, 41. lvll, 168. llx, 13l!
Sec. 9. If judgment is rendered against the plaintifff in an
action brought within the time limited therefore, or upon a writ
of error thereon, and the right of action is not barred by the
judgment, a new action may be brought thereon in one year
after the judgment. ivi, 143.
Sec. 10. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
cases in which a different time is limited by statute. £° s°i8*^^iy'
CHAPTER 218.
WRITS AND THEIR INDORSEMENT.
Section
1. Writs, records, etc., in judicial pro
ceedings, to be in the English lan
guage.
2. To be under seal, attested, signed by
clerk of any county, etc.
3. In supreme court may be directed to
sheriff or coroner of any county.
4. Original process to' be summons, ca
pias, or attachment, in form pro
scribed.
5. When no form prescribed, to conform
as near as may be.
6. Summons or attachment, only in real
actions.
7. When name of defendant unknown,
fictitious name may be inserted.
8. Original writs to be Indorsed by plain
tiff or by responsible Inhabitant.
9. Indorser liable to defendant for costs
g.'s. 202': 10!
Section
when plaintifff not an Inhabitant.
Remedy in such case by scire facias,
and when to be served.
10.
11
12
13
Writs in police and justice courts to
be directed to sheriff, etc., and to
constable, etc.
Writs issued by justice of peace to be
signed, and how returnable.
When defendant has property in an
other county, may be directed to
sheriff, etc., of that county.
14. Form of writ of attachment.
15. Of capias and attachment.
16. Of summons.
17. Of trustee process.
18. Of replevin.
19. Of summons to defendant, when prop
erty attached.
20. Of scire facias.
Section 1. Writs, declarations, processes, indictments, answers,
pleadings, and entries of record in the courts shall be in
the English language, and in no other. 2&%£-£*j£ i&ftj?:L
Sec. 2. Writs and processes issuing returnable to any court
shall be in the name of the state of New Hampshire, shall be
under the seal of the court, shall bear teste of the chief, first,
senior, or other justice of the court who is not a party, and shall
be signed by the clerk; if in the supreme court, they may be
_ Sect. 3. "Writs returnable to the supreme court shall be
directed to the sheriff of any county or his deputy, except when
the sheriff is a party, in which case they shall be directed to the
coroner of any county.
Sec. 4. Original process in said court shall be summons,
attachment, and capias, and shall be in the form prescribed by
law.
L.222:4. xxxii, 215.
Sec. 5. In cases where no form of process is prescribed, the
process shall be made conformable to the forms prescribed, so
far as the nature of the case will admit.
L. 222:5.
Sec. 6. In real actions and actions of ejectment, the original
writ shall be summons or attachment only.
8.203:6. G. L. 222:6. vi, 29. xviii, 811.
Sec. 7. When the name of the defendant is unknown to the
plaintifff, the writ may be issued against him by a fictitious name,
and, being duly served, it shall not for that cause be abated, but
may be amended on such terms as the court may order.
Sec. 8. Original writs, before service thereof, shall be in
dorsed by the plaintifff or by his agent or attorney, if the plaintifff
is an inhabitant of the state ; otherwise by some responsible per
son who is such inhabitant.
x, 440. xi, 102. xii, 179. xv, 569. xix, 129. xxv, 495. xxvi, 527. xxxvi, 482. xxxvlil, 88, 398.
284, 473. lxl, 153. lxiil, 288.
Sec. 9. If the defendant recover costs, the person indorsing
the writ shall be liable therefore on scire facias, upon the return of
non est, or not satisfied, upon the execution therefore ; but if the
plaintifff live out of the state, the indorser shall be so liable with
out such return.
189. liv.419.
Sec. 10. Such scire facias shall be served upon the indorser
within one year after judgment, and not afterward.
L.222:10. i, 336.
Sec. 11. Writs issued by justices of police courts and justices
of the peace shall be under seal and directed to the sheriff of the
county or his deputy, or to any constable of any town in the
county, or to either of said officers.
xliil, 35.
Sec. 12. "Writs issued by a justice of the peace or by a justice
of a police court having no clerk shall be signed by such justice,
and shall be returnable at a day, hour, and place named therein,
and in other respects shall be substantially in the form prescribed.
xxlv, 263. xxvi, 298, 827.
Sec. 13. If the defendant in an action before a police court
or justice has personal property liable to attachment in a county
of which he is not an inhabitant, the original writ and execution
may be directed to the sheriff of any county, his deputy, or to
any constable of any town in which the defendant resides or has
such property.
Sec. 14. The forms of writs and processes, in the cases fol
lowing, shall be in substance as follows :
Attachment :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
.95. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to attach the goods or estate of
of , in said county of , to the value ofdollars,
and summon him, if to be found in your precinct, to ap
pear at the supreme court to be holden at , in said county,
on the Tuesday of , to answer to , of ,
in said county of , in a plea of , to the damage of
the plaintifff —, as he say —, the sum of dollars, and make
return of this writ, with your doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of , .
, Clerk.
Sec. 15. Capias and attachment :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to arrest the body of , of
in Baid county of , or to attach his goods or estate
to the value of dollars, and summon him, if to be found
in your precinct, to appear at the supreme court to be holden at
, in said county, on the Tuesday of , to
answer to , of , in said county of , in a plea of
to the damage of the plaintifff —, as he say — , the sum
of dollars, and make return of this writ, with your doings
therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of
Clerk.
Sec. 16. Summons :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy:
[l. s.] We command you to summon , of , in
said county of , if to be found in your precinct, to appear
at the supreme court to be holden at , in said county, on
the Tuesday of , to answer to , of , in
said county of , in a plea of , to the damage of the
plaintifff —, as he say —, the sum of dollars, and make re
turn of this writ, with your doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of , .
, Clerk
Sec. 17. Trustee process, or foreign attachment :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to attach the goods or estate of
of , in said county of , to the value ofdollars,
and summon him, if to be found in your precinct, to ap
pear at the supreme court to be holden at , in said county,
on the Tuesday of , to answer to , of ,
in said county of , in a plea of , to the damage of
the plaintifff —, as he say —, the sum of dollars. We also
command you to attach the money, goods, chattels, rights, and
credits of the said , in the hands of , of ,in
said county of , to the value of dollars, and summon
said , if to be found in your precinct, to appear at said
court and show cause, if any he has, why execution should not
issue against him for the judgment which may be recovered by
said , against said , and make return of this writ,
with your doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of
Sect- 18- Replevin:
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy •
[l. s.] We command you to replevy , belonging to
of , in said county of , wrongfully taken
and detained, as it is said, by , of , in said county
of , and deliver the same to said , provided he give
bond in the sum of dollars, with sufficient sureties, to
prosecute bis replevin at the supreme court to be holden at
, in said county, on the Tuesday of , and so
from court to court until the cause be ended, and to pay such
costs and damages as the said may recover against him ;
and we also command you to summon the said , if to be
found in your precinct, to appear at said court, and answer to
said in a plea of replevin, etc., , to the damage of
the said , as he says, the sum of dollars, and make
return of this writ, with your doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of , .
, Clerk.
Sec. 19. Summons to defendant when property attached :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To , of , in said county
[l. s.] We command you to appear at the supreme court to
be holden at , in said county, on the Tuesday of
to answer to , of , in said county of
in a plea of , which the said has commenced
against you, to be heard and tried at said court, and your goods
or estate are attached to the value of dollars, for security
to satisfy the judgment which may be recovered against you.
Fail not of appearance at your peril.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of , .
, Clerk.
Sec. 20. Scire facias:
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE,
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] Whereas, , of , by the consideration of
the justices of the supreme court holden at , in said
county, on the Tuesday of , , recovered judg
ment against , of , for dollars cents,
-, Clerk.
costs of suit on the original writ, in which suit , of ■,
was indorser for the said , and of which judgment execu
tion remains to be done, although a writ of execution has been
issued thereon against said , which has been returned un
satisfied, as of record appears. We thereforee command iyou to
summon the said to appear at the supreme court to be
holden at , in said county, on the Tuesday of
, to show cause, if any he has, why the said should
not have execution against him for the amount of said judgment,
•and make return of this writ, with your doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of
CHAPTER 219.
SERVICE OF WRITS.
'Section
I. Writs to be served fourteen days be
fore return day.
3. Writs of summons and tcire faciat, by
copy or reading, etc.
3. When property attached, summons to
be given defendant.
4. Summons to contain substance of dec
laration, etc.
■5. Service, how made upon defendant
not an inhabitant, when his property
is attached.
ii. When action local and defendant not
Inhabitant.
7. Writs of icire facias may be served on
attorney.
3. Giving or leaving copy proved by affi
davit.
a. When defendant not an inhabitant,
Clerk.
Section
aud no mode of service prescribed,
how served.
10. Against municipal corporations upon
whom service is to be made.
11. When office of selectmen, etc., vacant,
on principal inhabitant.
12. Service on town clerk in ceitain cases,
how made.
13. Against other corporations, on whom
service to be made.
Against railroad corporations, may be
served on ticket master.
14
15.
Against manufacturing corporations
copy may be left at office or count
ing room.
16. Hour of service to be returned on
trustee process against corporations.
Section 1. All original writs and writs of mesne process shall
he served fourteen days before the sitting of the court to which
thev are returnable c. s.imm. g.s.204:i. g.l. 223.-1. i88i, to.
4,uey die leiuiuauie. v>m xxix,S85. xllv, 428. Iviii, 27. lxi,76.
Sec. 2. All writs and other processes may be served by giv
ing to the defendant or leaving at his abode an attested copy
thereof, and writs of summons and scire facias may also be served
by reading the same to the defendant. If the writ is brought
for dower, a like copy shall be left with the tenant or occupant
of the land whereof the dower is demanded, if there is any.
xll, 81, 183. xllv, 446. xlv, 37, 124. 11, 519. lv, 364.
Sec. 3. When the goods or estate of a person are attached, a
summons in the form prescribed shall be delivered to the defend
ant, or left at his abode, with the name and office of the officer
serving the same indorsed by him thereon. %}'■$* ' ^i"^08^' x5?'
Sec. 4. Every such summons, except those pertaining to
attachments made in suits in equity and libels for divorce, shall
set forth the sum in the note or obligation declared upon, with
the indorsements and dates thereof, the amount of the account,
and in all cases shall briefly give to the defendant the same in
formation which the declaration gives more at large, and shall
contain the substance thereof.
xxv, 821. xxviii, 18, 90. xxxiv, 373. xxxv, 172. xlii, 553. xlv, 167. 1, 437. lii, 867. lviii, 312.
Sec. 5. If the defendant is not an inhabitant of the state,
and the writ is not served on him in person within the state, but
his goods or estate are attached, an attested copy of the writ and
of the return of the attachment may be given to him, or left at
his abode outside the state, or may be left with the agent author
ized to appear for him, or with his tenant on or near the land
attached.
Sec. 6. In actions for the recovery of real estate, and in ac
tions of replevin, covenant, or other local action, when the
defendant is not an inhabitant of the state, or his residence is
unknown to the officer having the writ for service, and the writ
is not served on the defendant in person within the state, an at
tested copy of it, and, in case of replevin, of the return of the
goods replevined, may be given or left as provided in the pre
ceding section.
Sec. 7. A writ of scire facias may be served, in case the de
fendant is not an inhabitant of the state, on the attorney who
appeared for him in the original action, or by giving or leaving
an attested copy of the writ, as provided in section five.
xlv, 403.
Sec. 8. The giving or leaving such copy in the cases men
tioned in the three preceding sections may be proved by the
certificate, under oath, of the person by whom it was given or
left.
Sec. 9. When the defendant is not an inhabitant of the state,
and no mode of serving the writ is prescribed, or service thereof
cannot be made in the mode prescribed, the action may be en
tered in court and such notice ordered as the case requires ; and
notice of the pendency of the suit, given according to the order,
shall be sufficient service.
Sec. 10. Service of writs against counties may be made upon
one of the county commissioners and the clerk of the supreme
court for the county ; against cities, upon the mayor or one of
the aldermen and the city clerk ; against towns, upon one of the
selectmen and the town clerk ; against school districts, upon one
of the school board and the clerk of the district; and against
village districts, upon one of the commissioners and the clerk of
the district.
Sec. 11. If either of said offices is vacant, the service other
wise to be made upon the incumbent of such office may be made
instead thereof upon one of the principal inhabitants of the
county, city, town, or district.
Sec. 12. "Whenever service of process or attachment is re
quired to be made by leaving a copy at the abode of a town
clerk or city clerk, it shall be deemed sufficient service if the
copy is left at his office, in case he has an office separate from
his dwelling-house.
Sec. 13. Service of writs against other corporations may be
made upon the clerk, treasurer, cashier, or one of the directors,
trustees, or managers, if any in the state ; otherwise upon any
principal member or stockholder, or upon any agent, overseer,
or other person having the care of any of the property or charge
of any of the business of the corporation.
Sec. 14. Service of writs against a railroad corporation may
be made upon any person doing the business of the corporation
as ticket master for the sale of passenger tickets, at any station
upon its railroad.
Sec. 15. Service of a writ against a manufacturing corpora
tion may be made by leaving an attested copy of the writ at the
office or counting-room of the corporation. g.l.223:h.
Sec. 16. In the return of service of trustee process against
a corporation, the officer shall set forth the hour when the copy
Was given Or left. cess on corporation, time of service to be stated. G. S. 204: 15
Section 1. All property, real and personal, which is liable to
betaken in execution, may be attached and holden as security
for the judgment the plaintifff may recover.
66, 87, 317, ill, 408. iv, 198. v, 527, 570. vi, 29. viii, 238. xil, 506. xiv, 9, 509. xxi, 93. xxil,
xzzl, 292. xxzlil, 410. xxxvii, 410. xl, 511. xili, 563. lix, 201. lxlii, 22.
EXEMPTIONS.
Sec. 2. The following goods and property are exempted from
attachment and execution :
8.205:2. G. L. 224 : 2 ; 245 : 3. vl, 263. ix, 178. llx, 100, 205, 290.
I. The wearing apparel necessary for the use of the debtor
and his family.
II. Comfortable beds, bedsteads, and bedding necessary for
the debtor, his wife, and children.
125.
m. Household furniture to the value of one hundred dollars.
rv. One cooking stove and the necessary furniture belonging
to the same.
v. One sewing machine, kept for use by the debtor or his
family. ' 1
vi. Provisions and fuel to the value of fifty dollars. 1p1j;°^slon8■ e
vii. The uniform, arms, and equipments of every officer and A
private in the militia.
viii. The Bibles, school books, and library of any debtor used B
by him or his family, to the value of two hundred dollars. i
ix. Tools of his occupation to the value of one hundred dol- ^
larS. 1871,30:1. xlv, 551. lviii, 271. H
x. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same when j
slaughtered. i
xi. Six sheep and the fleeces of the same. s
xn. One cow; a yoke of oxen or a horse, when required for c
farming or teaming purposes, or other actual use ; and hay not }
exceeding four tOn8. 1871, BO: 1. vl, 263. xllv, IB. lix, 20«, 562. lx, 6, 398. l
xm. Domestic fowls not exceeding fifty dollars in value. t
xiv. The debtor's interest in one pew in any meeting-house
in which he or his family usually worship.
xv. The debtor's interest in one lot or right of burial in any
cemetery.
ATTACHMENT OF REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 3. Real estate may be attached on a writ of mesne process, by the officer leaving an attested copy thereof and of his
return of the attachment thereon at the dwelling-house or the
office of the town clerk of the town in which the real estate is
situate, or, if there is no town clerk, with the clerk of the sunrpmp court for thp countv lv, 424. v, 275. vll, 499. lx,
preme court ior me county. xxxlv, 381. iv, 488. lxiii,
Sec. 4. The officer's return is sufficient evidence that the
copy has been so left, and of the time thereof; but the town
clerk or clerk of the court shall certify thereon the time when
the copy was received, and shall keep it on file. c" ^'ioV^xiilfie4'
Sec. 5. The town clerk shall keep a general index of all
attachments so made, and of the copies of all writs and processes
filed with him, which index shall be open to public inspection at
all times. He shall enter therein, at the time of receiving a copy,
a record of the exact time when it was received, of the court to
which the writ is returnable, and of the names of the plaintifff
and defendant in the action. The defendants' names shall be
alphabetically arranged.
Sec. 6. The officer making such attachment shall, at the time
of making it, pay to the town clerk the sum of twenty cents,
which shall be in full for his services in receiving and filing the
copy, certifying the time of receiving it, and entering the attach
ment upon the index.
Sec. 7. By an attachment of real estate, all the debtor's interest therein is holden to satisfy the judgment, though such
interest be a right of redeeming the same upon a mortgage, or
levy, or sale on execution, or for taxes, or a right to receive a
conveyance thereof by a contract. \^™< 10*: "3- *»■ mSec. 8. A creditor attaching his debtor's interest in real
estate, whether such interest be a right of redeeming the same
upon mortgage, or levy, or sale on execution, or for taxes, or a
right to receive a conveyance by virtue of a contract, may, while
such right exists, as well before as after sale thereof on his exe
cution, pay or tender to the person entitled to the redemption or
purchase money the sum due him ; and upon such payment or
tender the interest in such real estate, under such mortgage,
levy, or sale, and the interest of the contractor in the real estate
by him contracted to be conveyed, shall, as against such attach
ment and the rights acquired under it, cease. ,
Sec. 9. Such creditor, or the officer serving the writ, may
demand of the person entitled to the redemption or purchase
money an account, under oath, of the amount due him ; and if
such an account is not rendered within fifteen days thereafter,
or a false account is rendered, his interest in such real estate
shall, as against the attachment and the rights acquired under it,
cease ; but any person who fails to render an account, or a true
account, may be relieved upon a bill in equity, whenever it shall
appear that such failure was caused by fraud, accident, mistake,
or misfortune, and that such relief would be just and equitable.
Sec. 10. If, after payment of the redemption or purchase
money, the attachment is dissolved or the levy under it is de
feated, the creditor shall be entitled to receive from the person
to whom the payment was made a conveyance of his right to the
real estate.
Sec. 11. If such person, being requested to make a convey
ance, and having his reasonable charges therefore paid or tendered
to him, unreasonably neglects or refuses to make it, the creditor
may maintain an action of assumpsit against him for the money
paid as aforesaid, with interest. The debtor in such case shall
be notified in writing of the conveyance, neglect, or refusal, and
after such notice shall have the same time for redeeming the real
estate that he had at the time of attachment.
Sec. 12. No attachment of any interest in real estate shall be
defeated by any change in the nature of the debtor's right thereto,
as by redemption of a mortgage or other encumbrance, or the
execution to him of any conveyance pursuant to a contract ; but
the whole interest of the debtor, upon such change, shall be
holden by the attachment.
OF SHARES IN CORPORATIONS, PEWS, BULKY ARTICLES, ETC.
Sec. 13. The share or interest of any person in a corporation
may be attached by the officer, by leaving an attested copy of
the writ and of his return thereon with the clerk, treasurer,
assistant treasurer, cashier, agent, or person having the care of
the property of the corporation, or at his abode; and the divi
dends becoming due afterward shall be holden by such attach
ment.
Sec. 14. Pews or seats in a meeting-houBe or a place of public
worship shall be deemed personal property, and may be attached
by leaving an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return
thereon with the town clerk of the town in which the meeting
house is.
Sec. 15. The franchise of a corporation authorized to receive
tolls, so far as relates to the right to receive tolls, with all the
privileges and immunities belonging thereto, may be attached
by leaving an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return
thereon with the clerk, treasurer, or a director of the corporation.
Sec. 16. The officer attaching grain unthreshed, hay, potatoes, leaf tobacco, lumber, bark, wood or other fuel, bricks,
stone, lime, gypsum, ore, manufacturing or other machinery, or
hides in the process of tanning, or any building situate on land
not belonging to the owner of the building, may, within twentyfour hours thereafter, leave an attested copy of the writ and of
his return of such attachment thereon, as in the attachment of
real estate ; and in such case the attachment shall not be dissolved
or defeated by any neglect of the officer to retain actual
possession of the property.
of incumbered personal property.
Sec. 17. Any personal property not exempt from attachment,
subject to a mortgage, pledge, or lien, may be attached as the
property of the mortgagor, pledgor, or general owner, the attaching
creditor or officer paying or tendering to the mortgagee,
pledgee, or holder the amount for which the property is holden,
as ascertained in the mode provided by the following section.
xxxvii, 86. xxxix, 88.
Sec. 18. The creditor or officer may demand of the mortgagee,
pledgee, or holder, an account on oath of the amount due
upon the debt or demand secured by such mortgage, pledge, or
lien, and the officer may retain the property in his custody, without tender or payment, until the account is given. If the account
is not given within fifteen days after demand, or if a false account
is given, the property shall be holden discharged from such
mortgage, pledge, or lien. But any person who fails to render
an account, or a true account, may be relieved upon a bill in
equity, whenever it shall appear that such failure was caused by
fraud, accident, mistake, or misfortune, and that such relief
would be just and equitable.
SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ATTACHED.
Sec. 19. Personal property attached shall be sold by the offi, K> f J • , .J..
cer before judgment, it the parties consent thereto in writing.
The sale shall be made in the same manner as sales of property
taken on execution, unless a different mode is agreed to by the
parties. xxiii, 67. xxxii, 277.
Sec. 20. When living animals, or goods liable to perish or
waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which
cannot be kept without great expense, are attached, and the parties
do not consent to a sale, the officer, on application of either
of the parties, while the attachment continues and before judgment
on which the plaintifff can take execution, may cause the
same to be examined in the manner following.
Sec. 21. Three disinterested persons conversant with the
nature and value of such property shall be appointed, one by the
officer, one by the creditor, and one by the debtor. The officer
shall appoint an examiner for the creditor or debtor, in any case
where he might appoint an appraiser for the debtor upon the
levy of an execution on real estate.
Sec. 22. The persons so appointed, being sworn to the faith
ful discharge of their duties, shall examine the property, and
decide what part of it is such as is described in section twenty,
and certify the same to the officer, and he shall thereupon adver
tise and sell the property so certified, in the same manner as if
the parties consented thereto.
Sec. 23. If the examiners shall decide that any part or the
whole of the property examined is not such as is described in section twenty, either party, if dissatisfied with the decision,
may apply to a judge of the supreme court, in term time or vaca
tion, for an order for the sale of such property, and the judge
may, after notice to the adverse party, his agent or attorney,
make such order for sale as he may deem proper. If a sale is
ordered, the officer having the property in his custody shall sell
it agreeably to the order.
RESTORATION OF ATTACHED PROPERTY TO THE DEBTOR.
Sec. 24. If the debtor, before notice of sale, requests any
personal property attached to be restored to him, and the officer
shall not agree with him as to the value thereof, the officer shall
cause three disinterested persons to be appointed and sworn as
above provided in the case of examiners.
Sec. 25. The officer shall cause a schedule of the property to
be prepared, and the persons so appointed shall appraise it at its
cash value at that time, and make a certificate of their doings on
such schedule.
Sec. 26. The property so appraised, or the value of which
has been agreed on by the officer and debtor, shall be restored
to the debtor, upon his giving bond to the sheriff, if the attach
ment is made by him or his deputy, otherwise to the coroner or
constable making the same, in sufficient penalty, with sufficient
sureties, conditioned to pay the appraised or agreed value there
of, or so much as may be necessary toward the satisfaction of
any executions for the payment of which the property or its pro
ceeds are holden.
Sec. 27. Property attached shall be deemed to remain in the
custody of the officer, so far as to be liable to attachment in the
same manner it would have been if it had remained in his hands
specifically, notwithstanding it may have been sold, or restored
to the debtor, or taken from the officer by writ of replevin.
Sec. 28. If the property is sold or restored to the debtor as
aforesaid before the return day of the writ, the officer shall
make return thereon of his doings relating thereto ; and if it \&
sold or restored after the return day, he shall make return there
of to the court in which the writ is pending on which the first
attachment was made ; and such return shall be filed with the
writ.
Sec. 29. The bond taken by the officer, upon the restoration
of the property as aforesaid, shall be filed in court with the writ
on which the first attachment was made, as a part of the record
in that case.
Sec. 30. Every bond given by a debtor on the restoration of
property, and every replevin bond given in case of property attached,
shall be deemed to be given for the benefit of all persons
who have attached or may attach the same, to the full value of
the property.
Sec. 31. If such bond is forfeited, any attaching creditor or
his representative may bring a writ of scire facias thereon within
two years after the cause of such action accrues, and not afterward;
and in such action two or more creditors may join, and
separate executions shall be awarded to each for the amounts due
to them respectively.
Sec. 32. Any party interested may maintain an action of
debt on such bond in the name of the officer to whom the same
is payable within the period above limited; the name of such
party shall be indorsed on the writ, with a statement of his interest,
and any other party may cause his name to be so indorsed
at any time bv leave of court.
Sec. 33. The persons whose names are so indorsed shall be
deemed the plaintifffs for every purpose, and execution shall issue
in favor of each for the amounts due them respectively, and
against them for costs, if judgment should be rendered for the
defendants.
DISSOLUTION OF ATTACHMENTS.
Sec. 34. When a judgment is rendered for the defendant,
upon which execution may issue, or when the action is compro* V» 1
mised or dismissed, the attachment made in the action is dissolved
thereby. g.s. 205:33. g. L.224: 33. vii, rre.
Sec. 35. Attachments are dissolved by the death of the
defendant, in case his estate is decreed to be administered as an
insolvent estate, but not otherwise, if the cause of action
anrvivoa G. 8.205:84. G. L.224: 34. vl, 459. xlv, 621, 822. xxvi, 488.
ouivivt-o. xxxll,81. xxxiv, 381. xllll,161. 111,191. 1x111,192. 1885,
Sec. 36. If the property attached has been sold and the attachments
thereon have been dissolved, the money arising from
the sale thereof, deducting the charges and expenses of sale,
shall be restored to the debtor or to his personal representative,
upon request. If the property has been restored to the debtor
on his bond, the bond shall be void.
RELEASE OF ATTACHMENTS ON REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 37. A defendant whose interest in real estate is attached
. , •■• ■■ a
on mesne process may apply by a petition in writing to a justice
of the supreme court, in term time or vacation, to have the attachment released, and upon reasonable notice to all parties interested, or their attorneys, and hearing, the justice may order the
petitioner to give bond to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties,
conditioned to pay the judgment which may be recovered by the
plaintifff, with his costs on such petition, within thirty days after
judgment.
Sec. 38. If, on the hearing, the justice shall find the real
estate so attached, or the interest of the defendant therein, to be
of less value than the amount ordered in the writ to be attached,
the bond shall be conditioned to pay the value of such interest
so found, and costs on the petition, within thirty days after
judgment.
Sec. 39. The petition and proceedings thereon shall be filed
with the writ in the action. The clerk of court shall, upon pay
ment or tender of his fees, give the petitioner an attested copy
of the petition and proceedings, with a certificate, under seal of
the court, attached thereto, that the bond has been filed in his
office. The recording of such copy and certificate in the regis
try of deeds in the county where the real estate or interest lies
shall vacate and dissolve the attachment thereof.
limitation of attachment lien.
Sec. 40. Property attached shall be holden until the expira
tion of thirty days from the time of rendering a judgment in the
action in favor of the plaintifff on which he can take execution,
and if there are several attachments the property shall be holden
to the creditors in the order in which their attachments were
made.
Sec. 41. When there are several attachments of the same
property, in different suits, if an action in which a prior attach
ment was made shall be continued in court, the plaintifff in a
suit wherein a subsequent attachment was made may take judg
ment and execution at any time, and the lien of his attachment
in its order of priority shall be preserved until the expiration of
thirty dajs from the rendition of judgment in the suit wherein
the prior attachment was made.
Sec. 42. The proceeds of propert}- sold on a writ, and the
amount secured by a bond as provided in this chapter, shall be
holden to pay the executions issuing in the actions in which the
attachments were made in the order in which they were made, if
demanded by the officer to whom such executions are com
mitted, within thirty days after judgment is rendered.
Sec. 43. If judgment for the plaintifff is rendered by direc
tion of the court as of a previous term, the clerk shall enter of
record the day on which the order of court is dated, and prop
erty attached shall be holden until the expiration of thirty days
from that date.
S. 205: 39. G. L. 224:39. 111,191.
DEMAND ON RECEIPTOR.
Sec. 44. Whenever a receiptor for property attached is absent
from the county of his residence, the officer holding the
receipt may make a demand upon him for the property by leaving
a notice in writing at the last and usual place of abode of
the receiptor, directed to him, signed by the officer, and containing
a statement of the kind and amount of property for which
the receipt was given, the names of the parties to the writ on
which it was attached, and the time when and place where the
officer requires it to be delivered. A demand so made shall
charge the receiptor as if it were made upon him in person.
exemptions from arke8t.
Section
CHAPTER 221
ARRESTS AND BAIL.
1. No female to be arrested, etc., upon
writ on contract.
2. Nor person entitled to vote, on civil
process, on day of town meeting.
3. Nor officer or soldier while attending
to military duty.
i. Nor executor, etc., for any cause of
action against the deceased.
5. Nor sheriff while in office.
6. Nor any person in real action.
7. Nor on writ in action on contract, un
less for more than thirteen dollars
and thirty-three cents.
8. Nor unless upon affidavit, except in
certain cases.
DISCHARGE FROM ARREST, HAIL, AND IM
PRISONMENT.
9. Defendant, when arrested, may apply
Section
to justices, who may discharge.
10. Or may move the court for discharge.
11. Discharge of person arrested or im
prisoned on execution not to dis
charge debt.
12. Discharge from arrests on mesne pro
cess in cases of tort.
13. Court may order capias when attach
ment Insufficient, etc.
14. Upon arrest, defendant to be commit
ted, unless he gives ball.
15. When committed, may give bail to
Jailer, and he to make return.
16. Name ami abode of bail to be returned
on writ, etc.
i 17. Person committed to be detained
thirty days alter judgment.
EXEMPTIONS FROM ARREST.
Section 1. No female shall be arrested upon a writ in an
action founded on contract. h.s.i»-.i. c.8.i«:i. G.8.so6:i. g.l,2»:i.
Sec. 2. No person entitled to vote at a town meeting shall be
arrested upon a civil process on the dav on which the meeting is
held, E. S. 185:2. C S. 197: 4. G. S. 206: 2. G.L.MS: 2. ii, 468. xxvi, 117.
Sec. 3. No officer or soldier shall be arrested upon a civil
process while going to, returning from, or attending at a military
exercise or parade, a court martial, or a court of inquiry, which
it is his duty to attend. g.l.225: 3.
Sec. 4. No executor or administrator shall be arrested for a
cause of action against his testator or intestate. c£rse206-?'G.L?225Sect.
5. No sheriff" shall be arrested upon a civil process
while he remains in office. k.s. 185:5. c. s. 197.- 5. g. s. 206:5. g. l. 225.5; 216:
Sec. 6. No person shall be arrested on mesne process in a
real action or an action of ejectment.
S. 208: 6. G. L. 225: 6. vl, 29.
Sec. 7. No person shall be arrested on a writ in an action
founded on a contract, unless the debt or damage for the recov
ery of which the action is brought, exclusive of costs, shall ex
ceed the sum of thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
Sec. 8. No person shall be arrested upon a writ or execution
founded on a contract except as provided in section ten, unless
the plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, shall make an affida
vit before a justice, on the back of the writ, that in his belief the
defendant is justly indebted to him in a certain sum exceeding
thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, and that he conceals his
property so that no attachment or levy can be made, or that
there is good reason to believe he is about to leave the state to
avoid the payment of his debts.
DISCHARGE FROM ARREST, BAIL, AND IMPRISONMENT.
Sec. 9. The defendant in such case, when arrested, may re
quire the officer making the arrest to carry him before two jus
tices, one of whom shall be of the quorum ; and the justices,
upon considering his affidavit and such evidence as may be laid
before them, if they believe he does not so conceal his property
and has no intention to leave the state, may make an order
for his discharge upon the writ or execution, and he shall be
released.
Sec. 10. At the return term of the writ, the defendant may
move the court to be discharged, or that his bail or sureties may
be discharged ; and the court, upon satisfactory evidence that
the defendant does not conceal his property and does not intend
to leave the state, may order the discharge ; but if the debtor
so arrested on mesne process shall not in some way be discharged
from arrest before final judgment, then execution may issue
against his body.
Sec. 11. No such discharge, nor a discharge of a person ar
rested or imprisoned on execution, shall discharge the debt or
judgment upon which the execution issued.
xxxvUi, 280.
Sec. 12. Any person arrested or committed to jail on mesne
process in an action of tort may apply by petition to a justice of
the supreme court, in term time or vacation, praying for his re
lease, and the justice, after notice to the plaintifff, and a hearing,
may discharge such person from arrest upon such terms and
conditions as justice may require. The justice may appoint one
or more justices of the peace to report the facts, and may order
their fees to be paid by the county.
Sec. 13. If no sufficient attachment has been made in a suit,
and there is no sufficient bail, the court, or any justice thereof,
upon motion and satisfactory evidence that the defendant intends
to leave the state, may order a capias to issue, on which the
defendant may be arrested and held to bail as on an original
writ.
Sec. 14. When a person is arrested on mesne process, he
shall be committed to jail in the county in which he resides, unless he procures one or more persons of sufficient ability, to the
satisfaction of the officer, to become his bail, by indorsing their
names or signatures as bail on the back of the writ. J^'UJ- lifti1^
Sec. 15. A person committed to jail before judgment, by an
officer, or by his bail, or upon a surrender by his bail in court,
shall be discharged upon procuring one or more persons of sufficient
ability, to the satisfaction of the keeper of the jail, to
become his bail, by indorsing their names or signatures as bail
on the back of the copy or order of court on which the person is detained in jail; and the jailer shall make return of such
copy or order and his doings thereon, into the court, and such
indorsement and return shall be of the same force and effect as
if made on the original writ.
Sec. 16. The officer taking any person as bail shall return
his name and place of abode upon the writ, copy, or order of
court on which the person is arrested or detained in prison.
Sec. 17. If a person is committed to prison by the officer or
his bail, or upon surrender by his bail, he shall, unless he is
bailed before the judgment, be held in prison until the expiration
of thirty days after the rendition of such judgment for the
plaintifff as execution may issue upon, unless sooner legally discharged.
G. S.208: IS.
Section 1. If a defendant on whom process has been dulyserved
neglects to appear at the court to which the same is re
turned, his default shall be recorded, and judgment shall be ren
dered against him for such damages as upon inquiry the plaintifff
appears to have sustained.
xxvi, 814. xxvii, 395. xxvlii, 386. xxix, 237. xxxii, 229, 234. xxxiv, 481. xlvili, 21. lv, 437.
Sec. 2. The defendant may be permitted to enter an appear
ance after a default, at the discretion of the court or justice, upon
the payment of reasonable costs.
xlviii, 21.
Sec. 3. If no personal service has been made on a defendant
in an action which may be entered without such service, the
court, on suggestion thereof, may order the action to be continued
and notice of the pendency thereof to be given by publication,
by mail in a registered letter, by personal service, or otherwise,
as they think proper; and upon satisfactory evidence that the
order has been complied with, the notice shall be sufficient.
xxxl,201. xxxiii, 22S, 4S2. mv, 162. xxxvl, 21.
Sec. 4. In actions before a justice or police court, commenced
by attachment, if no personal service is made upon the defendant by reason that he resides out of the state, or that his residence
is unknown to the officer serving the writ, the action shall
be continued not less than sixty days, and the justice shall order
notice of the pendency of the action to be given, by posting a
copy of such order in two or more public places in the town
where the defendant was last known to be an inhabitant in this
state, forty days at least before the day to which the action is
continued.
Sec. 5. If the defendant shall not appear at the time and
place to which the action is continued, judgment shall be rendered on satisfactory evidence that notice nas been posted as
aforesaid ; and execution shall issue thereon, upon the plaintifff's
filing with the justice a bond with sufficient sureties, to the defendant,
to respond to the judgment which the defendant may
recover upon a review of the action.
Sec. 6. Such review may be brought at any time within two
years after the rendition of the judgment, and the plaintifff in
such review may have the benefit of all pleas and advantages
which he might have had in the original action.
Sec. 7. No writ, declaration, return, process, judgment, or
other proceeding in the courts or course of justice shall be abated,
quashed, or reversed for any error or mistake, where the person
or case may be rightly understood by the court, nor through defeet
or want of form or addition only ; and courts and justices
may, on motion, order amendment in any such case, xlfuo^xm';
xlv, 558. xlviii, 473. xllx, 35. 11,633.' Ill, 605.'
Mil, 19, 43, 810. llx, 18, 50, 54, 90, 98, 467, 534.
Sec. 8. Amendments in matters of substance may be permitted in any action, in any stage of the proceedings, upon such
terms as the court shall deem just and reasonable, when it shall
appear to the court that it is necessary for the prevention of
gross injustice; but the rights of third persons shall not be
nflWtprl triorAriv xvll, 889, 486. xvlll, 215, 811. xlx, 109. xxxvlii, 846. xxxlx, 393, 528.
iiiicoueu uiueuji, xii^g. xllll, 35, 313. xliv, 525, 589. xllx, 35. 1,21,293. lv, 21, 386,
279. lvll,41. llx, 143, 153, 343, 417, 490, 584. lx, 9, 150. lxi, 67, 76, 153.
lxlll, 60, 115, 124, 296, 420, 612. lxiv, 276, 277.
Sec. 9. In real actions the writ shall not abate because all
the tenants are not named in it, but those on whom it is served
shall answer for such part of the premises demanded as they
claim, and may disclaim for the residue.
Sec. 10. When one of two or more plaintifffs or defendants
dies, and the right of action survives, the action may be prosecuted by or against the surviving parties, such death being suggested
on the record. g.l. 226:13. iv,54,385. xiv,i95.
Sec. 11. No action shall be abated by the plea that there are
other plaintifff's or defendants who ought to be joined therein,
but such persons may be made parties to the action upon such
terms as the court shall order, and may be summoned by scire
facias, or notified by publication, as the court may order ; and
the action shall thereafter proceed as if their names were inserted
in the original writ.
Sec. 12. In all civil proceedings, when two or more are joined
as plaintifffs or defendants the writ or other process may be
amended before the evidence is closed or the case is submitted,
by striking out the name of any plaintifff or of any defendant on
paying his costs to that time.
xllii,S83. xlv, 18. xlvll, 297. 11,316. 1111, 676. lvli, 223. _lxili,296.
Sec. 13. The court shall order notice to be given, in such
manner as they think fit, of any petition, complaint, libel, appli
cation, or motion in writing filed therein, and no judgment or
decree shall be rendered thereon without compliance with such
order.
Sec. 14. Any application, motion, complaint, libel, or peti
tion, for any cause of action, may be filed in the clerk's office, in
vacation, and an order of notice issued thereon under the rules
of the court.
CHAPTER 223.
TENDER, PLEADING, AND SET-OFF.
TENDER.
Section
1. Tender before return day of writ to
plaintifff's attorney.
2. Defendant may confess cause of action,
etc.
PLEADING.
3. Before Justice, no special plea neces
sary except title.
4. More than one replication may be filed
to a special plea.
6. If one Issue maintained, Immaterial
that other matters pleaded are not
proved.
6. Defendant In slander may prove the
words were common report, etc.
SET-OFF.
7. Mutual debts between parties may be
set off.
8ECTION
8. Set-off not allowed unless right of ac
tion thereon.
9. Contingent claims between deceased
and another set off by or against ad
ministrator.
10. Amount equitably due on bond or spe
cialty to be set off.
11. Set-ofl may be pleaded or notice given
under general issue.
12. Plaintiff to have continuance In case
of set-off, unless ten days' notice.
13. Judgment to be for balance.
14. Procedure when set-off exceeds Juris
diction of Justice or police court.
15. Same subject.
TENDER.
Section 1. At any time before the return day of the writ, the
defendant may tender to the attorney who brought the action
the amount of the debt and costs, and such tender shall be a bar
to any further proceedings in the case.
372. 11,552.
Sec. 2. In any action the defendant may file a confession of
the plaintifff's right to recover certain real estate, or a certain
amount of debt or damages, and plead to the residue of his claim ;
and if the plaintifff further prosecutes the action, and fails to
recover more than is so confessed, the defendant shall recover
his costs from the date of the confession. i^i££aiFf$k
PLEADING.
Sec. 3. No special plea shall be required in a civil action,
except a plea of title to real estate in actions in police and justice
courts; but any defense may be proved under the general issue,
upon a brief statement thereof being filed in such time as the
court may order. x»306- xi,48. xin, 130. Sx,ta». xxv,iu. xxvi, 24. xxxviii, 191.
Sec. 4. When the defendant pleads one or more special pleas,
the plaintifff may reply thereto all such matters as may be material
in answer to or avoidance of the matters alleged therein, and
for that purpose may file as many separate replications as the
case requires.
Sec. 5. If, upon the trial of the issues upon such pleadings,
either party maintains by his evidence such of the matters by
him pleaded as would constitute an answer to or avoidance of
the matters pleaded by the other party, such issue shall be considered to be maintained by the party producing such evidence,
notwithstanding other matters alleged in his pleadings may not
be sustained by the proof.
Sec. 6. In actions for libel or slander, under the general
issue, the defendant may prove, in mitigation of damages and to
rebut evidence of actual malice, that the writing or words complained
of were the repetition of common report, and that the
conduct of the plaintifff was such as to create suspicion of the
i r» i 1*1 1 • 1 •
truth of the matters therein charged against him.
SET-OFF.
Sec. 7. If there are mutual debts or demands between the
plaintifff and defendant at the time of the commencement of the
plaintifff '8 action, one debt or demand may be set off against the
nfhpr 235:15- It**- 11, 419,479. 111,539. iv, 69, 236, 352. vi, 27, 469. vill, 539. lx, 285. xl,66,
UIUC1, 4D4. xlv, 49, 149. xv, 536. xvl, 242, 547, 551. xxi, 356. xxlll,32. xxiv, 517. xxvll,
520. xxxlll, 310. xxxlx, 541. xlili, 430. xliv, 112, 125, 591. xlv, 141. xlvl, 17. liv,
396. lvl, 155. lxll, 185.
Sec. 8. No debt or demand shall be set off as aforesaid unless
a right of action existed thereon at the beginning of the plaintiff '8 action. G. L. 227:8. xlv, 49. xxl,232. xliv, 591. xlvl, 17.
Sec. 9. Mutual debts or demands, though contingent, existing between a person deceased and another persou, when due,
may be set off in actions by or against the administrator.
G. 8.208 : 9. G. L. 227 : 9. 11, 419. vll, 16.
Sec. 10. If the defendant's debt or demand is founded on a
bond or specialty with a penalty, only the amount equitably due
shall be set off. R- s- 187: 6- c- s- 199: e- °- s- 208: 10Sec. 11. The defendant may plead such set-off, or give notice
thereof with the general issue, describing the debt or demand
with the same certainty as is required in a declaration, g. s. 208:11.
Sec. 12. The plaintifff is entitled to one continuance in case
of a set-off, unless a particular statement of the debt or demand,
with a notice that the defendant will 8et off the same, has been
served on the plaintifff ten days before the sitting of the court.
Sec. 13. When a set-off has been pleaded or filed, judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the party to whom the balance is
due for the amount thereof, and his taxable costs.
Sec. 14. If, in an action before a justice of the peace or a
police court, the defendant pleads a set-oft' or files a set-off with
the general issue which exceeds the jurisdiction of the justice or
court, and accompanies it with an affidavit that the claims men
tioned in the set-off are, in his belief, justly due and owing to
him, no further proceedings shall be had before the justice or
police court than to record the plea and set-oft*, and, if the plain
tiff so elects, to enter a nonsuit.
Sec. 15. If the plaintifff does not elect to become nonsuited,
he may enter the action at the next trial term of the supreme
court, filing with the clerk attested copies of all papers in the
case, and may prosecute the action in that court as if originally
begun therein.
CHAPTER 224,
Section
1. Form of summons to witness.
2. Clerk of court may issue for witness
at his court, and Justice at any court.
3. Justice may issue for witness before
himself or other Justice or notary,
and before general court, etc.
4. Justice or notary may issue for wit
ness to give deposition.
5. Writ of summons served by reading
and paying fees.
6. Witness negleo'.ing, etc., to appear,
etc., liable for damages.
7. Courts may compel attendance of wit
nesses, and impose flues for neglect,
etc.
8. Upon certificate of clerk of court of
another state, witness may be sum
moned to go out of state, when.
9. Upon refusal or neglect, without
cause, to forfeit three hundred dol
lars.
10. Ceremony in taking oath to be holding
up right hand, but other form may
be used.
11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may
affirm.
12. So person to be excluded from testify
ing on account of his religious opin
ions.
13. Parties may testify as witnesses.
14. No party compelled to disclose his
witnesses, etc., nor, in giving depo
sition, to produce papers, etc.
witnesses.
Section
15. One party offering testimony of the
other, may cross-examine.
16. Party not to testify if adverse party is
administrator, etc., or insane, unless
he testifies.
17. But court may allow party to testify
when Injustice would be done with
out it.
18. When party of record represents ad
ministrator, etc., adverse party not
to testify, unless.
19. In action by indorsee of note, etc., de
fendant not to testify if original
party to bill Is dead, etc., unless.
20. Husband and wife competent to testi
fy for or against each other, but not
as to conversations, etc., nor any
matter when in violation of marital
confidence.
21. Provisions not to apply to attestation
of wills, etc.
22. Opinions of witnesses competent to
judge, evidence of value of property .
23. Records and copies of returns, etc., re
quired to be filed, evidence as the
originals.
24. Respondents in criminal oases compe
tent witnesses at their election.
26. Not compelled to testify, nor any infer
ence of guilt from not testifying.
26. Not incompetent to testify by reason
of having been convicted of an in
famous crime.
Section 1. "Writs of summons to witnesses shall be substantially
in the form following:
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
■SS. To[h.
s.] You are required to appear at , in the county
of , on the day of , to testify what you know
relating to , then and there to be heard, in which
is and is .
Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default under the
penalties prescribed by law.
Dated at , the day of , .
(Signed) .
Sec. 2. Such writ may be issued by the clerk of any court
for witnesses in any case pending therein, and by a justice for
witnesses in any case in any court. R- s- 188: 3> 4- c- s-200: 3> 4- G- 8- 209: 2.
Sec. 3. Any justice may issue such writs for witnesses, in
cases pending before himself or any other justice, in all matters
before the general court, or before auditors, referees, arbitrators,
or commissioners.
Sec. 4. Any justice or notary may issue such writs for witnesses to appear before himself or any other justice or notary, to
five depositions in any matter or cause in which the same may
e lawfully taken. g.s.mo:*. u.l.ws:4. xxxin.m
Sec. 5. Any person may be summoned to attend and testify
or give his deposition, by, reading to him the writ of summons,
and by paying or tendering to him the fees established for his
travel to and from the place where his attendance is required,
and for one day's attendance. G- L- M8: 5- xli- mSec. 6. If a person so summoned neglects to attend or to
,. . * . . ~
give his attendance so long as may be necessary tor the purpose
for which he was summoned, or refuses to testify or to give his
deposition if required, having no reasonable excuse therefore, he
shall be liable to the party aggrieved for all damages sustained
thereby.
Sec. 7. Every court, justice, and notary before whom a perl. u J I 1 j. 1-c j. J
son has been summoned to appear and testily or to give a deposition,
may bring the person neglecting or refusing to appear or
to testify or to give his deposition, by attachment, before them,
and if, on examination, he has no reasonable excuse, may fine
him not exceeding ten dollars, if imposed by a justice, notary, or
police court, and not exceeding fifty dollars, if imposed by any
other court, and may order him to pay costs.
Sec. 8. If the clerk of any court in any other of the United
c, in .oil » • • t 3-- 1
States shall certify that there is a criminal cause pending in such
court, and that a person residing in this state is supposed to be a
material witness therein, any justice shall issue and annex to the
certificate a summons requiring the witness to appear and testify
at such court.
Sec. 9. If any person on whom such summons is served,
having tendered to him double the fees for travel and attendance of witnesses in the supreme court, shall unreasonably neglect
or refuse to attend and testify at the court mentioned in the
summons, he shall forfeit three hundred dollars, to any person
who will sue therefore.
Sec. 10. No other ceremony shall be necessary in swearing
than holding up the right hand, but any other form or ceremony
ma)- be used which the person to whom the oath is administered
professes to believe more binding upon the conscience.
Sec. 11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may affirm; the
word " affirm " being used in administering the oath, instead of
*ne wor" " swear" and the words, " this you do under the pains and
Paia^'es °f Per.)ur!j" instead of the words, "So help you God."
Sec. 12. No person who believes in the existence of a supreme
being shall be excluded from testifying on account of his
opinions on matters of religion.
S.200:9. G. S. 209:12. G. L. 228: 12. Iv, 444. llx, 219.
Sec. 13. No person shall be excused or excluded from testifyi»g
or giving his deposition in any civil cause by reason of his
interest therein, as a party or otherwise.
1888,27:1. xxxvii, 457. xxxviii, 81, 324. xxxix, 304. xl, 135, 363. lyiii, 292.
Sec. 14. No part)- shall be compelled, in testifying or giving
a deposition, to disclose the names of the witnesses by whom
nor the manner in which he proposes to prove his case, nor, in
o^"» a deposition, to produce any writing which is material
to his case or defense, unless the deposition is taken in his own
U,U„H?
behalf
Sec. 1ft. When one party offers the testimony of the norainal or real adverse party, he is not thereby to be precluded from
cross-examining, contradicting, or impeaching him.
L. 228:15. 111,205. lx, 418. 1x111,128.
Sec. 16. When one party to a cause is an executor, administrator, or the guardian of an insane person, neither party shall
testify in respect to facts which occurred in the lifetime of the
deceased or prior to the ward's insanity, unless the executor, administrator,
or guardian elects so to testify, except as provided
m the following section.
xlil, 162. xliti, 246. xliv, 370. xlvl, 110. xlvll. 551. xlviil,9I. 1,303. 11,384. 111,31,605. lvl,
405. lx, 152, 400, 418, 480. 1x1,354,413. 1x111,206,344,
Sec. 17. When it clearly appears to the court that injustice
may be done without the testimony of the party in such case, he
may be allowed to testify; and the ruling of the court, admitting or rejecting his testimony, may be excepted to and revised.
xliv, 370. xl'vii, 462, 551. xlviii, 90. 1,303. 11,501. 111,605. liv, 455. lvl, 559. lvii, 43. Iix,
480, 571. lxlii, 206, 351.
Sec. 18. When either party of record is not the party in interest,
and the party whose interest is represented by the party
°f record is an executor, administrator, or insane, the adverse
Party shall not testify, unless the executor, administrator, or
guardian of the insane person elects to testify himself, or to offer
tke testimony 0f sucn party of record.
Sec. 19. In an action brought by an indorsee or assignee of
a bill of exchange, promissory note, or mortgage against an
original party thereto, the defendant shall not testify in his own
behalf if either of the original parties to the bill, note, or mortgaa-e
is dead or insane, unless the plaintifff elects to testify himself or to offer the testimony of an original party thereto.
Sec. 20. Husband and wife are competent witnesses for or
• «
against each other in all cases civil and criminal, except that
neither shall be allowed to testify as to any statement, conversa^on> letter, or other communication made to the other or to
another person, nor as to any matter which in the opinion of the
court would lead to a violation of marital confidence, f^ff^1!^6' ^j
G. L. 228: 20, 21. xlviii, 485. 11, 85. Ill, 31, 221. 'lv'll, 47. '
Sec. 21. The provisions of this chapter shall not aii'ect the
law relative to the attestation of wills or other instruments required to he attested by subscribing witnesses, g^1^.0^; '^ViSfsi?"
Sec. 22. The opinions of witnesses as to the value of any real
estate, goods, or chattels, may be received as evidence thereof,
when it appears to the court that they are qualified to judge of
such value. '
Sec. 23. The record of any return, list, or other document
required by law to be filed or recorded in any public office, or a
copy thereof certified by the proper officer, and copies of all records, documents, books, and papers in the office of the adjutantgeneral
of this state, certified by the adjutant-general, shall be
evidence in any case where the originals would be evidence.
1885,59:1. 1,401.
Sec. 24. In the trial of indictments, complaints, and other
, . . , t ■ i i • j?
proceedings against persons charged with the commission of
crimes and offenses, the person so charged shall, at his own request, but not otherwise, be a competent witness. g.b1l. Isis!1 ssnSect.
25. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as
compelling any such person to testify, nor shall any inference of
his guilt result if he does not testify, nor shall the counsel for
the prosecution comment thereon in case the respondent does
not testify. 1869,23:2. G. L. 228:20.
Sec. 26. No person shall be incompetent to testify on account
of his having been convicted of an infamous crime, but
the record of such conviction may be used to affect his credit as
a witness. an Infamous crime. 1871, 38: 1. G.L. 228:27. 1,242. Ill, 205.
CHAPTER 225.
Section
1. The deposition of any witness may be
taken and used, unless witness pro
duced.
2. Depositions to be sealed up, etc.
8. Justice, notary, commissioner, etc.,
may take depositions.
4. Notice to adverse party, if in the state
or within twenty miles.
8. If out of state, etc., to his attorney.
6. No person such attorney unless he
has indorsed writ or entered appear
ance, etc.
7. No person to act as magistrate who
would be disqualified as Juror, etc.
DEPOSITIONS.
Section
8. Witness to subscribe deposition, make
oath, etc
9. Magistrate to certify oath, timo and
place of taking, action, court, etc.
10. Copy of notice, etc., to be annexed to
certificate.
11. Depositions of parties.
12. Party neglecting to take, after giving
notice, to pay costs, etc.
13. Respondent in criminal cases may take
depositions.
14. Solicitor or attorney-general attend
ing caption, how paid.
Section 1. The deposition of any witness in a civil cause may
be taken and used at the trial unless the adverse party procures
him to attend, so that he may be called to testify when the deposition
is offered.
54. xi,S5S. it, 504. xlx, 534. xx, 121. xxvlll, 561. xxxli, 132. xxxvll, 316. xxxvlil, 366.
116. lvlll, 164.
Sec. 2. Depositions so taken shall be sealed up by the
mag*8trate taking the same, directed to the court or justice before
whom they are to be used, with a brief description of the case,
and shall be so delivered into court.
151. xxxvll, 24.
Sec. 3. Any justice or notary public in the state, any commissioner
appointed under the laws of the state to take depositions in other states, any judge or justice of the peace or
n°tary public in any other state or country, may take such
deposition.
Sec. 4. The party proposing to take a deposition shall cause
•
a notice m writing, signed by a justice or notary, stating the day,
hour, and place of taking the same, to be delivered to the adverse
Party> or one of them, or to be left at his abode, if either
of such parties resides in this state, and within twenty miles of
the place of taking, or of the party taking the same, a reasoname time before the taking thereof.
116. Ill, 605. Jxlv, 1.
Sec. 5. If the adverse party resides out of the state, or more
than twenty miles from the place of caption, or from the party
proposing to take the deposition, a like notice, given to the agent
or attorney of such adverse party, or left at his abode, shall be
sufficient.
Sec. 6. No person shall be deemed an agent or attorney for
this purpose, unless he has indorsed the writ in the cause, or has
appeared for his principal before the court, justice, referees, or
arbitrators, where the action is pending, or has given notice in
writing that he is such attorney or agent.
Sec. 7. No person shall write the testimony of a witness, or
ac* 88 mag'8trate in taking the same, who would be disqualified
to act as juror on the trial of the cause, for any reason except
exemption from service as a juror.
xlll, 186. xx, 208. xll, 529. xlv, 410.
Sec. 8. Every witness shall subscribe his deposition, and
shall make oath that it contains the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, relative to the cause for which it was
taken.
Sec. 9. The magistrate taking the deposition shall certify
8ucn oatb, with the time and place of taking the deposition, the
case and court in which it is to be used, that the adverse party
was or was not present, was or was not notified, and that he did
or did not object.
xxl, 60. xxlv, 570. xxv, 195. xxxl, 209. xxxvll, 316, 494. xll, 242, 529. xllv, 408.
Sec. 10. A copy of the notice left with the adverse party, his
agent) or attorney, with the return of the officer or affidavit of
*ne Person leaving such notice thereon, stating the time of leaving
it, shall be annexed to the caption of the deposition, when
the adverse party does not attend.
Sec. 11. Whenever the deposition of a party to an action has
been taken, it shall, within ten days thereafter, be filed in the
office of the clerk of the court in which the action is pending.
Either party may use the deposition upon the trial of the cause,
unless the deponent is in attendance.
Sec. 12. If any party after giving notice to the adverse party
neglects or refuses to take a deposition, the adverse party may
he allowed as costs such amount as the court may deem equitafile,
not exceeding twenty-five cents a mile for actual travel of
himself or his attorney to attend the same, and may have judgment
and execution therefore unless notice in writing that the
deposition will not be taken, signed by the party giving the original
notice, is seasonably given to such adverse party.
Sec. 13. The respondent in a criminal case may take the
j ... „ r . ,. , v ■ • xi_
deposition of any person in his defense, upon giving the same
notice of the caption thereof to the solicitor of the county that is
required to be given to the adverse party in a civil case. Any
deposition so taken may be used on the trial of the case when
ever, in the discretion of the court, the use thereof shall be
deemed necessary for the promotion of justice.
Sec. 14. If a solicitor or the attorney-general shall attend the
caption of a deposition taken under the provisions of the preceding section, he shall receive a reasonable compensation for his
services and expenses from the treasury of the county in which
the prosecution is pending, his account being first audited and
allowed by the supreme court in such county.
CHAPTER 226.
DEPOSITIONS IN PERPETUAL REMEMBRANCE.
Section
1. Depositions in perpetual remi
brance, bow taken.
2. Petition stating interest and facts.
8. Notice of taking, how given.
4. Notice to minors, etc., how given.
Section
5. By publication, when.
6. Depositions, how taken and certified.
7. When filed in court.
8. When recorded in registry of deeds.
9. When evidence, or a copy.
Section 1. Depositions in perpetual remembrance of auy fact
or transaction may be taken before a court of record, or before
two justices, one of whom shall be of the quorum. If the depositions
relate to the burning, destruction, or loss of any public
files or records, they shall be taken by the supreme court, or by
a commissioner appointed by the court.
Sec. 2. A person desiring to take such deposition shall present his petition to the court or justices in writing, under oath,
briefly setting forth his interest in the subject, and the facts to
which the desired testimony relates, the names and residences of
all persons supposed to be interested therein, or, if the fact be so,
that the names or residences of such persons are unknown, and
the names of the witnesses proposed to be examined.
Sec. 3. Notice of the time and place of taking such deposi
tions shall be given by the court, commissioner, or justices to all
parties known to be interested in the property or transaction tcwhich
the testimony relates, in the manner provided for taking
depositions to be used in actions pending. Such notice shall
contain or be annexed to a copy of the petition for the taking of
the depositions.
Sec. 4. When the persons supposed to be interested are
minors, notices may be given to their guardians. If they have
no guardians, the judge of probate in the county where they
reside, on application, may appoint guardians, to whom notice
may be given to appear for and protect the rights of such minors.
Sec. 5. If the name or residence of a party interested is un
known, the notice shall be published three weeks successively,
beginning at least eight weeks before the time of taking, in the
newspaper printed in Concord in which notice of sales of lands
of nonresidents for taxes is required to be published, and in
some newspaper printed in the county, and, if the deposition
relate to land, a like notice shall be posted in some public place
in the shire town of the county in which the land lies.
Sec. 6. All such depositions shall be written, signed, and
sworn to as provided in case of depositions in actions pending,,
with the necessary variation in the form of the oath. The court,,
commissioner, or justices shall annex to the depositions a certifi
cate of the time and place of taking, the name of the person at
whose request they were taken, and of all who were notified toattend
and did attend, and a copy of the notice and evidence of
the service thereof.
Sec. 7. If the depositions relate to the records of a court or
public office, they, with all the proceedings connected therewith,,
shall be filed in such court or office.
Sec. 8. If the depositions relate to real estate or to any trans
action connected therewith, the petition, depositions, certificate,
notice, and evidence of service shall, within ninety days from
the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds of thecounty
where the estate lies ; and the depositions taken in any
other case may be so recorded.
Sec. 9. Depositions in perpetual remembrance may be used
in the trial of any cause wherein the matters concerning which
they were taken are drawn in question ; and in case they shall
be lost or out of the possession and control of the party desiring
to use them, a copy of the record thereof may be used.
Section 1. Whenever an investigation of accounts or an ex
amination of vouchers is necessary, in an action pending in the
supreme court, one or more auditors may be appointed to state
the account between the parties and make report to the court.
xiii, 275. xiv, 427. xvil, 103. xvili, 9. xx, 538. xxiv, 198. xxvi, 20. xxviii, 300.
xxxii, 376. xxxiv, 481. xxxv, 92. xxxvi, 455. xxxix, 431. xliv, 354. 1,21. lvi,
Sec. 2. Auditors may be appointed in actions brought by
copartners or cotenants against their copartners or cotenants.
R. 8.189:2. C. 8.202:2. G.S.212:2.
Sec. 3. Auditors shall be sworn, shall give notice to the par
ties of the time and place of hearing, and may adjourn when
necessary. They shall all hear the parties, but a majority may
report.
Sec. 4. Auditors maybe discharged by the court, and others
be appointed, or their report may be recommitted for revision.
C. 8. 202 : 4. G. S. 212 : 4. G. L. 221 : 4. xvi, 435. xxiv, 198. xxvi, 20.
Sec. 5. If either party neglects or refuses to appear before
the auditor, or to render an account, or to produce such books
and papers, and to answer, on oath, such interrogatories, relating
to the matter in controversy as may be pertinent and material,
the auditor may certify the fact to the court, sro^xxTsiVf^xxfv' ?&
xxviii, 561. xxx, 83. xxxi, 419. xxxii, 376. xxxlil, 104. xxxiv, 215. xxxvill, 418. xl,
Sec. 6. The court shall thereupon render judgment against
such party, as upon nonsuit or default, and, if necessary, cause
the damages to be assessed by the jury. fjvSM3W:i7viC2il'.2<fvii'so8S'S12:8Sec. 7. The court shall allow a reasonable compensation to
the auditor, which shall be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in his
bill of costs, if he recover; but the court may order the fees of
auditors to be paid by the county.
Sec. 8. Upon the report of an auditor, either party may
elect to try the cause by the jury, and upon such trial the report
shall be given in evidence, subject to be impeached by either
_„_,._
xl, 537. xllll, 52,62. xlvili, 151. liv, 166, 543. lvii, 53. lvili, 516. lx, 76. 1x11,231.
REFEREES.
Sec. 9. The supreme court, or any justice thereof in vacation,
with the consent of the parties shall, and without the consent of the parties may, commit to one or more referees any
cause at law or in equity, or the determination of any question
of fact pending in court wherein the parties are not, as matter of
right, entitled to a trial by jury; and with the consent of the
parties shall so commit any other cause or the determination of
any otner question of fact.
Sec. 10. Referees shall proceed in all cases, unless the parties
otherwise agree, according to the rules of law or of equity, as
^ne case may anc* according to the practice in court, and shall
report their decision as soon as may be to the court. If either
party shall request it, they shall state specifically all matters of
^act f°und by them to have been proved, and their rulings upon
all questions of law.
Sec. 11. Reports of referees may be recommitted to the
same or other referee or referees, or such judgment may be rendered
thereon as the law and facts require.
1, 22. lvii, 475. 1x1,418.
Sec. 12. The court may make rules to regulate the practice
and proceedings before referees and may fix the times and places
tor their hearings. The referees may impose costs upon either
party as terms for delay, postponement, or continuance, subject
to revision by the court.
Sec. 13. The court shall allow a reasonable compensation to
referees for their services and expenses, which shall be paid by
the county.
G. L- 231: 13. 1881, 94: 1. 1889:90:1. lvl,559. 1x1,607.
Sec. 14. No justice of the supreme court shall be auditor or
referee in any cause pending in the court.
1881, 55 : 2.
TRIAL BY JURY.
Sec. 15. Whenever a municipal or other corporation or a
°iua8i corporation is a party to an action, the parties to such
action shall have the same right of trial by jury that any other
party has under the constitution.
Sec. 16. A jury shall be empaneled for the trial of every
cause to be tried in that mode, to be drawn from the whole
number of jurors in attendance not engaged in another cause.
xxxiv, 257. xli, 550.
- Sect. 17. Each party in the trial of a civil cause is entitled,
in addition to challenges for cause, to two peremptory challenges
of jurors drawn for the trial.
Sec. 18. The supreme court may, by general rules or special
order, prescribe the mode of drawing ana empaneling the jury,
and of exercising the right of peremptory challenge, as may be,
required to carry into effect the provisions of the two preceding sections.
Sec. 19. In the trial of actions involving questions of right
to real estate, or in which the examination of places or objects
may aid the jury in understanding the testimony, the court, on
motion of either party, may, in their discretion, direct a view of
the premises by the jury, under such rules as they may prescribe.
Sec. 20. The costs of such view shall be subject to such adjudication, as to the whole or any part thereof, as the court may
deem equitable.
Sec. 21. The court may direct proper issues to be framed for
the trial by a jury of any question of fact arising in a suit in
equity or other proceeding pending in the court. £gul$ ege^g
STENOGRAPHER.
Sec. 22. A stenographer may be employed in any judicial
proceeding whenever the court shall so order or the parties
agree. He shall be sworn before entering upon his duties. He
shall make for the use of the court and the parties a true report
of all proceedings, the original of which and a copy of it written
out in full, shall, as soon as practicable, be placed on file.
Sec. 23. A reasonable compensation shall be allowed to the
stenographer, to be paid by the parties in whole or in part and
taxed in the bill of costs, or by the county, as the court may
order. ' '
Section 1. Judgments for debt, damages, or costs shall be
rendered in dollars and cents ; and in rendering judgment for
the debt or damages found by verdict, report of an auditor, or
otherwise, interest shall be added from the time of such finding
to the rendition of judgment.
Sec. ti. Any person against whom an action is brought for
the recovery of real estate may, with his plea, file a briet state
ment, setting forth that he and the persons under whom he
claims have been in the actual peaceable possession thereof, under
a supposed legal title, for more than six years before the action
was begun, and that the value thereof has been increased by
them by buildings or other improvements.
xxvi, 41. xxxi, 70. xxxix, 439. lxili, 597. lxiv, 55.
Sec. 3. The jury, if they find a verdict for the plaintifff, shall
determine whether the lands have been so possessed and im
proved, and the amount of the increased value thereof, after
allowing for any waste or injury the same may have sustained.
Sec. 4. The judgment rendered for the plaintifff, upon such
verdict, shall be conditioned that if the plaintifff shall within
one year pay to the clerk of the court, for the use of the defend
ant, the amount of the increased value so found, a writ of
possession shall issue for the plaintifff'; otherwise that his right
to the lands shall be barred.
Sec. 5. In actions for the recover}' of a penalty or forfeiture,
in a recognizance in a civil case, or in an obligation or contract
under seal, the court shall render judgment for such amount as
is equitably due, or as will indemnify the plaintifff for the dam
ages sustained by the breach of the condition.
L!"232: 9. xiv, 78. xxxiii, 310. xl, 384. 111,126. llx, 250-256, 561.
Sec. 6. If the penalty or forfeiture is designed to secure the
performance of several things to be done at different times, or
as security to or for the use of several persons, judgment shall
be rendered for the whole of the penalty or forfeiture, and the
court shall award execution for so much only as is justly due at
that time.
Sec. 7. The plaintifff or his administrator, and any other per
sons interested, may, from time to time, have scire facias upon
such judgment, and execution shall be awarded them for any
further sums which may be equitably due. G.s.ais: u.
Sec. 8. In actions on mortgages, the judgment shall be conditional,
that if the mortgagor or person having his right pays
to the mortgagee or person having his right the sum the court
shall adjudge due, within two months after judgment rendered,
with interest, such judgment shall be void; otherwise that a writ
of possession shall issue. zzi.227. zxxvit.soi.
Sec. 9. The court, or any justice in vacation, may allow a
copy of a note or other instrument to be filed in a suit for the
purpose of rendering judgment thereon, ggffi1. £f Jugm^ ^Ti3.atm9.
CHAPTER 229.
COSTS.
Section ; Section
1. Costs to follow event of every action, 7. In real actions, defendant disclaiming;
etc. whole to have costs, unless plaintifff
2. Costs allowed on petition for injunc- i maintains his writ as to part.
tion, etc. 8. No costs in suits on Judgments if ex3.
Court may limit, allow, or deny costs, ecution equally available.
and require security. 9. When plaintifff brings several actions
4. In supreme court, costs limited if no which might have been joined, costs
expectation of recovering more than
thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents.
In trespass, defamation, etc., no more
to be limited.
10. Plaintiff neglecting to enter action
liable for costs.
11. If plaintifff nonsuit, defendant to have
costs than damages, unless damages Judgment for costs.
exceed thirteen dollars and thirty- 12. Defendant prevailing in civil suit by
state to have costs from county.
three cents.
6. In trespass to real estate, when title
not in question, costs limited, when.
Section 1. Costs shall follow the event of every action or petition,
unless otherwise directed by law or by the court. §"|"ni:.i
1,36. x, 126. xiv, 503. xv, 106. xix, 399. xxi, 60, 188, 386. xxiii, 193. xxvili, 73.' x'xx, 492,
413. xxxii, 40S. xxxv, 88, 286. xxxvl, 430. xxxvlil, 88. xli, 238. xliii, 134. xliv, 18. xlviii,
Sec. 2. On a petition for an injunction, the appointment of a
receiver, or other temporary or provisional order, before a justice
of the supreme court in vacation or term time, costs may be allowed
as in other judicial proceedings.
Sec. 3. In all actions or petitions in the supreme court, costs
may, on motion and good cause shown, be limited, allowed, and
such security therefore be ordered as the court may deem just.
G. L. 233:2. xiv, 373. xvi, 95. xxii, 38. xxvi, 16, 92. xxxvl, 581. xl, 20S. xliv, 4721 529. xlvi,
Sec. 4. In actions begun in the supreme court, if it appears
that the plaintifff had no reasonable expectation of recovering
more than thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, the court may
limit the costs to such sum as they think just. £ s^79. v'.nijwx
xil, 148. xvi, 83. xxlx|
Sec. 5. No more costs than damages shall be recovered in
an action of trespass to the person, or for malicious prosecution,
or defamation of character, begun in the supreme court, unless
the damages recovered exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents.
Sec. 6. In actions of trespass to real estate begun in the su
preme court, when the title of real estate is not in question, the
court shall allow so much cost as they think just, not exceeding
the damages recovered, in case they do not exceed thirteen
dollars and thirty-three cents.
lv, 291. v, 229. vl, 57. vlll, 507. x, 126. xxxviil, 265. lvli,220. 1x1,430. 1x111,331.
Sec. 7. In real actions, the defendant who disclaims the
whole of the demanded premises shall recover costs, unless the
plaintifff maintains his writ as to some part thereof.
416.
Sec. 8. No costs shall be allowed the plaintifff in an action
upon a judgment, if he could have availed himself of an execu
tion thereon for the collection thereof as advantageously as he
could of such action.
Sec. 9. When a plaintifff at one term brings diverse actions
against the same party which might have been joined, or brings
more than one action upon a joint and several contract, the court
may allow such and so many bills of cost as they think just.
xlii,398.
Sec. 10. If the plaintifff neglects to enter an action in which
process has been served on the defendant, judgment shall be ren
dered against him on complaint, for costs.
138. xvlli, £51. xxiv, 159, 333. xxxi, 496.
Sec. 11. If the plaintifff, after entry of an action, becomes
nonsuit, the defendant shall have judgment against him for
costs.
Sec. 12. In civil actions in which the state is plaintifff, if the
defendant prevails, he shall have judgment for costs against the
county where the judgment is rendered.
CHAPTER 230.
Section
1. New trial may be granted in case of
accident, etc.
2. Petition therefore to supreme court,
and notice.
3. Costs to either party on petition, and
terms as court may order.
NEW TRIALS.
Section
4. Petition for new trial to be in three
years.
5. Action to be brought forward and tried
as If no Judgment.
6. Executions not stayed by review, elc,
but court may order stay.
Section 1. A new trial may be granted in any case, when
through accident, mistake, or misfortune justice has not been
done and a further hearing would be equitable.
xx, 52, 533. xxlx, 269. xxxli, 130, 372. xxxv, 286. xxxviil, 411. xxxix, 528. xl, 342. xlU,
xlvli, 9. xlix, 358. 1, 2-20. lv, 78, 514. Ivii, 101. lvili, 91, 490. llx, 35. lxiii, 95. lxlv, 614.
Sec. 2. In such case a petition may be presented to the su
preme court in the county where the judgment was rendered, by
any person interested, setting forth the reasons for such new
trial, and such notice shall be given to the adverse party or his
attorney as the court may order.
Sec. 3. Costs may be allowed to either party upon such petition, and the new trial may be granted upon such terms as the
court deem juBt. g.s.2ib:7.
Sec. 4. A new trial shall not be granted unless the petition
is filed within three years after the rendition of the judgment
complained of, or the failure of the suit. §. ima.
Sec. 5. Whenever a new trial is granted, the action shall be
brought forward on the docket of the court, and shall be tried
as if no judgment had been rendered therein. ^wt^vii,
_ lx, 17».
Sec. 6. Execution on the original judgment shall not be
t i c , • i 1 b. . 1 J b i * ■
stayed by reason of a new trial, but the court, on motion, may
order a stay of execution upon such terms as they think fit.
xviil, 85.
Section 1. No execution shall issue until the expiration of
twenty-four hours after judgment rendered.
L. 235: 1^ vi, 63. xxiii, 80.
Sec. '2. Executions issued by the supreme court may be
made returnable at the next regular term, if within six months ;
otherwise within six months from their date.
Sec. 3. The court may, on motion, order an execution to
De made returnable at a term or time subsequent to the next
, l
regular term.
Sec. 4. Any justice of the supreme court, on application and
notice to the debtor, may in vacation order the return day of an
execution issued by the court to be changed to a subsequent
termor time, which order shall be recorded upon the clerk's
record of the judgment and execution.
Sec. 5. Executions issued by police and justice courts shall
be made returnable within sixty days from their dates. 3* i'sw-o".
Sec. 6. Executions may be issued at any time within two
years after judgment rendered, or after the return day of theg
former execution. c.s. 206:5. g.s. 210:6.
Sec. 7. The court may award execution on any judgment
after the expiration of said two years, upon scire facias, for the
amount then due. " g.s. 216:7.
Sec. 8. Where several judgments are rendered upon the
same contract at the same term, only one execution shall be
issued on the judgments at one time, except by order of the court,
Sec. 9. Interest is payable on executions in civil actions from
the time of judgment rendered. G^fe^io^G if^sSect.
10. Whenever a debtor is committed to prison on execution, the creditor, on the return thereof, may have a further
execution against the property of the debtor, notwithstanding
the debtor is not discharged ; and upon the satisfaction of such
execution the debtor shall be discharged. g. l. sss: 11.
Sec. 11. Writs of execution shall be substantially in the
following form :
0
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] Whereas, , of , by the consideration of
our justices of our court of , holden at , in said
county of , on the Tuesday of , recovered
judgment against of for the sum of dollars,
and costs taxed at , as appears of record, whereof execu
tion remains to be done. We command you, thereforee, that of
the goods, chattels, or lands of the said debtor, in your precinct,
you cause to be levied and paid to the said creditor the aforesaid
sums, with lawful interest thereon, and more for this writ
and your own fees, and in default thereof to arrest the said
debtor and commit him to jail ; and the keeper of such jail is
required to detain him in custody until he pays the same, with
your fees, or until he is discharged by the creditor, or otherwise,
according to law ; and make return of this writ, with your doings
thereon, to said court, to be holden at , in said county,
upon the Tuesday of .
Witness, , Esquire, the day of , .
, Clerk.
Sec. 12. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the
following form :
ss. To the sheriff" of any county or his deputy .[L6,J Whereas, , of , by the consideration of
our justices of our court of , holden at , in said
county of , on the Tuesday of , recovered
judgment against of for a certain , with the
appurtenances, situate in the town of , and costs taxed at
, as appears of record. We command you, thereforee, that
without delay you cause said to have possession of the
said premises. We also command you that of the goods, chat
tels, or lands of the said debtor in your precinct, you cause to be
levied and paid to said creditor the aforesaid sum, with the law
ful interest thereon, and more for this writ and your own
fees, and in default thereof to arrest the said debtor and commit
him to jail; and the keeper of the jail is required to detain him
in custody until he pays the same, with your fees, or until he is
discharged by the creditor, or otherwise, according to law ; and
make return of this writ, with your doings thereon, unto said
court, to be holden at in said county upon the
day ofWitness , Esquire, the day of •
'-, Clerk.
Sec. 13. When an execution is not to run against the body
of the defendant, the form may be varied by omitting such parts
as relate to the arrest of the person.
L. 235 : 9.
Sec. 14. Amendments of the returns of officers deceased,
, • • . ,r i j , j
upon executions, writs, or other process, may be made, by order
or" the supreme court, by the sheriff, if the defective return was
maa*e by one of his deputies and such sheriff is living, otherwise
by the clerk of the court.
^gECT 15
the other in the same right and capacity shall be set off by the
~, , r. T • • -it i ti t
officer to whom one of the executions is delivered and the other
shall be tendered, and the officer shall return both executions
satisfied, so far as the set-off will extend.
xll, 464. xxil, 98. xxlil, 32. xxvlll, 520. xxxvil, 223. xliii, 430.
Sec. 16. Whenever proceedings in the levy of an execution
on real or personal property are stayed by injunction, the lien
then existing shall continue until the expiration of thirty days
a^er tne injunction is dissolved.
Sec. 17. If proceedings in such levy are begun before injunc^on,
they may be resumed within said thirty days and completed> or new proceedings may be begun within that time and
completed in the same manner as if the judgment had been rendered
at the time of the dissolution.
Sec. 18. The officer executing a writ of possession shall cause
it, with his return thereon, to be recorded at length in the registry of deeds of the county, and to be returned to the office of the
clerk of the court to which it is by law returnable.
L. 235:18.
Sec. 19. He may add the fees paid to the recording officer to
his own fees upon the writ of possession.
Section 1. Money may be taken on execution, and paid to
the creditor ; bank notes and other evidences of debt, issued by
any moneyed corporation and circulated as money, may be taken
on execution, and paid to the creditor at their par value, if he
will accept of them ; otherwise they may be sold at auction like
other chattels.
Sec. 2. Goods and chattels taken on execution shall be safely
kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, four days at
least ; shall be advertised for sale, by posting notices of the time
and place of sale at two of the most public places in the town
where the sale is to be, forty-eight hours before the expiration of
said four days ; and shall be sold at auction to the highest bidder.
Ill, 144. xxvi, 34. xxxil, S44. Ill, 158.
Sec. 3. Personal property subject to mortgage, pledge, or
lien may be taken on execution in the same manner that it may
be attached, and may be sold in the same manner as other per
sonal property ; and the creditor and officer shall have the same
right to demand an account of the amount due, and to hold the
property, if no account or a false account is given, as in case of
an attachment.
Sec. 4. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
sum paid or tendered to the mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, and
interest and the residue to the satisfaction of the execution on
which it is holden.
Sec. 5. The debtor's right to redeem such property may be
taken on execution, and sold as in other cases, without such pay
ment or tender. Q- 8- 2I7:SSec. 6. The owner may redeem any goods and chattels before
the sale, by satisfying the execution and the officers' fees and
charges.
Sec. 7. The money arising from the sale of personal prop
erty shall be applied by the officer to the payment of the charges
and the satisfying of the executions levied thereon, in the order
iu which the attachments thereon, if any, were made, otherwise
in the order in which the executions were delivered to him ; and
the balance shall be returned to the debtor, upon request.
Sec. 8. The officer shall make return of the execution ac
cording to its precept, with his doings thereon, describing par
ticularly the goods and chattels taken and sold, and the sum for
which each article was sold.
Sec. 9. If any officer is guilty of fraud in the sale or return,
he shall be liable to pay to each party injured five times the sum
defrauded.
Sec. 10. The officer may adjourn any sale under this chapter
from time to time, not exceeding ten days at one time or sixty
days from the seizure, giving the same notice of each adjourn
ment as of a sale.
Sec. 11. Pews or seats in meeting-houses may be taken, ad
vertised, and sold on execution in the same manner as other
personal property, except that if there has been no previous
attachment the debtor shall be notified by the officer of the time
and place of sale of the pew or seat, by giving to him a notice
in writing, or leaving such notice at his abode, if he resides in
the town, otherwise with the town clerk; and the time of giving
or leaving such notice shall be deemed the time of taking such
property.
Sec. 12. The franchise of a corporation authorized to take
tolls may be taken and sold on execution at auction, the officer
giving notice of the time and place of sale by posting a notice
thereof at any tollhouse at which such tolls are or have been
usuall}7 taken, and by causing a like notice, with the name of
the creditor and the amount of the execution, to be posted at
two or more public places in the town in which any tollhouse
of the corporation is situate, at least thirty days before the day
of sale.
Sec. 13. The person who will pay the execution and the law
ful fees and expenses thereon for the right to receive all such
tolls for the shortest period shall be the highest bidder, and
shall, upon such sale, be entitled to the possession of the toll
houses and gates of the corporation, to be delivered by the offi
cer, and shall be entitled to receive all such tolls for the term of
his purchase, and shall have all the rights of the corporation in
relation thereto.
Sec. 14. The rights and obligations of the corporation, ex
cept as to such tolls, shall not be affected by the sale, and they
may redeem the franchise by paying to the purchaser the
amount paid by him therefore, with twelve per cent interest
thereon, at any time within three months after the sale.
L. 236:14.
Sec. 15. The shares or interest of a person in anv corpora
tion may be taken on execution, in the same manner that they
may be attached. c.s.ao7:i6. G.s.2i7:is. g. l. 224: is ; 236:15. *xxii,5M.
Sec. 16. Notice in writing of the time and place of sale of
such shares or interest shall be given by the officer to the debtor,
or shall be left at his abode, and shall be posted at one or more
public places in the town where the sale is to be, and in two adjoining towns, thirty days before the sale.
Sec. 17. If the debtor does not reside in the county, the
posting of such notice as prescribed in the preceding section, and
the publishing such notice in some newspaper, if any, in the
county, otherwise in an adjoining county, three weeks previous
to the sale, shall be sufficient, without further notice to the
, , , ' '
debtor.
Sec. 18. The officer shall cause an attested copy of the execution and of his return thereon to be filed with the clerk, treasurer,
assistant treasurer, or cashier of the corporation, and shall
pay for the recording thereof. The purchaser shall thereupon
be entitled to such shares or interest, and the income or dividends
which have become due thereon since the attachment, and
to such certificates as are the usual evidence of the shares or interest
of a proprietor in the corporation.
Sec. 19. The officer of every corporation having the care of
the records or accounts of the shares or interests of the corporators therein, shall, on request aud on the exhibition of a writ of
attachment or execution against any person interested in the
corporation, give to the officer having the writ a certificate of
the number of his shares or amount of his interest therein, with
the numbers of the shares or other description by which they are
distinguished. If he shall neglect or refuse to give such certificate, or shall willfully give a false certificate, he shall be liable to
pay to the creditor the whole amount of his demand against the
debtor, to be recovered by an action of debt.
Sect 20. If any officer of a corporation shall, on request of
an officer and on exhibition of such writ of attachment or execution, refuse or neglect to exhibit to him such records and documents
in his keeping as may be useful to direct and assist him
in the discharge of his duty, he shall forfeit twenty dollars to
the officer, and shall be answerable for all damages sustained by
any person thereby.
Section 1. All real estate, except the homestead right, may
be taken on execution, and shall be appraised and set off to the
creditor at its just value in satisfaction of the execution and the
cost of levying, except in cases where a sale of it is authorized.
81. xxxiv, 278. xxxvlil, 455. xl, 282. Ix, 174. lxii, 125.
Sec. 2. The officer levying the execution shall cause three
appraisers to be appointed, one by the creditor, one by the
debtor, and one by himself, who shall be discreet and disinter
ested men, resident in the county, and shall be sworn by a jus
tice impartially to appraise such real estate as shall be shown
them as the estate of the debtor.
xi, 459. xlx, 325. lviii, 147.
Sec. 3. If the debtor, on due notice, neglects to appoint an
appraiser, or does not reside in the county or within twenty
miles of the property to be appraised, the officer shall appoint
an appraiser for him.
Sec. 4. Notice given to the clerk, treasurer, agent, or one of
the directors of a corporation to choose an appraiser for the corporation, ten days before the levy, shall be legal notice to the
corporation. g. s. 218 : 4.
Sec. 5. A levy begun by the appointment and swearing of
one or more of the appraisers may be completed before the return day of the execution. r.s.i95:5. c.s. 208:5. g.s. 218:6. g.l. 237:5. 11,
Sec." 6. If an appraiser shall die, or for any cause cannot act,
or declines to act, the sheriff shall cause an appraiser to be
appointed to fill the vacancy, in the same manuer as he was
required to proceed in causing the original appointment, and
the levy may be completed as if no vacancy had occurred.
Sec. 7. The appraisers shall set off to the creditor, by metes
and bounds or other distinct description, the real estate appraised
by them, or so much as may be necessary in payment of the exOPiitinn sirifl nnotu nflpvvino- G.L.287:6. 1,363.11,187,301,495.111,635. v, 520.
ecunon ana costs or iev\ing. xl|396. xvl 400. Xx,9. xxxvii.m xi.453.xiiv,
"Sect. 8. If such real estate is holden jointly or in common
with others, the levy shall be made upon the undivided interest
of the debtor or a part thereof. *f-™ : Jx_ g- ^f^iii,
Sec. 9. If such real estate cannot, in the judgment of the
appraisers, be divided and set out by metes and bounds without
greatly impairing the value of the whole, the levy may be made
upon an undivided interest therein, or by such mode of division
as the nature of the property will admit. xxxii, si.
Sec. 10. In either of the cases aforesaid, the whole of the
property, of which a part is set off, shall be described by metes
and bounds or other distinct description. R 8-195:9- c.s.208:9.G.s.2i8:
Sec. 11. If a debtor is seized of a rent or of the income of
real estate, a levy may be made thereon, and the appraisers may
set oft' the same for such term as they judge sufficient to pay the
judgment, interest, and costs; and the sheriff shall cause the
tenant to attorn and become tenant to the creditor, and, upon
his refusal, shall turn him out of possession, and deliver seizin
to the creditor to hold for the term of the set-off.
Sec. 12. The officer shall deliver seizin and possession of the
property so set off" to the creditor or his attorney, shall make
a full return of his proceedings, and cause the execution and
return to be recorded at length in the registry of deeds of the
county, and to be returned to the office of the clerk of the court
to which it is returnable. vni, 344,882. ix,24,is3.
Sec. 13. All the debtor's interest in such real estate shall
pass by the levy as against all persons, if the levy is recorded as
aforesaid on or before the return day of the execution; otherwise only as against the debtor and his heirs until such record is
mar\a 111,33. iv, 397. V, 416. vl, 397, 514, 555. vli, 581. Ix, 20. x,291. xvl,
*UM,ue- 483. xx, 9. xxli,27. xxxlv, 278. xxxv, 421. xxxlx, 393. xlli, 510.
Sec. 14. The extent shall be void if, within one year from
the return day of the execution, the debtor shall pay or tender
to the creditor the sum at which the real estate was set off, and
all reasonable sums paid by him for taxes, insurance, repairs, and
improving the estate, with interest thereon from the times of
levy and payments respectively, less the rents and profits received or which might have been received by him, and with
which he is justly chargeable. xxxlx- m- lxl1- 1MSec. 15. Whenever the Bum at which the real estate was set
off is larger than it should have been by reason of an error,.
made without fraudulent intent, in computing the debt or damage8
or the taxable costs mentioned in the execution, or interest,
or ^e officer'8 fees m making the levy, the debtor may redeem
by paying or tendering, according to the provisions of the pre
ceding section, the sum justly due to the creditor after correct
ing such error.
Sec. 16. In case of such error, if the debtor redeems by paying
the sum at which the estate was set oft", or if he does not
redeem within a year, he may recover of the creditor the sum
required to correct the error, with interest thereon from the date°^
^e ^evv' m an acti°n f°r money had and received,
Sec. 17. In case of such error, either party may apply by
petition to the supreme court to have its amount determined ;
ana- tne court> after notice and hearing, shall determine it, and
may issue execution therefore and for costs in favor of the debt6r
against the creditor.
Sec. 18. Upon payment of the sum erroneously included ia
*^e 'evv' with interest from the date of levy and the costs allowed by the court, if any, the title to the real estate under thelevy
shall be relieved from any defect resulting from the error.
vi, 306. ix, 24.
LEVY BY SALE.
Sec. 19. A right of a debtor to redeem mortgaged real estate,
or to redeem any right or interest in real estate, or to receive a
conveyance of real estate on performance of a contract relating
■*■ ^t
thereto, and terms for years, may be taken on execution, and
may be sold at auction and conveyed, as herein provided.
1, 11, 12, 18. G. L. 238: 1, 11, 12, 13. Ix, 20, 404. xviii, 369. xix, 160. xxxlv, 218, 278. xl, 9.
Sec. 20. Notice of the time and place of sale shall be given
*° ^e debtor, or left at his abode if he resides in the county or
within twenty miles of the property, and a like notice shall be
posted at two of the most public places in the town in which the
property is situate, thirty days before the sale.
396. xllv, 264.
Sec. 21. If the debtor does not reside in the county, or
within twenty miles of the property, a like notice shall also be
published.^
3.219:3. G.L. 238:3.
Sec. 22. The levy shall be begun by posting notices as aforesaid,
and may be completed afterward, and the sale may be
adjourned, not exceeding ten days at a time nor sixty days in the
whole, notice of the adjournment being posted in the same man
ner as notices of the sale.
Sect- 23- The deed of tne officer making the sale shall briefly
state his office, the names of the parties to the action in which
the execution issued, the court and term at which the judgment
wa8 rendered, the consideration paid for the right or term sold,
a description of the premises conveyed and of the right of the
debtor therein ; and it shall contain a covenant that the officer
has observed all the requirements of law by virtue of which the
deed is made.
Sec. 24. The officer shall make a full return of his proceedings,
and cause the execution and return to be recorded at length
in the registry of deeds of the county in which the real estate
lies, and to be returned to the office of the clerk of the court to
which it is returnable ; and no sale of a greater interest than a
term of seven years shall be valid, except against the debtor and
hi6 heirs, unless the execution and the return are so recorded.
Sec. 25. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the satisfaction
of the executions issuing in the actions in which the
estate was attached in the order of the attachments, and then to
the payment of any other executions in the officer's hands in the
order in which they were received; and the residue, if any, shall
be paid to the debtor.
Sec. 26. The sale and deed made in pursuance thereof shall
A
be void if, within one year after the sale, the debtor shall pay or
tender to the purchaser the purchase money, and all reasonable
sums paid by him for taxes, insurance, repairs, and the redemption of mortgages upon the estate, to protect and preserve the^
interest purchased by him, with interest thereon from the dates
of payments respectively, less the rents and profits received, or
which might have been received, by him and with which he is
justly chargeable.
LIEN OF LEVY UPON REAL ESTATE NOT ATTACHED, HOW PRESERVED
AS AGAINST SUBSEQUENT PURCHASERS, ETC.
Sec. 27. No lien upon or right in real estate, upon which
there is no existing lien by virtue of an attachment, made in the
action in which the execution issued, shall be acquired as against
subsequent purchasers or attaching creditors without notice, by
the levy of an execution upon it, or by the beginning of such
levy, until the officer making the levy shall leave with the town
clerk of the town in which the land lies, or, if there be no such
clerk, with the clerk of the supreme court for the county, an
attested copy of the execution, with a return thereon that he has
begun such levy, and of the steps already taken, or until the levy
has been completed and a record thereof has been made in the
registry of deeds as required by law.
Sec. 28. The town clerk shall certify upon such copy the
time when it was received, and shall keep it on file. He shall
also enter a record of it upon the index of attachments, the same
as in the case of attachments of real estate upon writs of attachment,
with the exception that the record shall state that the writ
is a writ of execution.
Sec. 29. The officers so making a levy shall pay to the town
clerk twenty cents for his fees, and shall be entitled to the same
fees for travel and copy a3 in case of the attachment of real estate,
all of which shall be returned upon the execution.
Sec. 30. The debtor may redeem without claiming a reduc
tion on account of the rents and profits of the estate received by
the creditor or purchaser ; and in such case the debtor may
recover such rents and profits of the creditor or purchaser, in an
action of assumpsit for use and occupation.
219: 10. G. L. 237: 20; 238, 10.
Sec. 31. The creditor or purchaser, upon payment or tender
to him of the amount to be paid for redeeming the estate set off
or sold to him, and a reasonable sum for making and executing
the release, shall execute a release to the debtor of all right
acquired by the set-off* or sale.
237: 21; 238: 6. "Uii,121. lxiv, 506.
Sec. 32. If the parties do not agree as to the amount to be
paid to redeem real estate from a levy, like proceedings may be
had for determining the amount as are provided for determining
the amount due upon a mortgage on petition of the mortgagor.
8.218:19. G. L. 237:19.
Sec. 33. The person having the estate or right of the cred
itor, purchaser, or debtor, in real estate taken in execution, shall
be deemed to be, and shall have the rights, privileges, and reme
dies of, the creditor, purchaser, or debtor, as to all persons hav
ing notice of his right ; and no act done by or to the original
creditor, purchaser, or debtor shall thenceforth be of any validity.
CHAPTER 234.
LEVY OF EXECUTIONS AGAINST TOWNS AND DISTRICTS.
Section
1. Property of towns and school and vil
lage districts may be levied upon,
as of individuals.
2. Notices to be given to one of selectmen
or prudential committee.
3. If sufficient property of town, etc., not
found, copy of execution to be left
with selectmen, etc.
4. Selectmen to pay execution or assess
tax, etc.
5. District officers to pay or call meeting
of district, etc.
6. Tax to be collected within thirty days.
Section
7. If selectmen neglect to assess district
tax, execution may be levied on
their property.
8. If execution not paid in sixty days, on
property of selectmen, etc.
9. Court may issue mandamus to the se
lectmen to collect the tax, when.
10. Levy may be suspended if application
is made within thirty days.
11. Owner of property levied on may col
lect of town, etc., damages and
double costs.
Section 1. The goods and estate of towns and of school and
-,.. ° -, , . -, «, .-.
village districts may be taken on execution, and set on or sold,
subject to the provisions of this chapter, as in case of an execution against an individual.
Sec. 2. Upon a sale or set-off of its property upon an execu^Qn again8j- a town, a school district, or a village district, the
notice in other cases required to be given to the debtor may be
given to one of the selectmen of the town, one of the school board
of the school district, or one of the commissioners of the village
district, as the case may be.
Sec. 3. If sufficient goods or estate of the town or district are
not found to satisfy the execution, an attested copy thereof may
be left with one of the selectmen of the town, or with one of the
school board of the school district, or one of the commissioners
of the village district, as the case may be. g. 8.220:3.
o . 0nn n ' .■ . •
Sec. 4. When a copy or an execution against a town is so
left, the selectmen shall pay it, or assess a tax upon the polls and
estate liable to taxation therein sufficient to satisfy it and the
officer's fees thereon. g.s.mo:*.
Sec. 5. When a copy of an execution against a district is so
left, the school board or commissioners, as the case may be, shall
pay it, or they shall call a meeting of the voters of the district, at
which meeting they shall vote to raise the necessary sum to satisfy
the execution and the officer's fees thereon.
Sec. 6. When such town or district tax is so assessed, it
shall be collected within thirty days, and shall be applied in satisfaction of the execution. c.B.sif:s. g.s.sh>:6.
Sec. 7. If the selectmen to whom such vote of the district is
certified neglect for thirty days to assess the district tax, and
deliver to the collector their warrant for the collection thereof,
such execution against the district may be levied upon the property
of the selectmen.
Sec. 8. If the execution is not paid within sixty days after
an attested copy is left as aforesaid, it may be levied as follows :
against a town upon the goods or estate of the selectmen ;
against a district upon the goods or estate of the school board or
of the commissioners, as the case may be. If sufficient goods and
estate of the selectmen, school board, or commissioners are not;
found, it may be levied upon the goods or estate of any inhabi
tants of the town or district. If the goods or estate of the
aforesaid officers and of the inhabitants of the town or district
are not sufficient, then it may be levied upon the property in the
town or district belonging to any nonresident.
Sec. 9. In case a levy is begun upon the property of an inhabitant
or nonresident other than one of the selectmen or of
the school board or commissioners, the supreme court, upon application
of the person whose property is so levied upon, or upon
the application of any other property owner in the town or
district, shall issue a writ of mandamus ordering the selectmen
te assess and collect a tax sufficient to pay the amount of the
execution and costs.
Sec. 10. If application for the writ is made to the court by
a person whose property is levied upon, within thirty days after
the beginning of the levy, further proceedings on the levy shall
be suspended, unless the court shall otherwise order. g.l. 239:8.
Sec. 11. Every person upon whose property an execution
against a town or district has been levied may, in an action of
assumpsit for money paid, recover of such town or district the
sum so levied, and damages and double costs. G- l-^9:WSection 1. Any person arrested or imprisoned on execution,
or detained in prison for want of bail after final judgment
against him, or committed to prison by his bail, or by the court
upon a surrender by his bail after such judgment, shall be dis
charged upon giving bond as hereinafter provided.
61. xxxvi, 240. xlv, 287. lxir, 57.
Sec. 2. The bond shall be given to the creditor, with two
sufficient sureties, residents of the state, who shall be bound
jointly and severally in at least double the sum for which the
person is arrested or imprisoned, with a condition in substance
as follows :
" The condition of the above obligation is, that if the said
, now a prisoner at the suit of said , shall, within
one year from the date hereof, apply to the proper authority and
be admitted to take, and shall actually take, the oath or affirma
tion prescribed by law for the relief of poor debtors, or in de
fault thereof shall surrender himself to prison as prescribed by
law, then this obligation shall be void." The blanks in the con
dition shall be filled as the case may require.
Sec. 3. The sureties shall be deemed sufficient when they
are approved in writing on the back of the bond, either by the
creditor, his attorney in the action, or by two disinterested
justices of the quorum of the county in which the person is
arrested or imprisoned.
Sec. 4. The bond shall be delivered by the officer to the
creditor, upon request and a proper receipt therefore.
S.22l:4. G.L. 240:4.
Sec. 5. If the debtor giving the bond shall not within one
year from the date thereof take the oath or affirmation pre
scribed by law for the relief of poor debtors, or be otherwise
discharged, he shall, on the day next after the expiration of the
year, unless it shall be Sunday, and in that case on the Monday
following, surrender himself to the keeper of the jail in the
county where he was originally arrested or committed, and remain
at the jail from twelve o'clock at noon until three o'clock
•
in the afternoon of said day, and his sureties on the bond shall
be thereby discharged.
Sec. 6. If there is more than one ia.il in the county, the
1 • 1 Till • • • " 1
person making the surrender shall cause notice in writing to be
given to the creditor or his attorney, or left at the abode of one
of them, if either lives in the state, stating at which of the jails
the surrender will be made, at least ten days prior thereto.
Sec. 7. The sureties in any such bond may take the body of
the principal, and surrender him at the jail in the manner and
for the purpose aforesaid. c- s-"212: 7- G- s- m : 7- G- L- «°: 7Sect.
8. In the case of such surrender, the creditor may
cause the debtor to be arrested on his execution and committed
to jail, where he shall remain in close confinement, and shall not
be again discharged on giving bond as aforesaid. g.s. 221:8. g. l. mo:
Sec. 9. On condition broken, the creditor shall recover, by
action on such bond, his just debt or damages, and costs thereof,
with ten per cent interest from the time of the arrest, with costs ;
and the clerk shall certify on the execution therefore that it was
issued on such bond; and any person arrested or committed in
any suit thereon shall be kept in close jail, and shall not be discharged
on giving such bond.
Sec. 10. If a debtor is discharged from jail by reason of the
neglect of the creditor to levy his execution upon his body within
thirty days after judgment rendered, he shall not be arrested
in any action upon such judgment at any time within one year
afterward. "
Sec. 11. No person committed on civil process shall be detained in prison for the nonpayment of prison charges, except
in actions of trespass, case for torts, and prosecutions for bastardy ; but such charges shall be a debt against the prisoner.
Sec. 12. The person at whose suit any person is committed
to jail, except in actions of trespass, actions on the case for torts,
and prosecutions for bastardy, shall give bond to the jailer, with
satisfactory surety, or such as may be approved by a justice, to
pay the prison charges. 0.8.221:12. g. l. 240:12. uu, 368.
Sec. 13. Any person so committed in actions of trespass,
case, or for bastardy, shall be detained for nonpayment of prison
charges until released by order of the supreme court or of a
justice thereof. c. 8.212: 12. g.s. 221:1s. g.l.240:13
G. L. 240: 11.
Section 1. A person arrested or committed to jail 011 execu
tion, or who has given bond as provided by law, may apply to a
justice of the supreme court, by petition, praying for the ap
pointment of two justices to whom he may apply to be admitted
to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors.
331. lxiv, 57.
Sec. 2. Such justice, with or without notice to the creditor,
in his discretion, shall appoint two justices, one of whom shall
be of the quorum, to whom the application may be made.
xlix, 381. lxiii, 378.
Sec. 3. The debtor may make application to said justices,
setting forth that he had not, at the time of his arrest nor at any
time after, estate of the value of twenty dollars, except goods by
law exempt from attachment, and praying to be admitted to take
such oath.
Sec. 4. Either of the justices may make an order, on such
application, appointing a time and place for considering the
same ; and the debtor shall cause the creditor or his attorney to
be served with a copy of the application and order, at least fif
teen days before the day of hearing.
xvlU, 67. xxx, 39.
Sec. 5. Either of the justices, upon evidence that such notice
has been given to the creditor, may adjourn the hearing not
more than ten days.
L. 241 : 5. xviii, 525. xxx, 39.
Sec. 6. The person so applying may be examined, under
oath, on motion of the creditor or his attorney, and any other
evidence produced by either party shall be heard; and if it ap
pears that such person has been guilty of any fraud, deceit, or
falsehood in relation to his property, his application shall be
refused.
Sec. 7. If it appears or is alleged that the person applying
had any property at the time of his commitment, over and above
the property exempted by law, his interest in the same may be
by him assigned to the creditor, at the discretion and appraisement
of the justices, in case the parties do not agree; and on
his refusal or neglect forthwith to make such assignment, his
application shall be refused.
Sec. 8. If no sufficient objection is made, the justices shall
administer to the debtor the following oath :
" You, A B, do solemnly swear [or affirm] that you have not
any estate, real or personal, or any right thereto, to the amount
of twenty dollars, except what is by law exempted from attachment,
and that you have not at any time, directly or indirectly,
sold, leased, or otherwise conveyed any part of your property,
or intrusted any person therewith, with any intent or design to
secure the same, or to receive or expect any profit or advantage
therefrom ; nor have caused or suffered anything else whatever
to be done whereby any of your creditors may be defrauded.
So help you God " ; [or, " This you do under the pains and penalties
of perjury."]
Sec. 9. If the creditor or his attorney shall not accept the
Eroperty of the debtor, an assignment whereof as aforesaid has
een tendered, the form of the oath shall be altered accordingly,
so as to except such property which shall belong to the debtor.
Sec. 10. The justices shall make a certificate of such oath,
when administered, substantially in the form following :
„
ssTHE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
On the day of , , at in said county
of , A B, of , heretofore a prisoner at the suit of
C D, of , took the oath prescribed by law for the relief of
poor debtors. The said C D [or the attorney of the said C D],
having been duly notified, did [or did not] attend.
Before ) Justices of the peace,
| one of the quorum.
Sec. 11. The person of the debtor shall be thereafter forever
discharged from arrest or imprisonment on the debt or demand
on which he was so arrested or imprisoned ; but his estate shall
remain liable therefore, and a new execution may be issued
against such estate. c.s.ua: 9. g. 8.222:11. g. l. mi : 11. v, sio. xxxviii, 280.
Sec. 12. If the cause of action, in any action of trespass, or
i i - * i .-it n i i i> •
trespass on the case, has arisen from the willful and malicious
act or neglect of the defendant, the court or justice before whom
the action is tried shall cause a certificate thereof to be made on
the back of the execution issued in the action, and the defendant shall not be discharged on giving bond as provided in the
j. . , & BO r
preceding chapter.
Sec. 13. In such case the defendant shall not be entitled as
a matter of right to be discharged upon taking the poor debtor's
oath ; but if the justices to whom application is made shall think
proper, he may be discharged upon such terms and conditions
as they may impose.
G. 8.222:9.
Sec. 14. If the application of a person to take such oath
shall not prevail, costs shall be taxed for the creditor in the same
manner as in actions in the supreme court, and judgment be
rendered and execution be issued by the justices therefore.
Sec. 15. No application of a person to take the poor debtor's
oath shall be allowed until the costs which have been adjudged
against him on all former applications have been paid.
8.222:16. G. L. 241:15.
CHAPTER 237.
LIABILITY OF BAIL.
Section
1. Name, etc., of ball to be indorsed on
execution, and fifteen days' notice lo
him.
2. Bail discharged by producing debtor
to officer, and paying fees, etc.
3. Not to be charged on non est, unless re
turn sets forth notice to ball.
4. Ball discharged by committing debtor
to jail, and notice to creditor.
5. On return of non «*, and notice to ball,
creditor may have scire facias against
bail.
6. Bail discharged on bringing debtor
into court, etc.
Section
7. Not discharged on committing debtor
after notice, without paying fees,
etc.
8. Scire facias to be served on bail in one
year.
9. In police and justice courts, boll may
commit at any time before judg
ment.
10. Attested copy of process and return
to be given to jailer on commit
ment.
Section 1. Creditors intending to charge the bail on an ex
ecution shall indorse thereon the name and place of abode of
the bail ; and the officer, at least fifteen days before the return
day thereof, shall deliver to the person intended to be charged
as bail, or leave at his abode, a notice in writing, stating that
such execution is in his hands, the amount thereof, and when
it is returnable, and shall keep such execution until the return
day thereof.
Sec. 2. If the bail so notified produces the body of the
debtor to the officer at any time before the return day, so that
he may arrest him, and pays the reasonable charges for such
notice, the bail shall be discharged.
Sec. 3. The bail shall not be charged upon any return of
non est inventus, unless the officer certifies in such return that
notice was sjiven to the bail as aforesaid.
S. 214:3. G. S. 223:3. G. L.242: 3. 11,349. iv, 29.
Sec. 4. Bail shall be discharged at any time before judgment
against him, by committing the principal to the jail of the
county in which he resides or in which the action is pending,
and giving to the creditor or his attorney in the action, within
fifteen days thereafter, notice in writing of the time when and
the place where the principal is so committed, and causing the
board of the principal to be paid or secured to the jailer until
the expiration of seven days after notice given to the creditor or
his attorney, unless he shall be sooner discharged by giving bond
according tO law.
Sec. 5. If the officer makes return, on the execution against
the principal, that he has made diligent search and has not been
able to find the principal in his precinct, and that he gave notice
to the bail as herein prescribed, the creditor may have a writ of
scire facias against the bail, and judgment and execution against
him for the amount of such execution and interest, and for
COStS. xi,3«. xvi.496.
Sec. 6. If the bail, while the action is pending, or at any
time after scire facias and before judgment against him, brings
into court the body of the principal, and moves to be discharged,
he shall be discharged, and the court shall order the keeper of
the prison to receive the principal into custody ; and he shall be
holden in the same manner as if he had been committed on the
writ for want of bail.
Sec. 7. The bail shall not be discharged by committing his
principal and giving: notice to the creditor as aforesaid, after
* * o o .
notice has been given to the bail as aforesaid, without paying to
the officer, creditor, or his attorney the cost of such notice, and
the cost which has arisen in any action previously commenced
against the bail.
Sec. 8. No scire facias against bail shall be supported unless
the same shall be served on the bail within one year after the
final judgment against the principal. c.8.«u.& g.s.223 : 8.
Sec. 9. The bail, in actions in police and justice courts, may
commit the principal to jail at any time before judgment against
him, and shall be discharged upon producing to such court or
justice a certificate thereof from the jailer, in the same manner
and upon payment of the like cost as if he were surrendered
in court.
Sec. 10. The bail, on committing the principal to jail, shall
in all cases leave with the jailer an attested copy of the writ or
process on which the arrest was made, and of the officer's return
thereon, with a certificate of such commitment; and the jailer
shall detain the principal in his custody in the same manner as if
he were committed for want of bail.
Section 1. The supreme court shall have and entertain exclu
sive jurisdiction of applications and other proceedings for the
naturalization of aliens under any of the acts of congress in rela
tion thereto.
L. 29:12. 1889,37:1. 1,245.
Sec. 2. Aliens may make the declarations of their intentions
to become citizens of the United States before the court, in the
manner provided in the acts of congress, at any time when the
court shall be in session.
L. 29:13.
Sec. 3. The clerk of court shall enter, upon a docket kept for
the purpose, brief memoranda of the names and residences of
such applicants, including the street and street number of the
residences of those who reside in cities.
Sec. 4. No hearing shall be had or certificate of naturaliza
tion be granted by the court upon any such application until it
shall have been filed at least five days and entered upon the
docket as aforesaid, nor until the applicant and his witnesses
shall have been examined on oath in open court, by the court or
some person at its request, touching all the qualifications of the
applicant required by the laws of the United States for his be
coming a citizen thereof.
Section 1. A person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of his
personal liberty, by an officer or other person, except in the
cases mentioned in the following section, is entitled of right to a
writ of habeas corpus according to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 2. Persons imprisoned upon legal process, civil or
criminal, in which the cause of the imprisonment is distinctly
expressed, and persons committed by a court or judge of the
United States, and where no judge of a court of this state has
authority to discharge or to commit to bail, are not entitled of
right to such writ.
Sec. 3. Application for the writ may be made to the supreme
court in term time, in any county, or to a justice thereof at any
time, by a person so imprisoned or restrained, or by some person
in his behalf. c- 8- 215: 3- «• s. 224 : s.
Sec. 4. The application shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and under oath, and shall state the place where the
person is supposed to be imprisoned or restrained of his liberty,
and by whom ; and a copy of the warrant or precept, if any,
under which he is confined shall be annexed to the application.
G. 8.224:1.
Sec. 5. If by such copy it appears that the person is lawfully
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty by virtue thereof, a writ
of habeas corpus shall not be granted.
L. 213 : 5. xlv, 205.
Sec. 6. If by such copy it appears that the person is impris
oned on mesne process for want of bail, or on criminal process
before a magistrate for want of recognizance, and that excessive
bail or recognizance is required, the court or justice shall decide
what bail is reasonable, and he shall, on giving such bail, be
discharged.
Sec. 7. If an officer having the custody of any such person
by virtue of a precept refuses or delays unnecessarily to deliver
to the applicant an attested copy of the precept, on demand, the
court or justice, on proof by affidavit of the applicant or other
credible witness of the demand and refusal or of unnecessary
delay, shall forthwith issue the writ of habeas corpus as prayed for.
Sec. 8. The form of writ may be substantially as follows :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
SS. To .•
[l. s.] We command you that the body ofln
our
prison, under your custody detained [or, by you imprisoned and
restrained of his liberty, as the case may be], as is said, together
with the day and cause of the taking and detaining of the said
, by whatever name the said may be called or
charged, you have before our justices of our supreme court,
holden at , within and for our county of , immedi
ately after the receipt of this writ, to undergo and receive what
our said justices shall then and there consider of him in this
behalf; and have you then and there this writ.
Witness at , this day of , in the
year .
All necessary alterations in the form shall be made to adapt
the writ to the circumstances of the application.
Sec. 9. The writ, when awarded by the court, shall be under
the seal of the court, shall bear teste of the chief or senior justice
who is not a party, and shall be signed by the clerk ; when
awarded by a justice of the court, it shall be under his hand
and seal.
Sec. 10. The writ, when issued by the court, may be made
returnable to the court or a justice thereof in any county imme
diately, or at a time and place therein directed.
etc. R.S. 202:10. C.S. 215:10. G. S.224:10. G.L. 243:10.
Sec. 11. If the writ is issued by a justice of the court it may
be made returnable before himself, the court, or any justice
thereof at a place certain, immediately or at other time
therein directed.
Sec. 12. In all cases, the writ shall be made returnable in
such mode as to secure to the applicant the enjoyment of it in
the most free, easy, cheap, and expeditious manner.
8.215:12. G. 8.224:12. G. L, 243 : 12.
Sec. 13. The court or justice awarding the writ may, in his
discretion, require the applicant to give satisfactory security to
the person to whom the writ is directed, for the payment of all
charges incurred by reason of the process, and that the person
imprisoned shall not escape by the way. The court or justice
may also fix and cause to be indorsed upon the writ the expense
of producing the person imprisoned or restrained, according to
the precept, and may require it to be paid or tendered when the
writ is served.
Sec. 14. The service of the writ may be made by any per, , v .1 • • i j. i-u i_ •! ■
son, by delivering the original to the person to whom it is
directed, or, if the person for whom application is made is in
prison, by leaving it with the jailer or deputy keeper at the
prison, and paying or tendering the sum indorsed on the writ,
l~ ' * J ° & '
11 any.
Sec. 15. The person making the service shall keep a copy of
the writ and shall make his return or affidavit of service and of
the payment or tender of fees thereon as in other cases, and shall
deliver it to the court or justice before whom the writ is returnable, on or before the time of hearing therein designated.
Sec. 16. The person to whom the writ is directed shall
receive it when offered, and upon payment or tender of the sum
indorsed on the writ, if any, shall yield obedience to the command thereof; shall make return thereof to the court or justice,
at the time and place therein mentioned ; and shall state every
cause of taking and detaining the person imprisoned or restrained;
all of which shall be made under oath; and he shall
also have present the body of such person, unless imprisoned or
restrained for some one or more of the causes specified in the
second section of this chapter.
Sec. 17. If no time is specified for the return, but the writ is
returnable immediately, the return shall be made within three
days after the service, unless the prisoner is to be brought more
than twenty miles, in which case the return shall be made within
so many days more as will be equal to one day for every ten
miles of such further distance.
Sec. 18. A justice of the court to whom any such writ is
returned may certify and return it, with all things pertaining
thereto, to the court, if then sitting ; and at any time before the
prisoner is discharged, bailed, or remanded, he may adjourn
further proceedings on the writ to the court, if then in session,
or to the next term thereof, if to begin within three months next
afterward. The court, in any such case, shall proceed therein as
if the writ had been, by the tenor thereof, returnable thereto.
Sec. 19. If the court is not in session when any such writ is
made returnable, it shall be returned to any justice of the court
as if it were issued by and returnable to him. <j881C2i*-Bi98'9G: l'
Sec. 20. The court or justice may require and take security
by recognizance, with sufficient sureties if necessary, for the appearance
of any party at the time and place of hearing on any
such writ, and to abide the order of court thereon; and may
make all decrees necessary to insure the attainment of the object of the writ, and enforce it upon the principles of equity.
Sec. 21. Whenever any person is brought before a court or
any justice thereof as aforesaid, the court or justice shall, within
three days thereafter, examine the causes of detention. £. s. 215:21.
•> G. L.243: 21.
Sec. 22. If the person imprisoued or restrained is so impris
oned or restrained without sufficient cause or due order of law,
he shall be discharged ; but if otherwise he shall be remanded.
8.224:22. G. L. 243: 22. xl, 272. xliv, 321.
Sec. 23. If the person is committed for a bailable oftense,
the court or justice may bail him by ordering him to recognize,,
with sufficient surety or sureties, in a reasonable sum, for his ap
pearance at the court having cognizance of the offense, and shall
certify the recognizance into the court.
Sec. 24. If the person is committed on mesne process in a
civil action for want of bail, and it appears that the bail required
is excessive, the court or justice may discharge him on reasonable
bail being given.
Sec. 25. If the person is imprisoned or restrained by order
of a justice, or of any court or authority other than the supreme
court or a justice thereof, for contempt, the proceedings in the
order and the cause thereof may be revised, and the order
affirmed, modified, or reversed by the supreme court or a justice
thereof.
Sec. 26. If an officer having the custody of a prisoner, on
payment or tender of his fees therefore, shall not, within six
hours after demand made, deliver to the prisoner a true copy of
the warrant or process by which he is holden in custody, he shall
forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars.
Sec. 27. If a person to whom a writ of habeas corpus is
directed refuses to receive it, or conceals himself, or avoids, so
that the writ cannot be delivered to him, or, after the receipt
thereof, and payment or tender of expenses when required aa
aforesaid, he refuses or neglects to yield obedience thereto, un
less prevented by the sickness of the person detained or other
necessity, he shall forfeit for every such oftense, to the person
aggrieved, the sum of five hundred dollars.
Sec. 28. If a person makes a false return to any such writ,
he shall be liable to the action of the party aggrieved, and also
to any action at common law for false imprisonment or unlawful
restraint.
L. 243: 28.
Sec. 29. The court or justice awarding any such writ, or to
whom it is returned, may punish every disobedience to the order
thereof as for a contempt, and may compel obedience thereto by
process of attachment.
L. 243:29.
Sec. 30. No person enlarged by habeas corpus shall again be
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty for the same cause, unless
he shall be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof, or shall neg
lect to appear according to his recognizance, or to find bail when
required thereto ; and if an officer or other person shall willfully
again imprison or restrain the person so discharged, except as
atoresaid, he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved eight hundred
dollars.
Sec. 31. All actions and prosecutions for any offense against
the provisions of this chapter shall be begun within two years
next after the commission of the oftense, saving to all persons
in prison the right to sue or prosecute at any time within two
years after such impediment is removed.
Sec. 32. The right of action in any such case shall not cease
hy the death of either party, but shall survive for and against the
personal representatives of the deceased.
CHAPTER 240.
FORFEITURE OF GRANTS.
Section
1. Word "grant" to Include charters,
etc., and acts conferring rights not
common to all.
2. Word " grantee " to include all hav
ing grantee's rights.
3. Proceedings for forfeiture may be by
Information or petition, etc.
4. If by petition, bond to pay costs to be
filed.
5. If land in different counties, proceed
ings in either, etc.
<i. Service and notice of pendency as in
actions by writ of summons, etc.
7. If grantee does not appear, court to
hear evidence, etc.
8. Several defendants may plead sev
erally.
8. If condition found not fulfilled, grantee
may file reasons why in equity
no forfeiture.
10. If condition not performed, but in
equity no forfeiture, grantee to pay
costs.
11. If forfeiture ought in equity to be de
creed, Judgment.
12. Copies to be sent to secretary of state,
if Judgment of forfeiture.
R. S. 203 : 31.
Q. L.31S : 32.
C. S. 215:31.
18S5, 11 : 1.
Section
13. When Judgment of forfeiture of land,
grantee may file claim for improve
ments.
14. Question of improvements and pre
vious value of land deter mined
equitably.
15. If improvements found, deoree to be
that state or petitioner pay value,
or that grantee pay value of land,
etc.
16. Decree may be in alternative, that
grantee pay value of land, or that
value of improvements be paid to
him.
17. If grantee fails to fulfill decree, on
scire facias, final decree of forfeiture,
etc.
18. If defendant prevails, to recover costs,
except against state.
19. Grant may be forfeited for nonper
formance of condition, express or
implied.
20. On Judgment of forfeiture grant void,
etc.
Section 1. The word " grant " in this chapter includes all
grants or charters of lands made by the supreme executive or
legislative power of the state, and all acts of incorporation and
laws giving to individuals powers or rights not common to all
citizens.
Sec. 2. The word "grantee" in this chapter includes ^the
Eerson or corporation to whom a grant is made, and all persons
aving the right of such person or corporation therein.
C. 8.216:2. G.S.225:2.
Sec. 3. Proceedings for obtaining a decree of the forfeiture
of such grant may be by information, filed in the supreme court
at a trial term by the attorney-general or other person author
ized in behalf of the state ; or, if the claim is by an individual
for the forfeiture of a grant of land, by his petition, filed in the
court, alleging the forfeiture and praying for the decree, xxin, m.
Sec. 4. The petitioner shall file with the clerk a bond to the
. * , _ • -i /*» • • T-i
state, in a reasonable sum, with sufficient sureties, conditioned
to pay all costs which may be adjudged against him.
L. 244: 4.
Sec. 5. If the land to which the proceedings relate is in
different counties, the proceedings may be in either, and the
order of notice upon the information or petition shall be that
tne grantee appear and show cause why the grant should not be
decreed forfeited.
Sec. 6. Service of the petition or information and order may
^e ma(^e M required in actions begun by writ of summons. If
such service is not practicable, service may be made by publication, or in such other manner as the court may order.
G. 8. MB: 6. G. L. 2*4:6.
Sec. 7. If the grantee does not appear upon such service or
notice, the court shall hear the evidence, and adjudge whether
the grant is forfeited.
Sec. 8. If several persons claim under the same grant, they
ill n w * w
may appear and plead severally.
8. 225:8. G.L.244:8.
Sec. 9. If it is found by the jury or by the court that the
conditions of the grant have not been performed, the grantee
nmy m writing allege reasons why the forfeiture ought not in
equity to be enforced, and the court, upon consideration thereof,
shall determine whether, in equity and good conscience, a de
cree of forfeiture should be made.
lvli, 498.
Sec. 10. If they decide that such decree ought not in equity
to be made, the judgment shall be that the grant is not forfeited,
for the reasons in equity assigned, and that the grantee pay the
costs of suit.
Sec. 11. If they decide that the decree of forfeiture ought
to be made, the judgment shall be that the grant is forfeited.
8. 216:13. G. 8. 225:11. G. L. 244:11.
Sec. 12. Whenever such judgment is rendered on information
filed in behalf of the state, the clerk shall, within thirty
days, transmit to the secretary of state attested copies of the
judgment, and all papers in the case, which shall be filed in his
/" -ii" Tin, i 1 •
ofnce and laid before the general court at their next session,
Sec. 13. Whenever judgment is rendered that a grant of
land is forfeited, the grantee may file in writing a claim for improvements
made by bini on the land, and move to be heard
thereon.
S. 225: 13. G. L. 244:13.
Sec. 14. The question whether improvements have been
made, the value thereof, and the value of the land at the time of
tne entry of the grantee, shall be determined upon equitable
Prmciple8 by the court or a jury, at the election of the grantee,
Sec. 15. If improvements are found, a decree shall be made
*hat tne state or petitioner pay to the grantee the value thereof,
or such part of the value as the court may deem equitable ; or
that the grantee pay to the state or petitioner the value of the
land before the improvements were made, and upon such payment
that the grantee have the title of the state or of the
petitioner thereto.
Sec. 16. The decree in such case may be in the alternative,
that the grantee pay the value of the land, or that the value of
the improvements be paid to him, at his election; and in all
cases it may prescribe the time, mode, and conditions of payment,
as may be equitable.
Sec. 17. If the grantee fails to fulfill the decree according to
its terms, upon scire facias to him, a final decree shall be made
that his claim is forfeited, and a writ of possession shall issue
thereon. C. 8. 215: 18. G. 8.225:17.
Sec. 18. If the defendant prevails in the suit, he shall recover
his costs of the person by whom it is prosecuted, unless
authorized to prosecute the same in behalf of the state, q.^"^.^
Sec. 19. Any grant may be adjudged forfeited for the nont i •
performance of any condition annexed to or contained therein,
whether such condition be expressed or implied, ^J^i^P^'al't
Sec. 20. Whenever a grant is adjudged forfeited, the grantee
is divested of all rights, powers, and privileges under it ; and
it shall be thenceforth void. etc- H.s.fa:«, c.b. m.t. g.s.225:2o.
CHAPTER 241.
REPLEVIN.
section Section
1. Owner of beasts impounded may re- 5. Plaintiff before service to give bond
plevy against impounder. to sheriff, etc.
2. Of goods attached on writ against an- 6. Goods replevied to be retained by offlother and goods unlawfully taken or cer in certain cases.
detained. 7. To be returned to defendant with
3. Of goods exempt. damages, when.
4. Officer having writ of replevin may 8. Value of, to be found, and deducted
demand goods, etc. from damages.
Section 1. A person whose beasts are impounded may, while
they remain in the pound, maintain replevin therefore against the
impounder. c.s.sn:i. 0.8.226:1. g. l. 245:1. t,36. m, 182. xxi, 448.
Sec. 2. Whenever' goods or chattels are unlawfully taken or
detained from the owner or person entitled to the possession of
them, or whenever goods or chattels attached on mesne process
are claimed by a person other than the defendant in the suit in
which they are so attached or taken, the owner or other person
mav maintain renlovin therefore g.l. 245:2. xiv, 441. xiiii, 473.
may iiKiiiumii lepiiviu uieieiui. lv, 621. lvil, 217. lix, 411, 532,
Sec. 3. The owner of goods or chattels attached upon mesne
I
process, which are exempted from attachment, or the person
from whose possession they were taken, may maintain replevin
therefore, before they are taken on execution. n> 4'2Sect.
4. If any property so attached is in the possession of
any person, for keeping or otherwise, the officer having the writ
of replevin may demand the same, and, on neglect or refusal to
deliver it, may enter any close or building and replevy it. The
taking by the officer of any property shall exonerate the person
having possession thereof a9 aforesaid from all liability therefore.
Sec. 5. The plaintifff in the writ, before service thereof, shall
give bond to the sheriff, with sufficient sureties in a sum not less
than double the value of the property to be replevied, condi
tioned to prosecute his suit, and to pay all such damages and
charges as may be awarded against him.
xlv, 360. lvi, 319.
Sec. b'. Whenever any goods and chattels, except living ani
mals, and goods liable to waste, decay, or greatly depreciate in
value by keeping, shall be taken in replevin, the defendant may
require the officer serving the writ to retain the goods or any part of them in his own possession ; and if the defendant shall
give bond to the officer, with sufficient surety, in a sum not less
than double the value of the goods, with condition that he will
pay all costs and charges of keeping and insuring them, and all
depreciation thereof, if the plaintifff in the suit shall prevail
against him, the officer shall retain the goods in his own custody
while the suit is pending, subject to such orders as the court
may from time to time make respecting their custody.
Sec. 7. If the defendant shall prevail in the suit, he shall
have judgment for the return of the goods, with such further
damages as may be awarded to him.
Sec. 8. In an action of replevin, the defendant, if he prevails,
may have judgment for the return of such of the goods and chat
tels replevied as may at the time of the trial or judgment remain
in the possession of the plaintifff, or of any part of the same, if he
shall so elect. Whenever a defendant shall have so elected, the
value of the goods to be returned shall be found by the jury or
ascertained by the court ; and upon such return their value shall
be deducted from the damages assessed in the suit in favor of the
defendant.
CHAPTER 242.
ACTION OF DOWER.
Section
1. Dower not set out to widow, she may
have action therefore.
2. Demand In writing to be made, etc.
3. Writ to be summons.
4. If Judgment for dower, damages for
detention to be recovered.
Section
5. Judgment for demandant to be for
such part as will yield one third in
come, etc.
6. Officer to set off by committee as la
levy on real estate.
7. Rights, and mode, of setting off, to be
as before Judge of probate.
Section 1. If dowrer is not assigned to a woman entitled
thereto to her satisfaction, by the heir or tenant of the freehold
or by the judge of probate, she may recover it by action of dower.
L. 246? 1. 111,136. tv, 107/xxxili, 524.
Sec. 2. She shall make demand in writing of her dower of
the person seized of the freehold, if in this state, otherwise of the
tenant in possession ; and if the dower is not set out within one
month, may sue for and recover it against such person.
11, 48. ill, 163. xix, 168. xxii, 690. xxxiii, 524. xxxvit, 49. xlli, 482.
Sec. 3. The writ in actions of dower shall be a summons.
R.S.205:3. C.S.218:3. G. 8.227:3.
Sec. 4. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower,
she shall also, in the same action, recover her reasonable dam
ages for the detention thereof by the tenant in such action after
demand made. g. l.246:4.
Sec. 5. Judgment shall be rendered for the demandant, that
she recover " seizin of such part of a certain , with the
appurtenances, as will produce a yearly income equal to one third part of the yearly income thereof on the day of ."
G. 8. 227 : 5. G.L. 246 : 5.
Sec. 6. The officer to whom the writ of seizin is directed
shall cause the dower to be set off by three discreet and disinter
ested men of the neighborhood, who shall be appointed and shall
proceed in the same manner as is provided in the levy of execu
tions on real estate.
Sec. 7. The rights of every such woman, and the mode of
setting out her dower, shall be the same as in similar cases before
a judge of probate.
C. 8.218:7. G. 8.
■.:.
Section 1. One or more persons, having or holding real estate
with others, in possession, reversion, or remainder after an estate
of freehold, if the remainder is vested, may have partition thereof
as in this chapter provided.
L. 247:1. v, 216. Ti, 109. vtii, 93. xii, S62. xviii,396. xxxvi, 326. xxxrii, 434. xl, 249.
847, 396. 111,613. 1111,573. 1x1,80. 1x111^200.
Sec. 2. Petition may be hied by such person in the supreme
court in the county in which the estate or any part thereof lies,
particularly describing the estate, the names of all owners or persons interested, if known, and the share of the petitioner therein,
an(j prayjng for partition thereof.
Sec. 3. If the persons interested in any such real estate with
the petitioner are unknown, it shall be described in the petition
.£ . . , . ,, ~ , . r
in the same manner as is required in the case or taxing unimproved
lands of nonresidents, specifying the share held by each
petitioner, and stating that it is held with persons unknown.
Sec. 4. The petitioner shall give notice to all persons interested in the estate, by causing the petition and order of notice
thereon to be served on each in the same manner that writs of
summons are required to be served.
Sec. 5. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, or if
, . , , j-i , ■, 1 .,
he resides out oi the 6tate and has not had personal notice, the
court shall order publication of the petition and order of notice,
and may fix the time of the last publication.
L. 247 : 5.
Sec. 6. If any petitionee is absent at the time of the service
of the petition, and has not returned, and does not appear at the
sitting of the court at which the petition is entered, it maybe
continued and further notice ordered.
Sec. 7. If any petitionee is an infant or otherwise incapacitated to take care of his estate, partition shall not be made until
a guardian or agent has been appointed ; and such agent may
be appointed by the court.
L- 247: 7.
Sec. 8. If any petitionee is unknown, the court may, in their
discretion, appoint an agent to aid and advise in his behalf in
making the partition.
L-**7:8.
Sec. 9. Matters alleged in the petition may be denied or
avoided by the petitionee by plea, and further pleadings may be
nad, and an issue of fact or of law made and tried as upon a writ
at common law ; or the petitionee may file a plea denying that
he holds any part of the premises with the petitioner, with a
brief statement of matters in defense.
Sec. 10. If the issue is determined in favor of the petitioner,
or if after notice the petitionee does not appear, or if no sufficient
objection is made, the court shall render judgment that partition
^e ma^e' an(l shall appoint a committee, consisting of three suitable
persons, residents of the county, to make partition of the
estate, to set off the shares of the several petitioners according to
their respective titles, and to award costs as they deem just.
Sec. 11. The committee shall be sworn. They shall appoint
a time and place of hearing, and cause notice thereof in writing,
signed by the chairman, to be served upon each person interested,
or his agent or attorney, or to be left at his abode, seven
days at least before the day of hearing. g.l.247: 11,13.
Sec. 12. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, the
committee shall cause the notice to be published. g.s Ire -it.
Sec. 13. They shall make partition of the estate as directed
in their commission, by setting off to each petitioner his just
share thereof, according to his right, by proper metes and bounds
or other distinct description, and shall return to the court a full
report of their doings, with a particular description of each portion of the estate so set off. lv- M- v- 1M- "txviu, u. xivi, m.
Sec. 14. If no sufficient objection appears, the court shall
render judgment upon the report. The partition so made shall
be recorded in the registry of deeds for the county where the
real estate lies. * g.s. 228:14. g. l. 247 : u. «, mi.
Sec. 15. The committee shall adjust the costs of making the
partition, and apportion the same in such manner as they think
just, and shall make report thereof to the court. o.8.n»:«. g.s. 228: 15.
Sec. 16. If on the trial of an issue, as provided in section
nine, it is determined that the petitioner has no share in the
estate, or a less share than he claims, the petitionee shall recover
the taxable costs of such trial. g.s. 228:16,17. g.l. 247: is, 17.
Sec. 17. If the petitioner fails to enter or prosecute his petition, costs shall be awarded in favor of all the petitionees upon
whom service was made. b. s. 206: is. c. s. 219: is. g. s. 228:18.
partition in probate court.
Sec. 18. If there is no dispute about the title, a petition for
partition may be filed with the judge of probate for the county
where the real estate or the greater part thereof lies, who shall
appoint a time and place of hearing thereon. g^x^W^xx^m
Sec. 19. Notice thereof shall be given to all parties interested, by giving to each in hand, or leaving at his abode, an
attested copy of the petition and order of notice, fourteen days
at least before the day of hearing, or by causing the same to be
published.
Sec. 20. If on the hearing no sufficient objection appears,
the judge shall cause partition to be made by a committee, who
shall be appointed, be sworn, give notice, and proceed, and the
court shall appoint guardians or agents for all minors or persons
incapacitated, and agents for all persons unknown or out of the
state, interested in such estate, receive and accept the report of
such committee, and render judgment and award costs thereon,
in the manner in this chapter prescribed.
Sec. 21. In such case, if a party interested, against whom
costs are awarded, neglects to pay them, the judge may issue his
warrant of distress therefore. R.s. 206:24. as. 219: 24. g.s. 228: 24.
Sec. 22. No partition shall be avoided by any conveyance
made by a petitionee after theentry of the petition therefore, nor
by any conveyance, unless duly recorded at the date of such
entry, nor by any mortgage, attachment, or lien thereon, when
ever made, nor by the death of either party ; but the share of
each petitioner shall be set off in severalty, and be subject to all
legal claims thereon, as if the claimant had been a party thereto.
Sec. 23. If in making partition a share is set off to any per
son other than the legal owner, such share shall inure to the
benefit of the legal owner, his heirs or assigns, as if it had been
set off to him.
L. 247 : 20.
Sec. 24. "Whenever an estate is so situated that it cannot be
divided so as to give each owner his share thereof without great
prejudice or inconvenience, the whole or a part thereof may be
assigned, if the parties consent, to one of them, he paying to the
others who have less than their shares such sums as the committee shall award.
sect- 25- if the parties win not
shall report the facts to the court.
report facts._ G. L^247 : 25. Uv, 128, 441. 1x111^416.
so consent, the committee
Sec. 26. Upon the return of the report, if the proceedings
are pending in the supreme court, and it appears to the court
that the estate is of the nature aforesaid, the court may order it
to be sold aud the proceeds thereof to be divided among the
owners according to their respective titles, and may make all
other orders that may be necessary to cause such sale and the
distribution of the proceeds, as a court of equity may do in like
cases ; but if it appears to the court that the estate is divisible,
it shall recommit the report to the committee with instructions
as to the division thereof.
Sec. 27. If the proceedings are pending in a probate court,
upon return of the report, such court shall order the petitioner
to enter the case at the next trial term of the supreme court for
the county, for which notice can be given, and to notify the pe
titionees of such transfer by giving to each or leaving at his
abode, if known and within this state, a copy of the order of trans
fer, fourteen days at least before the beginning of the term, and
by publication of a like copy if any of the petitionees are un
known or reside outside the state, or their residences are un
known. The petitioner shall file in the supreme court attested
copies of the petition, report, order of transfer, evidence of
service, and of all other papers on file in the probate office in
the case.
Sec. 28. If it appears to the supreme court that due notice
has been given of the transfer, the court shall proceed in the case
as if \t had been begun in such court and all prior proceedings
had taken place therein, and may make like orders and decrees
in the case. If due notice to the petitionees has not been given,
the court may continue the case and order such further notice
of the pendency thereof as it may deem just, and when the order
has been complied with, it shall proceed as above set forth.
Section 1. Whoever shall cut, fell, destroy, injure, or carry
away, willfully and unlawfully, any tree, timber, log, wood, pole,
underwood, or bark, standing or being on the land of another
person, or shall aid therein, shall forfeit to the person injured,
tor every pine or other timber tree so cut, felled, destroyed, injured,
or carried away, five times the value thereof; for every
other tree or log of greater dimension than one foot in diameter,
five dollars and three times the value thereof; for every other
tree or log of the dimension of one foot in diameter, five dollars;
and for every tree, log, or pole less than one foot in diameter,
three dollars ; and for any other wood, underwood, timber, or
bark, three times the value thereof.
Sec. 2. Whoever shall willfully and unlawfully cut out or
alter the mark of any mill log, or cut into any lumber or log,
the property of another, or shall aid therein, shall be liable to
the same penalty as that prescribed in the preceding section for
cutting a tree or log of the same dimensions.
Sec. 3. Whoever shall willfully and unlawfully throw down
or leave open any fence, gate, or bar belonging to or inclosing
land holden in common, or belonging to another person, or Bhall
aid therein, shall forfeit, to the person injured, treble damages
and not exceeding fifteen dollars. g.l. 248:3.
Sec. 4. Whoever shall willfully and unlawfully die: or carry
away any stone, ore, gravel, clay, sand, turf, or mold upon or
from land holden in common or from the land of another person,
or shall aid therein, shall forfeit, to the person injured,
treble damages, and not exceeding fifteen dollars.
Sec. 5. Whoever shall, without authority, willfully enter into
or upon, or take possession of, land belonging to the state, and
continue in possession thereof without right for the space of
three months, shall forfeit one hundred dollars, one half to the
use of the state, and the other half to the use of the com
plainant.
Sec. 6. No right shall be acquired by such entry or possession,
nor by any adverse possession of such land, as against the
state or its grantees. r.s.207:7. c.s. 220:7. 0.8.229:6.
Sec. 7. No action under the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained unless begun within two years after the cause of
action accrued. G.S.229:7.
Section 1. Any personal action may be begun by trustee process,
except actions of replevin and trespass to the person, and
actions for defamation and malicious prosecution. f1"s^21:x'Xxi9,2^):
xli, 12. xlv, 174, 203, 538. liv, 125, 339. 'lv, 172.
Sec. 2. Such action shall be brought in the county in which
it should be brought if no trustee were summoned. ei' 230-2
Sec. 3. The trustee writ shall be an attachment and summons,
and shall be served upon the defendant and trustee like a
writ of summons ; and the goods and estate of the defendant
mav Vip nrfnr>riprl iriPr-Pnn G. S. 230:3. G. L.249: 3. vi, 217. x, 120.
may De attacnea tnereon. xxxviu, 435. xiv, 37. iv, en. lxiv,
Sec. 4. If a trustee dies pending the proceedings against
him, bis executor or administrator may be summoned in as a
party, and he shall be liable as if the action had been brought
ncainsr him ns trnsrpp C 8.221:24. G. S. 230: 46. G.h.
against mm as trustee. xvii.334. xxv.seu. xxxii.Hi.
Sec. 5. A person doing business in this state and residing
outside the state may be summoned upon trustee process by
serving the writ upon his clerk or agent having charge of such
business, and he may be charged as trustee, as if he were an inhabitant of this state, upon the deposition of such clerk or agent,
jor any money, goods, or chattels of the defendant in his hauds
or possession, in this state, or for any rights or credits of the
defendant by reason of contracts made or performed within
the state.
Sec. 6. The names of any persons may be inserted in the
writ as trustees after service thereof upon any other trustee, but
not after service upon the defendant. £ *■» : fcGlii0s; »j*;
Sec. 7. A partnership shall not be charged as trustee unless
the persons summoned are described as partners, nor shall the
partners be charged severally unless severally summoned.
Sec. 8. Two or more trustees otherwise jointly liable may be
charged jointly, though severally summoned. ^•S'ixiil'im.^-i,
DEFAULT OF TRUSTEE.
Sec. 9. No person summoned as trustee in an action shall be
charged on default until he shall have neglected to answer in the
action, after such notice as the court or justice, at the term
when the action is entered, or at some subsequent term, may
Order. 1877,23:1. G. L. 249: 7.
Sec. 10. If the trustee makes default after such notice, he
shall be adjudged chargeable for the amount of the judgment,
which may be recovered by the plaintifff" against the defendant.
x, 120. xv, 150.
Sec. 11. Disclosure of trustees may be given or taken by
any party to the action at any time after the service of the writ
upon the trustee, upon such notice to the adverse party as is
required in taking depositions, and upon the payment or tender
to the trustee of his fees for travel and attendance, as in case of
., '
witnesses.
829. Ivl. 813. lx, 216.
Sec. 12. The depositions of persons other than the trustee
may be taken by any party to a suit relative to the liability of
the trustee.
Sec. 13. If a corporation or partnership is summoned as
trustee, the deposition of the cashier, treasurer, or other proper
officer or agent of the corporation, or of a member of the partnership, may be taken as the deposition of the trustee.
L.249: 11. v, 18. ix,394. xxxiU, 837. lv, 371. Ivl, 155.
Sec. 14. In such case, like proceedings may be had by or
against the corporation or partnership, upon summons or notice
to or by such officer, agent, or member, to give such deposition,
and upon their failure or refusal, as in the case of an individual,
Sec. 15. The plaintifff may at any time give notice in writing
* <5 . ,.
to the trustee that the action is discontinued against him, and no
further proceedings shall be had, except tl
recover J,j[8 cog^ jf any? £0 ^at time.
CHARGING OF TRUSTEE.
Sec. 16. At the term next after the deposition of the trustee
is taken, the deposition shall be submitted, unless, for good cause
shown, further time is given for taking other depositions.
lvi, 313.
Sec. 17. If, by the depositions taken by the plaintifff and
trustee, it appears that the trustee denies his liability as claimed
by the plaintifff, either of the parties, before a decision of the court,
may move for a trial by the jury.
400. xxv, 482. xxxvii, 579. xxxix, 212.
Sec. 18. Upon such motion, an issue shall be framed under
the direction of the court as to the liability of the trustee; and
upon the trial the depositions taken by either party may be used
as evidence.
375. xxvlii, 816.
Sec. 19. If, upon the depositions in the case, or, if there be
a trial by jury, upon the verdict of the jury, it appears that the
trustee had in his possession at the time of the service of the
uPon hi™; or at any time after, any money, goods, chattels,
rights, or credits of the defendant, not exempted from trustee
process, he shall be adjudged chargeable therefore.
218. xx, 359. xxv, 369. xxx, 463. xxxii, 172. xxxili, 337. xxxviii, 199. xliii, 480. xllv, 88.
526. xlvii, 470. lv, 74, 279. lvi, 155. lviii, 78, 89, 155, 577. lix, 113, 137. lx, 119. 1x111,858. Ixlv, 10.
EXEMPTION FROM TRUSTEE PROCESS.
Sec. 20. The money, rights, and credits of the defendant
shall be exempt from trustee process in the following instances,
and the trustee shall not be chargeable therefore :
I. Wages for labor performed by the defendant after the ser- f
vice of the writ upon the trustee, ^^^i"!,^^ i
ii. Wages of the defendant earned before the service of the T
writ upon the trustee, to the amount of twenty dollars, except in L
actions brought to recover for necessaries furnished to the de- J
fendant or any of his family. g^*£* *g.i!*M9: 40C' IvwA i
ill. Wages for the personal services and earnings of the wife a
and minor children of the defendant children. B. 8.208:9. C. S. 221 : 9. 1866, 4
ana minor cnuureu 01 tne aeienuam. ^ . ^ G. L.249.-40. xivi, 45. xivii, 2
iv. Any pension or bounty money of the defendant, allowed P
by any law of the United States, before it has come into his m
actual possession. 1886,4233:1. G.S.230:47. G
v. Funds held by the trustee in the capacity of clerk, cashier,
or other employe of the defendant, which were received in the
ordinary course of such employment. 1877> 16: *• G- L- M9: 4'2vi. Fees due to the defendant for attendance at court as a
juror or a witness.
PROCEDURE ON DISCLOSURE OF PROMISSORY NOTE ; CLAIMANT.
Sec. 21. If the trustee is sought to be charged for a negotiable
promissory note, or other instrument on which he is liable,
made and payable in this state, or the parties to which, at the
time of making the same, resided in this state, the plaintifff shall,
if practicable, take the deposition of the defendant as to the disposition
and ownership thereof. xxvhlsw. nv,47s. ixiilsss.
Sec. 22. If it appears that a third person has a claim of right
to such note or instrument, or if it is not practicable to procure
such deposition, the court may order notice to be given to him
personally, if practicable, and by publication or otherwise, to
appear and show that the same was transferred to him in good
faith and for a valuable consideration, before the service of the
writ upon the trustee, or to be forever barred from such claim.
Sec. 23. If it shall not appear that the note was so trans_ .. , . _ ,, , . *r n,i,
ferred, the maker shall be charged as the trustee 01 the debtor,
and the payment of the judgment rendered against him shall be
a discharge from the note, or from such part thereof as is equal
to the amount so paid by him, and all costs taxed in his favor,
Sec. 24. If any such debtor shall not appear on notice, or
shall refuse to testify, he may be punished as for contempt of
courk tempt. E. 8.208:20. C. 8.221:20. G. 8.230:24. G. L.249: 18,
Sec. 25. If by the depositions taken it appears that the property
for which the trustee is sought to be charged is claimed by
a third person, he shall, on motion and upon such terms as the
court may order, be admitted to defend his right, and may offer
any evidence in support thereof. xiv, 129. xviu, 417. ivin, iso.
Sec. 26. If such claimant does not appear, the court may
t ... , ■ . , rF. ' . •*
order notice to be given to him personally, it practicable, otherwise
by publication, and in such other manner as they deem fit,
to appear and maintain his claim, or be forever barred therefrom,
Sec. 27. Any claimant appearing voluntarily or upon notice,
shall, upon motion and such terms as the court may order, be
admitted as a party to maintain his claim, and may move for a
tr*a^ ^y jury i au^ such trial shall be had upon an issue between
*ne P'aintitf and the claimant, framed therefore under the direction of the court.
RECEIVER FOR PROPERTY DISCLOSED.
Sec. 28. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any per
sonal property subject to mortgage, pledge, or other lien, the
court may appoint a receiver to dispose of the same, if more can
be obtained for it than the claims upon it.
99. xii, 105. xix,381. xx, 222. xxl, 72. xxll, 198. xxvlil, 369. xxxli, 141. xxxix, 466. xlii,495.
Sec. 29. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any prom
issory note or other security for the payment of money, or any
chose in action upon which an execution cannot be levied, the
court may appoint a receiver to collect it.
Sec. 30. If the person summoned as trustee shall refuse to
deliver to the receiver, agreeably to the order of court, any note,
security for money, evidence of debt, chose in action, or other
property, he shall be adjudged trustee for the value thereof.
8.221:14. G. S. 230:35. G. L. 249: 29.
Sec. 31. The trustee adjudged chargeable shall retain in his
hands the sum or articles other than those for which a receiver
is appointed, for which he is so charged, until demanded of him
upon execution issued in the suit, or until the suit is otherwise
terminated.
Sec. 32. The proceeds of any property in the hands of a
receiver for which the trustee was charged shall be applied,
under the direction of the court, after paying costs and charges
and prior liens, in satisfaction of the judgment, and any surplus
shall be paid to the defendant.
EXECUTION.
Sec. 33. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any specific articles in his possession, or which he is under contract to deliver
to the defendant, the execution which may issue against the
defendant shall contain a precept to levy the same thereon, and
the officer may demand, receive, and sell the same upon such
execution.
Sec. 34. If the trustee neglects or refuses to deliver the arti
cles to the officer having the execution, on request, execution
shall be issued against him, upon notice, as for his own debt, for
the value thereof and such damages as the court may order, and
costs.
L. 249: S3.
Sec. 35. When judgment is recovered by the plaintifff against
the defendant, execution in favor of the plaintifff may be issued
against the trustee for the amount for which he is adjudged
chargeable, as for his own debt, not exceeding the amount of the
judgment against the defendant, and against the defendant for
any balance.
Sec. 36. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any liability
not due or payable, or other cause for delay exists, execution or
other proceedings in relation thereto may be stayed as equity
requires.
Sec. 37. Upon payment or delivery by the trustee of any
money or other property for which he is charged according to
the provisions of this chapter, he shall be discharged of all claim
of the defendant for the same, and in any suit therefore he may
give the special matter in evidence under the general issue.
G. L. 249 43. xxvli, 412.
Sec. 38. The defendant or trustee may discharge the liability
of the trustee by paying into court the sum for which the trustee
, j J r J °
is charged.
Sec. 39. A defendant whose rights, credits, or other things
are attached upon trustee process may apply to the court, or to
a justice thereof in vacation, for a release of the attachment,
The court or justice, after reasonable notice to the parties, may
order the petitioner to give to the plaintifff a sufficient bond, conditioned to pay the plaintifff within thirty days after judgment,
any sum, and the value of any specific articles, with which the
trustee is chargeable, not exceeding the amount of the plaiutiff's
judgment. The giving of such bond shall operate as a release
of the attachment. The value of such specific articles shall be
estimated by the court or justice, or under their direction.
COSTS.
Sec. 40. If upon the verdict of a jury the trustee is adjudged
chargeable for a greater sum or for other property than he would
have been chargeable for upon his deposition, he shall pay costs;
otherwise he shall recover costs. §. HZfifg^gSec. 41. When it appears that the trustee has received the
property of the defendant, or a conveyance or bill of sale thereof,
in trust for the defendant, or by absolute conveyance with a
secret trust, or has done any other act in relation thereto with
intent to aid him in defeating or delaying a creditor, costs shall
be taxeH acainst trie trustee xii, 1(5. xviii, 409. xx, 302.
ue wxtju against me trubiee. ^ x]llj ^ 17g ^ ^ ^^ ^
Sec. 42. The trustee shall recover his costs in all cases except
as provided in this chapter, unless otherwise ordered by the
court ; and the court shall adjust all costs in matters relating to
trustee process as between the plaintifff and trustee, or any
claimant of property in the hands of the trustee, as shall seem
equitable. 1876,"7:5. G.L. 249:49. x.521. xxv, 369. xxvil.Ml. xxvlii, 369.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 43. No deposition taken under the provisions of this chapter shall be evidence upon any criminal prosecution, except
upon an indictment of the deponent for perjury therein.
C. 8. 221 21. G. 8. 230 : 54.
Sec. 44. The supreme court may make and establish such
rules and orders as may be necessary and convenient to carry
into eflect the purposes of the various provisions of this chapter,
Sec. 45. The provisions of this chapter, so far as they are
applicable to actions in justice and police courts, shall apply to
actions and proceedings therein and to process issued therefrom ;
but no party summoned as trustee shall have judgment entered
against him until after notice has been given him to disclose, or
after disclosure made as now provided by law.
8.230 : 51. 1878,11:1. G. L. 249: 44. ix, 257. xxil, 103. xxv.482.
Sec. 46. When any trustee, in a writ issued by a justice or
police court, resides in another county, the writ and any execu
tion issued thereon against such trustee shall be directed to the
sheriff of any county or his deputy, or to any constable of the
town in which the trustee resides.
Sec. 47. In such case, the plaintifff shall file with the justice
or police court a bond to the trustee, in a sum and with sureties
to the acceptance of the justice or court, conditioned to pay the
costs which the trustee may recover ; and a memorandum of the
filing of such bond shall be made and signed by the justice or
clerk of the police court, on the writ, before service thereof on
the trustee.
CHAPTER 246.
ACTIONS AGAINST TENANTS.
Section
1. Tenancy to be at will, unless different
shown.
2. Owner may determine lease at will,
by notice to quit.
3. If rent in arrcar, seven days' notice
sufficient.
4. Or If lease violated.
5. Or lessee holds over.
6. Lessee may terminate In same man- j
ner as lessor.
7. Owner may recover possession, after
notice to quit.
8. Justice may issue summons, return
able In seven days.
9. On default, plaintifff to have judgment
for possession, etc.
10. If plaintifff falls, judgment for defend
ant.
11. Defendant not to offer evidence of title
under general issue.
Section
12. If plea of title, defendant to recognize
to enter in supreme court.
IS. If defendant refuses to recognize, Judg
ment against him.
14. Further proceedings to be in supreme
court.
15. Appeal may be taken from judgment.
16. Plaintiff appealing, to recognize to
enter, etc.
17. Defendant appealing, to recognize to
enter and pay rent, etc.
18. Appellant to produce copies, etc
19. Upon neglect, judgment affirmed.
20. If defendant pleads title or appeals,
and plaintifff recovers, damages to
be assessed.
21. Remedy at common law not taken
away.
22. When estate conveyed, grantee to
have rights and remedies of grantor.
Section 1. Every tenancy or occupancy shall be deemed to
be at will, and the rent payable upon demand, unless a different
contract is shown.
L. 250 : 5. xxli, 10. xxiv, 219. xlvii, 329.
Sec. 2. Any lessor or owner of lands or tenements may at
any time determine any lease at will or tenancy at sufferance, by
giving to the tenant or occupant a notice in writing to quit the
same at a day named therein. «,- l. 250: 1. xviii^ 222. xxii, 10. xxiv,
J xlv, 188. xlvii, 829. lvlil, 819. 1x1,89.
Sec. 3. If a tenant or occupant neglects or refuses to pay the
rent due and in arrear, upon demand, seven days' notice shall
be sufficient. If the rent is payable more frequently than once
in three months, whether such rent is due or not due, thirty
days' notice shall be sufficient, and three months' notice shall be
sufficient in all cases. xxxiv,«8. xi,39s. xini, sis. xivii, 329. iviii, 319.
Sec. 4. If a lessee violates the condition of a written lease,
notice to quit at the end of seven days shall be sufficient &nd§
equivalent to an entry for condition broken, g. s. 231:3. g. l. 2so:3.
Sec. 5. If a lessee holds over after the expiration of a definite
written lease, seven days' notice shall be sufficient. §w?WG.*L..(*!io:
Sec. 6. A lessee may terminate his lease by notice in writing, in the same manner as the lessor, and the notice shall have
the same effect for all purposes as a notice by the lessor to the
lessee. g.s. 231:6.
Sec. 7. The owner or lessor of any tenement or real estate
. . „ . J . ,
may recover possession thereof, against a lessee or occupant
holding it without right, after a notice to quit the same, in the
manner herein prescribed. G.i«i:7. g.l.2»:7. xii, 489.
Sec. 8. A writ of summons may be issued, returnable before
a justice or police court, setting forth in substance that the plaintifff
is entitled to the possession of the demanded premises, and
that the defendant is in possession thereof without right, after
notice in writing to quit the same, which writ shall be served
seven days before the return day thereof.
Sec. 9. If the defendant makes default, or if on trial it is
considered by the justice or court that the plaintifff has sustained
his complaint, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintifff recover possession of the demanded premises, and costs, and a writ
of possession shall issue.
Sec. 10. If the plaiutiff neglects to enter his action, or fails
to support it, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for
his COStS. B.8.209:12. C. S. 222:12. G.S.231:10.
Sec. 11. Under the general issue, the defendant shall not
offer evidence which may bring the title to the demanded premises in question. g. s. 231 : 11.
Sec. 12. If the defendant shall plead a plea which may bring
in question the title to the demanded premises, he shall recosrnize
to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the
justice or court shall order, to enter and prosecute the action at
the next term of the supreme court for the county, and to pay
all rent then due or which shall become due pending the action,
and the damages and costs which may be awarded against him.
Sec. 13. If the defendant neglects or refuses to recognize,
judgment shall be rendered against him in the same manner as
if he had refused to make answer to the suit. c.s.222:is. G.s.2si:i3.
Sec. 14. After the filing of such plea and the entry of such
recognizance, no further proceedings shall be had before the justice
or police court, but the action maybe entered and prosecuted in the supreme court in the same manner as if it were
originally begun there.
Sec. 15. A party aggrieved by the judgment of a justice or
police court upon issue joined in such ca^e may, within two
hours after the rendition of the judgment, appeal therefrom.
Sec. 16. The plaintifff, before his appeal is allowed, shall rec
ognize to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as
the justice or court may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal,
and to pay such costs as may be awarded against him.
Sec. 17. The defendant, before his appeal is allowed, shall
recognize to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as
the justice or court may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal,
and to pay all rent then due or which may become due pending
the suit, and such damages and costs as may be awarded against
him.
Sec. 18. The party appealing shall produce certified copies
of the whole case at the court appealed to, and either party may
there ofier evidence as if the cause had been originally begun
therein.
Sec. 19. If the appellant neglects to enter his appeal or to
produce such copies, the court, on complaint of the appellee,
shall affirm the former judgment, with additional damages and
costs.
Sec. 20. If a defendant files a plea of title, or appeals, and
the plaintifft" recovers judgment against him, the court shall cause
his damages, exemplary or otherwise, including a just compen
sation for the use and detention of the property, and for any
injury thereto, to be assessed by the jury who try the issue, or
otherwise, and may issue execution theretor, or the same may be
recovered on the recognizance taken as before provided.
Sec. 21. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to pre
vent a landlord from pursuing his legal remedy at common law.
8.231:21. G. L. 250: 21.
Sec. 22. "Whenever the estate occupied by a tenant at will or
suft'erance is conveyed by the landlord, his grantee shall have
the rights and remedies which the grantor would have had,
under the provisions of this chapter, if the estate had not been
conveyed.
Section 1. All controversies which may be the subject of a
civil action may be submitted to one or more referees, in the
mode prescribed in this chapter. SiHn1"*.1' ii', %2^m.' <xiv'if?7:i!"
Sec. 2. The parties may insert in the agreement, indenture,
or bonds of reference, which shall be signed by them or their
attorneys for them, a clause to the following effect : " And the
parties agree that the award of said referees or the major part
of them, in writing, may be filed, with a motion for judgment
thereon, in the supreme court for the county of , and,
upon notice thereof to the adverse party, the said court may
render final judgment thereon. xivi, ni.
Sec. 3. If a specific demand only is submitted, the substance
of the claim in controversy shall be stated, with as much par
ticularity as the nature of the claim will admit. It shall be in
serted in the agreement, or shall b* annexed thereto, and signed
by the party making it. G- L- 2W ; 3- »• ™- m
Sec. 4. If all demands between the parties are submitted
to the referees, no specific demand need be annexed to the
agreement.
Sec. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke the sub
mission without the consent of the other. c 8.223 .6. g. 3.232:5.
Sec. 6. The parties may fix in the agreement the time and
place for hearing and for making an award, and may vary the
form accordingly.
Sec. 7. All the referees must meet and hear the parties, un
less the parties otherwise agree, but a majority may make an
award, and their report shall be as valid as though signed by all
the referees. It shall appear on the face of the award, or by the
certificate of the dissenting referee, that all of them attended
and heard the parties, unless the parties waive the same in writ
ing on the agreement.
Sec. 8. The referees shall have the same authority as those
appointed by rule of court, and any one of them may adminis
ter oaths to witnesses in the cause. rs. 210:9. c. s. 22s: 9. g. 3.232:8.
Sec. 9. The report of the referees shall be delivered by one
of them to the court to which it is to be returned according to
the agreement ; or it shall be sealed up by them and transmitted
^Q tjje court, and shall remain sealed until opened by the clerk.
Sec. 10. If the parties agree, the referees may make known
their determination before the report is returned to the court,
and if the parties agree to settle their dispute accordingly, it
need not be so returned.
Sec. 11. The court to which any such report is made may
accept, reject, or recommit it for further consideration. The
referees, upon a recommitment, shall appoint a time and place
for a new hearing, and give the parties notice thereof, and the
proceedings thereupon shall be the same as in the original
hearing.
106. xxv, 381. xxxll, 289. xxxlx, 107. xli, 9. xllll, 58. xlv, 410. xlix, 178. 1,22.
Sec. 12. The court shall have the same cognizance of any
such report of referees as they would have if it were made by
referees appointed under a rule from the court in a case pending
therein, and may render judgment and issue execution thereon.
Sec. 13. The referees may allow such costs as they deem
reasonable, unless restricted by the submission, and subject to
the revision of the court for good cause shown.
L. 251: 18.
Sec. 14. In any case mentioned in the first section of this chapter, the parties may enter into an agreement to submit the
same to referees as hereinbefore provided, and that the report of
such referees shall be made to a justice, and judgment be rendered
by him thereon ; in which case the form of the agreement
may be varied accordingly. The referees shall proceed in the
same manner and possess the same powers as in case of a refer
ence to be returned to the supreme court, and the justice, upon
receiving the report, shall render judgment and issue execution
thereon for damages and costs,
Sec. 15. "When a referee's report is made to a justice of the
peace under the preceding 'section, and further proceedings
I ' , f . o > V £<
before some other tribunal are necessary tor recommitting, correcting, setting aside, or enforcing the report, or for the decision
of a question of law or fact raised on or by the report, the justice
shall transmit the papers to the trial term of the supreme court
in his county, where upon due notice the same proceedings may
be had as if the report were returnable to the supreme court.
Sec. 16. A person may voluntarily appear before a justice
f°r *'ne county m which he resides, and confess that he is indebted
to any other person in a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars,
and consent that a record thereof be made, and execution issue
accordingly, or be stayed as the parties agree. The justice shall
make a fair record of the confession and agreement, which shall
be signed by the debtor and the creditor, or by their agents, and
the justice shall enter up judgment and issue execution thereon.
Sec. 17. Every justice to whom a confession of debt or a report
of referees is made as aforesaid shall keep a full and true
record thereof, signed and certified by himself.
Sec. 18. Every execution issued by a justice as aforesaid may
be levied in the same manner as if issued by the supreme court.
G.S.232:17. G. L. 251:17.

