Section 1. The superior court of judicature shall consist of a
chief justice and two associate justices, appointed and commissioned
as prescribed by the constitution.
Sec 2. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all pleas real,
personal and mixed, and of all civil actions and criminal proceed
ings commenced according to the course of the common law, which
may be legally brought before them.
Sec. 3. The said court shall have exclusive authority to issue
writs of error, certiorari, mandamus, prohibition and quo warranto,
and may issue writs of habeas corpus and all other writs and pro
cesses to courts of inferior jurisdiction, to corporations and indi
viduals, for the furtherance of justice and the due administration
of the laws.
Sec. 4. The said court shall have the general superintendence
of all courts of inferior jurisdiction, for the prevention and correc
tion of errors and abuses, where the laws have not expressly
provided a remedy.
Sec. 5. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all questions
of divorce and alimony, and all appeals from courts of probate
and applications therefore, all applications for review or new trial
founded on any statute, petitions for the redemption and foreclosure
of mortgages, petitions for partition of real estate, of proceedings
relating to the forfeiture of any estate or franchise granted by the
State, and of all actions and questions 'whatever which shall be
transferred from the courts of common pleas for decision according
to law.
Sec. 6. The said court shall have power to hear and determine,
as a court of equity, in cases of grants, devises and appointments
of any real or personal property for any charitable use, in all cases
of trust, fraud, accidents or mistakes, in cases respecting the adjust
ment of the concerns of copartners, joint tenants and tenants in
common, in cases respecting the redemption and foreclosure of
mortgages, in cases respecting the assignment of dower where the
probate court has not jurisdiction, in cases respecting the secreting
and withholding any personal property where there is not a plain,
adequate and sufficient remedy at common law, in suits to compel
the specific performance of contracts, and in suits for discovery in
cases where a discovery may be lawfully required.
Sec. 7. The said court may grant writs of injunction, whenever
the same shall be necessary to prevent injustice, and any justice of
said court may issue writs of injunction to stay proceedings or
waste until the end of the next term of said court in any county,
unless sooner dissolved. j
Sec. 8. No jurors shall be summoned at the superior court ; but
if it shall be found necessary in any case to ascertain any facts by
a jury, an issue shall be made up, under the direction of said court,
and transmitted to the court of common pleas for trial, and the ver
dict of the jury thereon shall be certified to said superior court, and
judgment rendered thereon as the case may require.
Sec. 9. The justices of the superior court shall make, from time
to time, all necessary rules and orders for conducting the business
in said court and in the court of common pleas.
Sec. 10. If two of the justices of said court shall be legally
disqualified to act as such in any case, the other justice shall hear
ind determine such case, and shall have all the powers of the
aourt.
Sec. 11. For the business of the superior court the State is di
vided into five judicial districts, as follows :
District No. 1, to consist of the counties of Rockingham and
Strafford ;
District No. 2, of the counties of Merrimack and Hillsborough ;
District No. 3, of the counties of Cheshire and Sullivan ;
District No. 4, of the counties of Belknap and Carroll ; and
District No. 5, of the counties of Grafton and Coos.
Sec. 12. The superior court shall be holden annually within
said districts, at the times and places following :
At Exeter, on the third Tuesday of July, and at Dover, on the
third Tuesday.of December, for the counties of Rockingham and
Strafford ;
At Concord, on the second Tuesday of July, and at Amherst, on
the second Tuesday of December, for the counties of Merrimack
and Hillsborough ;
At Keene, on the first Tuesday of December, and at Newport,
on the first Tuesday of July, for the counties of Cheshire and
Sullivan ;
At Ossipee, on the fourth Tuesday of July, and at Gilmanton,
on the fourth Tuesday of December, for the counties of Belknap
and Carroll ;
At Haverhill, on the Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of
December, at Plymouth, on the Tuesday next after the fourth
Tuesday of July, and at Lancaster, on the Tuesday next after the
term of said court at Plymouth.
Sec. 13. The said court sitting in any county in any district,
shall have jurisdiction and may take cognizance of all matters
arising in either county or counties belonging to the district, in the
same manner as though such matters had arisen within the county
where the court is sitting.
Sec 14. The clerk of the superior court in each county shall
*ttend at each term of said court within the district to which his
county belongs ; and under the direction of the court, disch&fgB
his duties in relation to the business of his own county fin the
•ame manner as if the court were sitting therein. _ /
Section 1. The court of common pleas shall consist of the jus
tices of the superior court, of two justices of the court of common
pleas, to be appointed and commissioned as prescribed by the con
stitution, and of the justices of the court of common pleas appoint
ed for each county. The chief justice of the superior court shall
be chief justice of the court of common pleas, and the chief or
senior justice of the superior court present at any court of common
pleas, shall preside ; and if no justice of the superior court be pre
sent, the senior circuit justice present shall preside.
Sec. 2. The court of common pleas shall be holden by one or
more justices of the superior court, or one or more circuit justices,
arid one or both judges of the court of common pleas for the coun
ty ; but if the justice of the superior court or the circuit justice
presiding, shall be disqualified or decline sitting in any case, and
no other justice of the superior court or circuit justice be present,
the county judges shall be a quorum for all purposes.
Sec. 3. The court of common pleas shall have original jurisdic
tion of all civil actions in which the proceedings shall be according
to- the course of the common law, except in cases where justices
of the peace have jurisdiction, and where the proceedings must be
commenced by writs of which the superior court has exclusive
jurisdiction, and in all other cases provided by law.
Sec 4. The said court shall have original jurisdiction in all
criminal cases whatever, except such as are within the jurisdiction
of justices of the peace. Two justices of the superior court shall
be present at the trial of every person who shall be charged with
any crime, the punishment of which may be death, and the clerk
of the court where any such indictment may be found, and every
justice who may hold any person to answer for such crime, shall
forthwith certify the fact to the justices of the superior court.
Sec 5. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all appeals
iustices of the peace in civil and criminal cases, and of all
petitioi/'s for the laying out and discontinuing of highways in cases
providedvby law.
Sec. 6. ''^te court of common pleas shall have authority to try
all issues of fact which shall be transmitted to them for trial from
the superior court, and to make all proper orders relating thereto in
their discretion.
Sec 7. Any person aggrieved by any opinion, direction or judg
ment of said court of common pleas in any action or proceeding,
may allege exceptions thereto at the same term, which shall bereduced
to writing before the adjournment of the court without
day, and being conformable to the truth of the case, shall be
signed by the presiding justice and be a part of the record in such
case.
Sec 8. The question arising upon such exceptions or upon a
special verdict, and any issue of law, motion for a new trial' or
statement of facts agreed upon and signed by the parties in any
case, may be reserved and assigned by the presiding justice, if he
think fit, to the determination of the superior court, and such jus
tice shall direct such documents and papers as he thinks necessary,
to be transmitted to said court.
Sec. 9. The decision of said superior court in any of the cases
aforesaid, shall be certified by the clerk thereof to the clerk of the
court of common pleas iu which the action is pending, and such,
judgment shall be entered or disposition of the action made as is.
directed therein. ,
Sec 10. No judge shall sit on the trial of any cause upon
appeal, which- he has before tried in the court below, nor in any
cause in Which he has been concerned as a party or attorney.
Sec 11. The court of common pleas shall be holden annually,
at the times and places following : •
At Portsmouth, on the first Tuesday of February, and at Exeter,
on the fourth Tuesday of August, for the county of Rockingham ;
At Dover, on the third Tuesday of January and on the first,
Tuesday of August, for the county of Strafford ;
At Gilford, on the second Tuesday of February and on the
third Tuesday of August, for the county of Belknap ;
At Ossipee, on the third Tuesday of April and on the second
Tuesday of October, for the county of Carroll ;
At Concord, on the third Tuesday of March and on the third
Tuesday of September, for the county of Merrimack ;
At Amherst, on the second Tuesday of April and on the second
Tuesday of October, for the county of Hillsborough ;
At Keene, on the first Tuesday of April and on the first Tues
day of October, for the county of Cheshire ;
At Newport, on the third Tuesday of April and on the third
Tuesday of October, for the county of Sullivan ;
At Haverhill, on the first Tuesday of September and on the first
Tuesday of February, for the western judicial district of the coun
ty of Grafton ;
At Plymouth, on the first Tuesday of November and on the
third Tuesday of May, for the. eastern judicial district of the countv of Grafton ; ,
At Lancaster, on the first Tuesday of May and on the third
Tuesday of November, for the county of Coos.
Sec. 12. This and the last preceding chapter shall go into effect
on the first day of January next, and the governor and council
may, immediately after the passage of this act, proceed and make
the appointments required of them by this chapter.
CHAPTER 173.
OF THE ADJOURNMENT OF COURTS.
Section Section
1. Power to adjourn. 3. Sheriff may adjourn.
2. Any justice may adjourn. 4. Changes of terms.
Section 1. The superior court of judicature and court of com
mon pleas may adjourn their sittings from time to time, as they
may think proper.
Sec 2. If the number of justices required to hold any term of
the court, shall not attend, any of the justices present may open
and adjourn the court from day to day, or to any future day or to
the next term of the court.
Sec 3. If none of the justices of the court shall attend at any
term, the sheriff may adjourn the court from day to day, until one
of the justices shall attend.
Sec 4. When the time or place of holding any court shall be
changed by law, all writs, actions, processes, venires and every
matter and thing whatever which may be returnable at or contin
ued to such term, shall be returned to, entered, have day and be
heard at the times and places fixed by law as aforesaid.
Section 1. There shall be a clerk of the superior court and a
clerk of the court of common pleas in each county, each of whom
shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office, give bond to
the county in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by one of the justices of
the court of which he is clerk, conditioned for the faithful dis
charge of the duties of his office, the payment of all monies by
him received as clerk, to the State, county or individuals as the
law directs, and for the safe keeping and delivery of all records,
files and papers belonging to his said office, immediately upon his
leaving the same.
Sec. 2. No clerk of any court shall be at the same time register
of deeds or county treasurer.
Sec 3. Every such clerk shall immediately after each term of
the court, account with and pay over to the county treasurer all
money by him received for the use of the county, and the presi
ding judge shall certify the account of the clerk at the close of
each term.
Sec 4. Every clerk of said courts shall, at the close of each
court, or earlier, make and deliver to the sheriffs, proper writs,
warrants and processes for the collection of all fines and forfeitures
imposed by said court, and shall make and transmit to the treasurer
of the county a list of the same ; and if any clerk shall neglect
his duty herein, he shall forfeit the sum of twenty dollars to any
person who will sue for the same.
Sec 5. The records and files of the several courts of sessions
and courts of common pleas heretofore established by law, and all
records and files of justices of the peace deceased or removed from
their counties, shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of the
court of common pleas, who shall give attested copies thereof and
shall be for that purpose the proper certifying officer.
Sec 6. The clerks of the superior court and court of common
pleas shall keep their offices and the records of said courts in one
of the towns in which such courts are holden, and if any suitable
office is provided by the county, such records shall be there kept.
Sec 7. In all cases where it shall become necessary in any ju
dicial proceedings to use or file a copy of any writ, pleading, case
or other writing or document, a copy thereof agreed on or certified
as such by the contending parties in such proceeding, or by their
counsel or attorneys, may be received, used or filed, and shall as
between said parties and all persons claiming under them, be as
effectual for all purposes as a copy thereof made or certified by
any clerk or other certifying officer.
Section 1. Every justice of the peace within his county may
hear, try and determine all pleas and actions in which the title to
real estate shall not be drawn in question, when the damages de
manded do not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
Sec. 2. When any action of trespass shall be brought before a
justice and the defendant shall plead the general issue, he shall not
be allowed to offer any evidence that may bring the title to real
estate in question.
Sec 3. If, in any such action, the defendant shall plead any
special plea by which the title to real estate may be drawn in
question, the justice shall record such plea, and no further proceed
ings shall be had in such action before him, except that the plain
tiff, if he so choose, may become nonsuit.
Sec. 4. In case such special plea shall be filed, the plaintifff may
enter his action in the next court of common pleas, and file there
attested copies of the writ, plea and all other papers used in said
cause, and there prosecute the same as in actions originally com
menced in said court.
Sec 5. If such plaintifff shall not enter his action in the court
of common pleas, the said court, upon complaint of the defendant,
shall allow him his costs both before the justice and at said court.
Sec 6. Either party aggrieved by the judgment given by any .
justice in any civil cause, may appeal therefrom to the next court
of common pleas to be holden in the same county.
Sec 7. Every appeal shall be claimed within two hours after
the judgmeut is rendered, and shall not be granted unless the party
appealing shall enter into recognizance to the adverse party, with
sufficient sureties, in the sum of twenty dollars, to pay the costs
which may be recovered against him.
Sec. 8. The party claiming an appeal, shall produce at the court
to which the appeal is claimed, attested copies of the writ, plead
ings, judgment and all other papers used and filed in the cause in
the court below.
Sec. 9. If any appellant shall fail to enter his appeal, or to pro
duce such copies or to pay the jury fees, the former judgment shall
be affirmed and costs taxed for the appellee.
Sec. 10. If the court shall reverse the judgment of a justice that
any writ be abated, the case shall not be remanded, but shall be
heard and determined in said court.
Sec. 11. If the plaintifff appeal in any action founded on con
tract, and shall not recover damages to a greater amount than were
awarded by the justice, the defendant shall recover his costs on
such appeal.
Sec. 12. Every justice may adjourn the trial of any civil cause
before him to such future time as may be proper, not exceeding
three months.
Sec. 13. If such justice shall fail to attend at the time and place
to which any process is returnable or continued before him, any
other justice may attend and continue the same, not exceeding
thirty days, without cost to either party and saving the rights of
all parties.
Sec. 14. No justice shall be of counsel nor act as an attorney to
either party, nor advise nor assist any party in any case before him.
. Sec 15. Every justice shall keep a fair record in one or more
books, to be kept for that purpose, of all proceedings^ civil or
criminal, before him.
Sec 16. The executor or administrator of every deceased jus
tice, and every other person into whose hands the records and offi
cial files of such justice shall come, shall forthwith deposit the
same in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas, where
they shall be kept ; and if any such person shall neglect to deposit
the same as aforesaid for six months, lie shall for each month's
neglect afterwards, forfeit and pay to any person who will sue for
the same, the sum of five dollars.
Sec. 17. When any justice in commission shall remove from his
county, he shall deposit his records and files with the clerk as afore
said; and if he shall neglect so to do, he shall forfeit for every
month's neglect after such removal, the sum of five dollars to any
person who will sue for the same.
Sec 18. Any justice may issue execution on any judgment
recovered before him during his term of office under any former
commission, in the same manner as if his commission had not
expired.
Sec 19. Every person who has sustained the office of a justice
of the peace, may give attested copies of any proceedings before
him as such justice, and his certificate shall be valid.
Section 1. The selectmen of each town shall annually, in De
cember, make a list of such persons as they shall judge best quali.fied to serve as jurors ; and the list thus annually made by the
selectmen, shall be by them kept and delivered over to their suc
cessors in office.
Sec. 2. Such list shall not contain the names of more than
fifteen persons in towns containing less than one hundred and fifty
ratable polls, twenty-five in all other towns containing less than
three hundred, thirty in all other towns containing less than four
hundred, thirty-five in all other towns containing less than five
hundred, forty in all other towns containing less than twelve hun
dred, and forty-five in all other towns containing more than twelve
hundred ratable polls.
Sec 3. The governor, secretary and treasurer of the State,
judges and clerks of the courts, register of probate, register of deeds,
sheriffs and their deputies, counsellors and attorneys at law, or
dained ministers, and practicing physicians and surgeons are ex
empted from serving as jurors, and their names shall not be placed
on said lists.
Sec 4. The names on said list shall be written upon separate
and similar pieces of paper, which shall be so rolled up that the
names cannot be seen, and placed in a box to be provided for that
purpose by the selectmen, which shall be delivered to the town
clerk to be kept by him under lock.
Sec 5. The courts shall direct the number of jurors to be sum
moned, and from what towns, in such manner that each town may
furnish its due proportion of jurors in each year.
Sec. 6. The clerk of the court of common pleas shall issue writs
of venire facias, directed to the clerks of such towns as the court
may order, forty days before the sitting of such court, requiring
each of them to cause to be selected and returned so many jurors
as are therein mentioned.
Sec. 7. The clerk shall cause such venires to be delivered to
such town clerks twenty-five days, or to the sheriff forty days,
before the sitting of the court, and the sheriff shall cause all venires
so delivered to him, to be delivered to the town clerks twenty-five
days before the sitting of the court.
Sec. 8. Each town clerk, upon the receipt of the venire, shall
notify the selectmen of the time and place by him appointed for
the selection of jurors, and post up a notice thereof in some public
place in such town seven days at least before the time so appointed.
Sec 9. At the time and place so appointed, the town clerk in
presence of the selectmen whose duty it shall be to attend, and
of such other persons as may choose to attend, shall draw from
the box held in such manner that the papers therein cannot be
seen, the names of so many persons as are required by the venire.
In the absence of the town clerk, one of the selectmen shall draw
the same.
Sec 10. If any person whose name is so drawn, has deceased,
become insane, has removed from town or is disabled by sickness,
the town clerk shall certify these facts on the venire and draw
another name.
Sec 11. The persons whose names are so drawn, shall be re
turned to serve as jurors, and their names shall not be again placed
in such box for the term of two years.
Sec 12. The town clerk shall record the notice posted by him
as aforesaid, the names of the selectmen present and of the persons
drawn as jurors.
Sec 13. A notice in writing of his selection as a juror, of the
court he is to attend and of the day and hour he is to appear, shall
be given to each juror or left at his usual place of abode, four days
at least before the sitting of the court, by the town clerk or a
constable.
Sec 14. The town clerk shall certify upon the venire, the
names of the persons so selected as jurors, and that they have been
notified as aforesaid, and cause such venire to be returned to the
clerk of the court at the hour at which the juror has been notified
" to attend.
Sec 15. Upon any emergency jurors may be selected while the
court is in session. The venires shall be issued and notice of the
time and place of such selection given, and the jurors drawn and
notified forthwith ; and the jurors so drawn and notified, shall im
mediately attend the court.
Sec 16. If any clerk, sheriff or town clerk shall neglect to per
form any of the duties enjoined by this chapter, he shall be fined
bv the court in the sum of twenty dollars.
Sec. 17. If any person selected as a juror and duly notified to
attend, shall, without sufficient cause, neglect to attend agreeably
to such notice, he shall be fined by the court in a sum not exceed
ing twenty dollars.
Sec. 18. If any selectman shall willfully neglect to perform any
duty required by this chapter, or shall put upon the list a greater
number of names than is allowed by law, or shall put on the list
the name of any person at his own request or on the request of any
other person, or shall withdraw from the box the name of any per
son legally put upon the list, or shall be guilty of any fraud or col
lusion with respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall be punished
by a fine of fifty dollars for each offense.
Sec 19. If any town clerk shall draw from the box a greater
.number of names than are mentioned in the venire, except in cases
provided, or shall put or suffer to be put in said box any name after
the same is delivered to him as aforesaid, or shall be guilty of any
fraud or collusion in respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall be
punished by a fine of fifty dollars.
Sec 20. The sheriff, coroner or other officer under the direction
of the court, may return jurors of the persons present ; but the num
ber of persons so returned to serve upon the grand jury, shall not
exceed five.
Sec. 21. Any juror may be required by the court on motion of
any party in the cause to be tried, to answer upon oath, whether
he expects to gain or lose by the issue of the cause then pending ;
whether he is related to either party ; whether he has advised or
assisted either party ; or directly or indirectly given his opinion or
has formed any opinion ; or is sensible of any prejudice in the
cause ; and if it appears that any juror does not stand indifferent in
any cause, he shall be set aside on that trial.
Sec 22. The oaths to be administered to jurors shall be in the
following forms—
GRAND JUROR'S OATH.
" You, as grand jurors for the body of this county, do solemnly
swear that you will diligently inquire, and a true presentment make
of all such matters and things as shall be given you in charge; the
State's counsel, -your fellows' and your own you shall keep secret ;
you shall present no man for envy, hatred or malice ; neither shall
you leave any unpresented for love, fear, favor, affection or hope
of reward ; but you shall present things truly as they come to your
knowledge, according to the best of your understanding. So help
you God."
petit juror's oath in criminal cases.
" You solemnly swear that you will well and truly try, and true
deliverance make between the State of New Hampshire and the
prisoner at the bar, whom you shall have in charge, according to
law and the evidence given you. So help you God."
PETIT JUROR'S OATH IN CIVIL CASES.
" You swear that in all causes betwixt party and party, that shall
be committed unto you, you will give a true verdict, according to
law and the evidence given you. So help you God."
CHAPTER 177.
OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.
Bxonoa
1. Parties may appear in person or by
any citizen of good character.
S. Any citizen may be admitted an attor
ney.
3. Attorneys of other states admitted.
Section
4. Attorneys of superior court may prac
tice in any court.
5. " to take oath, and form.
6. No one to practice unless admitted.
7. Attorneys may be removed.
8. Disqualification of attorneys.
Section L Every party in any cause, prosecution or suit may
appear, plead, pursue or defend in his proper person or by any citi
zen of good character.
Sec 2. Any citizen of the age of twenty-one years, of good
moral character, on application to the superior court, shall be admit
ted to practice as an attorney.
Sec 3. Any person who shall have been admitted an attorney
or counsellor of the highest judicial court of any other State of
which he was an inhabitant, shall be admitted to practice as an
attorney, upon satisfactory evidence of his good character.
Sec 4. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid, shall be qualified
to practice as an attorney in any court of this State, upon filing a
copy of the record of his admission with the clerk.
Sec 5. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid, shall take and
subscribe in open court the oaths to support the constitution of the
i United States and of this State, and the oath of office in the fol
lowing form :
" You solemnly swear that you will do no falsehood, nor con
sent that any be done in the court, and if you know of any,
that you will give knowledge thereof to the justices of the court or
some of them, that it may be reformed ; that you will not wit
tingly or willingly promote, sue or procure to be sued any false or
. unlawful suit, nor consent to the same ; that you shall delay no
' man for lucre or malice, but shall act in the office of an attorney
within the court, according to the best of your learning and discre
tion, and with all good fidelity as well to the court as your client.
So help you God."
Sec. 6. No person shall be permitted commonly to practice as
an attorney in court, unless he has been admitted by the court and
taken the oath aforesaid.
Sec. 7. If an attorney shall be charged with any fraud or mal
practice, or any contempt of court, the court shall inquire into
such offense in a summary manner, and if found guilty, he shall
be suspended or removed from office.
Sec 8. No person shall be admitted to prosecute or defend, as
an attorney, any cause in which he has acted as judge.
i
CHAPTER 178.
OF SHERIFFS AND THEIR DEPUTIES.
Section
1. Sheriff to give bond.
2. " not qualified till (riven.
3. Sheriff's bond annually examined.
4. New bonds to be given, or sheriff re
moved.
6. Deputy sheriffs, how appointed and
qualified.
6. Special deputies, how appointed.
7. Deputies, how discharged.
8. Sheriff responsible for deputies.
9. " and deputies to serve writs,
&c, and act as crier.
10. Penalty for neglect to serve precept.
11. " rbr neglect to pay money
collected.
12. Sheriff and deputies may require aid.
13. " out of office may complete
business commenced.
14. Deputies to act in case of vacancy.
15. " not to receive business, af
ter what time.
16. Defaults during vacancy, breach of
bond. Section
17. Executions against sheriff not against
body.
18. If unsatisfied, sheriff removed.
19. Sheriffs' bonds, when sued.
20. " " copy evidence, when.
21. " 11 breaches assigned.
22. " " judgment for plaintifff,
how recovered.
23. Sheriff's bond, endorser liable for
defendant's rests.
24. Sheriff accountable for fines.
25. Penalty for neglect*.
26. Account against county, how ad
justed.
27. Sheriff and deputies not to act as at
torneys.
26. Deputies to render account of feea to
sheriff.
29. Sheriff to account for fees to county
treasurer.
30. " to pay over balance above
salary.
31. " to retain fees for services
made by himself.
Section 1. Every sheriff hereafter appointed, shall give a bond
to the county in the sum of thirty thousand dollars, with sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the justices of the court of common
pleas, for the faithful performance of the duties of his offiee, and to
answer for all neglect and misdoings of his deputies, and such bond,
shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of said court.
Sec. 2. No sheriff shall be deemed qualified to perform any duty
of his office, until he shall have given security as aforesaid.
Sec. 3. The justices of the court of common pleas shall annual
ly, at the term of said court next after the first day of August, con
sider the sufficiency of the sheriff's bond and of his sureties, and i£
they determine the same to be insufficient, they shall cause a record
thereof to be made, and a certified copy thereof to be forthwith
served on said sheriff.
Sec. 4. If the sheriff shall neglect to give new security to the
satisfaction of said justices, at or before the next term of the court
for said county, they shall forthwith certify the same to the gov
ernor and- council, who shall remove him from office, unless he shall,
within twenty days after such certificate is made, give such new
security to the satisfaction of the governor and council.
Sec. 5. Every sheriff may appoint so many deputies as he shall
think proper, by deputation in writing under his hand and seal, and
not otherwise, who shall each be sworn to the faithful discharge
of the duties of his office before a justice of the peace, and the dep
utation and certificate of such oath thereon shall be recorded at
length, in a book kept for that purpose by the clerk of the court oS
common pleas, and no deputy sheriff shall be deemed qualified to
act as such until such record shall be made.
Sec 6. Any sheriff may constitute a special deputy for the se»7
vice and return of any prosess, by warrant endorsed thereon, in such
manner as has been heretofore in practice in this State.
Sec. 7. Any sheriff may discharge from, office any deputy by
him appointed, by writing under his hand and seal, which shall he
served by another deputy by reading the same, or giving an at
tested copy thereof to the deputy so discharged; and such discharge
with a certificate of the service thereof, shall be recorded in the
manner prescribed for recording deputations.
Sec 8. Every sheriff shall be responsible for the official conduct
of his deputies respectively, until such discharge and the certificate
of service thereof shall be recorded as aforesaid.
Sec 9. The sheriff of every county, by himself or his deputy,
shall serve and execute within his county all writs and precepts to
him directed, issuing from lawful authority ; and shall perform all
the duties pertaining to the office of crier of the courts.
Sec 10. If any sheriff, deputy sheriff or constable shall refuse or
neglect to serve any legal precept to him directed and delivered for
service, his legal fees therefore being first tendered, except in crimi
nal cases when the precept shall be endorsed by the attorney gen
eral or solicitor, or by the clerk by order of court, he shall forfeit
the sum of fifty dollars to any person aggrieved thereby, who shall
sue therefore within three months alter such neglect or refusal.
"Sec. 11. If any sheriff or his deputy shall, on demand made,
refuse or neglect to pay to the creditor in any execution, any sum
of money received by him or his deputy on such execution, he
shall forfeit and pay to such creditor five times the lawful interest
thereof, so long as he shall detain the same after such demand
made.
Sec. 12. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff or other officer, in the
execution of his office for the preservation of the peace, or appre
hending or securing any person violating the same, or for any other
'criminal matter or cause, may require suitable aid in the execution
of his office, and if any person when so reqiiired, shall neglect or
Tefuse to give such aid or assistance, he shall be punished by a fine
Hot exceeding ten dollars, for the use of the town where the oftence
is committed.
1 Sec. 13. In case of the resignation or removal from office of any
Sheriff, or of the expiration of his term of office, he may exe
cute all precepts then in his hands, and shall be answerable for
Completing all business which may have been committed to his
teire, and for the delivery to his successor of all prisoners who may
te in his custody, and for that purpose may detain such prisoners
in his custody.
Sec 14. Whenever a vacancy, from any cause whatever, shall
happen in the office of sheriff of any county, the deputies and
jailers then in office shall continue in office, and shall execute the
same in the name of the late sheriff, until another is appointed and
duly qualified, and until they have completed all business which
may have been entrusted to them before the person appointed
sheriff is qualified.
Sec 15. No deputy sheriff shall receive any business after the
expiration of thirty days from the next meeting of the governor
arid council after such vacancy shall have occurred.
Sec 16. The defaults and misfeasances of such deputy sheriffs
and jailers, during the time aforesaid, shall be deemed a breach of
their respective bonds to the sheriff who shall have deceased, re
signed or otherwise ceased to hold his office, and the executor or
administrator of a deceased sheriff shall have like remedy for such
defaults and misfeasances, as such sheriff would have had if he
had continued in life and in the exercise of his office.
Sec 17. When judgment shall be rendered against any sheriff,
whether in his official or private capacity, execution shall issue
against his goods, chattels and lands, and not against his body ; but
when he shall cease to hold his office, execution may issue against
his goods, lands and body as in other cases.
Sec 18. If any execution against the goods and lands of any
sheriff shall be returned unsatisfied, the creditor may file a certified
copy thereof and of the return thereon, with the secretary of state
who shall thereupon issue a notice to such sheriff informing hirft
thereof, and of the day when the same was filed, and if such exe*
cution shall not be paid with the costs of such copy and notice, .
within forty days after snch notice is served on said sheriff, the
governor, with advice of the council, shall forthwith remove him
from his office.
Sec. 19. Any person injured by the breach of any sheriffs bond
to the county, may after recovering judgment against the sheriff,
Vis executors or administrators, in an action brought for the default,
misfeasance or nonfeasance of such sheriff or his deputy, cause a
suit to be instituted on such bond at his own cost, in the name of
the county.
Sec 20. The clerk of the court of common pleas shall deliver
an attested copy of any sheriffs bond filed in his office, to any per
son applying and paying for the same, and such copy shall be re
ceived as evidence in any case ; but if the execution of the bond
shall be disputed, the court may order the clerk to bring the original
bond into court.
Sec 21. In every suit on such sheriffs bond the declaration
shall set forth the condition of the bond, and assign the breach or
breaches relied upon in the action, and judgment in such suit shall
not be a bar to any other action on such bond assigning other
breaches.
Sec. 22. In such suit, if the plaintifff shall recover, the judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the county, for the use of the person
alleged in the declaration to be injured by the breach or breaches
assigned therein, and such jwrson shall be taken and deemed to be
the creditor for every purpose whatever.
Sec. 23. If the defendant shall recover judgment for costs, exe
cution shall not issue therefore against the county, but the endorser
of the writ shall be liable to pay the same, and a writ of scire
facias may be forthwith sued out against him.
Sec 24. The sheriff of each county shall be accountable to the
treasurer thereof, for all fines and forfeitures imposed by the superior
court and court of common pleas, and for which warrants shall be
issued to him by the clerks, unless the justices of said court shall
certify to such treasurer that the same has noi been and cannot be
recovered, and for all money by him received for the use of the
county.
Sec 25. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse to pay over to the
county treasurer any such fine, forfeiture or money immediately on
leceipt thereof, or immediately after he shall voluntarily or negli
gently suffer any prisoner on whom the same was imposed, to
escape, he shall forfeit and pay treble the amount thereof, with
double costs of suit, on action brought by such treasurer in the
name of the county, and such neglect or refusal shall be a good
ground of Tcmoval of such sheriff from office.
,Sec 26. Every sheriff shall annually lay before the court of
common pleas his account for all services done by himself or his
deputies, for which the county is by law chargeable, and such al
lowance shall be made him as justice may require ; and no such
account shall be allowed unless it shall be presented within one
year after the service is performed*
Sec. 27. No sheriff or deputy sheriff shall be suffered to appear
in any court or before any justice, as attorney to any party in a
suit, and if any sheriff or deputy sheriff shall make any process,
writ, declaration or plea for any other person, the same shall be
TOid. «
*Sb«. 28: The deputies of each sheriff shall once in every twelve
months at least, and oftener if required, render to such sheriff under
oath a true account of all fees which they shall have received, or
which shall accrue to them by virtue of their office, for their travel
and service on all writs of mesne process, and pay over to the
sheriff twenty per oent. of the amount thereof.
Sec. 29. Every sheriff shall, on the first Tuesday of January
annually, render to the county treasurer under oath a true account
of all monies received from- his deputies by virtue of his office,
and return to such treasurer the accounts rendered him by his depu
ties, and the treasurer shall state the same in the annual statements
he is required to make for publication*.
Sec. 30. Such sheriff shall retain for his own use, if he shall re
ceive so much, the sum allowed him by law, and the residue of
the sums received by him as aforesaid, he shall, at the time of ren
dering his account, pay over to the county treasurer for the use of
the county.
Sec 31. Every sheriff shall retain for his own use the fees for
all services by him personally made, and which he is by law bound
to perform.
CHAPTER 170.
OF CORONERS AND CONSTABLES.
■iCTIoh
1. Coroners to give bond.
2. Remedy thereon.
3. Coroners to serve writs, when.
Section
4. Remedy on constable's bond.
5. Constables to serve process from jus
tice.
Section 1. Every coroner, before he enters upon the duties of
his office, shall give bond to the county for which he is commis
sioned, in the sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by the justices of the court of common pleas,
and to be kept by the clerk of said court.
Sec. 2. Any person injured by the breach of any coroner's bond,
may commence and maintain an action thereon, in the same man
ner he might do upon the bond given by a sheriff, if he were in
jured by the breach thereof, and subject to the same provisions.
Sec. 3. The coroner shall serve and execute all writs and pro
cesses directed to him, when the sheriff is a party, and in all cases
where the sheriff is a party interested, or related to either party, he
shall return talesmen and attend the jury, and in all such cases he
shall have the same powers and authority as is by law vested in
sheriffs in similar cases.
Sec. 4. Any person injured by the breach of any constable's
bond, may commence and maintain an action thereon, in the name
of the town, in the same manner he might do in the name of the
county upon the bond given by the sheriff, if he were injured by
the breach thereof, and subject to the same provisions.
Sec 5. Any constable to whom any writ or other legal precept
may be directed by a justice of the peace, is empowered and re
quired to serve and return the same according to law, and is vested
with the same powers and subject to the same liabilities in relation
thereto as sheriffs are in like cases.
Section 1. All personal or transitory actions, where both parties
ire inhabitants of this State, may be commenced in the county
where either of the parties to the writ may be an inhabitant, and
aot elsewhere.
Sec. 2. Actions of scire facias, upon any judgment or other pro
ceeding before a justice, may be commenced in the court of com
mon pleas, where the amount of the judgment or other demand
claimed, including costs and interest, shall exceed thirteen dollars
and thirty-three cents.
Sec 3, An action of debt may be maintained, if commenced
within six years, upon any judgment upon which an execution has
been issued and returned satisfied, where it shall appear that the
property levied or extended upon was not liable to be so levied or
extended upon, for the amount equitably due and costs of levying,
and such levy shall not be a discharge of such debt for any
purpose.
Sec. 4. Any copartner or joint owner may maintain an action
of assumpsit against one or more of his copartners or joint owners,
to recover his just share of any goods or chattels, choses in action
or the proceeds thereof received by such copartners or joint owners,
and not accounted for, delivered, paid or otherwise settled for on
demand.
Sec. 5. Any cotenant of real estate may recover by action of
assumpsit against one or more of his cotenants, his just share
of the value of any trees destroyed, or cut or carried away by such
cotenant, which were standing, lying or growing on such real
estate, or of any other property attached thereto and destroyed,
severed or carried away by such cotenant.
Sec 6. If any cotenant of any real estate shall hold the exclu
sive possession and income thereof, against the will and without
the consent of his cotenant, the cotenant so excluded may, in an
action of assumpsit, recover of the person holding such possession,
the full amount of all damages he may have sustained thereby.
Sec. 7. No action shall be maintained upon any contract for
the sale of lands, unless the agreement upon which such action
shall be brought, or some memorandum thereof is in writing and
signed by the parties to he rhnnicl therewith, or by some other
person thereunto lawfully authorized by writing.
Sec 8. No action shall be brought in the following cases—
First, To charge any executor or administrator upon any special
promise to answer damages out of his own estate ;
Second, To charge any person upon any special promise to an
swer for the debt, default or miscarriage of another person;
Third, To charge any person upon r.n agreemeni made upon
consideration of marriage ;
Fourth, To charge any person upon any agreement that is not to
be performed within one year from the time of making it :
Unless such promise or agreement, or some memorandum of
note thereof, is in writing and signed by the party to be charged]
therewith, or by some person thereunto by him lawfully author
ized.
Sec. 9. No action shall be brought upon any contract for the
«ale of any goods, wares or merchandise for the price of thirtythree
dollars or upwards, and no such contract shall be valid unless,
the buyer shall accept part of the property so sold and actually'
receive the same, or give something in earnest to bind the bargain
Or in part payment, or unless some note or memorandum in writing
of the said bargain be made and signed by the parties to be'
eharged by such contract, or their agents thereunto lawfully au
thorized.
Sec. 10. No bill of exchange, negotiable promissory note, order
er draft, except such as are payable on demand, shall be payable
until days of grace have been allowed thereon, unless it ap|iear in'
the instrument that it was the intention of the parties that days of
grace should not be allowed.
Sec. 11. If any person shall be compelled to pay any sum of
money, on the account of the escape of any prisoner, he may main
tain an action therefore against such prisoner and all persons aiding'
such escape.
Sec. 12. An action upon the case, and no other, shall be com- *
menced against any sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner or other officer '
for any damages arising from any default or misconduct in his
Section 1. No action for the recovery df any real estate shall he
maintained, unless such action is brought within twenty years after
the right first accrued to the jplaintifff or to any person under whom
he claims, to commence an action for the recovery thereof.
Sec. 2. If the person first entitled to maintain an action for the
recovery of such jeal estate, was within the age of -twenty-one
years, a married woman or insane at the time such right accrued,
«uch action may be commenced within five years after such disa
bility is removed.
Sec 3. Actions. for words and for any .assault, battery, wound
ing or imprisonment shall be brought within two years after the
.cause of action accrued, and not afterwards.
Sec 4. All other personal actions shall be brought within six
years after the cause of action accrued, and not afterwards.
Sec. 5. Actions of debt founded upon any judgment or recogni
zance, or upon any contract under seal, may be brought within
twenty years after the cause of action accrued, and net afterwards.
Sec. 6. Actions upon notes secured by mortgage, may be bronght
so long as the plaintifff is entitled to commence any^tction upon the
mortgage.
Sec 7. Writs of error may be commenced within three years
after judgment rendered, and not .afterwards.
Sec 8. Any infant, married woman or insane person may com
mence either of the personal actions aforesaid, within t*vo years
after such disability is removed.
Sec 9. If the defendant, at .the time the cause of action . accrued
•or afterwards, was absent from and residing out of the State, the.
time of such absence shall be excluded in the computation of the
several times before limited for the commencement of jxjrsonal
actions.
Sec. 10. If judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff, in
any action commenced within the times before limited, or upon
any writ of error brought thereon, he may commence a new action
thereon within one year thereafter, in case his right of action is
not barred by such judgment.
Sec 1 1. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
ease in which, by any statute, a different time is limited.
Section 1. All writs, declarations, processes, indictments, an
swers, pleadings and entries in the courts and before justices shall
be in the English language, and no other.
Sec. 2. All writs and processes issuing from the clerk's office
of auy qourt, shall be in the name of ithe Stale of New Hamp
shire, shall be under the seal of such court, shall bear teste of the
chief, first, or senior justice of the court who is not a party, and
shall be signed by the clerk and directed to the sheriff of any
county in the State or his deputy, shall have force in any county,
and be obeyed aud executed by any officer to whom they may be
directed.
Sec. 3. Original process in said courts shall be summons, at
tachment and capias, aud shall be in the forms prescribed by
law.
Sec. 4. Writs issued by justices of the peace, shall be directed
to the sheriff of the county or his deputy, and to any constable
of any town in the county or to either of said officers.
Sec. 5. They shall be made retmrnable before such justice at a
day, hour and place named therein, and shall be signed by him.
In all other respects they shall be substantially in the form pre
scribed by law.
Sec 6. When a defendant has personal property liable to attach
ment in any county in which he does not reside, a justice of ithe
peace may direct his writ or execution to the sheriff of any county
or his deputy, or to any constable of any town in which the
defendant resides or has such property.
Sec. 7. Incases where no form of process is prescribed by law,
such process shall be made conformable to the forms prescribed in
this chapter, so far as the nature of the case will admit.
Sec. 8. In real actions and actions of ejectment, the original
writ shall he a summons or an attachment only.
Sec. 9. When the name of a defendant is not known to the
plaintifff, the writ may issue against him by a fictitious name, and
if duly served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may be
amended on such terms as the court may order.
Sec 10. The forms of writs shall be in substance as follows, in.
the following cases : —
ATTACHMENT.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss.
To the sheriff of any county in this State, or his
deputy.
We command you to attach the goods or estate of A. D. of, &c
to the value of dollars, and summon him (if to be found in
your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of
•to be holden at in said county of on the Tuesday
of to answer to B. P. of in a plea of to the
damage of the said B. P., as he says, the sum of dollar*.
And make return of this writ with your doings therein.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Cleric
Sec 11. SUMMONS WHERE GOODS ARE ATTACHED.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss.
To A. D. of
We command you to appear at the court of to be holden
at in said county of on the Tuesday of
to answer to B. P. of in« plea of which plea the said
B. P. has commenced against you, to be heard and tried at the said
court, and your goods or estate are attached to the value of
dollars for security to satisfy the judgment which may be recov»
ered against you. Fail not of appearance at your peril.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Clerk.
 
Sec. 12. CAPIAS AND ATTACHMENT.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
To the sheriff of any county in this State, or his
deputy.
We command you to arrest the body of A. D. of or to
attach his goods or estate to the value of dollars, (if to be
found in your precinct,) and summon him to appear before the
justices of the court of to be holden at in said county
of on the Tuesday of to answer to 13. P. of
in a plea of to the damage of the said B. P., as he says, the
earn of dollars. And make return of this writ with your
doings therein.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Clerk.
Sec 13. SUMMONS.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
To the sheriff of any county in this State, or his
deputy. i
We command you to summon A. D. of (if to be found in
your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of to
be holden at in said county of to answer to [of]
in a plea of to '.he damage of the said B. P., as he says,
the sum of dollars. And make return of this writ and your
doings therein.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. C. Clerk.
Sec. 14. REPLEVIN.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
To the sheriff of any couuty in this State, or his
deputy.
We command you to replevy belonging to A. P. of
iiigfully taken and detained, as it is suM, by A. D. of and
deliver the same to the said A. P., provided he give bond to the
value of dollars, with sufficient sureties, to prosecute his re
plevin at the court of to be holdeii at in the comity of
on the Tuesday of and so from court to court
the cause be ended, and to pay such costs and damages as the
said A. D. shall recover against him. And we command you to
summon the said A. D. (if to be found in your precinct) to appear
before the justices of the court aforesaid, at trie time and place
aforesaid, to answer to said A. P. in a plea of 'replevin to
the damage of the said A. P., as he says, the sum of dollars.
And make return of this writ with your doings therein.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Clerk.
Sec. 15. TRUSTEE.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
St. ss.
To the sheriff of any county in this State, or his
deputy,
We command you to attach the goods or estate of A. D. of
to the value of dollars, and summon him (if to be found
in your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of
to be holden at in said county, on the day of
to answer to A. P. of in a plea of to the damage
of the said A. P., as he says, the sum of dollars. We also
command you to attach the money, goods, chattels, rights and
credits of the said A. D. in the hands and possession of E. T. to
the value of dollars, and summon said E. T. ( if to be found
in your precinct) to appear at said court and show cause, if any he
has, why execution should not issue against him for the damage
which may be recovered by said A. P. against said A. D. And
make return of this writ with your doings therein.
Witness J. P., Esquire, the day of A. D.
 
R. G. Clerk.
Sec. 16. SCIRE FACIAS.
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss.
To the sheriff of any county in this State, or his
deputy.
Whereas A. P. of by the consideration of the justices of
the court of holden at in said county, on the day
of recovered judgment against A. D. of for the sum
of dollars, and costs taxed at as appears of record, and
execution thereof remains to be done :
We command you, thereforee, to summon the said A. D. to
appear before the justices of the court of to be holden at
in said county of on the Tuesday of to show
cause, if any he has, wherefore the said A. P. should not hart
execution against him for the sums aforesaid. And make return
of this writ and your doings therein.
Witness J. P., Esquire, the day of A_D.
R. Ok Clerk.
Sec. i7. All original writs shall, before they are served, be en
dorsed on the back thereof by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
being an inhabitant of this State, and if the plaintifff is not an in
habitant of the State, by some responsible person who is such
inhabitant.
Sec 18. The person so endorsing any writ, shall be liable, in
case the plaintifff shall live out of the State, upon return of non
est inventus or that such execution as may have issued against the
plaintifff, is unsatisfied, to pay to the defendant all such costs as ho
may recover against the plaintifff.
Sec. 19. Such defendant shall have his remedy by writ of scire
facias against such endorser, which shall be served upon the en
dorser before the second term of the court after final judgment is
entered against the plaintifff, or within one year after final judgment
is so rendered before a justice, and not afterwards.
CHAPTER 183.
OF THE SERVICE OF WRITS.
1 . Notice, how long' required,
2. Service of scire facias, review, &o.
3. Summons to be given, when.
4. What inserted in such summons.
5. Service, if defendant is not an inhab
itant of the Slate.
(Section
6. Evidence of such service, what is.
7. Service on. attorney,, when.
8. " on towns, how made.
9. " on other corporations.
10. * . oi» counties.
Section 1. All original wrils and writs of mesne process shall
be served upon individuals, fourteen days before the sitting of the
court to which the same are returnable, and upon corporations,
thirty days before the sitting of such court.
Sec. 2. Writs of summons, scire facias and review shall be
served by reading the same to the defendant, or by giving to him
an attested copy thereof or leaving such copy al his usual place of
abode ; and if the writ is brought for dower, a like copy shall be
left with the tenant or occupant of the land whereof the dower is
demanded, if there is any.
Sec 3. When the goods or estate of any person shall be attached,
a summons in the form prescribed by law shall be delivered to the
defendant or left at his usual place of abode, with the name and
office of the officer serving the same, endorsed by him thereon.
Sec. 4. Every such summons shall set forth the sum in the note
or obligation declared upon, with the endorsements and dates there
of, the amount of the account, in covenant what sum is demanded
in damages, and for what, and in all cases shall briefly give to the
defendant the same information which the declaration gives more
at large, and shall contain the substance thereof.
Sec. 5. If any defendant is not an inhabitant of this State and
the writ is not served on him in person, but his goods or estate
within this State are attached, an attested copy of the writ, with
an attested copy of the return, may be given to the defendant or
left at his usual place of abode, or left with his agent lawfully au
thorized to appear for him, or with his tenant on or near the land,
attached.
Sec. 6. The giving or leaving such copy with the defendant or
at his place of abode, shall be proved by the certificate under oath
of the officer who made the attachment, or of some proper officer
in the state where the defendant lives, or of some other person.
Sec 7. Writs of review and of scire facias may be served, ia
case the defendant therein is not an inhabitant of this State, on the
attorney who appeared for such defendant in the original action,
or by giving to such defendant a copy of such writ, and affidavit
made thereof. '
Sec. 8. Any writ or mesne process against any town may be
served by giving to the town clerk, if any there be, or leaving at
his usual place of abode an attested copy of the writ, and by giving
to one of the selectmen, if any there be, or leaving at his usual
place of abode a like copy ; or, if there be no town clerk or se
lectman, by giving such copy to one of the principal inhabitants or
leaving the same at his usual place of abode.
Sec. 9. Any writ or process against any other corporation or
body politic, may be served by leaving an attested copy thereof
with the clerk, treasurer or one of the directors, and in case of
their absence from the State, with any principal member thereof!
or with the agent, overseer or person having the care and control
of the corporate property or part thereof, or leaving the same at
the usual place of abode of either of them.
Sec 10. Any writ against a county shall be served by leaving
an attested copy thereof with the clerk of the court of common '
pleas, thirty days before the sitting of the court to which snch wril
is returnable.
Section 1. All property, real and personal, which is liable to be
taken in execution, may be attached and held as security for the
judgment the plaintifff may recover.
' Sec. 2. The following goods and property shall be exempted
from attachment and execution :
: 1. The wearing apparel necessary for the use of the debtor and
his .family ;
2. Comfortable beds, bedsteads and bedding necessary for the
debtor, I i is wife and children ;
3. Household furniture to the value of twenty dollars ;
4. The bibles and school books in use in the family ;
5. One cow and one and a half tons of hay ;
6. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same when slaugh*
tered ;
7. Tools of his occupation to the value of twenty dollars;
8. Six sheep and the fleeces of the same ;
9. One cooking stove and the necessary furniture belonging to
10. Provisions and fuel to the value of twenty dollars ;
11. The uniform, arms and equipments of every officer and pri
vate in the militia ;
12. The debtor's interest in one pew in any meeting house in
which he or his family nsually worship ;
13. The debtor's interest in one lot or right of burial in any
cemetery.
Sec. 3. Real estate shall be attached on any writ or mesne pro
cess, by the officer leaving an attested copy of such writ and of
his return of such attachment thereon, at the dwelling house of
the town clerk of the town in which such real estate is situate, or
if there is no town clerk, with the clerk of the court of commoa
picas of the county, without any other act or ceremony.
Sec 4. The officer's return shall always be sufficient evidencethat
such copy has been so* left and of the time thereof; but the
town clerk or olerk of the court shall certify thereon the time
when such copy was received, and keep the same on file, and shall
receive of the officer therefore seventeen cents.
Sec 5. By an attachment of real estate all the debtor's interest
therein shall be held to satisfy the judgment^ though such interest
be a right of redeeming the same upon a mortgage, or levy, or sale
on execution or for taxes, or a right to receive a conveyance there
of by any contract.
Sec. 6. Any creditor attaching such right of redeeming, may at
any time while such right exists, as well before as after sale there
of on his execution, pay or tender to the person entitled to the
redemption, money, the full sum due to him ; and, upon such pay
ment or tender, the interest in such real estate derived from such
mortgage, levy or sale, shall, as against such attachment and the
rights acquired under it, cease.
Sec 7. S«ch creditor or the officer serving the writ, may de
mand of the person entitled to the redemption money, an account
under oath of the amount due him ; and if such account be not
rendered within fifteen days after or a false account shall be ren
dered, his said interest in such real estate shall, as against such
attachment and the rights acquired under it, cease.
Sec 8. If such creditor, after payment of the redemption mon
ey, shall suffer his attachment or levy to be dissolved, or the same
shall in any way be defeated, he shall be entitled to receive from,
the person to whom the payment was made, a good and valid con
veyance of his right to such real estate.
Sec 9. If any such person, being requested to make such con
veyance and having his reasonable charges therefore paid or tender
ed to him, shall unreasonably neglect or refuse to make and exe
cute the same, such creditor may maintain an action of assumpsit
against such person to recover the money paid as aforesaid, with
interest. The debtor in such case shall be entitled to notice in
writing of such conveyance, neglect or refusal, and, after such no
lice, shall have the same time for redeeming such real estate that
he had at the time of attachment.
Sec 10. No attachment of any interest in real estate shall be
defeated by any change of the nature of the debtor's right thereto,
as by redemption of any mortgage or other encumbrance, or the
execution to him of any conveyance pursuant to a contract, but
the whole interest of the debtor upon such change shall be held
by the attachment.
. Sec. 11. The share or interest of any person in any corporation
may be attached by the officer, by leaving an attested copy of the
writ and of his return thereon with the clerk, treasurer, cashier,
agent or person having the care of the property of such corpora
tion, or at his usual place of abode, and the dividends becoming
due afterwards shall be holden by such attachment.
Sec. 12. Pews or seats in meeting houses or places of public
worship shall be deemed personal property, and may be attached
by leaving an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return
thereon, with the town clerk of the town in which such meeting
house is.
Sec 13. The franchise of any corporation authorized to receive
tolls, so far as relates to the rights to receive tolls, with all the priv
ileges and immunities belonging thereto, may be attached by leav
ing an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return thereon
with the clerk, treasurer or a director of such corporation.
Sec. 14. The officer attaching grain unthreshed, hay or pota
toes, any lumber or fuel, bricks, stone, lime, gypsum or ore, manu
facturing or other machinery, bark or hides in the process of tan
ning, may leave an attesied copy of the writ and of his return of
such attachment thereon, as in the attachment of real estate ; and
in such case, the attachment shall not be dissolved or defeated by
any neglect of the officer to retain actual possession of the pro
perty.
Sec 15. Any personal property not exempt from attachment,
subject to any mortgage, pledge or lien, may be attached as the
property of a mortgager, pledger or general owner, the attaching
creditor or officer paying or tendering to the mortgagee, pledgee,
or holder the amount for which said property is holden, as ascer
tained in the mode provided by the following section.
Sec. 16. Such creditor or officer may demand of the mortgagee,
pledgee or holder an account on oath of the amount due upon the
debt or demand secured by such mortgage, pledge or lien, and the
officer may retain such property in his custody until the same i»
given, without tender or payment; and if such account shall not
be given within fifteen days after such demand, or if a false ac
count is given, such property may be holden discharged from such
mortgage, pledge or lien.
Sec. 17. Personal property attached shall be sold by the officer
before judgment, if the parties consent thereto, in writing, and such
sale shall be made in the same manner as sales of property taken
on execution, unless a different mode shall be agreed on by the
parties. , .
. Sec 18. When living animals or goods liable to perish, or waste
or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot be
kept without great expense, are attached and the parties do not
consent to a sale, the officer on application of either of the parties
may cause the same to be examined in the manuer following : —
Sec. 19. Three disinterested persons conversant with the nature
and value of such property, shall be appointed, one by the officer,
one by the creditor and one by the debtor. The officer shall ap
point an examiner for the creditor or debtor, in any case where he
might appoint an appraiser for the debtor upon the levy of an exe
cution on real estate.
Sf.c. 20. The persons so appointed being sworn to the faithful
discharge of their duties, shall examine the property and decide
what part of the property is such as is described in the second pre
ceding section, and certify the same to the officer, and he shall
thereupon advertise and sell the property so certified, in the same
manner as if the parties consented thereto.
Sec 21. If the debtor shall before such notice of sale request
any personal property attached to be restored to him, and the offi
cer shall not agree with him as to the value thereof, the officer
shall cause three disinterested persons to be appointed to appraise
the same, who shall be appointed and sworn in the manner provided
in the two preceding sections.
Sec 22. The officer shall cause a schedule of such property to
be prepared, and the persons so appointed shall appraise the same
at their cash value at that time, and make a certificate of their
doings on such schedule.
Sec 23. The property so appraised or the value of which has
been agreed on by the officer and debtor, shall be restored to the
debtor upon his giving a bond to the sheriff, if the attachment is
made by him or his deputy, otherwise to the coroner or constable
making the same, in sufficient penalty, with sufficient sureties, con
ditioned to pay the appraised or agreed value thereof, or so much
as may be necessary towards the satisfaction of any executions,
for the payment of which the property or its proceeds are by law
holden.
Sec. 24. Property attached shall be deemed to remain in the
custody of the officer, so far as to be liable to attachment in the
same manner it would have been, if it had remained in his hands
specifically, notwithstanding the same may have been sold or re
stored to the debtor, or taken from the officer by any writ of
replevin.
Sec. 25. The officer shall make return of his doings upon every
writ where property is sold by consent or upon such certificate as
aforesaid, or restored to the debtor, and in those cases the bond
taken shall be returned with the writ on which the first attach
ment is made, and shall be deemed a record of the court to which
such writ is returnable.
Sec. 26. Every bond given by the debtor and every replevin
bond in the cases aforesaid, shall be deemed to be given for the
benefit of all persons who have attached or may attach the same,
to the full value of the property.
Sec 27. In case such bond shall be forfeited, any attaching
creditor or his representative may bring a writ of scire facias there
on, within two years after the cause of such action shall accrue,
and not afterwards. Two or more creditors may join in such
action, and separate executions shall be awarded to each for the
amount due to them respectively.
Sec. 28. Any party interested may maintain an action of debt
on such bond in the name of the officer to whom the same is pay
able, within the period above limited. The name of such party
shall be endorsed on the writ, and any other party may cause his
name to be so endorsed at any time by leave of the court.
Sec 29. The persons whose names are so endorsed, shall be
deemed the plaintifffs for every purpose, and execution shall issue
in favor of each for the amount due to them respectively, and
against them for costs, if judgment should be rendered for the
defendants in such action.
Sec 30. When any judgment shall be rendered for the defend
ant, upon which execution may issue, or when the action shall be
compromised or dismissed, the attachment made in such action
shall be dissolved thereby.
Sec. 31. Attachments shall be dissolved by the death of the
defendant; in case his estate shall be decreed to be administered as
an insolvent estate, but not otherwise, if the cause of action by law
survives.
Sec. 32. In case the attachments on any property are dissolved
or if the same has been sold, the money arising from the sale there
of, deducting the charges and expenses of sale, shall be restored to
the debtor or his personal representative upon request, or if the
same has been restored to the debtor on his bond, the said bond
shall be void.
Sec 33. Property attached shall be holden until the expiration
of thirty days from the time of rendering such judgment in the
action, in favor of the plaintifff, that execution may issue thereon ;
and if there are several attachments, the property shall be holden
to the creditors in the order in which their attachments were made.
Sec 34. The proceeds of property sold on any writ, and the
amount secured by bond when property attached is restored to the
debtor, shall be holden to pay the executions issuing in the actions
in which the attachments were made, in the order in which they
were made, if demanded by the officer to whom such execution
may be committed, within thirty days after judgment is rendered.
Sec. 35. If judgment shall be rendered in vacation by direction
of the court as of a previous term, the clerk shall enter of record
the day on which the order of court is dated, and all, property
attached shall be hoklen until the expiration of thirty days from
that date.
CHAPTER 185.
OF ARRESTS AND BAIL.
%
Bkctiox
1. Females nob be arrested foi debt.
2. Nor vo'ers, on <!ays of election.
3. Nor officers and soldiers on duty.
4. Nor adniin srrators for uauies of ac
tion against deceased.
5. Nor sheriffs while in office.
6. Nor defendants in real actions.
7. Nor upon a contract, where damages
under $13-33.
8. Nor on contract since March 1, 1841,
t on affidavit.
Section
9. Persons aurested discharged by ju*.
lices, how.
10. Court may discharge debtor, how.
1 1 . Discharge does not affect debt.
12. Court may permit arrest and bail
pending a suit.
13. Bail, how taken on writ.
14. " " " after commitment.
15. Names and residence of bail to bereturned.
16. Persons imprisoned held 30 days af
ter judgment.
Section 1. No female shall be arrested or imprisoned upon any
•writ in any action founded on contract.
Sec 2. No person entitled to vote at any town meeting, shall
be liable to arrest upon any civil process on the day on which such
meeting is held.
Sec 3. No officer or soldier shall be liable to arrest upon any
eivil process while going to, returning from or attending at any
military exercise or parade, or any court martial or court of inquiry,
which it shall be his duty to attend.
Sec. 4. No executor or administrator shall be liable to arrest for
any cause of action against any person deceased.
Sec. 5. No sheriff shall be liable to arrest upon any civil process
while he remains in office.
Sec. 6. No. person shall be liable to arrest on mesne process in
any real action or action of ejectment.
Sec. 7. No person shall be arrested or imprisoned on any writ
in any action founded on a contract, unless the debt or damage for
the recovery of which such action may be brought, exclusive of all
the costs, shall exceed the sum of thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents.
Sec. 8. No person shall be arrested upon any writ or execution
founded on a contract made after the first day of March, cue thou
sand eight hundred and forty-one, unless the plaintifff or some per
son in his behalf shall make an affidavit before a justice, on the
back of such writ, that in his belief the defendant is justly in
debted to him in a certain sum exceeding thirteen dollars and thir
ty-three cents, and that he conceals his property so that no attach
ment or levy can be made, or that there is good reason to believe
he is about to leave the State to avoid the payment of his debts.
Sec. 9. The defendant in such case, when arrested, may require
the officer making the arrest, to carry him before two justices, one
of whom shall be of the quorum; and such justices upon consider
ing his affidavit and such evidence as may be laid before them, if
they believe he does not so conceal his property and has no inten
tion to leave the State, may make an order for his discharge upon
the writ or execution, and he shall be released.
Sec 10. At the return term of such writ the defendant may
move the court to be discharged, or that his bail or sureties may be
discharged, and the court, upon satisfactory evidence that the de
fendant does not conceal his estate and does not intend to leave th«
State, may order such discharge.
Sec. 11. No such discharge nor any discharge of any person
arrested or imprisoned on execution, shall discharge the debt or
judgment upon which the execution issued.
Sec 12. In any case when no sufficient attachment has been
made, and there is no sufficient bail, the court or any justice there
of, upon motion and satisfactory evidence that the defendant intends
to leave the State, may order a capias to issue, on which the de
fendant may be arrested and held to bail as on an original writ.
Sec 13. When any person shall be arrested on mesne process,
he shall he committed to jail, unless he shall procure one or more
persons of sufficient ability, to the satisfaction of the officer, to be
come his bail by endorsing their names or signatures, as bail, on the
back of the writ.
Sec 14. Any person committed to jail before judgment by any
officer, or by his bail, or upon a surrender by his bail in court,
shall be discharged upon procuring one or more persons of sufficient
ability, to the satisfaction of the keeper of the jail, to become his
bail by endorsing their names or signatures, as bail, on the back of
the copy or order of court on which such person shall be detained
in jail, and the jailer shall make return of such copy or order and
his doings thereon, into the court, and such endorsement and re
turn shall be of the same force and effect as if made on the original
writ.
Sec. 15. The officer taking any person as ball, shall return his
name and place of abode upon the writ, copy or order of court on
which such person shall be arrested or detained in prison.
Sec 16. If any person shall be committed to prison by the offi
cer or his bail, or upon surrender by his bail, he shall, unless he
shall be bailed before the judgment, be held in prison until the
expiration of thirty days after the rendition of such judgment for
the plaintifff as execution may issue upon, unless sooner legally
discharged.
TITLE XXII.
OF PROCEEDINGS IN COURTS.
Chapter 186. Of nonsuit, default, notice and abatement.
Chapter 187. Of tender, confession, pleading and set-off.
Chapter 188. Of views and evidence.
Chapter 189. Of auditors.
Chapter 190. Of judgments.
Chapter 191. Of costs.
Chapter 192. Of reviews and new trials.
CHAPTER ISC.
OF NONSUIT, DEFAULT, NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
Section
1. Neglect to enter action, penalty.
2. Nonsuit, costs for defendant.
3. Default to be entered, when.
4. " when struck off.
5. Notice by publication, when made.
6. " special, when given.
7. Notice by advertisement before jus
tices.
8. Bond to respond on review, when.
9. Review, when to be brought.
10. Want of form, not to abate.
11. Amendments in substance made.
Sectios
Vi. Nonjoinder of tenants not to abate.
13. Disclaimer, costs on, when.
M. Survivor of actions, when.
15. Surviving party may proceed, when.
16. Marriage of female defendant not to
abate.
17. Marriage of female plaintifff not to
abate
18. Nonjoinder of any party not to abate.
10. Names of defendants struck out
SJO. Notice of petitions, how given.
21 . Order of notice in vacation^iow given.
Section 1. If any person shall neglect to enter in court any
action by him commenced, in which any process shall have been
served on the defendant, judgment shall be rendered against him,
on complaint, for costs.
Sec 2. If the plaintifff after entry of any action shall become
nonsuit, judgment shall be rendered against him in favor of tho
defendant for costs.
Sec 3. If any defendant on whom process has been duly served,
shall neglect to appear at the court to which the same is returned,
his default shall be recorded and judgment shall be rendered
against him for such damages as, upon inquiry, the plaintifff shall
appear to have sustained.
Sec. 4. The defendant maybe permitted to enter an appearance
after a default, at the discretion of the court or justice, upon the
payment of reasonable costs.
Sec 5. In any action commenced against any defendant who is
not an inhabitant of this State, or whose residence is unknown to
the officer serving the writ, and the goods and estate of the defend
ant within this State shall be attached, or when the defendant shall
be absent from the State at the time of commencing such action,and
shall not have returned at the time appointed for trial, and no
personal service is made on the defendant, the court, on the sug
gestion thereof, may order the action to be continued and notice
to be given of the pendency thereof, by publishing the order ofi
court in such newspaper printed in this State, and for such period
of time as the court may therein direct, the last publication to be
at least thirty days before the next term of the court.
Sec. 6. The court may also, in their discretion, order such fur
ther notice and in such form, by mail or otherwise, as they may
think proper, and upon satisfactory evidence that the order of the
court has been complied with, such notice shall be sufficient.
Sec 7. In actions before a justice commenced by attachment. if
no personal service is made upon the defendant by reason thai he
resides out of the State, or that his residence is unknown to the
officer serving the writ, the action shall be continued not less than
sixty nor more than ninety days, and the justice shall order notice
of the pendency of such suit to be given, by posting up a copy of
such order in two or more public places in the town where trie de
fendant was last known to be an inhabitant in this State, forty
days at least before the day to which said action shall be con
tinued.
Sec 8. If the defendant shall not appear at the time and place
to which said action was continued, judgment shall be rendered on
satisfactory evidence that notice has been posted up as aforesaid,
and execution shall issue thereon, upon the plaintiffF filing with1
the justice a bond, with sufficient sureties, to the defendant, to!
respond the judgment which the defendant may recover upon a
review of said action.
Sec 9. Such review may be brought before the justice at any
time within two years after the rendition of the judgment, and the
plaintifff in such review may have the benefit of all pleas and ad
vantages which he might have had in the original action.
Sec. 10. No writ, declaration, return, process, judgment or other
proceeding in the courts or course of justice, shall be abated, quash
ed or reversed for any error or mistake, where the person or ease
may be rightly understood by the court, nor through defect or
want of form or addition onlyk and .courts and justices may, on
motion, order amendment in any such case.
Sec. 11. Amendments in matter of substance may be permitted
in any action, in any stage of the proceedings, upon-such terms as
the court shall deem just and reasonable, but the rights of third
persons shall not be affected thereby.
Sec. 12. In real -actions the writ shall not abate because all the
tenants are not named in it, but those on whom the writ is served,
shall answer for such part of the premises demanded as they claim,
*nd may disclaim for the residue.
Sec. 13. In any real action the defendant who shall disclaim the
whole, shall recover costs, unless the plaintifff shall maintain his
writ as to the whole or part of the demanded premises.
Sec 14. Actions of trespass for breaking and entering on any
real property, actions on the case for trover and conversion, actions
against any sheriff or his deputy for any faults and misdoings in
office, real actions, actions of ejectment, and actions of trespass for
taking and carrying away any goods and chattels, shall not abate
by reason of the death of either party, but may be prosecuted to
judgment and reviewed in the same manner as other actions the
cause of which by law survives.
Sec 15. If there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants and
either of them shall die, the action shall not he abated if the right
of action shall survive, but may be prosecuted by or against the
surviving parties, such death being suggested on the record.
Sec 16. If any female defendant sliadl marry pending any ac
tion, the -court, upon suggestion, may order notice of such suit to
the husband, and upon evidence that such order has beeti complied
with, the action shall proceed against the husband and wife in the
same manner as if it had been originally commenced against them.
Sec 17. No action shall be abated by the marriage of any fe
male plaintifff, if the husband, after due notice, to be directed by the
•court, shall become party to the suit, in which case the action shall
•be prosecuted in -the same manner as if the same had been origi
nally commenced by the husband and wife.
Sec. 18. No action shall be abated by the plea that there are
other plaintifffs or defendants who ought to be joined therein, but
such persons may be made parties to the action upon such terms
as the court shall order, and may be summoned by writ of scire
facias or notified by publication in some newspaper, as the court
may order, and the action shall thereafter proceed as if their names
wore inserted in the original writ.
Sec. 19. In all actions where there are two or more defendants,
the plaintifff may amend the writ before the evidence is closed, by
striking out the names of one or more of the defendants, on paying
them their costs up to that time.
Sec. 20. When any petition, complaint, libel, application or mo
tion in writing shaU be filed in court, the court shall order notice
thereof to be given in such manner as they think proper, and iw
judgment or decree shall be rendered thereon without compliance
with such order.
Sec. 21. Any swch petition, complaint, libel, application or mo
tion may be filed in the clerk's office in vacation, and order of
notice may be issued thereon under the direction and rules of said
court.
CHAPTER 18T.
OF TENDER, CONFESSION, PLEADING AND SET-OFF.
Section
1. Tender to the attorney, how made.
.2. Confession of damages, when.
3. Brief statements under general issue.
4. Set-off of mutual debts, when.
5. " by and against administrators.
Suction
6. Set-off of bonds, when allowed
7. Plea or notice of set-off given.
8. Continuance, if no notice before court.
9. Judgment for balance for either party.
10. No set-off unless right of action exists.
Section 1. At any time before the sitting of the court to which
any writ may be returnable, the defendant may tender to the plain
tiffs attorney who brought the action, the amount of the debt and
costs, and such tender shall be a bar to any further proceedings in
such case.
Stc. *2. In any action the defendant may confess the plaintifff's
action or any part thereof, and that the plaintifff is entitled to re
cover certain real estate or a certain amount of debt or damages,
mtd plead to the residue of his claim, and if the plaintifff shall
afterwards prosecute his action and shall not recover more than is
s0 confessed, the defendant shall recover his costs from the date of
such confession.
Sec 3. No special plea shall ever be required in any civil action,
except a plea of title to real estate before justices of the peace.
Either party may give ia evidence any matter in support or de
fence of the action under the general issue, upoil filing in court a
brief staiemmit thereof within such time as the court may order.
Sec. 4. If there are mutual debts or demands between the plain
tiff and defendant at the time of the commencement of the
plaintifff's action, one debt or demand may be set off against the
other.
Sec 5. Mutual debts or demands existing between any person
deceased at the time of his death and any other person, may be set
off in actions by or against the executor or administrator.
Sec 6. If the defendant's debt or demand is founded on any
bond or specialty with a penalty, the amount equitably due only
shall be set off.
Sec. 7. The defendant may plead such set-off or give notice
thereof with a plea of the general issue, describing such debt or
demand with the same certainty as is required in a declaration.
Sec. 8. The plaintifff shall be entitled to one continuance in
case of a set-off, unless a particular statement of such debt or de
mand, with a notice that the defendant will set off the same, has
been served on the plaintifff ten days before the sitting of the court.
Sec. 9. Judgment shall be rendered for the balance which may
appear to be justly due to either of the parties, unless in cases
before justices the balance due to the defendant shall exceed thir
teen dollars thirty-three cents in which cases judgment shall bs
rendered for costs only.
Sec 10. No debt or demand shall be set off as aforesaid, unless
a right of action existed thereon at the commencement of the
plaintifffs action.
CHAPTER 188.
OF VIEWS AND EVIDENCE.
Section
1. View, when and on what terms.
2. Summons, form of.
3. Clerks may issue, for witnesses.
4. Justices may issue, for witnesses.
5. Summons to depose, justice may is
sue.
6. " how served on witnesses.
7. Liability for neglect to attend.
8. Courts may compel attendance.
0. No person disqualified as a witness
by his religious belief.
10. Ceremony in swearing.
11. Affirmation, when allowed.
12. Members of public corporations, &c,
competent.
13. Depositions, when may be taken.
14. Who may take depositions.
15. Notice given to residents, how.
Section
16. Notice given to attorneys, when.
17. Attorney, who is, for this purpose.
18. Who disqualified to take deposition*.
19. Deposition, how signed and sworn.
20. Certificate of taking, requisites.
21. Proof of notice annexed to certifi
cate.
22. Neglect to take, after notice, penalty.
23. Depositions to be sealed and directed.
24. " " in perpetual remem
brance.
25. Statement of claim to be made.
26. Notice, how to be given.
27. Deposition, how to be taken.
28. " may be recorded, how.
29. " or copy, when used.
30. Witness to attend out of State, when.
31. Neglect to attend, as such, penalty.
Section 1. In all actions involving questions of right to real
estate, the court of common pleas, on motion of either party, may
in their discretion direct a view of the premises by the jury under
■uch rules as they may prescribe, and subject to such adjudication
as to the whole or part of the costs thereof as thoy shall think
equitable.
Sec. 2. Writs of summons to witnesses shall be signed by the
clerk or justice by whom they are issued, directed to the person to
be summoned, and shall be substantially in the form following—
. THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ^ ss.
You are required to appear at in the county of
on the day of to testify what you know
relating to a plea of to be heard and tried betwixt
plaintifff, and defendant.
Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default under the pen
alties prescribed by law.
Dated at the day of A. D. 18 .
Sec. 3. Clerks of the courts may issue writs of summons for
witnesses in all cases pending in such courts.
Sec 4. Every justice may issue writs of summons for witnesses
in cases pending in any court, in all matters before the general
court, in cases pending before himself or any other justice, and in
all matters triable before auditors, referees, arbitrators or commis
sioners.
Sec. 5. Every justice or notary may issue writs of summons to
witnesses to appear before himself, or any other justice or notary,
to give a deposition in any matter or cause where the same may
be lawfully taken.
Sec 6. Any person may be summoned to attend as a witness to
testify or give a deposition, by reading to him the writ of sum
mons and paying or tendering to him the fees by law established
for his travel to and from the place where his attendance is re
quired, and for one day's attendance.
Sec. 7. If any person so summoned shall neglect to attend, or
to give his attendance so long as may be necessary for the purpose
for which he was summoned, or refuse to testify or to give his
deposition, if required, having no reasonable excuse therefore, he
shall be liable to the party aggrieved for all damages sustained by
such default or refusal.
Sec. 8. Every court and justice before whom any witness has
been summoned to appear and testi y or give a dep siiion, m.iy
bring any such witness neglecting or refusing to appear a d testify,
by attachment, before them, and if on examination he has no rea
sonable excuse, may puiish him by a fi.ie not exceeding fifty dol
lars, if imposed by a coirrt, or to t dollars, it' imposed by a jiistico,
and may order him to pay cos v
Sec. 9. No person who believes in the -existence of a Supreme
Being, shall be adjudged an incompetent witness in any judicial
proceeding on account of his opinions on matters of religion.
Sec. 10. No other ceremony .shall be deemed necessary in swear
ing than Holding up the righfc hand.
Sec. 11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may affirm, the magis
trate administering the oath using the word "affi.m" instead of
the word "swear," and the words "this you do under the pains
and penalties of perjury," instead of the words "so help you God."
Sec 12. Inhabitants of towns, and members of public corpora
tions, and members of mutual insurance corporations, shall be com
petent witnesses in cases alfecting the interests cf such corporations.
Sec 13. The deposition of any witness in a civil cause, who is
old and infirm, or sick and unable to appear at oourt, or who lives
oat of the State or more than ten miles from the place of trial, or
who is about to leave the State and not return before the time of
trial, may be taken and used on the trial.
Sec. 14. Any justice or notary public in this State, any com
missioner appointed under the Laws of this State to take depositions
in other states, any judge, or justice of the jieace or notary public
in any other state or country may take such depositions.
Sec 15. The party proposing to take such . deposition, shall
cause a notice in writing signed by a justice «r notary, stating the
day, hour and place of taking the same, to be delivered to the
adverse party or one of them, or left' at his usual place of abode, if
either of such parties reside in this State, or within twenty miles
of the place of taking or of the party taking the same, a reasonable
time before the taking thereof. . .
Sec 16. If such adverse party resides out of the State, or more
than twenty miles from the place of caption or from the party
proposing to take each depositions, a iike notice given to the agent
or attorney -of such adverse party, or left at his «su;d place of abode,
shall be sufficient.
Sec 17. No person shall be deemed such agent or attorney for
this purpose, unless he has endorsed the writ or the summons to be
left with the defendant in the cause, or appeared for his principal
before the court, justice, referees or arbitrators, where the action is
pending, or shall have given notice in writing that lie is such
attorney or agent.
Sec 18. No person shall write the testimony of any witness or
act as a magistrate in taking the same, who would be disqualified
to act as a juror on the trial of the cause for any reason except
exemption from service as a juror.
Sec. 19. Every witness shall subscribe his deposition and shall
make oath that such deposition contains the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth relative to the causa for which it was
taken. l
Sec 20. The magistrate taking any deposition shall certify such
oath with the time, place and cause of taking the some, and the
case and court in which it is to be used, and that the adverse party
. was or was not present, was or was not notified, and that he did
or did not object.
Sec. 21. A copy of the notice left with the adverse party, his
agent or attorney, with the return of the officer or affidavit of the
person leaving such notice thereon, stating the time of leaving the
same, shall be annexed to the certificate of the taking thereof,
when the adverse party did not attend.
Sec. 22. If any party, after giving notice to the adverse part/
as aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to take a deposition, such ad
verse party shall be entitled to recover twenty-five cents a mile for
actual travel of himself or 1ms attorney to attend the same, by ac
tion on the case, unless seasonably notified in writing signed by
the party giving such notice, that such deposition will not be taken.
Sec. 23. Depositions shall be sealed up by the magistrate taking
the sume, directed to the court or justice before whom they are to
be used, with a brief description of the case, and shall be so deliv
ered info court.
Sec. 24. Depositions may be taken, in perpetual remembrance
of any fact or transaction, before any court of record or before two
justices, one of whom shall be of the quorum.
Sec. 25. Any person wishing to take such depositions, shall
make a statement in writing, under oath, briefly setting forth in
substance his title, interest or claim in or to the subject, or setting
forth the facts to which the desired testimony relates, and the
names of all persons supposed to be interested therein, and also the
names of the witnesses proposed to be examined, which statement
shall be delivered to the court or justices before whom the deposi
tions are to be taken-.
Sec 2&. Notice shall be given in the manner provided by law
in cases of depositions taken to be used in actions then pending, to
all persons known to be interested in the property or transaction to
which the testimony relates.
Sec 27. Every such deposition shall be written, signed and
sworn to as is provided in this chapter in case of depositions in
actions pending, with the necessary variation in the form of the
oath ; and the said court or justices shall annex to each deposition
a certificate of the time and place of taking, the name of the per
son at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were noti
fied to attend and did attend, and shall also annex thereto a copy
of the notice as is prescribed in the twenty-first section of this chapter.
Sec 28. The said statement, deposition, certificate and copy of
notice shall, withiu ninety days after taking the same, be recorded
iu the registry of deeds in the county where the land or any part
of it lies, if the deposition relate to real estate, and if not, in the
County in which it was taken.
Sec. 29. All depositions taken in perpetual remembrance as
aforesaid, or a copy of such record, the original being lost, may be
used in the trial of any cause between the person at whose request
it was taken, and any of the persons named in the statement and
duly notified, or those claiming under them, concerning the title,
claim, interest or facts set forth in the statement.
Sec. 30. If the clerk of any court in any other of the United
States shall certify that there is a criminal cause pending in such
court, and that a person residing in this State is supposed to be a
material witness therein, any justice shall upon such certificate or
paper annexed thereto, issue a summons requiring such witness to
appear and testify at such court.
Sec 31. If any person on whom such summons shall boservedj
having tendered to him twelve cents for each mile to be travelled
to and from such court, and two dollars for each day his attendance
may be required, shall unreasonably neglect or refuse to attend and
testify at. said court, he shall forfeit the sum of three hundred dol
lars to any person who will sue for the same.
SlCTIOIt
1. Auditors, when appointed.
CHAPTER 189.
OF AUDITORS.
2. In actions between copartners and cotenants.
3. Auditors—to be sworn —give notice —
may adjourn—report, how made.
4. Auditors discharged or report recom
mitted, when.
Sectioh
5. Case may be tried by jury, when.
6. If party refuse to produce books, Ac,
report may be, what.
7. Judgment in such case, how render
ed.
8. Auditor's oompensation, how paid.
Section 1. Whenever it shall appear to the superior court or
court of common pleas, that an investigation of accounts or an
examination of vouchers is necessary in any action pending in
such court, they may appoint one or more auditors to state the
account between the parties and make report to the court.
Sec 2. Auditors maybe appointed in actions brought by copart
ners or cotenants against their copartners or cotenants.
Sec 3. Auditors shall be sworn and shall give notice to the
parties of the time and place of hearing, may adjourn when neces
sary, and shall all hear the parties, but a majority may report.
Sec. 4. Auditors may be discharged by the court and others
appointed, or their report may be recommitted for revision.
Sec 6. If either party is dissatisfied with the report, the case
may be tried by jury, and such report shall be given in evidence
to the jury, subject to be impeached by evidence offered by either
party.
Sec. 6. If either party shall neglect or refuse to appear before
the auditor, or to render an account, or to produce such books and
papers and to answer on oath such interrogatories relating to the
matter in controversy as may be pertinent and material, the auditor
shall certify the same to the court.
Sec. 7. The court shall thereupon render judgment against such
party, as upon nonsuit or default, and, if necessary, cause the
damages to be assessed by the jury.
Sec. 8. The court shall allow a reasonable compensation to the
auditors, which shall be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in his bill
of costs, if he recover.
CHAPTER 190.
OF JUDGMENTS.
Bectioh
1. Judgments to be rendered in dollars
and cents.
2. Interest, at what rate —usury.
3. Evidence, and triple deduction made.
4. What is not usury.
6. Statement of betterments made.
6. Verdict as to amount how rendered.
7. Judgment, how entered.
Section
8. Judgment, on bond to be for the
amount equitably dne.
9. " security for future breach
es.
10. " scire facias on, in such
case.
11. " on mortgages condition
al.
Sf.ction 1. All judgments shall be rendered in dollars and
cents.
Sec 2. Interest in the rendition of judgments and in all business
transactions where interest is secured or paid, shall be computed at
the rate of six dollars on a hundred dollars for one year, unless a
lower rate is expressly stipulated ; and every person who upon any
contract shall, directly or indirectly, receive interest at a higher
Tate, shall forfeit for every such offense three times the sum so
received.
Sec. 3. When any person, for the recovery of any debt or
damages, shall be sued upon any instrument hereafter made, and
interest at a higher rate than six dollars for a hundred dollars for
one year has been paid or secured upon the money sued for, or is
secured by such instrument, if the debtor, (the creditor being
alive,) will come into court where the action is pending, and offer
to {naice oath and, if required by the court, actually swear that there
haf been taken or secured upon the money sued for, or that there
has been or » secured in and by the instrument sued, interest
above the rate aforesaid, then the court in rendering judgment shall
deduct from the sum lawfully duer three times the amount so
taken or secured, unless the creditor will swear that he has not,
directly or indirectly, willingly taken or secured on the money sued
for, or secured in and by the instrument sued, any interest abova
the rate aforesaid.
Sec. 4. Nothing in this chapter shall extend to the letting of
cattle or other usages of like nature in practice among farmers, ov
to maritime contracts, a& bottomry, insurance or course of exchange,
as heretofore used.
Sec. 5. Any person against whom any action may be brought
for the recovery of reat estate, may with his plea* file a brief state
ment, setting forth that he and the persons under whom he claims,
have been in the actual peaceable possession thereof, under a sup
posed legal title, for more than six years before the action was
commenced, and that the value thereof has been increased by them
by buildings or ether improvements.
Sec 6. The jury, if they find a verdict for the plaintiir. shall
determine if the said lands have been so prssessed and improved,
and the amount of the increased value thereof, after allowing for
any waste or injury the same may have sustained.
Sec. 7. The judgment rendered for the plaintifff upon such
verdict, shall be conditioned that if the plaintifff shall, within one
year, pay to the clerk of the court for the use of the defendant the
amount of the increased value so found, a writ of possession shall
issue for the plaintifff, otherwise all his right to such lands shall be
ftirever barred.
Sec 8. In all actions for the recovery of any penalty or forfeit
ure in any obligation or contract under seal, the superior court or
court of common pleas shall render judgment for the amount
which shall appear to be equitably due.
Sec 9. If such penalty or forfeiture shall be designed to secure
the performance of several things to be done at different times,
judgment shall be rendered for the whole of such penalty of for
feiture, and the court shall award execution only for so much as is
justly due at that time.
Sec 10. The plaintifff or his administrator may, from time to
time, have a scire facias upon such judgment. and execution shall
be awarded him for any further siuns which may have become
equitably due to him.
Sec 11. In actions on mortgages the judgment shall be condi
tional, that if the mortgager or person having his right, shall pay to
the mortgagee or person having his right, the sum the court shall
adjudge due, within two months after judgment rendered with
interest, such judgment shall be void, otherwise a wjit of posses
sion shall issue.
Section L Costs shall follow the event of every action or peti
tion, unless otherwise directed by law or by the court.
Sec. 2. No costs shall be allowed the plaintifff in any action
upon a judgment upon which execution might lawfully issue, if
the court shall be of opjnion that the plaintifff could have availed
himself of such execution as advantageously, for the collection
of his demand, as He could of such action.
Sec. 3. When a plaintifff shall, at the same term, bring diverse
actions against the same party which might have been joined, or
shall bring more than one action upon a joint and several contract,
the court may allow such and so many bills of cost as they may
deem equitable.
Sec. 4. No more costs than damages shall be recovered in any
action commenced in the court of common pleas for slander,
assault and battery, imprisonment or malicious prosecution, unless
the damages recovered shall exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents.
Sec. 5. In actions of trespass for injuries to real estate com
menced in the court of common pleas, when the title of real estate
is not in question, the court shall allow so much cost as they may
think proper, not exceeding the damages recovered, in case such
damages do not exceed thirteen dollars thirty-three cents.
Sec. 6. In all actions commenced in the court of common pleas,
if it appears that the plaintifff had no reasonable expectation of
recovering more than thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, the court
may limit the costs to such sum as they think reasonable.
Sec. 7. In all actions or petitions pending in the superior court
or court of common pleas in the county where the judgment waa
rendered, the said courts may, on motion and on good cause shown,
limit and allow such costs and order such security for costs as they
may deem just and reasonable.
Section 1. All civil actions in which judgment has been ren
dered in the court of common pleas or superior court, in which
any issue of fact has been joined, except those in which by law a
different provision is made, may be once reviewed.
Sec. 2. The superior court may grant a review in any other
case, where it shall appear that justice has not been done through
any accident, mistake or misfortune, and that a further hearing
would be just and equitable.
Sec 3. In such case, a petition shall be presented to said court
in the county where the original action was brought, by any per
son interested, setting forth the reasons for such review ; and such
notice shall be given to the adverse party or to his attorney as the
court may order.
Sec 4. The court may grant such review upon such terms and
conditions, and may allow such costs to either party, upon the
petition of review, as they may think just and reasonable.
Sec. 5. No action of review shall be brought of right after one
year from the time of the judgment rendered, saving to any infant
or insane person the right of such review for one year after such
disability is removed.
Sec 6. No review shall be granted upon petition, unless such
petition is filed within three years after the rendition of the judg
ment complained of, or the discontinuance or failure of the original
suit ; and such review shall be commenced within ninety days after
the grant thereof.
Sec 7. All writs of review shall be returnable in the court of
common pleas in the county where the judgment was rendered,
and shall be tried upon the pleadings filed in the original action,
if any, unless the court, upon such terms as they shall think rea
sonable, shall permit amendments to be made.
Sec 8. The party bringing any action of review, shall produce
in court attested copies of the writ, pleadings, judgment and all
papers used and filed at the
be entered.
Sec. 9. Every case shall be tried upon review in the same man
ner as if no judgment had been rendered therein, and any new or
further evidence may be produced therein.
Sec. 10. If the amount of property, debt or damages recovered
by the original plaintiffF, is increased on review, he shall recovet
jridgment for the excess and costs : if such amount is reduced, the
original defendant shall recover judgment for the amount of such
reduction and costs.
Sec 11. If the original plaintifff shall review and shall not
recover a greater amount of property, debt or damages, the defend
ant shall recover costs : if such review is brought by the defendant,
and the amount of property, debt or damages is not reduced, the
original plaintifff shall recover costs.
Sec 12. No costs shall be recovered in an action of review, ex
cept those accruing upon such review, and the party bringing such
review shall recover no more costs than the amount of the pro
perty, debt or damages he may recover therein, unless the original
judgment shall be wholly reversed.
Sec 13. Execution in the original action shall not be stayed by
reason of any writ of review, but the court, on motion, may order
a stay of execution, where it may appear just and reasonable, upon
terms.
Section 1. No' execution shall issue until the expiration of
twenty-four hours after judgment rendered.
Sec. 2. Executions issued hy the superior court, may be made
returnable at the next regular term of the court, if within six
months, otherwise within six months from the date thereof.
Sec. 3. Executions issued by the court of common pleas, may
be made returnable at the next term of said court.
Sec 4. Executions issued by justices, may be made returnable
within sixty days from the date thereof.
Sec. 5. Executions may be issued at any time within two years
after the judgment rendered, or after the return day of any former
execution. ,
Sec 6. Interest shall be payable on all executions in civil actions,
from the time the judgment was rendered.
Sec 7. The court may award execution on any judgment after
the expiration of said two years, upon scire facias, for the amount
then due, with interest.
Sec 8. Where several judgments are rendered upon the same
contract, at the same term, only one execution shall be issued on
said judgments at one time, except by order of the court.
Sec. 9. Where any execution shall not run against the body of
the defendant, the form may be varied by omitting such parts as
relate to the arrest of the person.
Sec 10. Writs of execution shall be substantially in the follow
ing form : —
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss.
To the sheriff of any county or his deputy.
Whekexs A. P. of by the consideration of our justices
ef our court of holden at in said county of
on the Tuesday of recovered judgment against A. D.
 
of for the sum of dollars and costs taxed at ,
as appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done : We
command you, thereforee, that of the goods, chattels or lands of the
said debtor in your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to the
said creditor the aforesaid sums, with lawful interest thereon, and
more for this writ and your own fees, and in default there
of to arrest the said debtor and commit him to jail ; and the
keeper of such jail is required to detain him in custody until he
pay the same with your fees, or until he is discharged by the
creditor or otherwise according to law. And make return of this
writ with your doings thereon to said court, to be holden at
in said county, upon the Tuesday of
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Clerk.
Sec. 11. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the fol
lowing form:—
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss.
To the sheriff of any county of this State, or his
deputy.
Whereas A. P. of by the consideration of our justices
of our court of holden at in said county of
on the Tuesday of recovered judgment
against A. D. of for a certain with the appurtenances,
situate in the town of and costs taxed at as appears
of record : We command you, thereforee, that without delay you
cause said A. P. to have possession of the said premises : We also
command you that of the goods, chattels or lands of the said
debtor in your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to said
creditor the aforesaid sum, with lawful interest thereon, and
more for this writ and your own fees, and in default thereof to
arrest the said debtor, and commit him to jail ; and the keeper of
the jail is required to detain him in custody until he pay the same,
with your fees, or until he is discharged by the creditor or other
wise according to law. And make return of this writ and your
doings therein unto said court to be holden at in said coun
ty, upon the day of
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
R. G. Clerk.
Sec 12. Whenever a debtor shall be committed to prison on
execution, the creditor, on the return of the same, may have a
further execution against the property of the debtor, notwithstand
ing the debtor shall not be discharged ; and upon the satisfaction?
of such execution, the debtor shall be discharged.
Section 1. Executions in which the creditor in one is debtor m
the other, in the same right and capacity, shall be set off by the
officer to whom one of such executions has been delivered, and the
other shall be tendered ; and such officer shall return both such
executions satisfied, so far as such set-off will extend.
Sec. 2. Money may be taken on execution and paid to the cred
itor. Bank notes and o*her evidences of debts issued by any mon
eyed corporation and circulated as money, may be taken on ex
ecution and paid to the creditor at their par value, if he will accept
ojf them, otherwise they may be sold at auction like other chattels.
Sec. 3. Goods and chattels taken on execution, shall be safely
kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, four days at least ;
shall be advertised for sale, by posting up notices of the time and
place of sale, at two of the most public places in the town where
the sale is to be, forty-eight hours before the expiration of said four
days, and sold at public auction to the highest bidder.
Sec. 4. Personal property subject to any mortgage, pledge or
lien, may be taken in execution in the same manne'r it may be
attached, and may be sold in the same manner as other personal
property ; and the creditor and officer shall have the same right to
demand an account of the amount due and to hold the same, if no
account or a false account is given, as in case of an attachment.
Sec. 5. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to ]«y the
sum paid or tendered to the mortgagee, pledgee or holder, and in
terest, and the residue to the satisfaction of the executions oil
which the same is holden.
Sec 6. The debtor's right to redeem such property may be
taken on execution and sold as in other cases, without such pay
ment or tender.
Sec. 7. The owner may redeem any goods and chattels before
the sale, by otherwise satisfying the execution and officer's fees
and charges.
Sec. 8. The money arising from any sale of personal property,
shall be applied by the officer to the payment of the charges and
the satisfying of the executions levied thereon, in the order in
which the attachments theTeon, if any, were made, otherwise in
the order in which the executions were delivered to him ; and thd
balance shall be returned to the debtor, upon request.
Sec. 9. The officer shall make return of the execution accord-*
ing to his precept, with his doings thereon, particularly describing
the goods and chattels taken and sold, and the sum for which each article was sold.
Sec 10. If any officer shall be guilty of any fraud in the sale or
return, he shall be liable to each party injured to pay him five times'
the sum defrauded.
Sec. 11. The officer may adjourn any sale under this chapter
from time to time, not exceeding ten days at one time, or sixty
days from the seizure, giving the same notice of the adjournment
as of a sale.
• Sec. 12„ Pews or seats in meeting houses may be taken, adrertised
and sold on execution in the same manner as other ],ersonal!
property, except that if there has been no previous attachment, trie
debtor shall be notified by the officer of the time and place of sale of
such pew or seat, by giving to him a notice in writing or leaving
such notice at his usual place of abode, if he resides in the town,
otherwise with the town clerk, and the time of giving or leaving
such notice shall be deemed the time of taking such property.
Sec. 13. The franchise of any corporation authorized to take
tolls, may be taken and sold on execution at public auction, the
officer giving notice of the time and plaee of sale, by posting up anotice
thereof at any toll house at which such tolls are or have
been usually taken, and causing a like jjotice, with the name of the
creditor and the amount of the execution, to be posted up at two
or more public places in the town in which any toll house of said
corporation is situate, at least thirty days before the day of sale.
Sec. 14. The person who will pay such execution and the law.ful fees and expenses thereon, for the right to receive all such tolls
for the shortest period, shall be the highest bidder. a:td shall, upon
such sale, be entitled to the possession of the toll houses and gates
of the corporation, to be delivered by the officer, and entitled to
receive all such tolls for the term of his purchase, with all the
rights of the corporation in relation thereto.
Sec. 15. The rights and obligations of the corporation, except
as to such tolls, shall not be affected by such sale, and they may
redeem such franchise by paying the purchaser the amount paid by
him therefore, with twelve per cent, interest thereon, at any time
within three months from such sale.
Sec. 16. The shares or interest of any person in any corpora
tion may be taken on any execution, in the same manner they may
be attached.
Sec. 17. Notice in writing of the time and place of sale of such
share or interest, shall be given by the officer to the debtor or left
at his usual place of abode, and posted up at one or more public
places in the town where the sale is to be, and in two adjoining
towns, thirty days before the sale.
Sec. 18. If the debtor does not reside in the county, the posting
up [of] such notice as prescribed in the preceding section, and pub
lishing such notice in some newspaper, if any in the county, other
wise in an adjoining county three weeks previous to the sale, shall
be sufficient without further notice to the debtor.
Sec 19. The officer shall cause an attested copy of the execu
tion and of his return thereon to be filed with the clerk, treasurer
or cashier of the corporation, and pay for the recording thereof;
ahd the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to such shams rr in
terest, and the income or dividends become due thereon since the
attachment, and to such certificates as are the usual evidence of
the shares or interest of a proprietor in such corporation.
Sec. 20. The officer of every corporation, having the care of
the records or accounts of the shares or interests of the corpo
rators therein, shall, on request and on the exhibition of a writ of
attachment or execution against any person interested in such cor
poration, give to the officer having such writ, a certificate of the
number of his shares or amount of his interest therein, with the
numbers of the shares or other description by which they are distin
guished; and on neglect or refusal to give such certificate, or if he
shall willfully give any false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to
pay to the creditor the whole amount of his demand against such
debtor, to be recovered by an action of debt.
Sec 21. If any officer of a corporation shall, on request of an
officer and on exhibition of such writ of attachment or execu
tion, refuse or neglect to exhibit to him such records ar.d docu
ments in his keeping as may be useful to direct and assist him in
the discharge of his duty, he shall forfeit twenty dollars to the offi
cer, and shall be answerable for all damages sustained by any per
son thereby.
Section 1. All real estate may be taken on execution, and shall be
appraised and set off to the creditor, at its just value, in satisfaction
of such execution and the cost of levying, except in those cases
where by law a sale of it is authorized.
Sec 2. The officer levying such execution, shall cause three
appraisers to be appointed, one by the creditor, one by the debtor
and one by himself, who shall be discreet and disinterested men,
resident in the county, and shall be sworn by a justice impartially
to appraise such real estate as shall be shown them as the estate of
the debtor.
Sec. 3. If the debtor, on due notice, neglect to appoint an ap
praiser, or in case he does not reside in the county or within twenty
miles of the property to be appraised, the officer shall appoint an
appraiser for the debtor.
Sec. 4. Notice given to the clerk, treasurer, agent or one of the
directors of a corporation to choose an appraiser for the corporation,
ten days before the levy, shall be legal notice to the corporation.
Sec 5. A levy commenced by the appointment and swearing
of one or more of the appraisers, may be completed before t:io re
turn day of the execution.
Sec 6. Such appraisers shall set off to the creditor, by metes
and bounds or other distinct description, the real estate appraised
by them, or so much as may be necessary in payment of the exe
cution and cost of levying.
Sec 7. If such real estate is holden jointly or in common with,
others, the levy shall be made upon the undivided interest of the
debtor or a part thereof.
Sec 8. If such real estate cannot, in the judgment of the ap
praisers, be divided and set out by metes arid bounds without
greatly impairing the value of the whole, the levy may be made
upon an undivided interest therein or by such mode of division as
the nature of the property will admit.
Sec. 9. In either of the cases aforesaid, the whole of the pro
perty of which part shall be set off, shall be described by metes
and bounds or other distinct description.
Sec 10. If any debtor is seized of a rent or of the income of
any real estate, a levy may be made thereon, and the appraisers
may set off the same for sifch term as they judge sufficient to pay
the judgment, interest and costs ; and the sheriff shall cause the
tenant to attorn and become tenant to the creditor ; and upon his
refusal, shall turn him out of possession and deliver seizin to the
creditor to hold for the term aforesaid.
Sec. 11. The officer shall deliver seizin and possession of the
property so set off, to the creditor or his attorney, shall make a full
return of his proceedings, and cause the execution and return to
be recorded at length in the registry of deeds of the county, and
returned to the office of the clerk of the court to which it is by
law returnable.
Sec. 12. All the debtor's interest in such real estate shall pass
by the levy as against all persons whatever, if the levy is recorded
as aforesaid on or before the return day of the execution ; other
wise, only as against the debtor and his heirs until such record is
made.
Sec. 13. Such extent shall be void, if, within one year from
the return day of the execution, the debtor or any person interested
shall pay or tender to the creditor the sum at which such real es
tate was appraised, with interest from the time such levy was
received for record by the register of deeds.
Sec 14. The creditor, upon such payment or tender, having
his reasonable charges therefore duly tendered to him, shall execute
a release to the debtor of his right in such real estate acquired by
such levy.
CHAPTER 196.
OF LEVIES ON EQUITIES OF REDEMPTION.
Section
1. Rights in equity may be sold.
2. Notice to debtor and public, given.
3. " by publication, when.
4. Lory, when commenced and com
pleted.
5. Debtor may redeem, when and how.
6. Creditor to release, -when and how.
7. Deed of officer, how made.
Sec-mow
8. Deed not valid unless recorded.
!). Proceeds of sale, how applied.
10. Purchaser, how liable for profits.
J I. Right to receive conveyance sold.
12. " to redeem any interest sold.
13. Terms for years and other interest*,
how sold.
14. Rights of purchaser in snch cases.
Section 1. Rights in equity of redeeming mortgaged real estate
taken on execution, may be sold at public auction, and a «k!ld
deed thereof made by the officer to the purchaser ; and such exe
cution, with the doings of the officer thereon, shall be returned
according to the precept thereof.
Sec. 2. Notice of the time and place of sale shall be given to
the debtor or left at his usual place of abode, if he resides in the
county or within twenty miles of the property, and. a like notice
. posted up at two of the most public places in the town in which
the property is situate, thirty days before the sale.
Sec. 3. If the debtor does not reside in the county or within
twenty miles of the property, a like notice shall also be published
in some newspaper printed in the vicinity, three weeks successively
before the sale.
Sec 4. The levy shall be commenced by posting up notices as
aforesaid, and may be completed afterwards, and the sale may be
adjourned, not exceeding ten days at a time nor sixty days in the
whole, notice of the adjournment being posted up in the sanio
manner as notices of the sale.
Sec 5. If the debtor shall, within one year after the sale, re
deem such right in equity, by paying to the purchaser the purchase
money arid any money paid by him to redeem such mortgage in
whole or in part, after entry or notice for the purpose of foreclo
sure, with interest thereon, the sale and deed thereof shall be void.
Sec 6. On payment, the purchaser, having his reasonable char
ges therefore duly tendered to him, shall execute a release to the
debtor of all right to such estate acquired by or under such sale.
Sec 7. The deed of the officer making such sale shall briefly
state his office, the names of the parlies to the action in which the
execution issued, -and the court and term at which the judgment
was rendered therein, the consideration paid therefore, a description
of the premises conveyed and the right of the debtor to redeem
the same ; and shall contain a covenant that the officer has ob
served all the requisitions of the law by virtue of which the deed
is made.
Sec 8. No sale upon execution of any greater interest in any
leal estate than a term of seven years shall be valid, except against
the debtor and his heirs, unless the execution and the return shall
be recorded in the registry of deeds in the county in which the
estate is situate.
Seo. 9. The proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the satis
faction of the executions issuing in the actions in which such
estate was attached, in the order of the attachments, and then to
the payment of any other execution in the officer's hands, in the
order in which they were received, and the residue shall be paid
to the debtor.
Sec. 10. The purchaser shall be liable to the debtor, after re
demption, for the rents and profits received therefrom over the
expenditures made thereon; but such purchaser may pay or ten
der to the debtor, either before or after action brought, the amount
for which he deems himself justly accountable as aforesaid, and
costs ; and unless the debtor shall recover a greater amount, the
defendant shall recover his costs.
Sec. 11. The right of any debtor to receive a conveyance of1
real estate on performance of any contract, may be taken on execu
tion and sold at auction, and the purchaser shall have a remedy by
bill in equity to compel a conveyance.
Sec. 12. The right of any debtor to redeem any right or in
terest in real estate, may be taken in execution and sold at auction.
Sec 13. Terms for years may be attached on mesne process,
and taken and sold on execution, and in all cases where real estate
taken in execution is required to be sold at auction, the proceed
ings relative to such sale, and the rights of parties thereupon, shall
be the same as in cases of the sale of equities of redemption.
Sec. 14. The person having the estate or right of the creditor,
purchaser or debtor in any real estate taken in execution, shall be
deemed to be, and shall have the rights, privileges and remedies, in
all cases, of the creditor, purchaser or debtor as to all persons hav
ing notice of his right ; and no act done by or to the original
creditor, purchaser or debtor, shall thenceforth be of any validity.
CHAPTER 197.
OF LEVIES AND INJUNCTIONS.
2. Proceedings incase of injunction.
Section
Bkctior
1. Lien not lost by injunction, when.
3. Proceedings, if notice of *ale given.
Section 1. Whenever the levy of any execution shall be stayed
by injunction, the lien and interest of the attaching creditor, exist
ing at the time of such injunction, shall continue and be in full
force until the expiration of thirty days after the dissolution of such
injunction.
Sec 2. The proceedings on such levy shall be suspended during
the continuance of such injunction, and may be resumed and com
pleted at any time within thirty days after the dissolution thereof,
notwithstanding the return day of such execution may have passed ;
and such execution shall for this purpose remain in full force until
such proceedings shall have been completed.
Sec 3. If the notice of the sale of any property, real or personal,
•hall have been given on any such execution at the time when the
•levy thereof shall be stayed by such injunction, notice of the sale
of such property on such execution may be given after the dissolu
tion of such injunction, in the same way and manner as is pre
scribed by law for the sale of personal property on executions, and
*uch sale shall be valid.
CHAPTER 198.
OF EXECUTIONS AGAINST TOWNS.
Section
1. Estate of towns, how taken.
8. Copy of execution to be left with se
lectmen.
3. Selectmen to pay ot assess tax.
Section
4. Extent may issue against
5. Property of selectmen and other* lia
ble, when.
6. Contribution, how regulated.
Section 1. The goods and estate of towns may be taken on
execution, and appraised or sold in the same manner as the property
of other corporations. .
Sec. 2. If no such goods or estate are found, an attested copy
of the execution shall be left with one of the selectmen.
Sec. 3. The selectmen, upon such copy being so left, shall pay
such execution or shall assess the inhabitants of such town in a
•urn sufficient to satisfy the same, and within thirty days there
after, collect the sum so assessed by a collector by them appoint
ed, and with the money so collected satisfy such execution.
Sec 4. If the collector to whom any warrant or list of taxes
shall be committed under this act, shall neglect to collect and pay
over such taxes to the selectmen within thirty days after he shall
receive the same, the selectmen may issue an extent against him.
Sec 5. If such execution shall not be satisfied within sixty
days after a copy of such execution is left as aforesaid, such exe
cution may be levied upon the goods and estates of the selectmen,
and, if they are insufficient, upon the property of any inhabitant
of such town or owner of property situate therein.
Sec 6. Every person upon whose property an execution against
any town has been levied, may, in an action of assumpsit for money
paid, recover of such town the sum so levied, and damages and
double
Section 1. Any pe*srin arrested or imprtaone^ on execution, or
detained in prison for want ef bail after final judgment against
him, or who shall be committed to prisoji* by^his bail or by the
court upon a surrendd? by hrT bail /afteriii|»flch 'indgment, shall be
discharged upon givir%^iond as 'hereinafter) pi«pded.
Sec 2. Such bond shall b^ given' to thy^ creditor, with two suf
ficient sureties, residents of the Stetc, tp be*) bound jointly and
severally iu at least double the sum for vffich »ich person is arrest
ed or imprisoned, with a condition ip, substanea as follows: —"The
condition of the above obligation is, thjjrif thjb said now a
prisoner at the suit of said shalLwithin one year from the
•date hereof, apply to tiie proper authority andjbe admitted to take,
and shall actually take the oath --or affirmation prescribed by law
for the relief of poor debtors, or rft default thereof shall surrender
himself to prison as prescribed by) law, then this obligation to be
void." The blanks in the conGition shall be filled as the
may require. „ i
Sec. 3. The sureties shall btf* deemed sufficient when they are
approved in writing on the back f)f such bond, either by the credit
or, his agent or attorney in the action, or by two disinterested jus
tices of the quorum of the county in which such person is arrested
or imprisoned.
Sec. 4. Such bond shall be delivered by the officer to the cre
ditor, upon request and upon giving a proper receipt therefore.
Sec 5. If the debtor giving such bond shall not, within one
year from the date thereof, take the oath or affirmation prescribed
by law for the relief of poor debtors, or be otherwise discharged,
he shall, on the day next after the expiration of said year, unless
the same shall be Sunday, and in that case on the Monday follow
ing, surrender himself up to the keeper of the jail in (he county
where he was originally arrested or committed, and remain at said
jail from twelve o'clock at noon till three o'clock in the afternoon
of said day, and his sureties on such bond shall be thereby dis
charged *
Sec. 6. If there is more Than one jail in the county, the person
making the surrender, shall cause notice in writing to be given to
the creditor or his attorney, or left at the usual place of abode of
one of them, if either lives in the State, stating at which of said
jails the surrender will be "made, at least ten days prior thereto.
Sec. 7. The sureties in* any such bond may take the body of
the principal, and surrender him at such jail in t he manner and for
the purpose aforAaid. . *\
Sec. 8. In the case' of such surrender, the creditor may cause
such debtor to be'arrested qi\ his execution and committed to jail,
where he shall remain in close confinement and shall not be again
discharged on giving 'bond as^ aforesaid.
Sec- 9. On condition broken, the creditor shall recover by action
on such bond, his just debt qj damages and costs thereof, with ten
per cent, interest from the time of the arrest, with costs, and the
clerk shall certify wn the execution therefore "that it was issued on
such bond ; and any person arrested or committed in any suit
thereon, shall be kept inclose jail anj} shall apt be discharged on
giving such bond, ^
Sec. 10. If any debtor shall be discharged from jail, by reason
of the neglect of the creditor to levy 'his execution upon his body
withiu thirty days after judgment rendered, he shall not be liable
to arrest in any action of debt upon such judgment at any time
within one year afterwards.
Sec. 11. No person comtfTitted on civil process, shall be detained
in prison for the non-]viyment of prison charges ; but such charges
shall be a debt against the prisoner, if he is of ability to pay the
same.
Sec. 12. The person at whose suit any person is committed to
jail, shall give bond to the jailer, with satisfactory security or such
a3 may be approved by a justice, to pay the prison charges in case
of tlie prisoner's inability ; otherwise such prisoner shall be dis
charged.
Section 1. Any person arrested or committed to jail en any
execution, or who has given bond as provided by law, may imme
diately apply to any two justices of the peace and of the quorum,
by petition setting forth that he had not, at the time of his arrest
or at any time afterwards, estate to the value of twenty dollars,
excepting goods and chattels by law exempted from attachment,
and praying to be admitted to take the oath hereinafter prescribed.
Sec 2. Either of the justices may make an order on such appli
cation, appointing a time and place for hearing and' considering
such application ; and the debtor shall cause the creditor or his
attorney to be served with a copy of such application and order
of notice thereon, at least fifteen days before the day of hearing.
Sec. 3. Said justices or either of them, on receiving satisfactory
evidence that due notice has been given to the creditor, may ad
journ the hearing on such petition, not exceeding ten days.
Sec 4. The person so applying may be examined under oath,
on motion of the creditor or his attorney, and any other evidence
produced by either party shall be heard ,- and if it shall appear that
such person has been guilty of any fraud, deceit or falsehood in
relation to his property, his application shall be refused.
Sec. 5. If it shall appear or shall be alleged that the person
applying had any property at the time of his commitment, over
and above the property exempted by law, his interest in the same
may be by him assigned to the creditor, at the discretion and ap
praisement of the justices, in case the parties do not agree ; and on
his refusal or neglect forthwith to make such assignment, his appli
cation shall be refused.
Sec. 6. If no sufficient objection is made, said justices shall ad
minister to the debtor the following calh :
" You, A. B., do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you have not
any estate, real or personal, or any right thereto, to the amount
of twenty dollars, excepting goods and chattels by law exempted
from attachment, and that you have not at any time, directly or
indirectly, sold, leased or otherwise conveyed any part of your
property or intrusted any person therewith, with any intent or
design to secure the same, or to receive or expect any profit or
advantage therefrom ; nor have caused or sutiered any thing else
whatever to be done whereby any of your creditors may be de
frauded. So help you God," (or, " This you do under the pains
and penalties of perjury.")
Sec 7. If the creditor or his attorney shall not accept any
property of the debtor, an assignment whereof as aforesaid has
been tendered, the form of the oath shall be altered accordingly,
so as to except such property, which shall belong to such debtor.
Sec. 8. The said justices shall make a Certificate of such oath
.when administered, substantially in the form following :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. ss. On the day of A. D. at in.
said county, A. B., of heretofore a prisoner at the
suit of C. D. of took the oath prescribed by law for the
relief of poor debtors, the said C. D. (or the attorney of the said
C. D.) having been duly notified, did (or did not) attend ; before
5 Justices of the peace
\ and of the quorum.
Sec 9. The person of the debtor shall be thereafter forever
discharged from arrest or imprisonment on the debt or demand on r
which he was so arrested or imprisoned ; but his estate shall always '
remain liable therefore, and a new execution may at any time issue
against such estate.
Sec. 10. If the cause of action, in any action of trespass or trespass
on the case, has arisen from the willful and malicious act '
or neglect of the defendant, the court or justices before whom the' '
action is tried, shall cause a certificate thereof to be made on the
back of the execution issued in such action, and the defendant"
shall not be discharged on giving bond as provided in the preced
ing chapter.
Sec. 11. In such case the defendant shall not be entitled, as a
matter of right, to be discharged upon taking the poor debtor's
oath ; but if the justices to whom application is made, shall think
proper, he may be discharged upon such terms and conditions as
they may impose.
Sec. 12. Any person disqualified to testify as a witness, may be '
admitted to take the oath prescribed by law.
Sec 13. If the application of any person to take such oath shall
not prevail, costs shall be taxed for the creditor in the same manner '
as in actions in the court of common pleas, and judgment rendered
and execution issued by the justices therefore.
Sec 14. No application of any person to take the poor debtor's
oath shall be allowed, until the costs which have been adjudged
against him on all former applications, have been paid.
Section 1. Creditors intending to charge the bail on the execu
tion, shall endorse thereon the names and places of abode of the
bail ; and the officer, at least fifteen days before the return day
thereof, shall deliver to each of the persons intended to be charged
as bail, or leave at his usual place of abode a notice in writing,
stating that such execution is in his hands, the amount thereof and
when it is returnable, and keep such execution until the return day
thereof. '
Sec. 2. If the bail so notified, shall, at any time before the
return day, produce the body of the debtor to the officer, so that
he may arrest him, and pay the reasonable charges for such notice,
they shall be forever discharged.
Sec. 3. The bail shall not be charged upon any return of non
est inventus, unless the officer shall certify in such return that
notice was given as aforesaid to the bail.
Sec. 4. Bail shall be discharged at any time before judgment
against them, by committing the principal to the common jail of
the county in which the arrest was made, or in which the action
is pending, and giving to the creditor or his attorney in the action,
within fifteen days after, notice in writing of the time when and
place where the principal is so committed, and causing the board of
the principal to be paid or secured to the jailer until the expiration
of seven days after notice given to the creditor or his attorney,
unless he shall be sooner discharged by giving bond according
to law.
Sec 5. If the officer shall make return on the execution against
the principal, that he has made diligent search, and has not been
able to find the principal in his precinct, and that he gave notice
to the bail as herein prescribed, the creditor may have a writ of
scire facias against the bail, and judgment and execution against
him for the amount of such execution and interest, and for costs.
Sec 6. If the bail shall, at any time before judgment against
them, bring into the court the body of the principal and move to
be discharged, they shall be discharged, and the court shall order
the keeper of the prison to receive him into custody ; and he shall
be holden in the same manner as if he had been committed on the
writ for want of bail.
Sec. 7. The bail shall not be discharged by committing his
principal and notice to the creditor as aforesaid, after notice given
to the bail as aforesaid, without paying to the officer, creditor or
his attorney the cost of such notice, and the cost which has arisen
in any action which has been commenced against such bail.
Sec. 8. No scire facias against bail shall be supported, unless the
same shall be served on the bail within one year after the final
judgment against the principal.
Sec. 9. The bail, in actions before justices, may commit the
principal to jail at any time before judgment against them, and
shall be discharged upon producing to the justice a certificate
thereof from the jailer, in the same manner and upon payment of
the like cost as if he were surrendered in court.
Sec 10. The bail, on committing their principal to jail, shall in
all cases leave with the jailer an attested copy of the writ or
process on which the arrest was made, and of the officer's return
thereon, with a certificate of such commitment ; and the jailer
shall detain such principal in his custody in the same manner as
if he were committed for want of bail.
Section 1. Any person imprisoned in any common jail or other
wise restrained of his personal liberty, by any officer or other per
son, except in the cases mentioned in the following section, shall
be entitled of right to a writ of habeas corpus, according to the
provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 2. The following persons shall not of right be entitled to
such writ:
First, Persons imprisoned upon legal process, civil or criminal,
in which the cause of such imprisonment is distinctly expressed ;
SeconJ, Persons committed by any court or judge of the United
States, and where no judge of any court of this State has authority
to discharge or to commit to bail.
Sec 3. Application for such writ may be made to the superior
court of judicature, in term time, in any county, or to any justice
thereof at any time, by any person so imprisoned or restrained of
his liberty, or by some person in his behalf.
Sec. 4. The application shall be in writing signed by the appli
cant, and under oath. It shall state the place where the person is
supposed to be imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, and by
whom, and a copy of the warrant or precept, if any, under which
he is confined, shall be annexed to such application.
Sec 5. If, on inspection of the copy of such precept, it shall
appear to such court or justice that such person is lawfully impris
oned or restrained of his liberty by virtue thereof, a writ of habeas
corpus shall not be granted.
Sec. 6. If, by the copy of such precept, it shall appear that such
person is imprisoned on mesne process for want of bail, or on crimi
nal process before a magistrate for want of recognizance, and that
excessive bail or recognizance was required, such court of justice
shall decide what bail is reasonable, and he shall, on giving such
bail, be discharged.
Sec. 7. If any officer having the custody of any such person
by virtue of any precept, shall refuse or delay unnecessarily to
deliver to such applicant an attested copy of such precept, on
demand, such court or justice, on proof of such demand and refusal
or unnecessary delay, to be proved by the affidavit of the appli
cant or other credible witness, shall forthwith issue the writ of
habeas corpus as prayed for.
Sec. 8. The form of the writ may be substantially as follows :
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
R. SS.
(^|J^^ ' Greeting.
We command you that the body of in our prison under
your custody detained, (or, by yon imprisoned and restrained of
his liberty, as the case may be,) as is said, together with the day
and cause of the taking and detaining of the said by what
ever name the said may be called or charged, you have
before our justices of our superior court of judicature holden at
within and for our county of immediately after the
receipt of this writ, to undergo and receive what our said justices
shall then and there consider of him in this behalf; and have you
then there this writ.
Witness at this day of in the year
of our Lord
All necessary alterations, in the form thereof, shall be made to
adapt the same to the circumstances of the application.
Sec 9. Said writ, when awarded by the court, shall be under
the seal of the court, tested by the chief justice or first justice
who is not a party, and signed by the clerk : when awarded by
any justice of said court, it shall be under his hand and seal.
Sec. 10. Said writ, when issued by the court, may be mado
returnable immediately to the court or any justice thereof in any
county, or at any time and place certain, or before any justice of
said court at any time and place therein directed.
Sec 11. If the writ is issued by any justice of said court, it
may be made returnable before himself or any other justice of said
court, immediately at a place therein directed, or at a time and
place certain, or before said court as may be therein directed.
Sec 12. In all cases such .writ shall be made returnable in such
a mode, as to secure to the applicant the enjoyment of the same in
the most free, easy, cheap and expeditious manner.
Sec. 13. The court or justice awarding such writ, may, in his
discretion, before the same is awarded, require that the applicant
shall file a sufficient bond or give satisfactory security to the person
to whom such writ is directed, for the payment of all charges
incurred by reason of such process, and that the person imprisoned
shall not escape by the way ; and may also order that the expenses
of bringing the person imprisoned or restrained of his liberty,
before such court or justice, (which sum shall be fixed by such
court or justice and endorsed, on such writ,) shall be paid or ten
dered at the time of the service of such writ.
Sec. 14. The service of such writ may be made by any person,
and shall be by delivering the original to the person to whom it
is directed, or if the person for whom application is made, is in
prison, it may be left with the jailer or deputy keeper at such pri
son, and paying or tendering the sum endorsed on said writ, if any.
Sec 15. The person making such service, shall keep a copy
of such writ, and shall make his return or affidavit of service and
of such payment or tender of fees thereon, as in other cases, and
deliver the same to the court or justice before whom the same is
returnable, on or before the time of hearing therein designated.
Sec 16. The person to whom such writ is directed, shall receive
the same when offered, and upon payment or tender of the sum
endorsed on said writ, if any, shall yield due obedience to the
command thereof: and shall make due return thereof to the court
or justice, and at the time and place therein mentioned ; and shall
state every cause of taking and detaining the person imprisoned or
restrained, all which shall be made under oath ; and shall also have
present the body of such person, unless imprisoned or restrained
for some one or more of the causes specified in the second section
of this chapter.
Sec 17. If no time is specified for such return, the same writ
being returnable immediately, the return shall be made within
three days after such service, unless the prisoner is to be brought
more than twenty miles, in which case the return shall be made
within so many days more as will be equal to one day for every
ten miles of such further distance.
Sec 18. Any justice of said court, when any such writ is re
turned to him, may certify and return the same, with all things
pertaining thereto, to said court, if then sitting ; and at any time be
fore the prisoner shall have been discharged, bailed or remanded,
any such justice may adjourn further proceedings on such writ to
said court, if then in session, or to the next term thereof, if to com
mence within three months next afterwards. The said court, in
any such case, shall proceed thereon as if such writ had been, by
the tenor thereof, returnable thereto.
Sec. 19. If said court shall not be in session when any such
writ is made returnable, the same shall be returned to any justice
of said court as if the same was issued by and returnable to him.
Sec. 20. Such court or justice may require and take security by
recognizance, with sufficient sureties if necessary, for the appear
ance of any party at the time and place of hearing on any such
writ, and to abide the order of court thereon ; and may make all
decrees necessary to insure the attainment of the object of such
writ, and enforce the same upon the principles of equity.
Sec 21. When any person shall be brought before any court or
justice thereof as aforesaid, such court or justice shall, within three
days after, proceed and examine the causes of detention. ,
Sec 22. If the person imprisoned or restrained, shall be so im
prisoned or restrained without sufficient cause or due order of law,
he shall be discharged ; but if otherwise, he shall be remanded.
Sec. 23. If such person is committed for any bailable offense,
such court or justice may bail him by ordering him to recognize,
with sufficient surety or sureties, in a reasonable sum, for his
appearance at the court having cognizance of such offense, and
shall certify their recognizance into such court.
Sec 24. If such person is committed on mesne process in any
civil action for want of bail, and it shall appear that the bail re
quired was excessive, such court or justice may discharge him on
reasonable bail being given.
Sec 25. If any officer having the custody of any prisoner, on
payment or tender of his fees therefore, shall not, within six hours
after demand made, deliver to such prisoner a true copy of the
warrant or process by which he is held in custody, he shall forfeit
to the party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars.
Sec 26. If any person to whom any writ of habeas corpus is
directed, shall refuse to receive the same, or shall conceal himself
or avoid so that such writ cannot be delivered to him, or after the
receipt thereof shall refuse or neglect, after the payment or tender
of expenses when required as aforesaid, to yield obedience thereto,
unless prevented by the sickness of the person detained or other
necessity, he shall forfeit for every such offense to the person
aggrieved, the sum of five hundred dollars.
Sec 27. If any person shall make any false return to any such
writ, he shall be also liable to the action of the party grieved, and
also to any action at common law for false imprisonment or unlaw
ful restraint.
Sec 28. The court or justice thereof awarding any such writ,
or to whom it is returned, may punish every disobedience to the
order thereof as for a contempt, and may compel obedience thereto
by process of attachment.
Sec. 29. No person enlarged by habeas corpus, shall again be
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty for the same cause, unless he
shall be indicted therefore or convicted thereof, or shall neglect to
appear according to his recognizance, or to find bail when required
thereto ; and if any officer or other person shall willfully again
imprison or restrain the person so discharged, except as aforesaid,
he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved eight hundred dollars.
Sec. 30. All actions and prosecutions for any offense against the
provisions of this chapter, shall be commenced within two years
next after the commission of such offense ; saving to all persons in
prison the right to sue or prosecute at any time within two years
after such impediment is removed.
Sec. 31. The right of action in any such case, excepting actions
of trespass for false imprisonment, shall not cease by the deatli of
either party, but shall survive for and against the personal repre
sentatives of the deceased.
CHAPTER 903.
OF THE FORFF.ITURE OF GRANTS.
Section
Section
1. " Grant," construction of word.
2. " Grantee," " " 3.
Grants, how forfeited.
4. Effect of forfeiture.
5. Information or complaint, how filed.
6. Proceedings, where to be had.
7. Service, in case of lands, how made.
8. " in other coses, how made.
9. Several persons may join.
10. Grantee, when defaulted.
11. Grantee, when heard in chancery.
12. Judgment may be conditional.
13. Judgment, how rendered.
14. Copy of case to be returned to
tary's office.
15. Improvements, when allowed for.
16. Value thereof, how determined.
17. When lands rcgranted, condition*.
18. If conditions not fulfilled, remedy.
19. Possession, how recovered.
20. Complainant liable for costs.
Section 1. The word "grant," as used in this chapter, shall
be construed to mean all grants or charters of lands in this State,
made by the supreme executive or legislative power thereof, and
all acts of incorporation and laws giving to individuals powers or
rights not common to all citizens.
Sec. 2. The word "grantee" shall be construed to mean the
person, persons or corporation to whom such grant is made, their
representatives, successors and assigns, and all persons interested
therein.
Sec. 3. Any grant may be adjudged forfeited for the non-per
formance of any condition annexed to or contained in such grant,
whether such condition be expressed or from the nature of the
clearly implied, in the manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 4. Whenever any grant shall be adjudged forfeited, the
grantee shall be immediately divested of all rights, powers and
privileges derived by virtue of snqh grant ; and the grant shall be
thenceforth deemed to be vacated, and shall revert to the State.
Sec. 5. The ordinary mode of process shall be by information
filed by the attorney general, or other person duly authorized in
behalf of the State, setting forth that such grant is forfeited, or if
the claim is by an individual for the forfeiture of a grant of land,
by a complaint by such individual, setting forth such forfeiture and
his claim thereto. In the latter case, before any order is issued,
the complainant shall file with the clerk a bond running to the
State, in a reasonable sum and with sufficient sureties, conditioned
to pay all costs which may be recovered against him on such com
plaint.
Sec. 6. Such information or complaint shall be directed to the
justices of the superior court of judicature, for the county in which
sucli land or corporation,, or any part thereof, lies, and may be filed
in vacation; and the clerk shall make an order thereon, directing
such grantee to appear at the next term of said court in said county,
then and there to show cause why such forfeiture should not be
decreed.
Sec 7. Such process shall be served upon the grantee, in
the case of forfeiture of lands, by posting up a copy of such com
plaint or information and order of court thereon, in some public
place in the shire town of the county in which such land lies, for
the space of thirty days prior to the term of the court at which
the same is to be heard and tried, and also by publishing the same
in some newspaper printed in such county, if any there be, other
wise in some adjacent county, and also in the New Hampshire
Patriot and State Gazette, three weeks successively, the last publi
cation to be at least thirty days prior to said term.
Sec 8. In all other cases service shall be made by giving an
attested copy of such information and order of court thereon, to
such grantee or the clerk of such corporation, or one of the prin
cipal proprietors thereof, or by leaving the same at his usual place
of abode, thirty days at least prior to said term, or by such other
notice as the court, on consideration, shall order. s
Sec. 9. If several persons in any case claim under the same
grant, they may appear and plead severally.
Sec. ID. If the grantee shall not appear after service duly made,
the court shall hear the evidence and try the truth of the matters
alleged in the information or complaint, and may, for good cause
shown, adjudge the grant to be forfeited.
Sec 11. If the verdict of the jury or the decision of the court,
in any such case, is that such grant is forfeited or that the condi
tions of the grant have not been performed, the grantee may show
his reasons in writing to the court why the grant in equity and
good conscience should not be forfeited, although a forfeiture has
been legally incurred, and the court shall judge the same according
to equity and good conscience.
Sec. 12. If the court, upon due consideration, shall deem such
reasons to be sufficient, the same shall be briefly recited in the
judgment, which shall be that the grant, in equity; ought not to be
forfeited and is not forfeited, and that the grantee pay the costs of
suit.
Sec. 13. If no reasons are shown, or if the reasons shown are
insufficient, the judgment shall be that the grant is forfeited, and
the reasons shown, if any, and their insufficiency shall be briefly
recited in said judgment.
Sec. 14. When final judgment has been rendered that a grant is
forfeited, the clerk of the court in which such judgment is ren
dered, shall, within thirty days thereafter, transmit to the secretary
of state a copy of all the papers in such case, including the judg
ment, certified by him and under the seal of the court, which shall
be kept by the secretary and laid before the legislature at the next
session.
Sec. 15. At and upon the rendition of any judgment of forfeit
ure of any grant of land as aforesaid, such grantee may, by petition
or motion in writing, set forth the facts respecting his performance
of the condition of such grant and the improvements made by
him thereon, and may pray the court to be heard thereon.
Sec 16. The court shall immediately proceed to hear the same,
either by a jury or before themselves, at the option of such par
ty ; and upon the value of such improvements and the value of
the land, at the time of the entry of such grantee, being found, the
court as a court of equity, shall determine and decree tint the
State shall pay to such grantee the value of such improvements, or
so much thereof as they shall think reasonable, before having pos
session of such lands, or that the grantee shall pay to the State the
value of the lands before such improvements were made, and upon
such payment to have all the title of the State thereto, or it may
be conditional, leaving it to the option of the grantee to pay or
receive said sums, as he may think expedient; which decree shall
prescribe the time and mode of such payment, which shall be at
the treasury of the State, and such notices and other requirements
as equity may demand.
Sec. 17. Whenever any grant of land has been declared forfeit
ed, and the same has been regranted, such second or other grantee
may appear at and upon the rendition of judgment of forfeiture,
in the manner provided in the preceding section, and a hearing
shall be had and a conditional judgment rendered as is therein pro
vided, and such judgment returned to the secretary of state as in
other cases.
Sec IS. If such g antec shall not comply with an 1 fulfil said
decree or judgment of court, in the mode and withi.i the tjme
therein prescribed, the attorney general or other person appointed,
may bring a writ of scire facias in the same court, and said court
sitting in equity, upon a hearing of said case, may decree such
grant to be forfeited.
Sec. 19. Whenever any grant of lands shall be declared forfeit
ed, and the grantee shall continue to hold possession thereof, an
action may be brought by the State to recover such possession, un
less the same has been regranted so that the State has no present title thereto.
Sec 20. If any person not employed 'by and in behalf of the
State, shall enter any complaint or prosecute any suit as aforesaid,
and shall not support his title, costs shall be taxed against him for
the defendant.
CHAPTER 204.
OF REPLEVIN.
Bectioh
1. Beasts impounded, bow replevied.
2. Property claimed by third person.
3 " exempt from attachment.
Section
4. Suits, where to be brought.
5. Plaintiff to give bond, how.
6. Officer may seize property, how.
Section 1. Any person whose beasts are impounded, may at any
time, while they remain in the pound, maintain replevin therefore
against the impounder thereof.
Sec. 2. When any goods or chattels attached on any writ of
mesne process, are claimed by any other person, he may maintain
replevin therefore.
Sec 3. If any goods or chattels exempted by law from attach
ment, are attached upon mesne process, and before they are taken
on execution, the owner or person out of whose possession they
were taken, may maintain replevin therefore.
Sec 4. If the value of property replevied does not exceed
thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, the action shall be brought
before a justice; otherwise, in the court of common pleas.
Sec 5. The plaintifff in the writ, before the service thereof,
shall give bond to the sheriff of the county, with sufficient sure- '
ties, in a stun not less than double the value of the property reple
vied, conditioned to prosecute his suit and to pay all such damages
and charges as may be awarded against him.
Sec. 6. If any property attached as aforesaid, is in the possession
of any person for keeping or otherwise, the officer having the writ
of replevin, may demand the same, and on neglect or refusal to
deliver such property, may enter any close or building and repleiry
the same. The delivery to or taking by such officer of any pro
perty shall exonerate the person having possession thereof as afore
said, from all liability therefore.
OF THE ACTION OF DOWER.
Section
Section
1. Writ of dower, when brought.
2. Demand of dower to be first
3. Form of writ of dower.
4. Damages to be rendered, what.
5. Form of judgment for dower.
6. Dower, how act out by officer.
7. Rights of widow therein.
Section 1. If dower is not assigned to any woman entitled
thereto, to her satisfaction, by the heir or tenant of the freehold or
by the judge of probate, she may recover the same by action of
dower.
Sec. 2. She shall make demand in writing of her dower of the
person seized of the freehold, if in this State, otherwise of the
tenant in possession ; and if such dower is not set out within one
month, may sue for and recover the same against such person.
Sec. 3. The writ in actions of dower shall be a summons.
Sec. 4. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, she
shall also, in the same action, recover her reasonable damages for
the detention thereof by the tenant in such action after demand
made.
Sec 5. Judgment shall be rendered for the demandant that she
recover " seizin of such part of a certain with the appurte
nances, as will produce a yearly income equal to one third part of
the yearly income thereof on thq day of ."
Sec 6. The officer to whom such writ of seizin is directed,
shall cause such dower to be set off by three discreet and disinte
rested men of the neighborhood, who shall be appointed and shall
proceed in the same manner as is provided in the case of the levy
of executions on real estate.
Sec 7. The rights of every such woman and the mode of set
ting out her dower, shall be the same as in similar cases before a
judge of probate.
Section 1. One or more persons having or holding real estate
with others, may have partition thereof in the mode hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 2. Application may be made by such person to the superior
court of judicature in the county in which such real estate or any part thereof lies, by petition in writing, particularly describing the
estate of which partition is desired, the names of all owners or per
sons interested, if known, and the share of the petitioner therein^
and praying for partition thereof.
Sec. 3. If the persons owning or interested in any such real
estate with the petitioner, are unknown, the estate shall be doscribed in such petition in the same manner as is required by law
in the case of taxing unimproved lands of non-residents, specifying
the share severally held by each petitioner, and stating the same as
held with persons unknown.
Sec. 4. The petitioner shall cause notice to be given to all per
sons interested in such estate, by causing such petition, with an
order of notice thereon, to be duly served on each in the samo
manner that writs of summons are required to be served.
Sec. 5. If any petitionee is unknown, or if his residence is un
known, or if he resides out of the State not having had personal
notice, the court shall order said petition and order of notice to be
published in some newspaper printed in the county, if any there
be, otherwise in some adjoining county, three weeks successively,
the last publication to be thirty days at least before the term of trio
court at which such petition is to be heard.
Sec. 6. If any petitionee is absent from home at the time of
the service of such petition, and has not returned and does not ap
pear at the sitting of the court at which such petition is entered or
continued, the court may continue such petition and order further
notice to be given, if they think proper.
Sec 7. If any petitionee is an infant or otherwise incapacitated
to take care of his estate, the court shall not cause partition to be
made until a guardian or agent has been appointed, and such agent
may be appointed by the court.
Sec 8. If any petitionee is unknown, the court may, whenever
they think it expedient; appoint an agent to aid and advise in his
behalf in making such partition.
Sec 9. If any of the facts alleged in such petition arc denied
by the petitionee, the objections shall be made in writing by plea
drawn with legal certainty, to which the petitioner may reply or
demur, so that the matter in dispute may be reduced to an issue
of law or fact, and tried and determined as in civil cases. Every
such issue of fact shall be sent to the court of common pleas for
trial, unless by agreement of parties it is tried by the court.
Sec 10. If the issue is determined in favor of the petitioner, or
if alter due notice the petitionee shall not appear, the court shall
render judgment that partition be made, and shall appoint a com
mittee consisting of three suitable persons, residents of such county,
to make partition of such estate and to set off the share of the
several persons interested, according to their respective titles, and
shall award costs to the petitioner against the petitionee and issue
execution therefore.
Sec 11. Such committee, before proceeding to make partition,
shall cause notice in writing of the time and place appointed for a
hearing in relation thereto, signed by their chairman, to be served
upon each person interested, or his agent or attorney, or left at his
usual place of abode, seven days at least before such day of hear
ing.
Sec 12. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, the
committee shall cause such notice to be published in some news
paper published in the same county, if any there be, otherwise in
some adjoining county, three weeks successively before said day
of hearing.
Sec. 13. Said committee, before such hearing is had, shall be
sworn faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties of their
commission, and shall proceed to make partition of the estate as is
therein directed, by dividing and setting off to each owner his just
share thereof, according to his right, by proper metes and bounds
or other distinct description, and shall return to said court a full
report of their doings, with a particular description of each portion
of the estate so divided, and a certificate of said oath.
Sec. 14. Such partition and report being made and returned to
said court, judgment may be rendered thereon; and the same being
recorded in the registry of deeds for the county where the real
estate lies, shall be valid and effectual to all intents and purposes.
1 Sec. 15. The committee shall consider and adjust the costs and
charges of making such partition, and apportion the same in suah
manner as they shall think just and reasonable for or against the
parties interested, and report the same to the court, and execution
may issue therefore.
Sec. 16. If, on the trial of any issue, it shall be determined that
the petitioner has a right or share in the estate described, but less
than he claims, the court shall order that partition be made in the
manner aforesaid, according to the actual rights of each, but the
petitionee shall recover costs.
Sec. 17. If on such trial it shall be determined that the peti
tioner has no right or share in such estate, the petitionee shall
recover costs. v
Sec 18. If the petitioner shall fail to enter or to prosecute his
said petition, costs shall be awarded in favor of all the jwtitionees
upon whom service thereof was made, to be recovered as in other
cases.
Sec 19. No partition shall be avoided by any conveyance made
by any petitionee, after the entry of the petition therefore, nor by
any conveyance, unless duly recorded at the date of such entry, :
nor by any mortgage, attachment or lien thereon, whenever made,
or by the death of either party, but the share of each party named
in the petition, shall be set oft' in severalty and be subject to all
legal claims thereon, as if such claimant had been a party thereto.
Sec 20. If, in making any partition, any share shall be set off
to any person other than the legal owner thereof, such share shall
enure to the benefit of such legal owner, his heirs or assigns, as if
the same had been set off to him.
Sec 21. If there is no dispute about the title, the petition for
partition may be directed to and filed with the judge of probate
of the county where the real estate or the greater part thereof lies,
.who shall appoint a time and place of hearing thereon.
Sec. 22. Notice thereof shall be given to all parties interested
by giving to each in hand, or leaving at his usual place of abr de
ja true and attested copy of such petition and order of notice, fifteen
days at least before the day of hearing, or by causing the same to
be published in some newspaper printed in the vicinity, three' weeks
successively, the last publication to be at least thirty days before
such day of hearing.
Sec 23. If, on such hearing, no sufficient objection appears,
said judge shall cause partition [to be madel by a committee, who
shall be appointed, be sworn, give notice and proceed in making
partition ; and the court shall appoint guardians or agents for all
minors or persons incapacitated, and agents for all persons un
known or out of the State, interested in such estate, receive and
accept the report of such committee, and render judgment and
award costs thereon, in the manner herein-before prescribed.
Sec 24. If any party interested, against whom costs are awardcd(: shall neglect to pay the same, the said judge may Issue his
warrant of distress therefore.
Sec 25. When any real estate is so situated that it cannot be
divided so as to give to each owner his equal share therein, without
great prejudice or inconvenience, the same or part thereof may be
assigned to one of the petitioners, he paying to the other persons
interested who shall have less than their shares, such sum of money
as the committee shall award, or giving bond, with sufficient sure
ties, to pay the same with interest within such time as the court
shall order.
CH\PTER 207.
OF TRESPASSES AND WASTE.
. • •>
fiacnow Sectioh
1. Trespass on wood lot, penalty. 6. Trespasses on public lands. • ".*
2. Altering marks on logs, penalty^ 7. Such possession of no avail.
3. Leaving gates, &c., open, penalty. 8. Cutting timber trees, &c, penalty. .
4. Carrying away earth, &c, penalty. 9. Limitation of prosecutions. . tu
6. Mpdeof proceeding in such cases.
Section 1. If any person shall cut, fell, destroy or carry away
any tree, wood, timber or underwood whatsoever standing, lying
or being on the land of any other person, having no right there,
without leaye from the owner of the land on which such trees,
timber, wopd or underwood were, or shall aid therein, he shall for
feit for eacji trespass to the person injured, five dollars for every
tree or log^ of one foot over, for every tree or log of greater dimen
sions, five dollars and three times the value thereof, and three dol
lars for every tree, log or pole less than one foot in diameter, and
for other wood or underwood, treble the value thereof.
Sec. %. If any person shall cut out or alter the mark of any mill
log, or sjiw or cut into any lumber or any log not his own property,
without the leave of the owner, or shall aid therein, he shall be
liable fjjr each offense to the same penalty affixed in the preceding section to cutting any tree or log of the same dimensionst
Sec. 3. If any person shall throw down or leave open any bar,
gate w fence belonging to or enclosing any land holden in com
mon, or belonging to any particular person, or shall aid therein,'he
shall for every such offense forfeit and pay treble damages to the
person injured, and also a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars,
according to the aggravation of the offense.
6ec. 4. If any person shall dig up or carry away any stone, ore,
gravel, clay or sand, turf or mould belonging the proprietors of any
common lands, or to any particular person, or shall aid therein, he
shall for every such offense forfeit the same sum as is prescribed in
the preceding section.
Sec. 5. In any case which may arise under the precediug sec
tions, the plaintifff may proceed as at common law, or the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney may make oath that certain acts set forth in
the declaration, have been committed, and that he suspects that
the defendant committed such acts, and the court upon such and
other evidence to be offered by the plaintifff, may award him
damages and costs as aforesaid, unless the defendant shall acquit
himself upon oath, to be administered by the court, in which case
he shall recover of the plaintifff double costs.
Sec 6. If any person, without leave of the State, shall enter
into or take possession of any waste lands unappropriated and be
longing to this State, and shall continue in possession thereof with
out color of right for the space of three months, he shall forfeit for
such offense one hundred dollars, to be recovered by indictment,
one half to the use of the State and the other half to the use of the
complainant.
Sec. 7. No possession obtained or held as aforesaid, shall be of
any avail in law in favor of such possessor.
Sec. 8. If any person shall willfully cut, fell, destroy, injure, or
carry away any pine or other timber trees standing or growing on
any tract of land within this State, without leave of the owner
thereof, or shall be accessory thereto, he shall be liable to the person
injured, in a sum equal to five times the value of all the trees so
cut, felled, destroyed, injured or carried away.
Sec 9. No prosecution for any trespass under this chapter shall
be sustained, unless commenced within two years from the. com
mission thereof.
. Section \. All personal actions may be commenced by the
process of foreign attachment, or trustee process, in the manner
hereinafter provided, except actions of replevin, actions on the case
for malicious prosecution, or for slander or libel, and actions of
trespss for assault and battery and false imprisonment.
Sec 2. All such actions shall be brought in the same county in
which they would have been brought, if no trustee were sum
moned therein, except as is hereinafter provided.
t. Sec 3. The trustee writ shall be an attachment and summons,
.and shall be served upon, the tnistee and upon the principal defend
ant in the same manner as writs of summons, and the property of
the principal defendant may be attached thereon.
Sec 4. The plaintifff may insert the names of as. many persons
as trustees as he may deem necessary, at any time before the pro
cess is served upon the principal defendant, but not after.
Sec 5. If such trustee do not appear at the term of the court to
which such process duly served on him, is returnable, or if contin
ued, at the term to which it shall be so continued, his default shall
be recorded, and the charge of his having in his possession money,
goods, chattels, rights or credits'of the principal defendant to the
amount alleged in such process, shall be deemed to be true, and
judgment shall be rendered and execution issue against the trustee,,
his proper goods and estate for such amount as the plaintifff shall
recover against the principal defendant in such process, but not
exceeding the amount so alleged in such process as aforesaid.
Sec 6. If any trustee shall not be able to attend in person, at
the term of the court to which said process is returnable or may be
continued, or shall have other good and sufficient cause, a continu
ance may be granted upon such terms as the court may order.
Sec. 7. Every person summoned as trustee as aforesaid, may be
put to answer interrogatories as to his liability as such trustee,
which interrogatories and answers shall be in writing, and sub
scribed and sworn to in open court, or before some justice of the
peace, if the parties agree; or the question of his liability may be
tried by the jury, as the plaintifff may elects ,
Sec. 8.' Every person summoned as trustee .as aforesaid, having
in his possession any money, goods, chattels, rights or credits of
the principal defendant at the time of the service of such writ upon
him, or at any time after such service and before liis disclosure,
shall be adjudged a trustee therefore.
Ssc 9. No person summoned as trustee, shall be charged as such
on account of the personal services or earnings of the wife of the
debtor at any time, or on account of any labor performed by the.
debtor or any of his family after the service of the process, or with
in fifteen days prior to such service.
Sec 10. When the trustee is indebted to the principal defend
ant, and the time of payment has not expired, the court may sus
pend issuing execution against such trustee as justice may require.
Sec. 11. If the trustee has any goods or chattels of the principal
defendant in his possession, not subject to any lien, judgment shall
be rendered and execution issue against the trustee therefore, or for
so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such execution.
Sec. 12. If the trustee is under contract for the delivery of any
specific article or articles to the principal defendant, or payment in
any articles, judgment shall be rendered and execution issued
against the trustee for such articles, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy such execution, which shall be paid and deliv
ered to the creditor according to such contract.
Sec. 13. The creditor shall be the agent of the principal defend
ant for the purpose of receiving the goods, chattels or articles men
tioned in the two sections preceding, and shall levy his execution
thereon to the amount of his debt and cost, and no more ; but if
no division of such goods, chattels or articles can l,e made, the
whole may be sold. The property unsold and the overplus of the
Sroceeds of the property sold, shall be retfiined by the officer to be
elivered to the debtor whenever he shall demand the same.
Sec 14. If any person adjudged trustee for any goods, chattels
or other property whatever, shall re.'use to expose the same so that
the creditor may levy his execution thereon, the court shall, on
return thereof made by any officer, grant a rule upon such trustee
to show cause why execution should not issue against such trustee,
his own goods and estate ; and upon such rule being duly served
and no sufficient cause shown to the contrary, judgment shall be
rendered and execution issued against him for such sum as the
court may think just and proper.
Sec 15. If upon the disclosure of any person summoned as
trustee in the court of common pleas, or upon the trial of ari
issue between him and the plaintifff, it shall appear that such per
son had in his possession, at the time of the service of the pro
cess upon him or afterwards, any promissory note, order, receipt,
bill of exchange, bond or other promise for the payment of money
or the delivery of property belonging to the principal defendant,
the court may appoint a receiver whose duty it shall be, under the
direction of the court, to collect and apply the proceeds to the paytnent
of the debt atid costs recovered by the plaintifff against the
principal debtor, and to pay the surplus, if any, to such debtor.
Sec. 16. If it shall appear as aforesaid that the person sum
moned as trustee, had in his possession, at the time of the service
of such process or afterwards, any personal property of the princi
pal defendant, and that the same is subject to any pledge, lien or
mortgage, and at the time of the disclosure has not been sold by
the trustee, the court may appoint a receiver whose duty it shall
be, under the direction of the court, to dispose of the same, if a
greater amount than the sum due can be obtained therefore, and
after paying the amount of such pledge, lien or mortgage, to apply
the balance as aforesaid.
Sec 17. If the person so summoned as trustee, shall refuse in
.either of the cases specified in the two preceding sections, to de
liver any such note, order, receipt, bill, bond, promise or other pro
perty, on the order of the court, he shall be charged as trustee for
)he amount thereof, and judgment be rendered and execution
issued accordingly.
Sec. 18. If any person summoned as trustee as aforesaid, is in
debted, at the time of the service of such proeess or afterwards, to
euch debtor by a negotiable promissory note, made or payable in
this State, or the parties to which at the time of making the same
resided in this State, the court may make a rule requiring such
debtor to appear and answer on oath all interrogatories respecting
the possession, transfer or other disposition of such note, and a
rule or order of notice to be served upon any individual or pub
lished in some newspaper, for the information of any person who
may claim an interest in said note, so that such person may appear
and show that the same was transferred to him in good faith, and
for an adequate consideration, before the service of such trustee
process ; and the question whether the same was so transferred to
him, shall be decided by the jury, if 'he or the plaintifff request it.
Sec 19. If it shall not appear that the note was so transferred,,
the promisor shall be charged as the trustee of such debtor, and
the payment of the judgment rendered against him, shall be a.
discharge from the note or from such part thereof as is equal to
the amount so paid by him, together with all costs taxed in his
favor.
Sec. 20. If any such debtor shall refuse to appear, upon such
order of court, he may be arrested and brought into court upon a
capias and fined not exceeding fifty dollars, and if he shall refuse
to answer, may be proceeded against as for a contempt of court.
Sec 21. No answer or disclosure of any person, or any other
proceedings under the provisions of this chapter shall be used in
evidence upon any criminal prosecution against such person, except
upon an indictment of the trustee for perjury in the making of
such answer or disclosure.
Sec. 22. If any person shall claim any money, goods, chattels,
rights or credits, or other property as aforesaid, in the hands of any
supposed trustee, by assignment from the debtor or otherwise, the
court may permit or cause him to appear and maintain his right.
The testimony of the debtor or of any competent witness may be
taken in such manner as the court shall direct, and filed with or
appended to the disclosure of the trustee, and the court may award
such costs between such claimant, the creditor and trustee, as jus
tice and equity may require.
Sec. 23. Any corporation may be summoned as trustee, and
may appear and answer by its treasurer, cashier, or such other offi
cer or officers as such corporation shall appoint or the court shall
direct ; and the examination on oath of such officers shall be
deemed to be the answer of the corporation.
Sec 24. If any person summoned as trustee, shall die before
disclosure made or before judgment, his executor or administrator
may come in or be summoned in to become a party to such action,
as in other cases, and shall be liable in the same manner as if said
action had been originally commenced against such executor or
administrator.
Sec 25. Upon the motion of either party, the court may ap
point a commissioner to take the disclosure of any trustee, and if
upon due notice, such trustee shall neglect or refuse to appear be
fore such commissioner or to answer all proper interrogatories, on
oath, the commissioner shall report such neglect or refusal to the
court, who may thereupon enter judgment against such trustee as
upon default, or order such further proceedings and upon such
terms as may be just and reasonable.
Sec 26. If any person summoned as trustee, is about to leave
the State to be absent beyond the next term of the court to which
the trustee process is returnable, or for other sufficient cause may
not be able to attend court, and either party desires that his disclo
sure shall be taken, application in writing may be made to any jus
tice of the peace for that purpose, stating the cause thereof.
Sec. 27. Such justice shall, if he deems the cause^ sufficient,
pause such notice to be given to the adverse party as is given in
the case of depositions, and may, at the time and place of hearing,
proceed to take such disclosure, which shall be by written interro
gatories and answers, and signed and sworn to by said trustee,
jupon the return of any such disclosure into court, judgment may
be rendered thereon, or such further proceedings had as equity may
. require.
.., Sec 28. Upon disclosure made by any person summoned as
trustee, the creditor may move the court that the question whether
.such person is trustee or not, be tried by the jury; and upon pay
ment of the trustee's costs up to the time of filing such motion,
unless the court shall restrict the same, an order shall be made and
an issue framed for the trial of such question ; and ou such trial
the disclosure so made and any other competent evidence may be
offered, and judgment shall be rendered on the verdict as in other
cases against trustees. In any such case the debtor may be a
competent witness. « -i.
Sec. 29. If, on such trial, judgment shall be rendered against
the' trustee for a greater amount or for other property than ho
would have been chargeable for on his disclosure, judgmeut shall
be rendered against him for costs also, including costs so paid him
as aforesaid ; otherwise the trustee shall recover his costs.
Sec. 30. When any person sliall be adjudged a trustee of any
debtor as aforesaid, except where it is otherwise specially provided,
judgment shall be rendered and execution issue against such trus
tee, his own goods and estate therefore, or for so much thereof as
will satisfy the judgment obtained against the principal defendant,
in the same manner as if such suit were brought against him per
sonally ; but no judgment shall be rendered against the trustee or
against the principal defendant, unless such defendant has been
duly summoned or notified of such suit.
Sec 31. If any person summoned as trustee, is chargeable as
such, and the principal defendant has liad no personal notice of
stick suit, the trustee may appear and defend such suit for such
defendant, and may have a continuance for the purpose of notify
ing such defendant, upon such terms as the court shall order, and
such costs shall be awarded for or against such trustee as equity
may require.
Sec. 32. If it shall appear to the court that there is fraud and
collusion between the creditor and trustee, the court may refuse to
admit such trustee to appear and defend as aforesaid, or may order
sucli notice to be given to the debtor as will be most likely to be ef- ,
ftctual, or proper security to be filed for the protection of the rights
of such defendant, before judgment shall be rendered against him.
Sec 33. When real estate shall be attached oh any such process,
any person summoned as trustee in such process, may be required i
to disclose the grounds of his claim, if any he have, to the same ;
and if it shall appear on the disclosure that it was conveyed to
him, to prevent its being seized on mesne process or execution
against the principal debtor, or for the purpose of delaying or de
frauding any creditor, or that he holds the same by a title ap|»arently absolute, but which is in, fact on any trust for such debtor
or other person, judgment shall be rendered against such trustee for
costs. '
Sec. 34. Whenever it shall appear that any person summoned as
trustee, has received the property of the principal defendant, or
holds any bill of sale or other conveyance from him, or has done
any act in relation thereto, with intent to aid him in defeating or
delaying any creditor, costs shall be taxed against such trustee.
Sec 35. In all cases where the trustee has not been guilty of
fraud or unnecessary delay, he shall be entitled to his costs ; and
the court may order the same to be deducted from the amount for
which such trustee is adjudged chargea'b1e,"Dr may render judgment
and issue execution therefore, or make such order touching the same
as equity may require.'
Sec. 36. Two or more persons severally liable may be summon
ed as trustees in the same process, and their disclosures and all
other proceedings shall be several, and judgment shall be rendered
for such sum as the court shall order for or against each severally,
and execution shall issue therefore accordingly.
Sec 37. Execution may be issued by the court against the prin
cipal defendant for any balance due to the plaintifff, on his judgment
recovered against such defendant in any trustee suit, beyond the
amount for which the trustee or trustees in such suit are charge
able, and further executions may be issued from time to time against
such defendant or any trustee, as the court may order, until such ,
judgment shall be satisfied in full.
Sec 38. Any money, goods, chattels, rights or credits or any
property of any description of any debtor, taken by the provisions
of this chapter out of the possession of any trustee, shall fully dis
charge such trustee, his executors or administrators from allaetions
or causes of action in favor of such debtor, his executors or adminis
trators ; and if any such trustee shall be sued therefore, or for any
thing done by virtue of the provisions of this chapter, he may plead
the general issue and give the special matter in evidence under it.
Sec 39. Any trustee process may be brought and maintained
before any justice of the peace, where the sum demanded in dam
ages shall not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, and all
the several provisions in this chapter contained, not restricted to
the court of common pleas, so far as the same are applicable to
and not inconsistent with process before a justice of the peace,
shall be deemed to apply thereto. . • . i
Sec 40. If any trustee named in any such process, resides out
of the county in which the same is brought, the writ and any exe
cution issued against such trustee, shall be directed to the sheriff
of any county in this State, or his deputy, or to any constable of
the town in which such trustee resides.
Sec. 41. When the trustee in any such suit resides out of the
county in which the process is brought, the plaintifff shall file a
bond, to be approved by the justice before whom the suit is brought,
and in such sum as he shall order, running to such trustee and con
ditioned to pay all costs which such trustee may recover in such
suit, which bond shall be filed with such justice, and a minute
thereof made on such writ and signed by him before the service
of such writ on any such trustee.
Sec 42. The fees of every trustee in any court for actual ne
cessary attendance as trustee,- shall be the same as that of a witness.
Section 1. Any lessor or owner of any lands or tenements, may
at any time determine any lease at will or tenancy at sufferance,
by giving to the tenant or occupant a notice in writing to quit the
same at a day therein named.
Sec 2. If any tenant or occupant neglects or refuses to pay the
rent due and in arrear, upon demand, seven days' notice shall be
sufficient. If the rent is payable more frequently than once in
three months, whether such rent is due or not due, thirty days' no
tice shall be sufficient, and three months' notice shall be sufficient
in all cases.
Sec 3. If any lessee shall violate the condition of any written
lease, notice to quit at the end of seven days shall be sufficient and
equivalent to an entry for condition broken.
Sec. 4. If any lessee shall hold over after the expiration of a
definite written lease, seven days' notice shall be sufficient.
Sec 5. Every tenancy or occupancy shall be deemed to be at
will and the rent payable upon demand, unless a different contract
is shown.
Sec 6. Any lessee may terminate his lease by notice in writing
in the same manner as the lessor, and such notice shall have the
same effect for all purposes as a notice by the lessor to the lessee.
Sec 7. The owner or lessor of any tenement or real estate may
recover possession thereof, against any lessee or occupant holding
the same without right, after a notice to quit the same, in the
manner herein prescribed. <.
Src 8. A writ of summons may be issued returnable before a
justice, which shall set forth in substance, that the plaintifff is
entitled to the possession of the demanded premises, and that the
defendant is in possession of the same without right, after notice
in writing to quit the same.
Sec. 9. Such writ shall be served seven days before the return
day thereof, in the same manner as other writs of summons should
by law be served.
Sec. 10. If the defendant shall make default, or if, on trial, it
shall l,e considered by the justice that the plaintifff has sustained
his complaint, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintifff recover
possession of the demanded premises and costs.
Sec 11. A writ of possession shall be thereupon issued by said
justice, substantially in the form prescribed by law in the case of
like writs issued by the court of common pleas.
Sec. 12. If the plaintifff shall neglect to enter his action or to
support the same, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for
his costs.
Sec. 13. Under the general issue, the defendant shall not be
allowed to offer any evidence which may bryig the title to the
demanded premises in question.
Sec. 14. If the defeudaut shall plead any plea which may bring
in question the title to the demanded premises, he shall recognize
to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the justice
shall oider, to enter and prosecute said action at the next court of
common pleas for the county, and to pay all rent then due or which
shall become due, pending said action, and the damages and costs
which may be awarded against him.
Sec 15. If the defendant shall neglect or refuse so to recognize,
judgment shall be rendered against him in the same manner as
if he had refused to make answer to the suit.
Sec 16. After the filing of such plea and the entry of such
recognizance, no further proceedings shall be had before such jus
tice, but the action may be entered and prosecuted in the court
of common pleas, in the same manner as if it were originally com
menced there.
Sec. 17. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of any justice
upon issue joined in such case, may, within two hours after the
rendition of such judgment, appeal to the next court of common
pleas for the county.
Sec 18. The plaintifff, before his appeal is allowed, shall recog
nize to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the
justice may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal and to pay
such costs as may be awarded against him.
Sf.c 19. The defendant, before his appeal is allowed, shall
recognize to the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as
the justice may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal and to pay
all rent then due or which may become due, pending such suit,
and such damages and costs as may be awarded against him.
Sec 20. The party appealing shall produce certified copies of
the whole case at the court appealed to, and either party may there
offer any evidence in the same manner as if the cause had been
originally commenced there.
Sec. 21. If the appellant shall neglect to enter his appeal or to
produce such copies, the court, on complaint of the appellee, shall
affirm the former judgment with additional damages and costs.
Sec. 22. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
any landlord from pursuing his legal remedy at common law. n
CHAPTER 210.
Or REFERENCES OK DISPUTES BY CONSENT, AND CONFESSIONS
OF DEBT BEFORE A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.
Section
1. References, when allowed.
!J. Form of agreement to refer.
3. Agreement to be acknowledged.
4. Reference of specific demand, mode.
5. Reference of all demands, mode.
C. Submission not to lie revoked.
7. Hearing may be fixed by parties.
8. Award, how to be made.
3. Powers of referees, and oaths.
10. Report returned to court, how. ,
11. Award, when to be made public.
|Sectioh
12. Report accepted by court or
mittcd, and proceedings. <j
10. Powers of the court in such case.
14. Fees of justices, referees, &c.
15. Costs, how allowed by referees.
16. If amount under $200, justice majfj
issue execution on report.
17. Confession of debt regulated.
18. Record to be made by justice.
19. Executions therefore, how served.
Section 1. All controversies which may be the subject of a per
sonal action, may be submitted to one or more referees in the mode
prescribed in this chapter.
Sec 2. The parties may appear personally or by attorney before
any justice of the peace in the county in which either of the
parties resides, and there sign and acknowledge an agreement in
substance as follows :
" Know all men by these presents, that of in the
county of and State of and of in the
cotinty of and State of have agreed to submit the
demand made by the said against the said which is
hereto annexed, (or, "and all other demands between said parties," ;*
as the case may be.) "to the determination of the report
of whom, or' the major part of whom, being made as soon as may
be to the court of common pleas for the said county of
judgment thereon shall be final. And if either party shall neglect
to appear before said referees, after proper notice given to them
of the time and place appointed by the referees for hearing the
parties, the referees may proceed in his absence.
Dated this day of in the year 18 ." ,
Sec. 3. Said agreement having been signed by each of the
parties, shall be acknowledged by them or their attorneys as their
free act and deed, before the same or some other justice, and any
referee, being a justice, may take said acknowledgment.
Sec 4. If a specific demand only is submitted, it may be
inserted in the agreement, or the same shall be signed by the party
making it and annexed to the agreement, and such demand shall
be as particular in stating the substance.of the claim in controversy,
as the nature of the case will admit.
Sec 5. If all demands between the parties are submitted to the
refprees, no specific demand need be annexed to the agreement.
Sec 6. Neither party shall have power to revoke the submission
Without the consent of the other.
Sec. 7. The parties, if so disposed, may agree upon and fix in
said agreement the time and place for the hearing, for making an
award thereon, and may vary the form accordingly.
Sec. 8. All the referees must meet and hear the parties, unless
the parties otherwise agree, but a majority may make an award,
and their report shall be as valid as though signed by all the
referees. It shall appear on the face of the award, or by the cer
tificate of the dissenting referee, that all of them attended and
heard the parties, unless the parties shall waive the same in writing
oil said agreement.
Sec. 9. The referees shall have the same authority as those
appointed by rule of court, and any one of them may administer
an oath to witnesses in the cause.
Sec 10. The report of the referees shall be delivered by one
of the referees to the court to which the same is to be returned,
according to the agreement ; or it shall be sealed up by them and
transmitted to such court, and remain sealed until opened by the
clerk in open court.
Sec. 11. If the parties agree, the referees may make known
their determination prior to its being returned to the ccurt as afore
said, and if the parties agree to settle their dispute accordingly,
said report need not be returned to court.
Sec 12. The court to which any such report is made, may
accept, reject or recommit the same for further consideration ; and
the referees, upon any recommitment, shall appoint a time and
jilace for a new hearing and give the parties notice thereof, and the
proceedings thereupon shall be the same as in the original hear
ing.
Sec 13. The court shall have the same cognizance of any such
report of referees, as they would have if such report were made
by referees appointed under a rule from said court in a case
pending therein, and may render judgment and issue execution
thereon.
Sec. 14. The fees of the justice for making and taking the
acknowledgment of such agreement shall be fifty cents, to be paid
by the party making the demand, and charged in the bill of costs.
The entry and all other fees shall be the same as iu suits in the
same court.
Sec. 15. The referees may allow such costs as they may deem
reasonable, unless restricted by the submission, and subject to the
revision of the court for good cause shown.
Sec 16. In any case contained in the first section of this chap
ter, the parties may enter into an agreement to submit the same to
referees as he rein-be fore provided, and that the report of such
referees shall be made to such justice and judgment by him ren
dered thereon, iu which case the form of said agreement may be
varied accordingly. The referees shall proceed in the manner
and possess the same powers as is herein-before provided, and
the justice, upon receiving such report, shall render judgment and
issue execution thereon for damages and costs.
Sec 17. Any person may voluntarily appear before any justice
of the peace in the county in which he resides, and confess that
he is indebted to any other person in a sum not exceeding two
hundred dollars, and consent that a record thereof be made and
execution issue accordingly, or be stayed, as said parties shall
agree ; and the justice shall make a fair record of such confession
and agreement, which shall be signed by the debtor and the
creditor or his agent, and shall enter up judgment and issue execu
tion thereon. •
Sec 18. Every justice to whom any confession of debt or report
of referees is made as aforesaid, shall keep a full and true record
thereof, signed and certified by himself.
Sec 19. Every execution issued by any justice as aforesaid, may
be served in the same manner as if issued by the court of common
pleas.
Section I. All penalties and forfeitures may be recovered by
action of debt before a justice of the peace, if such penalty or
forfeiture do not exceed thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, other
wise before the court of common pleas, by any person who will
sue for the same, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 2. Every such penalty and forfeiture shall be one half for
the use of the county in which the offense is committed, the other
half for the use of the prosecutor, unless otherwise limited by law.
Sec. 3. When any penalty shall be imposed by any law for any
neglect for any period of time, such neglect ma/ be alleged to have
commeticed at any specified time, and shall be reckoned from the
time so alleged.
Sec. 4. All fines imposed by any statute, may be recovered by
information or indictment, if no other mode of recovery is specially
provided.
Sec 5. All actions, informations and indictments founded on
any penal statute, shall be brought within the county in which the
one nee is committed, and not elsewhere.
Sec. 6. In actions for tlic recovery of any penalty before any
justice, it shall be no cause of exception that such justice resides
<or lias pro|icrty within the town in which the o I Pence was connnitted,
or that the penalty or any part thereof may belong to sncli
town. . . .. i
Sec 7. The defendant in any such action may plead the general
issue, and under it give any special matter in evidence.
Sec 8. If a fine or forfeiture or any part thereof is given by
any statute to any prosecutor, and no person shall prosecute therefor within the time limited by such statute, an information may Ins
filed or an indictment he found therefore, within one year after
such limitation shall expire, and the penalty shall accrue to the use
of the county.
Sec 9. All suits or prosecutions founded upon any penal statute,
which arc wholly or in part for the use of the prosecutor, shall he
brought within one year, and all other suits or prosecutions on such
statute, within two years after the commission of the oil'encc, un
less otherwise specially provided. .. . .. .
Sec. 10. j\'o person shall be disqualified from being a witness on
the trial of any such information or indictment, by reason of auy
interest which he may have in any penalty to be recovered therein.
Sec 11. When auy penalty or forfeiture, or any part thereof
shall be given to any town by any penal statute, the selcctmcif
may sue therefore in the name of such town which shall be cutit!cd:
to the benefit, and shall defray the expenses of such prosecution,
and the selectmen may remit any such penalty or forfeiture.
* Sec. 12. If any person sentenced under any ]xmal statute, shall
refuse or neglect to perform such sentence, he shall be committed
to the common jail, there to be imprisoned until such sentence is
performed, or he is discharged by due course of law.
, Sec. 13. All fines arising in any manner, shall be for the use of '
the county, and shall be paid over to the treasurer thereof, unless
otherwise specially appropriated.
Sec 14. It, upon any complaint or prosecution before any court
or justice, the defendant shall be ordered to |iay a fine, enter into arecognizance
or suffer any penalty, he shall also be ordered to pay
costs of prosecution or such part thereof as justice may require. '*
, Sec 15. If any service shall be performed by any person by di-'
rection of any court or justice, or of the attorney general or soli- '
citor of the county, in bringing to justice any offender charged
with a crime or high-handed mis-demeanor, the justices of the
court of common pleas shall allow a reasonable sum therefore, '
and draw their warrant for the same upon the treasurer of the
county.
Sec 16. If any recognizance shall be forfeited in any case iti
which, if such recognizor had been convicted, any sum might have
been due to the complainant or any other person, the justices q£
the court of common pleas may ascertain the just sum and costs
that might be due, and draw their warrant therefore upon the trea
surer of the county.
. ,,Sec. 17. All recognizances shall be taken in the name of the
jState, and suits thereon may be brought and tried in the county in
which they may be taken, unless the court, in their discretion, shall
order the venue to be changed to some adjoining county.
CHAPTER 919.
OF FORFEITURES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Section
1. Seizure of property forfeited, how.
2. Libel to be filed, when and where,
i 3. Warrant thereon, how issued.
4. Notice of libel to be given.
5. Property may be sold, how.
Section
6. Property appraised and restored, wheo
7. Mode of trial and decree.
8. Costs on trial, how allowed.
9. Appeal and proceedings thereon.
Section 1. Where any personal property shall be forfeited for
any violation of law, any sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable or any
person by law authorized to seize the same, may take and retain
such property until he shall deliver it to a proper officer having a
warrant to detain the same.
Sec. 2. The person making or directing such seizure, shall, with
out unnecessary delay, file a libel before a justice, if the property
does not exceed in value thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, other
wise in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas, stating
the cause and praying for a decree of forfeiture.
Sec 3. Upon the filing before or after seizure of any libel for a
forfeiture, a warrant shall be issued to the proper officer, requiring
him to take such property into his custody and detain the same
until legally disposed off.
Sec. 4. Notice of such libel shall be issued by the court or jus
tice to the owner, if known, otherwise notice shall be published in
some newsjKipcr printed in the vicinity, that all persons interested
^nay appear at the time and place appointed for trial, and show
cause why a decree of forfeiture should not be passed.
Sec 5. If any person interested shall appear and claim such
pro|ierty, the same may be sold by consent of parties, or it may
in any <ase be sold, upon examination and a certificate of its per
ishable or expensive character, in the same manner as property
attached may be examined and sold.
Sec 0. if such claimant shall request it, such property shall bo
appraised in the same manner as property attached may be apprais
ed, and it shall be delivered to such claimant upon his giving bond
to pay to the persons entitled thereto, the appraised value thereof
and costs, in case a decree of forfeiture is made.
Sec. 7. The case may be tried by a jury, if in the court of
common pleas, upon the request of either party, otherwise by the
court ; and the cause of forfeiture alleged, being proved, the court
or justice who shall try the same, shall make a decree for the for
feiture and disposition of such property according to law.
Sec. 8. Costs may be awarded to the libellant, if a reasonable
cause of seizure appear, in which shall be included the necessary
expenses of the seizure and detention of the property, otherwise
reasonable costs and damages shall be awarded to the claimant.
Sec. 9. An appeal may be claimed by either party from any de
cree made by a justice of the peace in the same manner as in civil
actions; and the like proceedings may be had therein as in case of
libels originally filed in the court of common pleas.

