REVISED STATUTES.

ABATEMENT.
AN ACT TO PREVENT IN CERTAIN CASES THE ABATE
MENT OF SUITS AND REVERSAL OF JUDGMENTS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the State
of New-Jersey, That in all actions depending or to be commenced
in any court of record of this state, if any plaintifff happen to die
after an interlocutory judgment, and before a final judgment ob
tained therein, the said action shall not abate by reason thereof,
if such action might be originally prosecuted or maintained by
the executors or administrators of such plaintifff; and if the de
fendant die after such interlocutory judgment, and before final
judgment therein obtained, the said action shall not abate, if
such action might be originally prosecuted or maintained against
the executors or administrators of such defendant; and the
plaintifff, or if he or she be dead after such interlocutory judg
ment, his or her executors or administrators, shall and may have
a scire facias against the defendant if living after such interlocu
tory judgment, or if he or she die after, then against his or her
executors or administrators, to show cause why damages in such
action should not bo assessed and recovered by him, her or
them; and if such defendant, his or her executors or adminis
trators, shall appear at the return of such writ and not show or
allege any matter sufficient to arrest the final judgment, or the
said writ having been- returned served, or if no service thereof
can be made, having been published as prescribed by law, shall
make default, that thereupon an assessment of damages shall be
had, or a writ of inquiry of damages shall be awarded, which as
sessment being duly made, or writ of inquiry being duly execu
ted and returned, judgment final shall be given for the said
plaintifff, his or her executors or administrators, prosecuting such

4

ABATEMENT.

writ or writs of scire facias against such defendant, his or her
executors or administrators respectively.
2. That if in any action or suit there be two or more plain
tiffs, or defendants and one or more of them shall die, if the
cause of such action shall survive to the surviving plaintifff or
plaintifffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, thewrit or action shall not be thereby abated ; but such death being
suggested upon the record, the action shall proceed at the suit
of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving de
fendant or defendants.
3. That in all actions depending or to be commenced in any
court of record of this state, if any plaintifff die after filing the
declaration and before final judgment, the said action shall not
abate by reason thereof, if such action might be originally pros
ecuted or maintained by the executors or administrators of such
plaintifff: and if the defendant die after filing the declaration
and before final judgment, the said action shall not abate, if such
action might be originally prosecuted or maintained against the
executors or administrators of such defendant ; but the death of
such plaintifff or defendant being suggested upon the record, and
the names of the executors or administrators of such deceased
plaintifff or defendant being entered upon the record, the action
shall proceed to final judgment at the suit of the plaintifff, or if
he or she die after filing the declaration, at the suit of his or her
executors or administrators, against the defendant, or if he or
she die after filing the declaration, against his or her executors
or administrators respectively.
,
4. That if in any suit or action now depending or hereafter
to be brought in the court of chancery, there are or shall be two
or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one or more of them die, if
the cause of such suit or action survive to the surviving plain
tiff or plaintifffs, or against the surviving defendant or defend
ants, such suit or action shall not be thereby abated ; but such
death being suggested, and shown by affidavit or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the court, such suit or action shall proceed, at
the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the sur
viving defendant or defendants.
5. That in every suit or action in the court of chancery, in

ABATEMENT.

r.

which any bill is or shall be filed, and in which there are or
shall be two or more plaintifffs or defendants, and any of them
die, and the cause of action doth not survive, but other persons
shall become parties in interest, in right or by the death of such
deceased party, such suit shall, by reason of such death, be
abated only with respect to such deceased party, and the sur
viving plaintifff or plaintifffs may proceed against the surviving
defendant or defendants, without reviving the suit against the
representatives of the deceased party, or any other who may be
come interested by the death of' such party ; but in such case
such representatives, or such person or persons as shall become
interested by the death of such party, shall not be bound by any
order or decree in such cause to which they are not made par
ties ; and if the plaintifff or plaintifffs choose to make the repre
sentatives of the deceased party, or others who may become in
terested by the death of such decedent, parties to such suit, no
bill of revivor or subpoena ad revivendum shall be necessary ;
but the court shall and may, by rule or order, as often as there
shall be occasion for it, direct the suit to stand revived, which
rule or order shall be served on such person or persons, and in
such manner as the court may direct ; and unless the represen
tatives of such deceased party, or others who may become inter
ested by the death of such party, shall, within such time after
such service as aforesaid as the court shall limit and appoint,
appear and proceed thereon as when a suit has been revived by
bill, the plaintifff or plaintifffs may cause their appearance to be
.entered, and in such case the answer of the deceased party, if
any there be, shall be deemed and taken as and for the answer
of such representatives or other person or persons interested by
the death of such party ; and if any plaintifff or plaintifffs, in any
suit now depending or hereafter to be brought, wherein the
cause of action doth not survive as aforesaid, happen to die pend
ing such suit, the lawful representative or representatives of such
deceased plaintifff or plaintifffs, or any other person or persons
interested by the death of such plaintifff or plaintifffs, shall and
may, upon affidavit thereof by him, her, or them, or any other
person or persons, and on motion made in court, be, by the rule
or order of the court, inserted as a complainant or complainants

6

ABATEMENT.

in the said suit, and be permitted to make such amendment in
the bill or bills of complaint, as his, her or their title or interest
therein may require, to which amendment or amendments the
defendant or defendants shall be compellable, by rule or order
of the said court, to answer, proceed to issue and examination
of witnesses and production of proofs, and all other proceedings
shall be had thereon, as in ordinary cases ; and in case such per
son or persons shall not, within such time after the death of such
plaintifff or plaintifffs as the court shall limit and appoint, cause
himself, herself, or themselves to be entered .is plaintifff or plain
tiffs, in the room of such deceased plaintifff or plaintifffs, then,
and in every such case, the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs may
insert the representative or representatives of such deceased
plaintifff or plaintifffs, or other person or persons interested, by
his, her, or their death, as defendant or defendants in such suit,
and proceed in the manner hereinbefore directed in cases where
the lawful representative or representatives of a deceased de
fendant or defendants, may be made party or parties.
6. That in every suit or action in the court of chancery, in
which any bill has been or shall be filed and the subpoena re
turned served, and in which there was, is, or shall be but one
plaintifff or one defendant, and the said plaintifff hath died or
shall die, the lawful representative or representatives of such
deceased plaintifff, or any other person or persons interested by
the death of such plaintifff, shall and may, upon affidavit thereof
by him, her, or them, or any other person or persons, and on
motion made in court, be, by rule or order of the court, insertedas a complainant or complainants in the said suit, and be per
mitted to make such amendment in the bill or bills of complaint,
as, his, her, or their title or interest therein may require, and
upon such terms as the court may direct, to which amendment
or amendments the defendant or defendants shall be compellable,
by rule or order of the said court, to answer, proceed to issue
an examination of witnesses and production of proofs, and all
other proceedings shall be had thereon as in ordinary cases.
7. That if in any such suit in which there was, is, or shall be
but one defendant, and the said defendant hath died or shall die,
and the plaintifff or plaintifffs choose to make the representative

ABATEMENT.

7

-or representatives of the deceased party, or others who have or
may become interested by the death of such decedent, parties to
such suit, no bill of revivor or subpoena ad revivendum shall be
necessary ; but the court shall and may, by rule or order, as
often as there shall be occasion for it, direct the suit to stand
revived, which rule or order shall be served as the court may
direct ; and unless the representative or representatives of such
deceased party, or others who may become interested by the
death of such party, shall, within such time, after service, as
aforesaid, as the court shall limit and appoint, appear and put in
their answer, or signify their disclaimer of the suit, and the
matters in controversy therein, the plaintifff or plaintifffs may
cause his or their appearance to be entered, and in such case the
answer of the deceased party, if any there be, shall be deemed
and taken as and for the answer of such representative or
representatives, or other person or persons interested by the
death of such party : and such further proceedings may and
shall be had in the said suit, as are according to equity and the
rules and practice of the said court.
8. That in case of the death of any sole plaintifff, if his
lawful representative or representatives, or such other person or
persons as shall become interested by his death, shall not, within
such time as the court may limit and appoint for the purpose,
cause himself, herself, or themselves to be entered as complain
ant or complainants in the said suit, in the room of such
deceased plaintifff, or in case of the death of any sole defendant,
if the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall not make the representative or
representatives of the deceased defendant, or others who may
have become interested by the death of such decedent, party or
parties to such suit, and cause the said suit to stand revived
within such time as the court shall limit and appoint for that
purpose, then and in every such case, the said suit shall be
considered as at an end, and shall not be revived in the manner
provided for by this act.
9. That nothing in this act contained shall prevent the
reviving of any such suit in the court of chancery, as before
mentioned, by bill of revivor, when the plaintifff or his repre
sentative or representatives, or others who may become

8

ASSIGNMENT.

interested by the death of such plaintifff, may prefer that course
of practice, or when the court may deem it expedient to direct
that course of practice to be pursued.
10. That in all actions, real, personal, or mixed, the death of
either party between the verdict and the judgment shall not be
alleged for error, so as such judgment be entered within two
terms after such verdict.
11. That in all actions of debt, and all other personal actions
whatsoever, and in all actions of ejectment for lands and tenenements, now depending, or which at any time hereafter shall be
depending by original writ, in any court of record, after any
issue joined therein, to be tried by a jury, and also after any
judgment had or obtained, or to be had or obtained in any such
court, in any such action as aforesaid, there shall not need to be
fifteen days between the teste day and the day of the return of
any writ or writs of venire facias, habeas corpora juratorum, or
distringas juratores, or writs of fieri facias, or of capias ad
satisfaciendum ; and the want of fifteen days between the teste
day and day of return of any such writ, shall not be, nor shall
be assigned, taken, or adjudged to be any matter or cause of
error.
Approved March 27, 1874.

ASSIGNMENT.
AN ACT TO SECURE TO CREDITORS AN EQUAL AND JUST
DIVISION OF THE ESTATES OF DEBTORS AVIIO CON
VEY TO ASSIGNEES FOR THE BENEFIT OF
CREDITORS.
A—Assignment, How to be Made, and its Effect.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New-Jersey, That every conveyance or assignment,
made by a debtor or debtors, of his, her or their estates, real or
personal, or both, in trust to the assignee or assignees, for the
creditors of such debtor or debtors, shall be made for their equal

16

ATTACHMENT.

ATTACHMENT.
AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF OF CREDITORS AGAINST AB
SCONDING AND ABSENT DEBTORS.
A—Attachment—When, and agninst whom Issued.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New-Jersey, That if any creditor shall make oath or af
firmation that he verily believes that his debtor absconds from
his creditors, and is not, to his knowledge or belief, resident in
this state at the time, then it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the supreme court, or of any circuit court or court of common
pleas, to issue a writ of attachment, to be directed to the sheriff
or coroner, as the case may require, commanding him to attach
the rights and credits, monies and effects, goods and chattels,
lauds and tenements of such debtor, wheresoever they may be
found; which oath or affirmation shall, prior to the sealing of
the said writ, he delivered to the said clerk, to be by him filed
in his office.
2. That if the said creditor be absent or reside out of this
state, then his agent or attorney may make oath or affirmation
to the above effect, and deliver the same to the said clerk to be
filed, who shall thereupon issue such writ of attachment.
3. And whereas, Debtors who reside out of this state may
have property sufficient within the same to pay their debts, or
some part thereof; be it thereforee enaeted, that the rights and credits,
monies and effects, goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of
every debtor who may reside out of this state, shall be liable to
be attached, taken, proceeded against, sold, assigned, transferred,
and conveyed for the payment of his debts, in the like manner,
as nearly as may be, as the rights and credits, monies and ef
fects, goods and chattels, lands and tenements of other debtors
arc made liable by this act; j»ron</<v/, that instead of the oath or
affirmation hereinbefore mentioned, the applicant for such writ
of attachment, or his agent, if said applicant be absent, shall,
before the sealing thereof, make oath or affirmation (which shall

ATTACHMENT.

17

be filed in the office of the clerk of the court out of which the
same shall l>e issued), that the person against whose estate such
attachment is to be issued is not, to his knowledge or belief, res
ident at that time in this state, and that he owes to the plaintifff
a certain sum of money, specifying, as nearly as he can, the
amount of the debt or balance.
4. That if any clerk shall seal such writ of attachment, be
fore such oath or affirmation shall be delivered to him, he shall
forfeit and pay twenty dollars to the party injured, to be recov
ered, with costs, by action of debt, in any court of record of this
state having cognizance of that sum.
5. That it shall be the duty of the clerk who shall issue or
seal any writ of attachment under or by virtue of this act, forth
with to enter in a book, to be by him provided and kept for
that purpose, the names of the plaintifff and defendant in the said
writ, the sum or amount therein specified, and the time of issu
ing or sealing the same ; to which book every person desiring
to inspect the same, shall have access at all proper seasons.
6. That where two or more are jointly bound or indebted,
either as joint obligors, partners, or otherwise, the writ of at
tachment may be issued against the separate or joint estate, or
both, of such joint debtors, or any of them, either by his or their
proper name or names, or by the name or style of the partner
ship, or by whatever other name or names such joint debtors
shall be generally known and distinguished in this state, or
against the heirs, executors, or administrators of them or any of
them ; and the estate so attached, whether it be separate or
joint, shall be liable to be sold or assigned for the payment of
such joint debt.
7. That the writ of attachment may be issued against any
absconding or absent [female, or against any corporation or
body politic not created or recognized by the laws of this state,
in all cases in which such writ may lawfully issue against an ab
sconding or absent male.
8. That the writ of attachment may be issued against the
heir or devisee of any deceased debtor, in all cases in which the
writ might lawfully have been issued against such debtor in his
life-time ; and all lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real es
2

18

ATTACHMENT.

tate, descended from or devised by such deceased debtor to the
heir or devisee against whom the attachment is issued, may be
attached and taken by virtue of the said writ,
9. That any legacy or distributive share of an estate in the
hands of the executor or administrator, may be attached and
taken by virtue of an attachment issued in pursuance of this act
against the legatee or next of kin.
10. That in cases where the lands, tenements, hereditaments,
or real estate, or the goods and chattels, rights and credits,
monies and effects, of any absconding or absent debtor or debt
ors, shall be situate or found in two or more counties in this
state, it shall be lawful to issue a writ of attachment out of the
supreme court into each county in which such real and personal
property shall be situate or found ; in which case the auditor to
be appointed as hereinafter mentioned shall have the same
power and authority over the said real and personal property of
such absconding or absent debtor or debtors in securing, selling
and disposing thereof, as though the same should be situate or
found in one county, only, and the said auditor shall be governed
as to the same, in all respects as is directed in other cases by this
act.
11. That any creditor residing out of this state shall be enti
tled to all the privileges and benefits of this act.
12. That the personal property of a non-resident of this state,
being in this state, shall not be liable to attachment at the suit
ot a non-resident creditor, when the said property is exempt by
law of the state of which the said debtor and creditor are resi
dents.
13. That writs of attachment may be made returnable in va
cation, and all writs of attachment hereafter issued shall be made
returnable within thirty days from the time of filing the affida
vit upon which such writ of attachment may be issued.
14. That it shall be lawful for any creditor or creditors of
any defendant in attachment, upon filing with the clerk an affi
davit that the defendant or defendants in attachment owes unto
him or them a certain sum, to be therein specified, which affida
vit shall be made by such creditor or his agent, to enter at any
time a rule in the minutes of the court out of which a writ of

ATTACHMENT.

19

attachment may have been issued, admitting such creditor or
-creditors as creditor or creditors under such attachment, and
-which said rule shall have the same force and effect as though
the same had been entered in open court.
B—The Effect of the Writ and the Node of its Execution.
15. That the said writ of attachment shall be executed in the
following manner, that is to say : the officer to whom it is di
rected shall go to the house or lands of the defendant, or to the
person or house of the person in whose custody or possession
the defendant's property and estate may be, and then and there
declare, in the presence of one credible person at the least, that
he attaches the rights and credits, monies and effects, goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of such defendant, at the suit of
the plaintifff in the said writ named.
1(>. That the said officer shall, with the assistance of one dis
creet and impartial freeholder, make a just and true inventory
and appraisement of all the property and estate of the defend
ant, so by him attached, and such inventory and appraisement,
dated and signed by himself and the said freeholder, shall annex
to and return with the said writ ; and the said officer shall en
dorse on the said writ the true time of executing the same, and
sign his name thereto.
17. That the said writ shall bind the rights and' credits,
monies and effects, goods and chattels, of the defendant, so as
aforesaid attached, from the time of executing the same.
18. That it shall not he lawful for any person, against whom
any attachment shall issue, after issuing the same, to give,
grant, hargain, sell, alien, or in anywise convey any lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or real estate, lying in any county
into which such writ shall have been issued or any interest
therein, of which he may be seized, possessed of, or entitled
unto, at the time of issuing such writ; which said writ shall,
immediately on the issuing thereof, become and remain a lien
on the said lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate, as
against the defendant, and all persons claiming from or under
him, by virtue of any such conveyance, until the plaintifff and
such of the creditors of the defendant as shall apply under the

»

20

ATTACHMENT.

attachment shall be satisfied their just debts, or until judgment
shall be rendered against the plaintifff and creditors under the
attachment, or the said attachment he discontinued ; and all con
veyances made by the defendant, pending the said attachment,
shall be void against the plaintifff in attachment, and the
creditors that shall become parties thereto.
19. That if for any cause the officer to whom such writ is
directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to attach, under said writ,
any lands of the defendant in his county, or if the defendant
shall become seized or entitled to any lands iii such county after
the return of such writ, and before final judgment shall be
entered in the suit, such writ shall be a lien thereon from the
time of issuing the same, or from the time when the defendant
becomes seized or entitled to such lands, as the case maybe;
and the court whence such writ shall issue, or a judge or justice
thereof at chambers, may order the clerk to amend the return
to such writ, by anexing thereto a short description of such
lands, and may make all necessary rules and orders for the
disposal and sale of such lands, as if the same had been attached
by the proper officer under said writ.
20. That the word lands in this act shall be construed to
include tenements, hereditaments, and real estate, and any
interest therein.
21. That the goods, chattels, and personal estate so attached
shall remain in the safe keeping and care of the said officer, in
order to answer and abide the judgment of the court, unless the
garnishee, after inventory, and appraisement thereof, shall enter
into bond to such officer, with two sureties, being freeholders in
the county, in double the sum at which they were appraised,
with condition that the said goods, chattels, and personal estate,
or the fu'l value thereof, to be estimated by such appraisement,
shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the said court.
22. That to enable the said officer fully to execute such writ*
of attachment, he is hereby authorized and required] (having
first made demand and being refused) to break open any^house,
chamber, room, shop, door, chest, trunk, or other place or thing,
where he shall be iuformed or have reason to believe any monies

ATTACHMENT.

21

;goods, books of account, bonds, bills, notes, papers, or writings
of the said defendant may be deposited, secreted, bad or found.
23. That if the sheriff or other officer shall, by virtue of any
-writ of attachment, issued in pursuance of this act, attach and
take through ignorance or want of proper information, any
j^oods, chattels, or effects, which shall be claimed by any person
as his property, it shall and may be lawful for such sheriff or
officer thereupon to summon and swear a jury to inquire into
and try the right and property thereof: and if the jury, on such
inquest, shall find the right and property of such goods, chattels,
or effects to be in the claimant, or in any other than the
defendant in attachment, such sheriff or officer shall forthwith
deliver the said goods, chattels, or effects to the person in whom
±he property is so found by the inquisition, or to his agent or
attorney ; and in such case, such sheriff or officer shall not be
Jiable to any prosecution for having attached and taken the said
goods, chattels, or effects through ignorance or want of proper
information.
24. That the sheriff or other officer serving any attachment
dsnall not in any case summon a jury to try the right and
property of any goods, chattels, or effects, seized or taken in
attachment, unless the person claiming right and title thereto
shall exhibit and deliver to such sheriff or officer such claim in
writing, specifying the articles and property claimed, requesting
a jury to be summoned to try the right, and agreeing to be
bound by and submit to the finding of such jury in the
premises ; provuled always, that the sheriff or other officer may,
notwithstanding such claim, if directed so to do, and sufficiently
indemnified by the plaintifff in attachment for so doing, refuse to
summon such jury; but the sheriff or officer in such case may
retain the goods, chattels, and effects so attached, in his hands,
to answer and abide the judgment of the court.
25. That when upon such claim of right and title to the
property attached the sheriff or other officer shall proceed to
summon a jury, he shall appoint the time and place of trial, and
shall give notice thereof to the plaintifff in attachment and to
the claimant of the property, which time shall not be less than
ten days from .the .time such claim shall be put in ; and the

22

ATTACHMENT.

sheriff or other officer shall have power to administer the usual'
oath or affirmation to the jurors and witnesses; and it shall be
the duty of the sheriff or officer before whom such inquest shall
be taken, to keep a correct minute of all the proceedings before
him had in the premises, and to file the same, together with the
inquest found by the jury, and the claim so as aforesaid put in
to the property attached, in the office of the clerk of the court
out of which the writ of attachment issued, there to remain of
record.
26. That the sheriff or other officer, upon reasonable cause
shown by either party, and upon such terms as he may judge
proper, may adjourn such trial and hearing from time to time,as occasion may require.
27. That the sheriff or other officer shall have power to issue
subpoenas under his hand and seal for such witnesses as either
party may require ; which subpoenas may be served as subpoenas
for witnesses in other cases are required by law to be served ; ami
the witnesses shall be entitled to the same fees, and be subject
to the same penalties as are provided by law in causes depending
in the supreme court.
28. That the jury to be summoned in pursuance of the
twenty-third section of this act, shall consist of twelve men
qualified to be jurors in other cases, all of whom must agree to
the verdict, which shall be reduced to writing, and signed by
the jurors and the sheriff or officer before whom the same shall
be taken.
29. That in case the jury shall find that none of the
property claimed by the person putting in a claim thereto,
belongs to such claimant, then such claimant shall pay the costs
of such inquiry, which shall be taxed by the sheriff or other
officer holding such inquest, and on neglect or refusal of such
claimant to pay the same, it shall be lawful for the said sheriff"
or officer to issue his warrant therefore, to any constable of the
county in which such inquest shall have been held, commanding
him to make the amount of such costs, and the costs of such
warrant, and of executing the same by a levy upon and sale of
the goods and chattels of such claimant ; provided, that if the
claimant reside out of the county in which such attachment was

ATTACHMENT.
served, the sheriff or officer may require him or them to give
security for costs before such sheriff or officer shall proceed to
hold such inquest as aforesaid.
30. That if the jury shall find the property claimed, or any
part thereof, to belong to the claimant, then the costs of such
inquiry shall be paid by the plaintifff in attachment ; and in case
of his or their neglect or refusal to pay such costs, the same
may be recovered of him in the same manner as is provided for
the recovery of costs from the claimant in the last preceding
section; provided always, that the plaintifff in attachment, in case
he has to pay such costs, shall be entitled to be repaid the same
out of the estate of the defendant in attachment, before any
division or distribution shall be made thereof to or among the
creditors.
31. That the following fees shall be allowed and taxed for
the services required by this act, on such trial of right and
property, and no more, that is to say :
To the sheriff for summoning a jury, one dollar ;
For swearing the jury, twenty-five cents;
For swearing each witness, five cents ;
For drawing the inquest, one dollar:
For keeping a minute of the proceedings, fifty cents ;
For every subpoena issued by him, ten cents ;
For a warrant for costs when actually issued, twenty-five
cents ;
To the constable for executing the warrant, fifty cents;
To the jurors each, twenty-five cents ;
To the clerk of the county for filing the claim, sheriff's
minutes, and inquest, twenty-five cents ; and for a copy thereof
when required, at the rate of eight cents a folio.
C.—Appearance by Defendant.
32. That if the defendant appear at any time before final
judgment, and accept of a declaration at the suit of every or
any one of the said creditors, and enter into bond as directed in
the next section of this act, then the said writ of attachment,
report, and all the proceedings thereon, shall, as to the suit
wherein such appearance is entered, be set aside ; and if such

24

ATTACHMENT.

appearance be entered to the suit of the plaintifff in attachment,
then the costs which shall have accrued on such attachment
shall abide the event of such suit.
33. That if the defendant appear to any attachment, he shall
enter into bond with one or more sufficient sureties, being
resident in this state, in case the attachment shall have been
issued out of the supreme court, and in case the attachment shall
have been issued out of the circuit court or court of common pleas,
then in the county in which such court shall be held ; which bond
shall be approved of by the court, or a judge thereof, and shall
be given to the sheriff of the county, in case the attachment
shall issue out of any circuit court or court of common pleas,
and to such sheriff as the court or judge shall direct, in case the
attachment shall issue out of the supreme court; which bond
the sheriff is hereby required to take in his own name in double
the amount of the personal property attached conditioned for
the return of the goods and chattels, rights and credits, monies
and effects, seized and taken by virtue of such writ of attach
ment, in case judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff: and
said sheriff shall, in case of a breach of such condition, on
application of the plaintifff or any applying creditor of the said
debtor, assign the said bond without fee or reward to such
person as the court shall direct, to be prosecuted for the benefit
of the plaintifff and such creditors as shall have applied to the
court or auditors under such attachment, in conformity to this
act.
34. That a judge of the court out of which any attachment
has issued or may issue, may in term or vacation, upon five days'
notice to the plaintifff, or to any creditor admitted by rule under
such attachment, or by the report of auditors on file, order the
attachment and all proceedings therein to be set aside as against
such plaintifff or creditor upon the defendant entering his
appearance at the suit of such plaintifff or creditor, and in case
any personal property, money or rights in action shall have been
attached upon the defendant entering into such bond with like
surety, to be approved by said judge, as is directed in the next
preceding section of this act, or upon the defendant entering
into bond with like surety, and approved by said judge, to such

ATTACHMENT.

25

.creditor or plaintifff, in double the sum sworn to in the affidavit
filed by him, conditioned for the return of such goods and
chattels, rights and credits, monies and effects attached if
Judgment be rendered for such obligee.
35. That the plaintifff in such attachment shall not be
permitted to discontinue the same, without the consent of, or
satisfaction made to, each of the said creditors who shall have
applied to the court or auditors as aforesaid.
36. That when said attachment shall be set aside as against
the plaintifff and all creditors admitted by rule entered on
affidavit or by report of auditors on file, all property attached,
except real estate, shall be free from the lien thereof, and no
creditor shall be admitted under any attachment after the same
shall have been set aside as to the plaintifff therein.
37. That if the said defendant, instead of giving any of the
'bonds before mentioned, shall make, execute and file in the office
of the clerk of the court out of which any attachment shall
'have issued, a bond, with two or more sureties, to be
.approved of by said court or a judge thereof, to the plaintifff in
attachment, and a like bond to each of the creditors, who shall
bave applied as aforesaid, in double the sums respectively sworn
to by them, conditioned for the payment of such monies as may
be adjudged to be due to them severally ; and shall also enter
his appearance to the suit of the said plaintifff and each of said
creditors; then it shall be lawful for the said court or a judge
thereof, either in term time, or vacation, if it shall appear just
so to do, to order the said attachment to be set aside, and that
both the real and personal estate of the defendant be released
and discharged from the lien thereof.
38. That it shall be lawful for any defendant or defendants,
in any suit commenced by attachment, to enter his, her or their
appearance to the suit of the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein, or of
any creditor or creditors under said attachment, without giving
bond for the return of the personal property attached by virtue
thereof, which appearance shall be entered in the clerk's book,
and notice thereof given to such plaintifff or plaintifffs, creditor
or creditors, or his, her or their attorney or attorneys within
twenty days thereafter ; and after such appearance and noticcj

20

ATTACHMENT.

the suit or suits of such plaintifff or plaintifffs, creditor or
creditors, shall proceed in all respects as if commenced hy
summons, and no other or further claim shall be put in under
such attachment after the entry of each appearance.
39. That in any case of an appearance by virtue of the fore
going section, the lien of the attachment shall continue, and
proceedings by scire facias may be had against any garnishee,
and the movable property attached shall remain in the custody
of the sheriff or his bailee, and be subject to the order and
control of the court or the judge thereof, and the court or judge
may, if occasion require, order the property sold as perishable,
and appoint an auditor with like power in all respects as if no
appearance had been entered, but a judge of the court may
discharge the lien of such attachment as to all or any part of the
personal property attached, upon four days' notice to all parties
interested, and upon the defendant or defendants giving bond,
with securities, in such amount and in such condition as said
judge may direct.
40. That the plaintifff in attachment, by and with the consent
of all of the creditors who may have entered a rule to be
admitted as creditors under any attachment as aforesaid, may
enter a discontinuance of such attachment in vacation ; and in
case no creditor or creditors shall have entered a rule to be made
creditor or creditors as aforesaid, the plaintifff in attachment
shall discontinue all proceedings in attachment, upon settlement
of his debt.
41. That it shall be the duty of the officer by whom any
writ of attachment shall be executed, to deliver any property
attached by virtue of such writ to the person in whose possession
the same is found, upon the execution, in the presence of the
officer, of a bond to the plaintifff, by such person, with one or
more sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property,
conditioned that the defendant shall perform the judgment of
the court in the action, or th*t the property or its value, shall be
forthcoming and subject to the order of the court for the
satisfaction of such judgment.

ATTACHMENT.

27

D— Proceedings on Return of Writ.—Auditor and his Duties.
42. That it shall be the duty of the court, out of which any
attachment may issue, or of a judge thereof, to order the clerk
of such court to cause notice of the issuing of such attachment,
and at whose suit, against whose estate, for what sum, and when
returned, to be published in such one or more of the newspapers'
in this state as said court or said judge shall direct, for a spacenot less than two and not more than three months ; and judg
ment shall not be entered untjl proof, to ihe satisfaction of said!
court or said judge, shall be made of such publication.
43. That the plaintifff shall set up, in the office of the cleric
of said court, a copy of the notice required to be published by
the next preceding section, and for the same space of time as thesame is therein directed to be published, and shall also file with
said clerk proof of the setting up of the same, and thereuponthe court may order the defendant's defaults to be recorded.
44. That the court, on the return of such writ of attachment,
is hereby required to appoint a fit person to audit and adjust the
demands of the plaintifff, and of so many of the defendant's cred
itors as shall have applied to the court for that purpose, or to the
auditor before he shall have made his report ; and it shall be the
duty of the said auditor to ascertain the sum due to the plaintifff'
and to each of the creditors aforesaid, and to make his report
thereof in writing, under his hand, at the expiration of six.
months after the return of said writ, which report shall be filed'
with the clerk of said court.
45. That final judgment may be entered as of course, in term'
time or vacation, upon the report of the auditor, at any time af
ter the expiration of six months from the return of the attach
ment ; provided, the said report shall have been on file in the of
fice of the clerk of said court for at least ten days, and the said
report shall have been first approved by the said court, or a judgethereof, and an order made that such judgment be enteral there
on ; and provided further, that the defendant's defaults shall have
been ordered to be recorded at each regular term between the
return of the attachment and judgment.
46. That for the better discovery of property and detection

'28

ATTACHMENT.

of fraudulent practices, it shall and may be lawful for the said
auditor to issue his warrant, under his hand and seal, command
ing the sheriff of the proper county, or any constable in the
same, to bring before him, at a certain time and place therein
specified, the wife iof such defendant, or any other person, and
him or her, by word of mouth or interrogatories in writing, to
•examine, on oath or affirmation, which the said auditor is here
by authorized to administer, touching all matters relating to the
trade, dealings, monies, debts, effects, rights, credits, lands, ten
ements, property, and estate of the said defendant, and his secret
grants, or fraudulent transfer or conveyance of the same ; and if
any person shall refuse to be sworn or examined by or before
the said auditor, touching any matter herein directed, then such
person, so offending, is hereby declared to be guilty of a con
tempt of the authority of the court winch appointed the said
auditor, and shall, by the said court, be proceeded against ac
cordingly.
47. That the said auditor is hereby empowered to issue his
warrant, under his hand and seal, commanding the sheriff of the
proper county, or any constable in the same, to break open, (having
first made demand and been refused) any house, chamber, room,
shop, door, trunk, chest, or other place or thing, where he shall
have reason to believe any monies, goods, chattels, books of ac
count, bonds, bills, notes, papers, or writings of the said defend
ant may be deposited, secreted, had, or found, and to seize and
inventory the same, and make report thereof to the court at the
then next term ; and if any person resist the execution of the
said warrant, he shall be guilty of a contempt of the authority
of the court which appointed the said auditor, and shall be pro
ceeded against accordingly by the said court.
48. That the said auditor shall have power to administer
oaths or affirmations to all witnesses that may be produced be
fore him in support of or in opposition to any claims or demands
that may be put in by the plaintifff in attachment or by any other
person or persons claiming to be creditors of the defendant in
attachment.
40. That whenever the said auditor shall have reason to be
lieve that any person or persons are indebted to the defendant

ATTACHMENT.

2<>

in attachment, in any sum of money, not exceeding one hundred
dollars on hook account, promissory note* or otherwise, it shall
and may he lawful for such auditor to institute a suit, by sum
mons, before any justice of the peace, in the name of the defend
ant in attachment, but for his use as such auditor, against th&
person or persons so by him believed to be indebted as aforesaid,,
to the defendant in attachment, for the recovery thereof; which
suit so commenced shall not be discontinued or dismissed with
out the consent of the said auditor, but shall proceed to trial and
judgment, in the same manner as if the plaintifff named therein
was personally present conducting the same ; provided always,
that the defendant in such suit shall be entitled to all just set
offs, in the same manner as he would he if the plaintifff in such
suit was prosecuting the same in person, for- his- own use.
.r>0. That if judgment shall be given in any such suit as afore
said, for the plaintifff therein, the money thereby recovered,
whether collected by execution or otherwise,- shall he paid to the
said auditor in attachment, to be by him disposed of according to
law; and if judgment shall pass against the plaintifff in such
suit, the said auditor shall pay the costs of such suit, and shallbe allowed to retain the same out of any monies or effects that
may come to his hands as such auditor.
51. That where judgment, on the report of the said auditor,shall be entered against the said defendant by default, the said
auditor may, by virtue of an ocdier of court for that purpose,
make sale and assurance of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the said defendant, which were attached and taken
as aforesaid, and upon which the attachment remains a lien, or
such part thereof as shall he necessary to satisfy the debts of the
plaintifff, and the creditors who may have applied agreeably to
the directions of this act ; hut notice of the sale of such goods
and chattels shall be set up at five of the most public places in
the county, and he advertised in some one of the newspapers
circulating in this state, for the space of thirty days prior to such
sale ; nor shall any sale of such lands or tenements bo made in
less than twelve months from the time of executing the writ of
attachment, nor of any goods or chattels, till judgment he ob
tained against the defendant a* aforesaid, unless the court in its

30

ATTACHMENT.

discretion or a judge thereof shall, on the return of the said writ,
or at any other time hefore judgment, order the said sheriff or
the auditor to sell such goods and chattels ; in which case adver
tisements set up for the space of five days prior to the time of
sale, in four of the most public places in the township, precinct,
or ward, shall he sufficient.
52. That when the goods- and chattels, lauds and tenements
of the said defendant shall lie sold as aforesaid, then it shall he
the duty of the said auditor to serve a written notice on each of
the creditors whose claim shall have been admitted, or to cause
public notice to he given in one or more of the newspapers cir
culating in this state, requiring a meeting of the plaintifff and
creditors, who may have applied, agreeably to the directions of
this act, at a certain time and place in the said notice to be speci
fied, which time shall not be less than six nor more than ten
weeks after such notice given, for the purpose of making distri
bution of the monies arising from such sale ; at which meeting,
or other subsequent meeting, to be continued by adjournment,
if necessary, the said auditor shall distribute among the said
plaintifff and creditors equally, and in a ratable proportion, ac
cording to the quantum or amount of their respective debts, as
ascertained by the said report and the judgment thereon, all the
monies arising from the sale of the said goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, and all other monies in his hands as audi
tor, first deducting legal costs and charges ; and if the said
monies be not sufficient to satisfy the said debts, then the said
auditor shall assign to the said plaintifff and creditors. the choses
in action, rights and credits of the said defendant, in proportion
to their respective debts, so as aforesaid ascertained ; which as
signment shall vest the property and interest of the said defend
ant in such assignee, so as he may sue for and recover the same
in his own name and for his own use ; and in the said distribu
tion and assignment no preference shall be allowed to debts due
on specialties ; and farther, that the monies so distributed, as
also the monies which may be received by virtue of such assign
ment, shall operate as payment of such debt, in whole or in part,
as the case may be ; and the said auditor is hereby directed to
make report of such distribution, assignment and other proceed

ATTACHMENT.

31

ings under this section, to the court of the next term, in "order
that the same may he filed in the clerk's office.
53. That every grant, bargain, sale, assignment, transfer, as
surance, alienation, and conveyance, made by the said auditor,
under or by virtue of this act, shall be as good and effectual in
law as if executed by the said defendant, at and before the time
when such attachment became a lien upon the estate, real or
personal, so sold, assigned, or conveyed.
54. That any creditor, whose debt is not due, may apply to
the court or auditor in tbe same manner as if it were due, and
thereupon shall be admitted and considered as a creditor under
this act, and shall receive a dividend of the defendant's estate
in proportion with the other creditors, deducting only a rebate
of legal interest for what he shall receive on such debt, to be
computed from the actual payment thereof to the time such debt
would have become due.
55. That if any creditor, whether his debt be due or not,
shall neglect or refuse to apply to the court or auditor in the
manner prescribed by this act, he shall not be entitled to any
dividend or distributive share : but all the monies arising from
the sale of the defendant's goods and chattels, lands and tene
ments, or which may be collected under this act, shall be dis
tributed among, and his choses in action, rights and credits,
shall be assigned to such of the creditors as shall have duly ap
plied to the said court or auditor.
56. That no plaintifff or other creditor shall receive any divi
dend or assignment as aforesaid by virtue of this act, until he
shall have entered into bond to the defendant, with one or more
sureties, being freeholders and residents in this state, to be ap
proved by the court or by the auditor in double the sum, so to
be received or assigned, with condition that he shall appear to
any suit that may be brought against him by the said defend
ant within one year next after the date of the said bond, and
shall pay unto such defendant any sum of money which, by the
judgment or decree of the court, shall appear to have been re
ceived by him, and not due or owing, with costs of suit, which
bond shall lie filed with the clerk for the benefit of the defend
ant.

32

ATTACHMENT.

57. That if any defendant shall die after the return day of the
writ of attachment, the said action shall not he thereby abated
or discontinued hut the same shall he carried on to judgment,
sale, transfer, distribution, and final determination, as if such
death had not intervened and the defendant had been alive ; and
all proceedings and deeds which shall he had and made in such
case are hereby declared to be as valid and effectual in law as if
they were had and made in the life-time of such defendant ; and
the bond entered into in pursuance of the preceding section
may, notwithstanding the death of such defendant, be prosecu
ted in his name to judgment and effect in the same manner as if
he were living.
E—Proceedings against Garnishee.
58. That the plaintifff, notwithstanding the garnishee's denial
of his having any monies, goods, chattels, or effects of the de
fendant in his custody or possession, or of his being indebted tohim, may, if he really believes that the said garnishee hath such
monies, goods, chattels, or effects in his custody or possession,
or that he is indebted to the defendant, and is in fear of the said
garnishee's absconding before judgment and execution can be
had against such garnishee, and shall make oath or affirmation
thereof, and deliver the same to the clerk as aforesaid, institute
a suit against the said garnishee by summons, or, in case of fraud
duly proved according to the statute in such case made and pro
vided, by capias ad respondendum ; in which suit the plaintifff
may declare against the said garnishee for the monies, goods,
chattels, or effects, so as aforesaid in his custody or possession,
in trover and conversion, as of such plaintifff's own proper
monies, goods, chattels, and effects, or if the said garnishee be
indebted to the defendant in attachment, then the plaintifff may
declare for so much money had and received by such garnishee
to the use of the plaintifff, and, on the trial, may give the special
matter in evidence, and thereupon the jury shall find for the said
plaintifff, and assess damages to the full value of the monies,
goods, chattels, .or effects so proved to be in the custody or pos
session of such garnishee, or to the full value of the debt so due
from su.di garnishee to the defendant in attachment ; on which

ATTACHMENT.

S3

verdict, judgment shall be given, with costs of suit, and execu
tion issued thereon against the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, and the body of the said garnishee, as is or shall he
by law allowed in actions of trespass on the case.
59. That the suit so instituted against the said garnishee,
shall he continued by the court, without trial or decision, until
the action against the defendant in attachment shall be adjudi
cated upon and determined; and if in such action nothing shall
be found due from the defendant to the plaintifff, then the gar
nishee shall recover costs against the plaintifff, notwithstanding
he may be indebted to the defendant, or have the monies, goods,
chattels, or effects of such defendant in his custody or possession.
60. That if, in the suit so instituted against the garnishee,
the plaintifff shall be non-suited, or shall discontinue, or verdict
and judgment shall be given against him, then the said garnishee
.shall recover costs.
61. That where judgment on the report of the auditor shall
be entered against fhe defendant by default, a scire facias shall
(except only as is hereinbefore mentioned) issue against the gar
nishee, to appear at the next term after entry of such judgment,
and show cause why the plaintifff should not have execution of
the money so as aforesaid due by him to the defendant and in
his hands, or the value of the goods and chattels of the defend
ant which were in the custody or possession of such garnishee
at the time of executing the writ of attachment; and if the
garnishee shall appear at the return of the said scire facias, and
on oath or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the auditor, confess
the amount of the debt due from him to the defendant, or the
true value of the defendant's goods and chattels, which were as
aforesaid in his custody or possession, and tender the same to
the auditor, and he accept thereof, then he, the said garnishee,
shall, by the judgment of the court, be acquitted and discharged
from the debt, or goods and chattels aforesaid, with costs ; and
if the said scire facias, having been returned served, or in case
no service thereof can be made, having been published as pre
scribed by law, the garnishee shall not appear, confess, and ten
der as aforesaid, then judgment shall be entered against such
garnishee by .default, and a writ of inquiry shall be awarded to
3

ATTACHMENT.
the sheriff or other officer, to inquire and certify to the court, by
the oath or affirmation of twelve good and lawful men of his
bailiwick, the amount of the debt due from such garnishee, or
the value of the goods and chattels so as aforesaid in his custody
or possession, and on the return of such inquisition, judgment
shall be entered against the said garnishee for the sum so found
and certified, with costs ; and if the garnishee shall appear at
the return of the said scire facias, and plead thereto that he had
no goods or chattels of the defendant in his custody or posses
sion, either at the time of executing the writ of attachment, or
at any time since, or that he was not indebted to the defendant,
and the plaintifff, on trial, shall prove that he was indebted, then
the jury shall find for the plaintifff, and assess damages to the
amount or value of such debt, goods, or chattels, with costs, and
judgment shall be entered accordingly, and execution awarded
against the goods and chattels, lauds and tenements, and also the
person of the said garnishee; but if the jury find for the gar
nishee, then he shall recover costs against the plaintifff, and have
execution for the same, and the said auditor shall pay the same
out of any monies in his hands ; the monies realized by such
proceedings shall go to the auditor for distribution under thisact.
F—Proceedings belore Justice of Fence.
62. That any justice of the peace within this state, on appli
cation made and affidavit filed before him to the purpose afore
said, shall, and he is hereby required to issue out of the court
for the trial of small causes an attachment, under his hand and
seal, for any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, directed to
a constable, who shall execute the same in manner aforesaid, on
the effects, rights, and credits of the defendant ; and upon the
return of such attachment, the said justice shall appoint a day
for hearing of the said cause, not less than twenty days from the
issuing of the said writ ; on or before which day so appointed,
the plaintifff in the said attachment shall file a copy of his ac
count or state of demand ; and if the creditor shall make suffi
cient proof of the debt due to him, the said justice shall give
judgment therein for the plaintifff, and award his execution

ATTACHMENT.

35

thereof to the constable against the effects of the defendant, as
in other cases cognizable before a justice, but the effects of the de
fendant thereon taken shall not be sold in less than three months
(unless the same are perishable), to the end that the debtor or
his friend may redeem the same ; and in the meantime the same
shall be inventoried and safely kept in such manner as the jus
tice shall direct.
63. That it shall be the duty of the plaintifff forthwith, after
the issuing of such attachment, to advertise in three of the most
public places in the county, that an attachment has been taken
out from such justice against such absconding or absent debtor,
in order that any person having a greater demand against such
debtor than is cognizable before a justice of the peace, may
have an opportunity to take out an attachment for the recovery
of the same.
64. That the plaintifff in such attachment may proceed
against the garnishee, as hereinbefore provided ; and if he shall
make sufficient proof of the debt due to him, and also of the
effects, rights, or credits in the hands of the garnishee, the said
justice shall give judgment therein for the plaintifff* and award
and issue his execution thereof to the constable, against the
garnishee, as in other cases cognizable before a justice : and if
the plaintifff shall not make sufficient proof of the effects, rights,
or credits, in the hand of the garnishee, he shall pay the
garnishee his costs, and if need be, the justice shall issue his
execution against the plaintifff for the same.
65. That it shall be lawful for the defendant in any attach
ment issued by a justice of the peace, on or before the day
appointed for the hearing of the said cause, to cause his appear
ance to be entered, by filing with the said justice a bond to the
plaintifff, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, being
freeholders and resident in the county in which such attachment
shall issue, in double the value of the property attached,
conditioned for the due and safe return ot the goods and chattels,
rights and credits, monies and effects seized and taken by virtue
of such writ of attachment, in case judgment shall be rendered
for the plaintifff; which said bond shall be approved by the said
justice, and filed by him for the use and benefit of the plaintifff';

30

ATTACHMENT.

and thereupon the property attached shall be restored to the
defendant and released from the lien of the said attachment.
66. That after filing the said bond, the said defendant shall
hie his plea, copy of account or set-off, if any he have ; and the
said cause shall and may be adjourned and conducted in all
things in like manner, as if the same had been commenced by
summons, under the act entitled " An act constituting courts for
the trial of small causes ;" and either party may appeal from the
said judgment in like manner, in every respect, as if the said
suit had been commenced by summons under the said last
mentioned act.
67. That from any judgment rendered by a justice of the
peace for or against a garnishee in attachment, under and by
virtue of this act, either party may appeal in like manner in all
things as from the judgment of a justice under the act entitled
"An act constituting courts for the trial of small causes."
68. That any writ of attachment against any absconding or
absent debtor, which may be issued out of the supreme court or
any circuit court or court of common pleas, shall be a supersedeas
to all attachments issued by a justice of the peace, undetermined
at the time of serving the said writ ; and it shall and may be
lawful for the sheriff or his deputy, to take into his possession
all goods and chattels attached by the constable, as fully to all
intents and purposes, as if the attachment issued by the justice
had not been served, and the plaintifffs in said attachments shall
be entitled to their several debts, with the costs that may have
accrued, in proportion with the other creditors, as is before in
this act mentioned and directed ; provided, always, that no
constable shall be obliged to remove any goods taken into his
custody by virtue of any attachment, after the same shall have
been seized and attached by the sheriff.
69. That in all cases of an attachment hereafter issued by a
justice of the peace, when an affidavit shall be filed by or in
behalf of the defendant, setting forth facts which would render
said attachment illegal or void, it shall be the duty of said
justice, upon a motion to quash the writ of attachment, to try
said facts, without requiringthe defendant to file a bond accord

ATTACHMENT.

37

ing to the requisition of this act, and to give judgment on said
motion.
70. That when an attachment issued by a justice of the
peace shall be superseded by an attachment out of a higher
court, the plaintifff in the attachment so superseded shall be
entitled to be first paid out of the property attached the full
amount of the legal costs and expenses which may have accrued
on the attachment so superseded.
71. That upon the expiration of the term of office of any
justice of the peace before whom a judgment shall have been
obtained against a defendant in attachment, as provided for by
this act, all the proceedings against the garnishee authorized
herein may be had before any other justice of the peace.
«—Fees.
72. That the auditor shall be allowed a reasonable compen
sation for his services, to be taxed by one of the judges of the
court, and paid out of the defendant's estate.
73. That the freeholder who may be employed by any sheriff
to make an inventory and appraisement of the property
attached, pursuant to this act, shall be entitled for such service,
to the sum of one dollar; and if employed more than one day
in such service, then at the rate of one dollar a day; and the
freeholder employed by any constable to perform the like service
under an attachment issued by a justice of the peace, shall be
entitled to fifty cents therefore, and no more ; which compensa
tion shall be paid by the said officers to the freeholders employed
by them respectively, for the purpose aforesaid, and shall be
allowed to the said officers, in addition to their other fees, for
serving the said writs.
74. That there shall be allowed to the justice, for issuing an
attachment and recording the return thereof, thirty-five cents ;
for a summons against a garnishee, twenty cents : and to the
constable, for serving a writ of attachment, sixty cents ; there
shall also be allowed to the justice and constable, for all other
services performed under this act, the same fees as are allowed
by law for the like services in other cases in the court for the
trial of small causes.

38

BASTARD.
H—General Provisions.

75. That this act shall be construed in all courts of judica
ture in the most liberal manner for the detection of fraud, the
advancement of justice, and the benefit of creditors.
76. That all orders for the appointment of auditors, for the
sale of perishable property, for advertising the attachment, for
the sale of the defendant's property, and all other orders not
specifically required by this act to be made in open court may
be made out of court by a judge of the court in which the
action is pending, in term time, or vacation.
77. That in all cases where writs of attachment have hereto
fore been issued, or may hereafter be issued, and no proceedings
have been or shall be had thereon for the period of twenty
years, the same shall cease to bind the property and estate of
the defendant so attached at the expiration of the said twenty
years.
[For preferences on attachment given to wages, see Post,
title Operatives.]
Approved March 27, 1874.

BASTARD.
AX ACT FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF BASTARD CHIL
DREN.
A—Proceedings to Apprehend Putative Father of Bastard.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
.State of New-Jersey, That if any woman shall be delivered of a
bastard child, which shall be chargeable or likely to become
chargeable to any township ; or shall declare herself to be
pregnant of a child likely to be born a bastard, and to become
chargeable to any township, any overseer of the poor of the
township where such woman may be, or of the township
wherein the legal settlement of such woman may be, may apply
to a justice of the peace of the same county wherein such

48

CERTIORARI.

shall be allowed as in trials before the common pleas on appeal*
in civil cases.
31. The term " township," made use of in this act, shall be
construed to comprehend city, town corporate, borough, pre
cinct and ward, respectively.
Approved March 27, 1874.

CERTIORARI.
AX ACT RELATIVE TO THE WRIT OF CERTIORARI.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State- of New-Jersey, That writs of certiorari and of supersedeas
may be allowed in term or vacation by a justice or judge of the
court, out of which they may issue, and such justice or judge is
hereby authorized at any time to make all necessary orders
thereon.
2. Xo writ of certiorari shall be granted to remove into the
supreme court any indictment, judgment, order, process or
other proceedings, unless it be signed by one of the justices of
the supreme court, and for want thereof, such writ shall be
absolutely void and of no effect.
3. Every writ of certiorari for the removal of any indictment,
judgment, or order from any court of oyer and terminer, or
court of general quarter sessions of the peace, shall be delivered
to the same in open court.
4. The supreme court or any justice thereof may, in its or his
discretion, at the instance of any person indicted, on application
in term time, or vacation, award a writ of certiorari to remove
into said court any indictment before trial, from any court of
oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, or court of general
quarter sessions of the peace, upon the following and no other
terms, that is to say: that the person indicted and prosecuting
such certiorari, shall, before the allowance thereof, with two
sufficient sureties, enter into recognizance to the state of New

CERTIORARI.

49

Jersey before the supreme court, or any justice thereof, in such
.sum as the said court or justice shall direct, with condition that
the person so indicted and prosecuting the certiorari shall, at its
return, appear and plead to the said indictment in the said
supreme court, and, at his own costs and charges, cause and
procure the issue that shall be joined upon the said indictment
or presentment, or any plea relating thereto, to be tried at the
next circuit court to be held for the county 'wherein the said
indictment was found, after such certiorari shall be returnable,
if the said supreme court shall not appoint any other time for
the trial thereof, and if any other time be so appointed, then at
such other time ; and shall not depart the said supreme court
until discharged by the 'same, and shall pay costs, if convicted
of the offense charged in the said indictment; and upon further
condition, that, if the supreme court shall so order, the said per
son so indicted shall appear in the court from which such indict
ment was removed, at any term thereof which the supreme court
shall order, and plead to the said indictment and abide the
judgment of the court, and pay costs, if convicted of the offense
charged in the said indictment.
5. Every recognizance, taken by virtue of the preceding
section shall be delivered to the court to which the certiorari is
directed, together with the said writ; and the recognizance so
taken, shall be certified into the said supreme court, with the
said certiorari and indictment, and there filed; and if such
recognizance be not delivered, together with the certiorari, to the
court as directed, then it shall be the duty of the said court to
proceed to the trial of the said indictment in the same manner
sis if no such certiorari had been allowed or presented.
<>. Upon the removal of any indictment into the supreme
court, if the said court shall determine that the said indictment
is not sufficient in law, the person or persons so indicted shall
thereupon be discharged, and all further proceedings thereon
cease ; and in case the said court shall determine that the said
indictment is sufficient in law, the said court may in its discre
tion retain the same in said court, to be carried down for trial
liefore the proper circuit court, or may order that the same be
returned by the clerk of the said supreme court to the court from
4

CERTIORARI.
which the same was removed, and the said court to which such
indictment shall he remanded, shall in such ease proceed thereonin the same manner as if the said writ had not been allowed.
7. Xo writ of certiorari shall he allowed to remove into the
supreme court of this state any judgment or order, given or
made by any justice or justices of the peace, or court of oyer
and terminer, or of general quarter sessions of the peace, unless
the party prosecuting such certiorari, or some responsible person
in his behalf, shall, before the allowance thereof, with two
sufficient sureties, enter into recognizance to the state of XewJersey, before the supreme court, or before one of the justices
of the said supreme court, in the sum of one hundred and fifty
dollars, with condition that the party obtaining such certioraii
shall prosecute the same to effect without delay, and shall perform
such judgment or order as the said supreme court shall give
or make thereon, with costs, if costs be awarded; and every
recognizance taken by virtue of this section shall be delivered,
together with the writ of certiorari, to the justice or justices, or
court, to which such writ shall be directed, and be certified into
the said supreme court, with the said certiorari, and the judg
ment or order removed thereby, and there filed; and if such
recognizance be not so delivered with the certiorari, then it shall
be the duty of the said justice or justices, or court, to proceed
on such judgment or order in the same manner as if no
certiorari had been allowed or presented; provided always, that
this section shall not extend to orders or judgments in action
for debts or demands between party and party made cognizable
before any justice of the peace by the act entitled, " An act
constituting courts for the trial of small causes."
8. The court 0:1 the hearing of any certiorari may, in itadiscretion, give judgment for costs in favor of either party.
9. In all cases of writs of certiorari brought to remove any
tax or assessment or other order or proceeding, touching any
local or public improvement, it shall be the duty of the court to'
determine disputed questions of fact as well as of law, and to
inquire into the facts by deposition taken c n notice, or in such
other manner as is according to the practice of the court, and!
thereupon to reverse or affirm in the whole or part such tax,

CERTIORARI.

.51

assessment, or other order or proceeding, according to the
justice of the case.
10. Whenever any assessment for the costs and expenses of
laying out or opening any public road or street, or for paving or
otherwise improving the same, or for the construction of any
sewer or other local or public improvement, shall be set aside or
reversed on certiorari, it shall be lawful in such case for the
supreme court to appoint commissioners to make a new assess
ment of the costs and expenses thereof; which commissioners
.shall be the same in number, and shall possess the same epualifications as are required for commissioners in making such
assessments by the statute under which the original assessment
was made ; and the commissioners so appointed, shall proceed to
make a new assessment and report thereon upon the same
principles and in the same manner as if they had been appointed
under such statute ; and their assessments, when made, shall be
collected in the manner provided in such statute for collecting
assessments for such improvements ; provided, that the commis
sioners in making such new assessment, shall include therein the
costs and expenses of such new assessment, together with the
interest due on certificates of indebtedness or bonds (if any),
which may have been issued on account of such improvement.
11. All judgments, orders and proceedings in the courts for
the trial of small causes, and in the courts of common pleas
upon appeals from said courts for the trial of small causes, and
all judgments, orders and proceedings before justices of the
peace and police justices under any statute or ordinance, may be
removed into the circuit court of the same county by writs of
certiorari and supersedeas thereon, allowed by any judge of such
circuit court in the same manner and upon like terms as such
writs are issuable out of the supreme court, and the bond given
upon the allowance of such writs of certiorari shall be modified
so as to conform to the provisions of this section, and be filed
with the clerk of the said circuit court.
12. ZSTo writ of certiorari shall be allowed or issued on any
judgment, order, or proceeding that shall have been entered or
obtained in any court of record of this state, or that shall here

52

CHANCERY.

after be entered or obtained, unless the same be issued in eighteen
months after the entering or obtaining the same.
Approved March 27, 1874.

CHANCERY.
AN ACT RESPECTING THE COURT OF CHANCERY.
A—The Court when Open.
1. Be it exacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New-Jersey, That the court of chancery shall hold, an
nually, at Trenton, three stated terms, commencing on the first
Tuesday of February, the third Tuesday of May, and the third
Tuesday of October, respectively, and such special terms, at the
same or any other place as the chancellor shall from time to
time appoint.
2. That if the said court shall not sit or be opened at any of
the said terms, whether stated or special, the writs and process
then returnable, and the bills, suits, pleadings, and proceedings
depending before the said court, shall be continued, of course,
till the next term, and so from term to term, until the court
shall sit.
3. That the said court of chancery shall be considered as al
ways open for the granting of injunctions, writs of ne exeat to
prevent the departure of defendants from the state, and other
writs and process heretofore usually granted in vacation, and for
the return of writs of subpoena to answer, and for making orders
for the appearance of absent or concealed defendants, and that
such orders may be to appear and plead, answer or demur, upon
any day, either in term time or vacation ; and in default of such
plea, answer, or demurrer, a decree pro confesso may be taken
on any day, cither in term time or vacation.
4. That in all cases where a decree pro confesso may be taken
in vacation, it shall be lawful to make all orders of reference
and other proceedings to perfect a final decree, and to make a
final decree in vacation.

CHANCERY.
B—SubpaMia and Process for Appearance, and how Served.
5. That no subpoena or other process for appearance shall
issue out of the court of chancery, except in cases to stay waste,
until after the bill shall have hcen filed with the clerk of the
court.
6. That every subpoena, process of sequestration, writ of ex
ecution, or other writ or process, shall he issued by a solicitor,
or by the clerk, at the instance of the party, and, before the ser
vice or execution thereof, shall be subscribed or endorsed with
the name of the said solicitor or party, and also signed and scaled
by the said clerk.
7. That the names of all defendants in any suit, who are res
ident in the same county, shall be inserted in one subpoena or
process.
8. That to every subpoena ad respondendum, a notice shall
be added that the defendant is not required to appear at Tren
ton in person, at the return day, but, if he intend to make a de
fence, it is only necessary for him to answer, plead, or demur to
the bill within the time required by law.
9. That where a bill shall be filed on any mortgage, or instru
ment in the nature thereof, for a foreclosure or sale of the premises
contained in the same, or any part thereof, and the complainant
shall deem it expedient to make any person a defendant therein,
other than the mortgagor, 'his heirs, executors, administrators
or assigns, such complainant shall, with the subpoena to be issued
against such other defendant, cause to be issued a ticket, in
writing, shortly making known for what cause he is subpoenaed
to answer ; which ticket shall be, by the officer serving the sub
poena, left with the said defendant at the time of such service,
and no charge be made therefore.
10. That in any suit hereafter to be commenced in the court
of chancery, wherein it shall be thought necessary or proper to
make any married woman a party, and it shall appear by the
affidavit of the complainant, his or her solicitor, annexed to the
bill of complaint, and filed therewith, that, notwithstanding due
inquiry has been made therefore, the christian name of such mar
ried woman cannot be ascertained, it shall and may be lawful

54

CHANCERY.

and sufficient to designate any such married woman by the name
of her husband, with " Mrs." prefixed thereto.
11. That it shall and may be lawful for any married woman
so designated in any suit, to appear and plead, answer or demur,
either by the name by which she shall have been made a party,
or by her own christian name, but if by the latter, she shall also
state the name by which she was made a party.
12. That any and all proceedings had or taken in any suit
against any married woman, who shall have been made a party
as aforesaid, shall be as valid, binding and conclusive, in all re
spects, as they would have been bad she been made a party by
her own christian name.
13. That every subpoena or process for appearance shall be
served on the person to whom it is directed, or a copy thereof
left at his dwelling house or usual place of abode, at least ten
days prior to its return.
14. That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or coroner, as the
case may require, of any county in this state, to whom any sub
poena, order, attachment, process of sequestration, writ of exe
cution, or other process issuing out of the court of chancery,
shall be directed or delivered, to serve or execute the same, and
to make return thereof at the time and place therein mentioned,
which shall be filed by the clerk.
15. That a written appearance in any suit in chancery, or a
written acknowledgment of the service of any subpoena to answer,
signed by a defendant, or his or her solicitor, shall have the
same force and effect as if such defendant had been regularly
served with a subpoena to answer, by the sheriff or any other
proper officer ; provided, such signature of the party be verified
by affidavit.
16. That no writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless satis
factory proof be made to the chancellor that the defendant de
signs quickly to depart from this state; and, if granted, the
chancellor, vice-chancellor, or an injunction master, shall direct
to be endorsed thereon the sum in which the party shall give
bond, with surety or sureties, being freeholders in this state.
17. That if the complainant reside out of this state, he shall,
before the issuing of a process to appear, cause a bond to be ex

CHANCERY.

55

.eeuted by at least one sufficient person, being a freeholder and
resident within this state, to the defendant, in the penal sum of
one hundred and fifty dollars, conditioned to prosecute the suit
-with effect, and to pay costs to the defendant, if he shall be en
titled thereto, and have the same filed with the clerk, or, in de
fault thereof, the complainant's solicitor, who shall file the said
lull and issue process thereon, shall be responsible to pay the de
fendant such costs as he may be entitled to by the order of the
court ; and if the said bill and process be signed by the com
plainant, and not by any solicitor, then the said suit shall be
.stayed till such bond be filed, and if it be not filed by the time
appointed by the court, the bill shall be dismissed, with costs.
C— Proceedings Against 1* on -Residents.
18. That in caso of a bill filed against any defendant against
-whom a subpoena or other process to appear shall issue, and such
-defendant shall not cause his appearance to be entered in such
suit, as, according to the practice of said court, the same ought
to be entered, in case such process has been duly served, and it
shall be made to appear, by affidavit or otherwise, to the satis
faction of the chancellor, that such defendant is out of the state,
or cannot, upon due inquiry, be found therein, or that he con
ceals himself within this state, every such defendant shall be
-deemed and taken to be an absent defendant, and thereupon the
chancellor may, by order, direct such absent defendant to appear,
plead, answer or demur to the complainant's bill, at a certain
day therein to be named, not less than two, nor more than six
months from the date of such order; of which order such notice
as the chancellor shall by rule direct shall, within twenty days
thereafter, be served personally on such defendant, by a delivery
<of a copy thereof to him, or be published in one or more of the
public newspapers printed in this state, and designated in such
order, for six weeks successively, at least once in every week ;
.and in case of such publication, a copy of such notice shall be
mailed to such defendant, prepaid, directed to him at the post
.office nearest his residence, or the post office at which he usually
rcceives his letters, unless such residence or post office be un
known and cannot be ascertained upon making such inquiries

CHANCERY.
as the chancellor may, by rule, prescribe in such ease, which
said notice shall also be published or served in any other man
ner that the chancellor may see proper in the same to direct ;
and in case such absent defendant shall not appear, plead, an
swer, or demur within the time so limited, or within some fur
ther time to be allowed by the chancellor, if he shall think
proper, and on proof of personal service, or of the publication
and the mailing of said notice, as aforesaid, and of the perform
ance of the directions contained in said order, to the satisfaction
of the chancellor, the chancellor may order and direct that the
complainant's bill be taken as confessed against such absent de
fendant so failing to plead, answer, or demur, or the chancellor
may, at his discretion, order the complainant to produce docu
ments, depositions, exhibits, or other evidence to substantiate
and prove the allegations in the bill, or the chancellor may ex
amine the complainant on oath or affirmation, touching or con
cerning the allegations in the bill, and thereupon such decree
shall be made, in either case, as the chancellor shall think equi
table and just ; and that the provisions of this section shall apply
to petitions and bills for divorce.
19. That any defendant upon whom such notice is served as-herein directed, shall be bound by the decree in such cause as if
he were served with process within this state ; but in cases.
where the same shall be published and sent by mail, if such de
fendant shall make oath that he did not receive the same, and
that it did not in any way come to his knowledge, within twen
ty days after the time within which it was directed to be served ;
or in cases where actual service is sworn to, if it shall be made
to appear, by satisfactory proof, that such service was not made,
the chancellor may, in his discretion, before executing such de
cree, proceed to take security in the manner provided in the.
twenty-first section of this act.
20. That the proof of the matters required in the next two^
preceding sections may be taken before any judge of any court
of record, or any notary public in any state or territory of th&
United States, and in any foreign state or country, before any
notary public or any minister, secretary of legation, charge
d'affaires, consul, or vice consul of the United States there be

CHANCERY.

57

ing ; the solicitor shall he entitled to one dollar and fifty cents
for every notice served or mailed as aforesaid.
21. That when a decree shall be made against an absent de
fendant, the chancellor, before issuing process to compel the
performance of such decree against such absent defendant, may,
if he deems it equitable so to do, require the complainant to give
bond, with such security and in such sum as he may direct, to
abide such decree or order touching the restitution of the estate
and effects of such absent defendant, or the repayment of any
sum of money which the complainant may receive by virtue of
such decree, but which shall afterwards be made to appear, as
hereinafter provided, not to have been due and owing to him J
and in case no such security shall be given, no process or execu
tion shall issue to compel the performance of the decree so made
against such absent defendant, but the estate and effects of such
absent defendant may, by order of the chancellor, be sequestered,
and remain under the direction of the chancellor, to abide such
order as he shall think just and proper respecting the same.
And in case any such absent defendant, against whom any de
cree shall be made as aforesaid, his heirs, devisees, executors,
administrators, or assigns, as the case may require, shall, within
six months after notice in writing be given to him or them of
such decree, or within three years after such decree, in case no
notice as aforesaid shall be given, petition the chancellor touch
ing the matter of such decree, and pay, or secure to be paid,
such costs as the chancellor shall think reasonable to order and
direct, then and in such case the person or persons as aforesaid,
so petitioning, may be permitted to appear and answer the com
plainant's bill, and thereupon such proceedings shall be had as
if such absent defendant had appeared in due season and no de
cree had been made ; or such absent defendant may, within the
times aforesaid, file his bill of complaint in the said court, for an
account and settlement of the amount which was really and truly
due to the complainant at the time of the decree, and to compel
the said complainant to refund and repay what he may have
wrongfully recovered and received, together with the interest
from the time of the receipt thereof, with costs of suit, the former
decree against such absent defendant notwithstanding ; but in

CHANCER I'.
case no petition shall be presented, or bill filed, as before provi
ded for within six months from the time notice as aforesaid shall
be given, due proof thereof being made, or within three years
from the date of the decree, the decree shall be deemed and ad
judged to be confirmed ; which confirmation shall have relation
to the time of making said decree. And the decree shall be ex- .
ecuted and performed as in cases where the defendant had duly
appeared.
22. That whenever any bill shall be filed against any corpo
ration of this state, ajid it shall be made to appear by affidavit,
to the satisfaction of the chancellor, that none of the officers and
directors of such corporation are resident in this state, or that
none of them can be found within this state, to be served with
process of subpoena,such corporation shall be deemed and taken
to be an absent defendant ; and that such proceedings and de
cree may be had against such corporation as in this act is provi
ded in the case of absent defendants.
D—Pleadings and Proceedings after Retnrn of Subpoena.
23. That the complainant may, in any bill in chancery, pray
that the defendant answer without oath, in which case the
answer need not be sworn to, and the allegations and statements
therein, whether responsive or not, shall not be evidence against
the complainant, except oil a motion to grant or dissolve an in
junction, on which motion the statements and denials in an
answer duly sworn to, shall have the same effect as heretofore ;
and when an answer without oath is so prayed, the complainant
may annex to the bill interrogatories, founded on statements in
the bill, and the same or any part thereof may be addressed to
all or any of the defendants, and each defendant to whom such
interrogatories are addressed, shall answer the same, under oath
or affirmation, fully, directly, and responsively, confining the
answer to the interrogatory proposed ; and such answers shall
be annexed to the answer to the bill, be filed therewith, and be
liable to be excepted to, as a part of the answer ; and so far as
responsive to such interrogatories, shall have the same effect as
the responsive allegations in answers required to be sworn to ;
and any defendant omitting to answer any such interrogatory

CHANCERY.

59

directly and fully, may be compelled so to do, or the allegations
in the bill upon which the interrogatory is founded, shall he
taken as admitted to be true, and a decree made thereon accord
ingly ; but nothing in this section shall affect any suit pending
on the sixth day of March, 1867, or any suit to be brought upon
a claim for which a suit in equity was then pending.
24. That when a subpoena to answer shall have been returned
duly served by the proper officer, or the. appearance of the de
fendant shall have been signed, or service of a subpoena ac
knowledged, as hereinbefore mentioned, the defendant shall file
his plea or demurrer to bill of complaint within forty davs from
the return day of the subpoena, unless further time be granted,
and the cause, within ten days thereafter, noticed and set down
for argument for the next term, by the party demurring or
pleading.
25. That the answer to any bill in chancery shall be filed
within forty days from the time of filing the order for overruling
the plea or demurrer, or within sixty days from the return of
the subpoena, in case no plea or demurrer be filed, unless further
time be granted.
26. That when a demurrer shall have been filed which shall
not be actually argued, or which, upon argument, appears to
the chancellor to be frivolous, or intended for the purpose of de
lay, the same shall be overruled as frivolous, and the chancellor
shall not grant in such suit any order extending the time to
answer herein limited, unless, upon full examination of the cir
cumstances of the case, it shall be made to appear to him that
evident injustice would be done without such extension, and tljen
he shall grant such extension only as may he absolutely neces
sary, with proper diligence, to prepare such answer.
27. That every plea or demurrer in chancery shall have
annexed thereto the affidavit of the defendant or defendants
filing the same, or his or their agent in the suit, that the same is
not interposed for delay, but in good faith ; and also the certifi
cate of counsel that he has perused the complainant's bill, and
that such plea or demurrer is well founded in point of law ; and
every plea or demurrer filed without such affidavit and certifi
cate may be treated as a nullity.

60

CHANCERY.

28. That it' the defendant shall not file his plea, demurrer or
answer within the time hereby limited, or that granted by the
court, the bill of complaint shall be taken in term time, or
vacation, as confessed against such defendant, and such decree
made thereon as by the court shall be deemed equitable and
just ; or the chancellor may, at his discretion, order the com
plainant to produce documents and witnesses to substantiate and
prove the allegations in the bill of complaint ; or the chancellor
may examine the complainant on oath or affirmation, to ascer
tain the truth of the allegations in the said bill; and such decree
shall be made in either case as the chancellor shall think equitable
and just; provided, that to prevent fraud or mistake, the chan
cellor may, at anytime, upon notice and sufficient cause shown,
grant a rule staying proceedings and to open such decree.
29. That when the complaint conceives the plea to be good,
though not true, he may reply to and take issue upon it, and
proceed as in case of an answer.
30. That if the defendant file a demurrer and answer, the
complainant shall not proceed on the answer till the demurrer
has been argued or disposed of.
31. That if the plea or demurrer be overruled, no other plea
or demurrer shall be thereafter received; but in such case the
defendant shall file his answer to the complainant's bill in forty
days after such overruling ; and if he fail to do so, the said bill
shall be taken as confessed, and the said court shall thereupon
proceed as directed in the twenty-eighth section of this act.
32. That if the plea or demurrer be allowed, the com
plainant shall pay jcosts, and if overruled, the defendant shall
pay them.
33. That the complainant shall file exceptions or a replica
tion, or set down a cause for hearing upon bill and answer within
thirty days after the expiration of the time limited or granted for
filing the answer, or on failure thereof his bill shall be dismissed,
with costs, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.
34. That when exceptions shall be filed to an answer, a rule
may be entered, of course, with the clerk, either in term time,
or in vacation, to refer the same to a master of the court, who
shall decide and report upon them within thirty days after they

CHANCERY.

Gl

are filed ; but an appeal from such report shall be allowed to the
chancellor, who shall hear and determine the same at the next
term or at such time as the chancellor, upon the application of
either party, shall appoint.
35. That the complainant, if his exceptions be overruled,
shall pay costs to the defendant ; and the defendant, if his
answer be adjudged insufficient, shall pay costs to the com
plainant.
36. That when an answer shall be adjudged to be insuffi
cient, the defendant shall file a second or further answer within
thirty days after such adjudication, or on failure thereof the said
bill shall be taken as confessed, and such proceeding hail thereon
as if the first or original answer had not been filed within the
limited or granted time.
37. That if such second or further answer shall be adjudged
to be insufficient, the defendant shall pay double costs, and shall
file a third or further answer within twenty days after such
adjudication, or on failure thereof the said bill shall be taken as
confessed, and such proceedings to be had thereon as if the first
or original answer had not been filed within the limited or
granted time as aforesaid.
38. That if such third or further answer shall be adjudged
to be insufficient, the defendant shall pay treble costs; and in
such case further time to answer shall not be allowed, but the
said bill shall be taken as confessed, and such proceedings be
had thereon as if the first or original answer had not been filed
in due time.
39. Tbat if a cross-bill be exhibited, the defendant to the
first bill shall answer thereto before the defendant to the cross
bill shall be compelled to answer such cross-bill.
40. That every cause in the court of chancery shall be
deemed to be at issue on filing a replication; and it shall not be
necessary to issue a subpoena or enter a rule to rejoin in any
ease.
41. That where, after the filing of the bill, any person shall
acquire such an interest, in the subject matter of the suit as
would have made him a proper or necessary party, if such in
terest had been possessed by him at the time of the commence

62

CHANCERY.

ment of the suit, it shall not be necessary to file a supplemental
bill to make such person a party, but the same may be done by
petition filed in the cause, and which petition, verified by oath,
shall state the interest of such person, and the manner in which
the same was acquired ; and a copy of the petition and notice of
the application shall be served on the complainant or his solici
tor, and notice of the application shall be served on such of the
defendants as the chancellor shall direct, if made before the time
for answering has expired, and, if after that time, on each de
fendant who has answered or appeared in the cause ; and the
chancellor may thereupon, if it appear that such person is enti
tled to be made a party to the cause, and has acquired his inter
est from some party to the same, order that he be made a party
thereto ; but such person shall be bound by all orders and pro
ceedings in the cause against the party whose interest he has ac
quired, and the cause shall not be delayed by the admission of
such party, except for such time as it may seem to the chancel
lor to be necessary to take the evidence regarding such claim.
42. That in all cases in which it is provided in this act that
a person may be made a party by petition after the commence
ment of the suit, such person may be made a party either before
or after an interlocutory or final decree therein, but such decree
shall not be opened or set aside thereby, and in all cases where
the person so made a party does not dispute the claim of the
complainant, or any part of it, the complainant, or any defend
ant whose prior right is not disputed, shall not be delayed by
the admission of such party; but his claim shall be fully heard
and investigated in disposing of the residue of the subject mat
ter of the suit, or of the proceeds thereof.
E—Evidence ; Interrogatories ; Examination of Witnesses.
43. That if the complainant proceed to a hearing on bill and
answer only, the answer shall be taken to be true in all points ;
and no evidence shall be received unless it be matter of record,
to which the answer relates, and is provable by the same record.
44. That the defendant in chancery, after he shall have filed
his answer, may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant,
which shall be answered by him on oath or affirmation ; and

CHANCERY.

03

such answer shall he evidence in the cause in the same manner
and to the same effect as the defendant's aitswer to the com
plainant's bill is evidence ; and if the complainant shall not
answer such interrogatories by the time appointed by the court,
he shall be in contempt, and his bill dismissed, with costs.
45. That all examinations of witnesses hereafter to he taken
and made use of at the hearing of any cause in the court of
chancery, except such as shall be taken before the vice-chancel
lor, shall he taken and reduced to writing by one of the exami
ners of said court, or before a commissioner or commissioners
appointed by the chancellor according to the course of the court,
who are hereby authorized to administer the proper oath or af
firmation to the witnesses examined by them, or any of them ;
and all examinations of witnesses before examiners shall betaken
on ten days' notice of the time and place of taking such exami
nation, given by the party or his solicitor to the opposite party
or his solicitor; and either of the parties in the cause shall and
may, in their proper persons, or by their solicitor or counsel,
have liberty to he present and examine and cross-examine such
witnesses ; all which examination of witnesses so taken shall be
filed with the clerk of the court, to be made use of and read in
evidence upon the hearing of the cause, saving all legal excep
tions.
46. That it shall be lawful for the chancellor in such cases as
he may judge proper, to order the pleadings and evidence, or
any part thereof, to be printed, and to order the expense of such
printing to be taxed as part of the costs in the cause.
F— Selling Down the Cause and the Hearing'.
47. That every cause shall be set down for hearing at the
next stated term after the riling of the replication ; or on failure
thereof, the complainant's bill shall be dismissed, with costs, un
less the court, on just cause and reasonable terms, allow further
time for the said hearing : and if the said hearing be not had
within the time so limited or allowed, then the court shall dis
miss the said bill, with costs ; provided always, that there he fif
teen days between the filing of the replication- and the next stated

64

CHANCERY.

term ; and if there be not, then the hearing shall be had at the
subsequent stated term or at a special term.
48. That if the complainant shall not attend at the time ap
pointed for the hearing of the cause, his bill shall be dismissed,
with costs.
49. That if the defendant shall not attend at the time ap
pointed for the hearing of the cause, the bill, answer, replica
tion, documents, examinations and proofs shall be read, on the
part of the complainant, and the court thereupon shall decree in
favor of the complainant or dismiss his bill, as the case may
require.
50. That the bill, answer, pleadings, papers, documents, ex
aminations and proofs filed in the cause shall be used at the
argument or bearing, for which no charge shall be made by the
clerk.
O—Decree, its Enrollment and Effect.
51. That when any cause shall be finally determined in the
court of chancery, except where the suit, bill, or proceeding
shall be dismissed by consent, the clerk of the court shall enter
or enroll together, in order, the bill, answer, pleadings, reports,
decretal orders, and decree in such cause, in a book to be kept
for that purpose, which shall be signed by the chancellor as of
the day on which such decree was pronounced ; but such decree
shall not contain any recital of the said bill, answer, or other
pleadings.
52. That whenever any suit, bill or proceeding shall be dis
missed out of the court of chancery, in pursuance of any con
sent or agreement of the parties for that purpose, no enrollment
of the bill, petition, answer, or other proceedings had in such
suit, shall be necessary; nor shall any fees be allowed or taxed
therefore ; provided ahcays, that either party may, at his or
their own expense, require the same to be enrolled.
53. That whenever the proceedings and decree in any case
are by law required to be entered or enrolled in manner
aforesaid, it shall lie the duty of the clerk to enter or enroll the
same, so that the record may be ready to be signed by the
chancellor w ithin three months after the final decree in such

CHANCERY.

05

cause shall Lave been filed 'with the said clerk; and no clerk
shall charge any fee therefore until such service shall have been
actually performed.
54. That whenever any cause shall be finally determined in
the court of chancery, and the person then being clerk of the
said court shall cease to be such, by death or otherwise, before
he shall have entered or enrolled the proceedings in such cause,
in manner aforesaid, if by law they ought to be so entered or
enrolled, then it shall be the duty of his successor in office,
within three months after his appointment, to make or cause to
be made such entry or enrolment.
55. That if the chancellor, by whom any cause shall have
been finally heard and determined, shall go out of office, and
some other person shall be appointed chancellor before the pro
ceedings and final decree in such cause shall have been enrolled
and signed in the book kept for that purpose, then it shall be
the duty of his successor in office, or the chancellor for the time
being, to sign such enrolment with his own name, prefixing to
such signature the words " by the statute ;" and all proceedings
and decrees so signed, shall be as good and effectual in law, to
all intents and purposes, as if the same had been duly signed by
the chancellor who pronounced such final decree.
56. That the decree of the court of chancery shall, from the
time of its being signed, have the force, operation and effect of
a judgment at law in the supreme court, from the time of the
actual entry of such judgment ; and all decrees and orders of
the court of chancery, whereby any sum of money shall be
ordered to be paid by one person to another, shall have the
force, operation and effect of a judgment at law in the supreme
court, from the time of the actual entry of such judgment, and
the chancellor may order such executions thereon as in other
cases ; prochlcd, that no decree of the court of chancery, here
after to be made, shall, as against any person not a party thereto,
become a lien upon or bind any lands, tenements, hereditaments,
or real estate, other than those specifically mentioned and
described in such decree, or in the bill of complaint on which
the same is founded, until the parties interested in such decree,
or some or one of them, shall have filed in the office of the clerk
5

on

CHANCERY.

of the supreme court a statement or abstract of such decree,
containing the names of all the parties thereto, designating par
ticular^- those against whom it is rendered, with the state and
county in which they respectively resided, the time at which
the said decree was signed, and the amount of the debt, damages,
costs, or other sum of money thereby directed to be paid; which
statement or abstract the said clerk shall forthwith record in a
proper book, to be by him provided and kept in his office for
that purpose; which book shall be properly indexed by the said
clerk, and be a public record, to which all persons desirous to
examine the same shall have access.
57. That neither the filing of a bill in chancery, nor any
proceedings had or to be had thereon, before a final decree, shall
be deemed or taken to be constructive notice to any bona fide
purchaser or mortgagee of any lands or real estate to be affected
thereby, until the complainant in such bill, or his solicitor, shall
bave first filed in the office of the cJerk of the court of common
pleas of the county in which such lands or real estate lie, a
written notice of the pendency of such suit, setting forth the
title of the cause and the general object thereof, together with
a description of the lands or real estate to be affected thereby;
provided, that nothing in this section contained shall be so conconstrued or taken to apply to any bill filed or to bo filed for the
satisfaction or foreclosure of any duly registered mortgage.
58. That it shall be the duty of the clerk with whom any
such notice shall be filed, forthwith to record the same, together
with the time of the filing thereof, in a proper book, to be by
him provided and kept in his office for that purpose; which
book shall be properly indexed by the said clerk, and be a pub
lic record, to which all persons desirous of examining the same
shall have access.
59. That the following and no other fees shall be allowed for
the services required by the two last preceding sections of thisact, viz : to the county clerk, for filing and recording each notice,
ten cents per folio; to the clerk of the supreme court, for filing
and recording every statement or abstract, twenty-five cents;
which fees shall be included with the other costs in the cause,
and taxed therewith, by the clerk of the court of chancery.

CHANCERY.

67

60. That whenever a final decree shall be made in favor of
the defendant or defendants, in any cause affecting the title to
any lands and real estate, notice of the pendency of which has
been filed in the office of any county clerk or clerks, it shall be
the duty of the said clerk or clerks to enter upon the margin of
the record of such notice a statement of the substance of such
decree, upon a copy thereof, certified under the seal of the court
of chancery, being filed in his office, and thereafter the lauds
and real estate mentioned in the said notice shall be and remain
discharged of all equities set up in the bill of complaint in said
suit, notwithstanding the said suit be thereafter revived.
61. That in all suits instituted in the court of chancery for
the enforcement of any claim for the payment of money upon
any lands and real estate, except for the foreclosure of a mort
gage, and notice of the pendency of which shall be filed in the
office of any county clerk or clerks, it shall be lawful for the
chancellor, and he is hereby empowered to make an order
discharging the said lands and real estate from snob claim, upon
the defendant or defendants giving sufficient and satisfactory
security, in such sum and manner as the chancellor may direct,
for the payment of such sum or sums of money as may by the
final determination of the said cause be ascertained to be
chargeable upon the said lands and real estate, and upon filing a
copy of the said order, certified under the seal of the court of
chancery with the said county clerk or clerks, he or they shall
make entry of said discharge, by reason of said order, on the
margin of the record of said notice, and the said lands and real
estate shall be thereafter discharged from any claim whi ch may
be made in the said suit, except such as may be covered by the
security given for the payment of such claim.
62. That the county clerk shall be entitled to receive the sum
of fifty cents for each service required in the two preceding
sections.
63. That where a decree of the court of chancery shall be
made for a conveyance, release, or acquittance of lands or any
interest therein, and the party against whom the said decree
shall pass, shall not comply therewith by the time appointed,
then such decree shall be considered and taken, in all courts of

08

CHANCERY.

law and equity, to have the same operation and effect, and be as
available as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance had been
executed conformably to such decree, and this, notwithstanding
any disability of such party by infancy, lunacy, coverture, or
otherwise.
H—Final Process and Duty and Liability of Sheriff.
64. That the complainant having obtained a decree, it shall
be lawful for the said court to issue process for the immediate
sequestration of the real and personal estate of the defendant,
or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the demand of
the complainant in the decree specified, with costs, or to issue a
writ of fieri facias against the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, hereditaments and real estate, of the defendant, upon
which sufficient property shall be taken and sold to satisfy the
said demand, with costs, or to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum
against the defendant, upon which writs of fieri facias and capias
ad satisfaciendum there shall be the same proceedings as at
law; or to cause, by injunction, the possession of the effects and
estate demanded by the bill and whereof the possession or a sale
is decreed, to be delivered to the complainant or otherwise,
according to such decree and as the nature of the case may
require ; and in case of sequestration, the court shall order
payment and satisfaction to be made out of the estate so seques
tered, according to the true intent and meaning of the decree.
65. That a writ of fieri facias shall bind the property of the
goods of the person against whom it is issued, from the time
that it shall be delivered to the sheriff or other officer to be
executed, as at law.
66. That if the sheriff or other officer shall neglect or refuse
to execute any process of sequestration to him directed and
delivered, or to make payment of the rents, issues, and profits of
the estate so sequestrated, according to the order of the said
court, or, where the execution shall be by fieri facias, shall
neglect to file a just and true inventory of the goods find
chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate so
levied on and seized, unless he return that he hath levied to the
amount of the demand or sum therein specified, with costs, or

CHANCERY.
shall voluntarily or negligently omit, for the space of two
months, to render to the complainant, or his representative or
solicitor, the money which he shall have received from the sale
of the estate, real and personal, of the defendant or otherwise,
then such sheriff or officer shall be amerced by the said court to
the amount of the demand of the complainant, with costs, for
the use of the said complainant; provided, that ten days' notice
in writing shall be given to such sheriff or officer by the com
plainant, his representative or solicitor, of the intended appli
cation for such amercement ; which amercement, so ordered by
the court, shall have the force, operation, and effect of a decree,
whereon execution, in the name and for the use of the said
complainant or his representative, may instantly, on motion in
term time, and without further proceedings, be awarded and
issued against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, heredita
ments and real estate of the said sheriff or officer.
67. That if the sheriff or other officer shall neglect or refuse
to execute any writ of fieri facias to him directed or delivered,
for the space of two months, or shall adjourn the sale or vendue
of the lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate by him
levied upon by virtue of such writ of fieri facias, more than
twice or exceeding one mouth for each adjournment, he shall be
and hereby is made liable to the amount of the debt or damages
and costs, or sum or sums of money mentioned in the said writ,
with interest, and for the recovery thereof may be amerced and
proceeded against in the maimer prescribed in and by the last
preceding section of this act : provided always, that if the said
sheriff or other officer shall, at any time before the entry of
such amercement against him as aforesaid, sell the property
levied upon, and bring the whole amount of the product of such
sale (after deducting his lawful fees) into court, the said sheriff
or other officer shall be exonerated from all liability, on account
of said amercement.
68. That if any party to a suit in chancery shall be aggrieved
by the neglect, default, malpractice, or misconduct of the sheriff,
then such party, his representative or attorney, may apply and
be redressed, to the amount of the sum specified, in the order

70

CHANCERY.

or decree, in the manner prescribed by the sections of the act
entitled "An act concerning sheriffs.''
G9. That if any sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ,
process, or order -of the court of chancery shall be directed or
delivered- shall not make return thereof at the day of return,
and according to the tenor of such writ, process, or order, the
same not being countermanded, he shall be in contempt, and
process of contempt shall,- on motion in term time, be issued
against him; and before he shall be discharged from such
contempt, he shall pay to the clerk, for the use of the state, as a
fine for the said contempt, a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, to
be imposed by the court, and the costs incurred by means
thereof.
70. That when any sheriff, or other person, to whom any
writ of execution issuing out of the court of chancery hath
heretofore been directed and delivered, or shall hereafter be
directed and delivered, hath died or shall die, or hath or shall
become disabled by law to discharge the duties of his office or
appointment, or hath removed or shall remove out of the state
and continue to reside therereout, without discharging the
duties of his office or appointment in relation to the command
of said writ, then, or in either of said cases, it shall and may be
lawful for the court, upon presenting a petition setting forth the
facts above mentioned, and verified to the satisfaction of the
court, and upon due notice being given to the other party, to
award and order another execution, to be directed to the sheriff
of the proper county, or to one of the masters of said court,
commanding him to proceed to discbarge the exigencies of said
*vrit in the same manner as such officer so dying, becoming
disabled, or removing, as aforesaid, was commanded in and by
said writ to do, and any proceeding had by such officer to whom
such writ shall be directed and delivered, shall be as good,
valid, and effectual as if the said execution first issued had been
originally directed to him ; and such sheriff or master shall be
entitled to the same fees for sen-ices done, and subject to the
same suits, penalties, amercements and proceedings for neglect
of duty as if the said execution had been originally directed and
delivered to such sheriff or master.

CHANCERY.

71

I—Proceedings in Foreclosure.
71. That where a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or
satisfaction of any mortgage, it shall be lawful for the said court
to decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof
as shall be sufficient to discharge the said mortgage or encum
brances on the said mortgaged premises, besides costs ; which
sale shall be made either by one of the masters of the court or
by the sheriff of the county where the premises are situated by
virtue of a writ of fieri facias issued for that purpose ; which
«aid writ of fieri facias shall, before it is sued forth, be recorded
by the clerk of the said court in the book kept by him for
recording of executions against real estate.
72. That the sheriff or other officer to whom such writ of
iieri facias, as mentioned in the last preceding section, shall be
.directed and delivered, shall make sale pursuant to the com-niand of said writ, and shall make and execute a deed or deeds
for the premises sold, as the case may require ; and the monies
arising from the said sale shall be applied to pay off and dis
charge the monies decreed to be paid, and the remainder, if any
there be, and if the person or persons entitled to receive it shall
be absent out of this state, may be invested in stock of the
United States, or put at interest on such security as the
said courfvshall think proper to order ; and the same shall be de
livered or paid to the person or persons entitled to receive it,
upon his or her application to the court for the same ; provided
always, that no greater estate in the premises sold shall at any
time he conveyed or granted to such purchaser than would have
.vested in the mortgagee had the equity of redemption been duly
foreclosed.
73. That in all cases of a decree for sale of mortgaged prem
ises against an^ahsent defendant, if such defendant shall, at any
time before the sale made by the sheriff, in pursuance of any
.writ of execution, issued as aforesaid, cause his appearance to be
entered in court, and shall pay such costs to the complainant as
the court shall think reasonable, then it shall and may be law
ful for the said court, by a writ of supersedeas, directed to the
sheriff or other -officer, to stay his proceedings on the execution

72

CHANCERY.

for the sale of such mortgaged premises ; and thereupon such
proceedings shall and may be had, as if an appearance had been
entered, within such time and in such manner as, according to
the rules of the court, the same ought to have been entered, in
case the first process in the suit had been duly served.
74. That when a decree of the court of chancery shall be
made for the sale of mortgaged premises (in cases where the
whole sum secured by the mortgage is not due) either for non
payment of any portion or instalment of the debtor demand in
tended to be secured by the mortgage, or the non-payment of
interest due, or both- and it shall appear to the court that a part
of the mortgaged premises cannot be sold to satisfy the amount
due without material injury to the remaining part of the mort
gaged premises, and that it is just and reasonable that the whole
of the mortgaged premises should be sold together, it shall and
may be lawful for the said court to decree a sale to be made of
the whole of the mortgaged premises, and to apply the proceeds
of the sale of said premises, or so much thereof as shall be neces
sary, as well to the payment of the interest, instalments, or por
tions then due, and also the costs then due and payable, as to
the payment of the whole or residue of the debt or demand
which hath not become due and payable, and the residue of the
proceeds of such sale to be paid to the person or persons entitled
to receive the same, or to be brought into court to abide the
further order of the court, as the equity and circumstances of
the case require; provided always, that when the residue of the
debt or demand intended to be secured by the said mortgage iB
payable at a future day without interest, and the mortgagee is
willing to receive the same, the court shall deduct a rebate of
legal interest for what the mortgagee shall receive on the said
debt or demand, to be computed from the time of the actual
payment thereof to the time such residue of the debt or demand
would have become due and payable.
75. That in any suit for the foreclosure and sale of mortgaged
premises, in which an appearance shall have been entered by
any defendant, and no plea, answer, or demurrer shall have been
filed, no execution shall issue until the expiration of such time
from the date of the final decree as may be fixed by the rules of

CHANCERY.

73

the court, not less than two, nor more than four months ; pro
vided, that nothing herein contained shall restrain the issuing of.'
such execution for more than six mouths from the return of the
process to answer in such suit.
76. That it shall be lawful for the chancellor in any suit for
the foreclosure or sale of mortgaged premises to decree the pay
ment of any excess of the mortgage debt, above the net proceeds
of the sales, by any of the parties to such suit who may be liable,either at law or in equity, for the payment of the same ; pro
vided, that there be a prayer to that effect in the bill of com
plaint.
77. That when the amount due on any decree in chancery
for the foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises shall be paid
and satisfied in any other way than by a sale of the mortgaged
premises, or when any decree in chancery for the payment of
money shall be paid and satisfied, satisfaction shall be entered
on the margin of the enrolment by the party receiving satisfac
tion, or his solicitor, or by the clerk, by virtue of a warrant of
attorney from the party duly acknowledged or proved, in the
same manner as satisfaction is entered of judgments at law ; and
upon filing an acknowledgment of such satisfaction, under the
hand of the solicitor of any party, such satisfaction may be en
tered for him by the clerk, and the same fees shall be paid as in
the supreme court for like services.
78. That in any suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon,
or which may relate to real or personal property in this state, all
persons claiming an interest in, or an encumbrance or lien upon
such property, by or through any conveyance, mortgage, assign
ment, lien, or any instrument which, by any provision of law,
could be recorded, registered, entered, or filed in any public office
in this state, and which shall not be so recorded, registered, en
tered, or filed at the time of the filing of the bill in such suit, shall
be bound by the proceedings in such suit, so far as the said prop
erty is concerned, in the same manner as if he had been made a
party to and appeared, in such suit, and the decree therein made
against him as one of the defendants therein; but such person,
upon causing such conve3'ance, mortgage, assignment, lien,
claim, or other instrument to be recorded, registered, entered,

74

CHANCERY.

or filed as provided by law, may cause himself to be made a
party to such suit by petition, in the same manner as is by this
act provided in the case of persons acquiring an interest in the
subject matter of a suit after its commencement ; the petition in
such case must set forth such instrument at length, and the title
and interest of such party in such manner as to show that he
has an interest in the subject matter, and is a proper party in
that suit.
79. That it shall be lawful, in any action in the court of chan
cery, for the foreclosure of any mortgage, for the clerk to tax,
as a part of the taxable costs, in favor of any party to said action,
the expenses paid or incurred by said party in obtaining certifi
cates of search in any of the courts or public offices of this state,
against or in relation to the title of the mortgaged premises ;
provided, however, that the master of said court to whom it shall
be referred to ascertain the amount due upon said mortgage
shall, in his report, also certify that, in his opinion, such certifi
cates of search are necessary for the proper foreclosure of said
mortgage.
J—Injunctions.
80. Tbat no injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law
in any personal action after verdict or judgment, on the applica
tion of a defendant in the said proceedings at law, unless a sum
of money equal to the amount due at the time of such deposit
upon said verdict or judgment, with costs, shall be first deposit
ed with the clerk of the court by the applicant for such in junc
tion, or unless said applicant shall give such security, by bond,
as the chancellor shall deem good, to the party or parties at law
against whom such injunction is prayed, in double the
amount then due on such verdict and judgment and the
costs at law, with condition to abide such order or decree as the
chancellor shall make in the premises ; or if the bill be dismissed,
to pay the amount of the said verdict or judgment and costs,
with the interest thereon.
81. That no injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law
in any mixed action after verdict or judgment, on the applica
tion of a defendant in the said proceedings at law, unless theap

CHANCERY.

75

plicant shall first deposit with the clerk of the court such sum ol
money as the chancellor shall direct, or give such security, by
bond, to the party against whom the injunction is prayed, as the
-chancellor shall direct
82. That when any injunction shall be granted upon bond
-as aforesaid, and the party against whom the same has been
granted shall think the said bond not sufficient security, such
party may apply to the chancellor to have the security made
sufficient ; whereupon the chancellor, if he shall deem it expe
dient to hear such applicant, shall direct notice to be given to
the party giving such bond to appear before him at such time
and place as he shall appoint ; and upon proof that the notice
directed has been duly served, the chancellor shall hear the mat
ter, if moved so to do, with power to adjourn ; and if, upon the
hearing of the matter, it shall appear that the said bond is not
.sufficient security, then the chancellor shall have power to order
further security; and if such further security shall not be given,
according to the order made for that purpose, then, for that
cause, the chancellor shall have power to dissolve the injunction
granted on such bond.
83. That the chancellor shall have power to refer the whole
matter of the last preceding section to a master in chancery, who
shall hear the parties, after at least six days' notice to the party
giving the said bond, and make report to the chancellor with
all convenient speed.
84. That no injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings
in any suit at law, before a verdict or judgment, unless the chan
cellor be satisfied of the complainant's equity, either by affidavit,
certified at the foot or on the back of the bill, that the allega
tions thereof are true, or by other means.
85. That no motion to dissolve an injunction which has been
regularly obtained, shall be heard until ten days after the answer
is filed, if the party rely in any measure on his answer for the
•dissolution.
86. That neither a motion to dissolve an injunction, nor any
other special motion, shall be heard, unless eight days' notice,
exclusive of Sunday and the day of service, shall have been given
thereof to the opposite solicitor.

76

CHANCERY'.

87. That if the person against whom an injunction shall he
issued to stay waste, shall, after the service thereof, do or commit,
consent or direct, or suffer to be done or committed, any waste
or destruction of or upon the premises, contrary to the said
injunction, and the chancellor, on affidavit or other proof, shall
he of opinion that such waste or destruction hath been done or
committed, then the said chancellor may, on motion, order an
attachment of contempt to be issued against the person so
charged with disobedience to, and a breach of the said injunc
tion ; and if the person so offending shall be brought before the
chancellor, by virtue of the said attachment, and shall not make
it appear to his satisfaction that no waste or destruction hath
been done or committed as aforesaid, then the said chancellor
may, in his discretion, and on motion, order such offender to be
committed and kept in close custody, until he shall give further
order therein.
K—Proceedings With Respect to ITeatisfied Judgments at
Law.
88. That hereafter, whenever an execution against the prop
erty of a defendant shall have been issued on a judgment at
law, and shall have been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in
part, leaving an amount or balance remaining due exceeding one
hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, the party suing out such exe
cution may file a bill in chancery to compel the discovery of
any property or thing in action belonging to the defendant in
such judgment, and of any property, money, or thing in action,
due to him or held in trust for him, except such property as is
now reserved by law, and to prevent the transfer of any such
property, money, or thing in action, or the payment or delivery
thereof to the defendant, except when such trust has been created
by, or the fund so held in trust has proceeded from, some person
other than the defendant himself.
89. That the court shall have power to compel such discov
ery, and to prevent such transfer, payment, or delivery, and to
decree satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such judgment,
out of any personal property, money, or thing in action belong
ing to the defendent, or held in trust for him, with the exception

CHANCERY.

77

above stated, which shall be discovered In- the proceedings in
chancery; provided, that if the personal property, money, or
thing in action which shall be discovered as aforesaid, does not
amount to the sum of one hundred dollars, no costs shall be
recovered by the plaintifff against the defendant in such proceed
ing.
90. That when a bill is filed for the purpose aforesaid, and
shall be duly verified by the oath of the complainant therein,
or his solicitor or agent, that he believes the contents thereof
are true, ifo shall be lawful for the chancellor, in term time or
vacation, forthwith to make an order requiring the judgment
debtor to appear, and make discovery on oath concerning his
property and things in action, before a master in said court, to be
designated in said order, at a time and place in said order to be
specified.
91. That if it shall appear by said bill, or by one supple
mental thereto, and by proof by the oath of the complainant, or
that of any other person, that any person owes the said judg
ment debtor, otherwise than for his labor or personal services,
or for the labor or services of any member of his family, or
holds money or property in possession or action, in trust for him
or for his use, except such property as is now reserved by law,
or when such trust has been created by, or the fund so held in
trust has proceeded from some person other than the debtor
himself, it shall be lawful for the chancellor to make an order
forbidding the payment of such debt, or the transfer of said
property or money by or to the said debtor, until further order
to be by him made.
92. That witnesses may be required to appear and testify
concerning said matters, by either party, by subpoena ad testi
ficandum, issued out of said court of chancery, and the said
master may adjourn the said examination from time to time, at
the instance of either party.
93. That the said examination of said debtor and witnesses
shall be certified by said master to the said court of chancery,
and thereupon it shall be lawful for the said chancellor to appoint
a receiver, pendente lite, of the property and things in action
belonging or due to or held in trust for said debtor as aforesaid,

78

CHANCERY.

who thereby shall receive authority to possess, receive, and in
his own name as such receiver, sue for such property or things
inaction; and the said chancellor may order said judgment
debtor to convey and deliver to such receiver all such property
and rights in action and the evidence thereof; and said receiver
shall in all respects be subject to the authority of the said chan
cellor, in accordance with the practice of the said court, and
shall and may dispose of the said property and things in action
in conformity with the final decree in said cause.
94. That cither party, on the final hearing of said cause,
may use his own deposition and that of the opposite party, or
either of them, and the deposition or depositions of any other
witness or witnesses so taken as aforesaid ; provided, said party
so intending to use the same shall file with the clerk of said
court, within twenty days after the filing of said deposition in the
clerk's office, a written notice of his said intention; and provided
further, that the said depositions so designated would have been
legal evidence in said suit if the same had been taken alter issue
joined, according to the practice of said court.
L—General Provisions.
95. That all rules, common or special, by consent of the
parties or their solicitors, shall be entered of course with the
clerk, whether in term time or in vacation.
96. That all amendments shall be made with or without
costs, and on s.uch equitable terms as the said court shall direct.
97. That parties to suits in chancery shall take notice, at
their peril, of the filing of answers, demurrers, pleas, replications
and other pleadings, and of the pronouncing and signing of
decrees.
98. That witnesses in the court of chancery shall be allowed
the same fees as by law are allowed to witnesses in the supreme
court.
99. That the court of chancery may send any matter of law
to the supreme court for its opinion to bo certified thereon.
100. That if any matter of fact shall render the intervention
of a jury necessary, then the court of chancery is hereby author

CHANCERY.

7S>

ized to direct an issue for the trial of the same in the supreme
court.
101. That whenever the chancellor shall deem it necessary
to call to his assistance the chief justice, or any justice or justices
of the supreme court, or one or more of the masters in chancery
to advise with, upon the hearing of a cause or an argument, or
upon matters of importance, or when any matter shall be referred
to any of said officers, pursuant to the general rules of said
court, or to any special order or decree in any cause, matter, or
proceeding depending therein, the fees for such services shall be
proportionate, as nearly as may beT to the actual value of such
services, and shall be regulated by the chancellor from time to
time.
102. That it shall and may be lawful for the chancellor to.
cause any monies brought into court, to be deposited by the
clerk in his name as clerk of said court, in one of the banks of
this state, to the credit of the cause to which it belongs, or to be
invested in any public stock of the United States; and the
monies so deposited, or public stock in which it shall be so
invested, shall be, from time to time, accounted for, invested,
transferred, or re-invested, or otherwise disposed of, as the court
shall deem reasonable and proper; and on the resignation,
death or removal of the clerk of the said court of chancery, all
monies deposited in either of the said banks by the said clerk,
shall be carried to the account of his successor in office, and the
said bank shall take notice thereof, and transfer such accounts
accordingly ; and the chancellor may, from time to time, make
such rules and regulations respecting such deposits and
investments as to him shall appear just and right, and for the
interest of all persons and I arties concerned therein.
103. That to enforce obedience to the process, rides and
orders of the court of chancery, where any person shall be in
contempt according to the law, practice or course of the said
court, he shall for every such contempt, and before he be
released or discharged from the same, pay to the clerk in
chancery, for the use of this state, a sum not exceeding fifty
dollars, as a fine for the said contempt ; and the said person
being in court, upon process of contempt or otherwise, shall s'and

80

CHANCERY.

committed and remain in close custody until ithe said process,
rule or order shall be obeyed and performed, and until the fine
so imposed for such contempt with the costs, be fully paid.
104. That the clerk in chancery shall account, on oath, and
pay annually to the treasurer of this state, the fines which he
shall have received by virtue of this act.
105. That except where it is otherwise directed by this or
some other act of the legislature, it shall be in the discretion of
the court of chancery to award costs or not ; and the payment of
costs, when awarded, may be compelled by writ of fieri facias or
capias ad satisfaciendum, issuing out of the said court, or by
subpoma and attachment.
106. That subpoena to hear judgment, attachment with
proclamations, and commission of rebellion, shall, in all cases in
chancery, be deemed unnecessary, and omitted accordingly.
107. That the office of register in the court of chancery be,
and it is hereby abolished.
108. That it shall not be necessary for the clerk in chancery
to register any rule, order or decree, or any master's report, that
may be made in any cause or proceeding depending or hereafter
to be brought or prosecuted in the said court of chancery ; nor
shall any fees be allowed or taxed for registering any such rule,
order, decree or report.
109. That it shall be the duty of the chancellor, from time
to time, to make such rules and orders to regulate pleadings and
practice in the court of chancery, as may, in his judgment,
render the practice and proceedings therein more efficient,
expeditious and simple, and prevent unnecessary cost and delay,
and that, for that purpose, he shall have full power to change
and regulate such pleadings and practice.
110. That execution may issue, without a revival of the
decree, at any time within twenty years from the date of such
decree ; -provided, the parties to the decree, or those of them
during whose lives execution may now issue without a revival,
be then living; and provided further, that if more than six years
have elapsed since the entering of the decree, a special order of
the court shall be necessary before the execution issue to be
made upon ten days' notice to the defendant of the application

CHANCERY.

81

therefore, and proof to the satisfaction of the court of the amount
remaining due upon the decree.
111. That in case of the sickness of the chancellor or his
temporary absence from the state, he may, by order filed with
the clerk, authorize such master in chancery as may be therein
named for that purpose, to grant and dissolve injunctions, and
perform such other duties of the chancellor as may be therein
designated, not including the final hearing and determination of
causes ; and all orders and acts of such master within the scope
of such authority, shall have the same force and effect as if
made and done by the chancellor in person.
. 112. That in all cases where property is or shall be held in
trust in another state, and any of the cestui que trusts for whose
benefit said property is or shall be so held in trust reside in this
state and desire the transfer of such trust property to this state,
the chancellor may, upon petition presented to him for that pur
pose, arid upon ten days' notice of the time of presenting said
petition having been given to all persons having a beneficial in
terest in the estate so held in trust, appoint a trustee for the pur
pose of receiving, holding and managing all such trust property
as may be transferred from such other state in accordance with
the laws thereof; and such trustee when so appointed, first hav
ing executed a bond to the chancellor in such an amount, and
with such surety or sureties as the said chancellor shall approve
of, conditioned for the faithful execution of the trust, shall have
all the powers and privileges and be subject to all the liabilities
incident to the original trust.
113. That hereafter in all suits and proceedings in the court
of chancery, instead of the retaining fee now allowed to counsel
bv statute, it shall be lawful for the chancellor on final decree to
allow and order paid to the counsel in the cause such sum as the
chancellor may consider justly warranted by the interests in
volved in the litigation and the services rendered, which allow
ance shall be included in the bill of taxed costs and collected
with the other items of said bill in the same manner that the re
taining fee has been heretofore ; and the retaining fee now al
lowed to counsel by statute shall not hereafter be allowed in the
cases herein provided for.
6

82

CHANCERY.
HE—Appeal*

114. That all persons aggrieved by any order or decree of
the court of chancery, may appeal from the same, or any part
thereof, to the court of errors and appeals ; and all appeals, ex
cept from final decrees, shall he made within forty days afterfiling the order or decree appealed from ; and all appeals from
final decrees in the said court shall be made within three yearsafter making such decree ; unless a notice of lis pendens has,- in.
the maimer hereinbefore provided for, been filed in the county
clerk's office, in which cases all appeals from final decrees shall
be made within three months after filing the decree appealed
from ; provided, that in cases where the person entitled to suck
appeal from any final decree be an infant, feme covert, or insane,,
he shall have three years to bring such appeal, after such disa
bility shall be removed.
IV— Vice Chancellor, bis Duties nnd Powers.
115. That there shall be a vice chancellor, who shall be aeounsellor-at-law of at least ten years' standing, who shall be ap
pointed by the chancellor, and commissioned by the governor,
under the great seal of the state, and who shall continue in office
for seven years from the date of the commission.
116. That the chancellor may refer to such vice chancellor
any cause or other matter which at any time may be pending in
the court of chancery, to hear the same for the chancellor, and
to report thereon to him and advise what order or decree should
be made therein ; and any matter or cause in which the chan
cellor is interested may be so referred.
117. That when any cause or matter shall be so referred tosuch vice chancellor, it shall be lawful for him to take and hear
the evidence of any or all witnesses in said cause or matter oral
ly, in the same manner as the evidence is now taken and heard
in the several courts of law in this state on trials before a jury ;
and if a report of the evidence so taken before him shall becomenecessary in the progress of said cause, for use on appeal from
the decree of the chancellor thereon or otherwise, then such vice
chancellor shall settle and sign such report.

CONVEYANCE.

88.

118- That it shall be lawful for such vice chancellor when
any cause or matter is so referred, to employ a competent steno
graphic reporter to take down the evidence of such witnesses
as may be examined before him, for the use of the court and the
parties in the cause or matter; and to fix, allow, and tax the
fees and compensation of such reporter for taking down and
writing out such evidence, and to apportion the same between
the parties in the same manner as the fees of examiners are ap
portioned ; and each party shall forthwith pay the part so ap
portioned to him, which shall be part of the taxable costs in the
cause.
119. That it shall be lawful for the chancellor, from time to
time, to divide the state into convenient districts, and appoint
times and places for the sitting of said vice chancellor for the
hearing of causes and matters referred to him, and to make all
such general rules for the effectual execution and carrying out
of this act as he shall deem necessary and proper.
120. That said vice chancellor shall not engage in the prac
tice of law as counsel or otherwise, in any of the courts ot this
state, and shall receive as a compensation for the performance of
the duties imposed upon him by this act, an annual salary of
five thousand dollars, to be paid quarterly, and also ten dollars
for every day actually engaged in the performance of such
duties, to be ascertained and certified by the chancellor, and to
be paid by the treasurer of the state with said salary quarterly.
Approved March 27, 1874.

CONVEYANCE.
AN ACT RESPECTING CONVEYANCES.
A—Ancient Conveyances.
Whereas, many ancient deeds for lands in this state are not,
and owing to the death or other disability of the grantors
and subscribing witnesses, cannot be acknowledged or
proved under existing laws, and those deriving title from or

112

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

COURTS-SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.
AN ACT RELATIVE TO THE SUPREME AND CIRCUIT
COURTS.
A—Supreme Court.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New-Jersey, That the supreme court shall consist of a
chief justice and six associate justices, and shall hold annually
three stated terms, commencing on the fourth Tuesday in Feb
ruary, and the first Tuesday in June and November, respective
ly ; and such special terms not exceeding two in any one year,
as the court may from time to time appoint.
2. That the said supreme court may be held by the chief
justice or any one of the said justices; and that every day of
each stated term, except Sunday, shall be a return day.
3. It shall be lawful for the justices of the supreme court, at
every term thereof, to designate in such way as to them may
seem proper, one or more of their number to sit during term
time in a separate apartment from that in which the regular
term is held, for the purpose of hearing and deciding all such
matters as by the rules of the said court, are or may be denomi
nated common business, whose decisions and judgments shall be
as good and effectual as if they had been rendered at the bar of
said court.
4. The chief justice or one of the justices of the supreme
court, before whom the circuit court in every county of this state
shall be held, shall try all issues which have been or shall be
joined in the supreme court, or in any other court and brought
into the supreme court to be tried, and which are or may be tri
able in the said county.
5. The chief justice and every justice in the supreme court
shall be and hereby is authorized and required, at the said cir
cuit court, to try such issues and take such inquests by default
or otherwise, as are or ought to be tried or taken in the said
court, to record nonsuits and defaults, to take assizes and to do

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

113

and execute all other matters and things which by law may or
ought to he done respecting the premises.
6. That the supreme court in term time, or any two justices
thereof in vacation, whenever in their opinion the ends of jus
tice and the public interest require it, may order a special cir
cuit court to be holden in any aounty in this state for the trial
of any indictment or indictments for murder or manslaughter
which have been or may be removed into the supreme court,
and which may require to be tried in the circuit court of such
county ; but such order shall designate the indictment or indict
ments to be tried at such special court, and whether to be tried
by a jury or juries of the county in which such special court is
to be held, or by a foreign jury or juries ; and upon the service
of a copy of such order upon the sheriff of said county, at least
twenty-five days before the time appointed for holding such spe
cial circuit, it shall be his duty to cause to be selected and to
summon in the manner directed by law, a sufficient number of
petit jurors to serve at such court, unless the indictment or in
dictments to be tried at such special court is or are to be tried
by a foreign jury or juries; and all qtroeess of venire and sub
poena made returnable thereat, shall be as good and effectual as
if the same were made returnable to a stated term of said court.
7. That in cases arising under the last preceding section,
foreign juries shall be obtained and special circuit courts held
upon such terms, and subject to such rules and regulations as
the supreme court shall from time to time order and direct.
8. The state shall be divided into seven judicial districts;
the first district shall include the counties of Cape May, Cum
berland, Salem and Atlantic; the second, the counties of Glou
cester, Camden and Burlington ; the third, the counties of Mer
cer, Hunterdon and Warren ; the fourth, the counties of Ocean,
Monmouth and Middlesex ; the fifth, the counties of Morris,
Sussex and Somerset; the sixth, the counties of Passaic, Bergen
and Hudson ; the seventh, the counties of Essex and Union.
9. The circuit court in each of the counties of the several
districts shall be held by the justice to whom such district has
* been or shall hereafter be assigned by the justices of the supreme
court ; provided, that if from sickness or any other cause he shall
8

114

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

be prevented from holding any said courts in his district, the samemay be held by any other of said justices ; and provided further,.
that a new assignment may be made whenever the business of
the courts may render it necessary.
10. The justices of the supreme court be and they are here
by authorized to appoint two -suitable persons as sergeant-atarms and criers of said courts, to hold their offices during the
pleasure of said court, whose duty it shall be to attend said court
during the several terms thereof, for which service they shall.
severally receive three dollars per day, for each day they shall
be in actual attendance upon said court, to be paid by the trea
surer, on the certificate of the chief justice or any other of the
justices of said court.
11. The chief justice, with the assent of two of the associate
justices, whenever in their opinion the ends of justice and the
public interest require it, may, at any time, in vacation, order
the supreme court to be convoked and held, upon a notice of
the time fixed for the meeting of the court, served not less thantwo days prior thereto, on each member of the court.
B- Circuit Courts.
12. The circuit courts in and for the several counties of this
state, shall be held by one or more of the justices of the supreme
court, at the times and places prescribed by law.
13. The justices of the supreme court shall be judges of said
circuit courts, and all writs and process issuing out of said cir
cuit courts shall be tested in the name of one of the judges of
said court, and be returnable therein; and the judgments en
tered in such circuit courts shall have the same force and effect,
when properly entered and recorded, as the judgments of the
courts of common pleas of the respective counties.
14. The said circuit courts, in all personal actions and causes
originally commenced therein, shall be regulated and governed
in their proceedings by the same laws as the courts of common
pleas now are ; and in all real and mixed actions originally com
menced, or personal actions removed therein, shall he regulated
and governed in their \ roceedings, as near as .may be, by the
same laws as the supreme court now is.

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

115

15. That the sheriffs, coroners, elisors and constafiles of the
several counties in this state, for the time heing, shall be the
ministerial officers of said circuit courts held within their
respective counties, and shall execute all writs, precepts and pro
cess issuing out of said courts, and to them directed and deliv
ered, and make true returns thereof, according to the command
in the same.
10. That the clerks of the several courts of common pleas
shall he the clerks of said circuit courts in their respective
counties, be entitled to the same fees and subject to the same
pains and penalties as are by law prescribed in relation to the
clerks of the courts of common pleas, except in real or mixed
actions, and personal actions removed into said circuit courts, by
certiorari ; in which the said clerks shall perform the same
duties and be entitled to the same fees as are by law prescribed
and allowed to the clerk of the supreme court.
17. If any justice of the supreme court, by whom any circuit
court or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery is
to be held, shall be prevented from attending on the day and at
the place, when and where any such court is to be commenced
and held, or on any day in the term, no process returnable to,
nor any recognizance entered into for the appearance of any
person at such courts respectively, nor any indictment, suit or
other proceeding depending therein, shall be thereby abated,
discontinued or avoided, but the same shall remain and be in
full force, as if such justice had opened and attended such
courts; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said courts
to cause the same to be opened by proclamation, in the usual
form ; and in case one of the justices of the supreme court shall
not attend during the day, then the clerk shall in like manner
adjourn the said courts to the next day, and so from day to day,
until one of the said justices shall be present, or until such
courts shall be adjourned for the term, as hereinafter is directed ;
which proceedings shall be regularly entered by the clerk in the
minutes of the said courts.
18. If the justice of the supreme court by whom any circuit
court, or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery,
is to be held, shall be prevented from attending on the day and

116

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

at the place when and where any such court is commenced, or
on any day during the term, the court of common pleas then
and there held may order the clerk, instead of proceeding as is
required by the preceding section, to adjourn said circuit court,
and court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, by
proclamation, to any subsequent day that shall be requested by
any justice of the supreme court in writing or otherwise, and to
enter said adjournment in the minutes of said circuit court, and
court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery ; all
suits, indictments, processes, orders, rules, recognizances, returns
of jurors and other proceedings pending in such courts shall be
continued to the time to which such adjournment shall be made,
without prejudice to any parties therein, and may then be pro
ceeded in according to law in the same manner as if such courts
had been regularly adjourned from day to day.
19. If no justice of the supreme court shall attend before
twelve o'clock on the third day of the term as fixed by law, or
at the time to which the court may have been adjourned, then
the clerk of the said court of oyer and terminer and general
jail delivery, and circuit court, shall cause the same, by procla
mation in the usual manner, to be adjourned to meet according
to law; and in such case all suits, actions, indictments, rules and
other proceedings pending in the said courts respectively, qxcept
such as may be tried in the court of general quarter sessions of
the peace, shall be continued and stand over to the next ensuing
term of the said courts without prejudice to any of the parties.
20. The circuit courts, or court of oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery, when sitting in and for any county in this
state may be adjourned over from any one day in term to any
subsequent day in the same term, whenever the public conve
nience and that of the members of the court may require or
justify such adjournment ; and in case of such adjournment, all
suits, indictments, processes, orders, rules, recognizances, and
other proceedings pending in such courts shall be continued to
the time to which said adjournment shall be made, without pre
judice to any of the parties therein, and may then be proceeded
in according to law, in the same manner as might have been

COURTS—SUPREME AND CIRCUIT.

117

done if such court or courts had been adjourned from day to
day.
21. In case the justice of the supreme court holding any cir
cuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, and general jail
delivery, shall be prevented from continuing to preside at such
court until the business thereof shall be finished, then it shall
and may be lawful for any other justice of the supreme court to
take his place and to proceed with the business of the said
courts, in the same manner as he might have done if he had
been present and presiding at the commencement of the term.
22. If at any time during the session of any circuit court, or
court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, the jus
tice of the supreme court holding and presiding at such court or
courts, shall be prevented from continuing to hold such court or
courts, and no other justice of the supreme court shall be at
hand to proceed with the business pending in such court or
courts, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such court or courts to
enter an adjournment for the term, or to any subsequent day in
the same term; and all suits, indictments and proceedings
remaining undisposed of, in such court or courts, shall be con
tinued and stand over to be tried and disposed of at the next
succeeding term of such court or courts, or at the time to which
said adjournment shall be made, without prejudice, except such
indictments as may be triable in the court of quarter sessions of
the peace, and which that court may thereupon proceed to try,
if they think proper so to do, in the same manner as they might
have done if a rule had been ordered by the court of oyer and
terminer and general jail delivery, that the same should be
handed down to the court of quarter sessions.
23. The chief justice or any justice of the supreme court
who shall hold any circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer
and general jail delivery in a county, whenever in his opinion
the ends of justice and the public interest require it, may in
term time of the courts in said county, order a special term of
said courts, or of either of them, to be held therein for the trial
of any causes or indictments then triable and remaining untried,
which may require to be tried in either of said courts, before the
next regular term thereof; and all suits, indictments, processes,

118

COURTS—ERRORS AND APPEALS.

orders, rules, recognizances and other proceedings, pending in
any of such courts, shall be continued over to such special term,
without prejudice to any of the parties therein, and may then be
proceeded in according to law.
24. The petit jurors summoned to attend at the regular term
of such courts shall attend and serve at the special courts ; and
notice of such special term shall be published in one or more of
the newspapers printed and circulated in the county, at least
once a week, from the date of the order to the opening of the
special term ; and in case no newspaper be printed in the
county, that then the said notice shall be published as aforesaid,
in one or more newspapers printed in an. adjoining county or
counties, as the court shall direct.
25. The sheriff or other officer of the county in which the
said circuit court is to be held, shall make return to the said
court of all writs and juries, with the panels and other matters
relative to the same, legally arrayed and executed.
26. The justices of the supreme court shall be ex-officio
judges of the inferior court of common pleas, and orphans'
court, and court of general quarter sessions of the peace, of the
several counties ; and the justice holding the circuit court in
any county, shall be the president judge of the court of common
picas, and court of general quarter sessions of the peace, and
orphans' court of said county.
Approved March 27, 1874.

COURTS-ERRORS

AND

APPEALS.

AX ACT RELATIVE TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND AP
PEALS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of tlie
State of Ncw-Jersey, That the court of errors and appeals shall
hold annually, at Trenton, three stated terms ; commencing on
the second Tuesday of March and third Tuesday of June and
^November respectively, and such special terms, not exceeding

COURTS—ERRORS AND APPEALS.

119

two in any one year, as the court may from time to time ap
point.
2. That if a sufficient number of members to constitute the
-court shall not attend on the first day of the term, it shall be
lawful for the members attending to adjourn from day to day
until a sufficient number shall attend, or to adjourn till the next
term, in which case the writs and processes then returnable, and
:all suits, pleadings, and proceedings depending before the court,
:shall be continued of course till such subsequent term.
3. That the chancellor, when present, shall be the president
of the court ; in case of his absence, the chief justice of the su
preme court ; and in case of his absence, the senior in office of
the justices of the supreme court who may be present.
4. That the oath of office and of allegiance may be adminis
tered to the president by any member, and by the president to
.each of the other members of the court.
5. That when a vacancy happens in the office of any of the
•six appointed judges of the court, before his term of office as
such judge has expired, his successor shall be appointed and
hold for the unexpired term only.
6. That the court shall have power to appoint, from time to
time, such subordinate officers, as may be necessary for the con
venient transaction of business, and to fix their compensation.
7. The compensation of the clerk of said court shall be the
sum of three dollars; that of the chancellor and of the justices
of the supreme court severally five dollars ; and that of the lay
judges, severally, eight dollars by the day for every day they
;shall respectively attend the court ; and the sum of one dollar
for every ten miles they shall travel in going to and returning
Jrom the place of holding the court, on the most usual route.
8. That the compensation aforesaid shall be paid by the trea
surer of the state, upon a certificate signed by the president of
the court.
9. That the reasons to be assigned by the chancellor for his
.decree, and by the justices of the supreme court, or by the
judges of the circuit court, for their judgment, shall be submit
ted in writing before the argument of the appeal or writ of error,
.as the case may be.

120

COURTS—ERRORS AND APPEALS.

10. That on pronouncing any judgment, order or decree,
either of affirmance or reversal, the opinion of this court, con
taining the reasons for such affirmance or reversal, shall be de
livered in writing.
11. That writs and processes issued out of this court, shall be
signed by the clerk and tested in the name of the president, and
may be made returnable at any of the stated terms of the court,
or at such time in vacation as the court may, by rule, from time
to time prescribe.
12. That writs of error to remove final judgments in any cir
cuit court, directly into this court, may be brought in the same
manner and subject to the same rules. as are now provided in
case of a writ of error to the supreme court.
13. That it shall be in the discretion of this court, in cases of
appeal from a decree or order of the chancellor, to award costs
or not.
14. That in cases of appeal from a decree or order of the
court of chancery, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
of chancery to deliver to the clerk of this court all the pleadings,
depositions, exhibits and papers which may have been filed in
his office, relating to the cause in which the appeal hath been
taken, and also the several orders and decree made in said cause,
instead of a transcript of the proceedings, giving the said clerk
of the court of chancery a receipt for the same ; which papers
shall be filed by the clerk of this court for the purpose of being
used at the hearing of such appeal.
15. That when a cause hath been decided by final decree or
order of this court, it shall be the duty of the clerk to return to
the clerk of the court of chancery all the papers which have
been received by him from the clerk of the court of chancery in
such cause, for which he shall take a receipt, together with a
copy of the order or decree of the court, which order or decree it
shall be the duty of the court of chancery to carry into effect ;
and it shall be the duty of the said clerks to file the said receipts
in their respective offices, for the benefit of the parties interested
in said papers.
16. That all causes depending in the court of appeals in the
last resort, at and immediately before the time when the present

CRIMES.

121

constitution went into operation, shall be continued, and further
proceedings therein may be had in the court of errors and ap
peals, established by said constitution ; and the said court of
errors and appeals may, from time to time, make rules and reg
ulations of practice, and alter, amend or revoke any rule of prac
tice, so as to obviate doubts, advance justice, and expedite suits;
provided, the same be not contrary to this act, the constitution of
this state or of the United States.
Approved March 27, 1874.

CRIMES.
AN ACT FOR THE PUNISHMENT OF CRIMES.
I.— CRIMES WHICH INVOLVE INJURY TO PUBLIC
SAFETY.
A—Oflences against the Commonwealth simply.
I.—Directly—Treason, Sedition and the like.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New-Jcrscy, That if any person or persons, owing alle
giance to this state, shall levy war against it, or shall adhere to its
enemies, or to the enemies of the United States by giving them
aid or comfort within this state or elsewhere, or by giving them
advice or intelligence by letters or writing of any kind, or by
messages, words, signs, or tokens, or in any way whatsoever
within this state or elsewhere, or by procuring for, or furnishing
to them, money, or any kind of provisions, arms, or warlike
stores within this state or elsewhere, or by bribery, or for re
ward, or promise thereof, or through favor, partiality or
treachery, yielding or surrendering to them, any town or fort
ress, castles, garrisons, troops, militia, citizen or citizens of this
state, or of the United States, or any ship, boat or vessel of this
state, or of the United States, or by giving them aid and comfort
in any other way, and shall be thereof convicted or attainted on

DISTRESS.

243

DISTRESS.
AN ACT CONCERNING DISTRESSES.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That all distresses made or taken, or to be
made or taken for any cause whatsoever, shall be reasonable
and not too great ; and if any person shall take great and un
reasonable distress or distresses, he or she shall answer the dam
ages to the party aggrieved.
2. That no person shall take any distress wrongfully, or cause
any distress to be driven or conveyed out of the county where
it shall be taken ; and every person who shall do so of his or
her own authority, and without judgment, shall answer the
damages to the party aggrieved.
3. That no person shall be distrained for any cause whatso
ever, by his or her beasts of the plough, or sheep, or by the im
plements of his or her trade, while other distress or chattels
whereof the debt or demand may be levied, or sufficient for the
same may be found ; except the distraining and impounding
beasts found on the ground of any person damage feasant.
4. That beasts, when they are distrained for any cause what
soever, shall be put in open pound in the township or precinct
where they shall be taken, and they to whom such beasts be
long, may give them their feeding without disturbance, so long
as they shall be impounded as aforesaid.
5. That no goods or chattels, distrained or taken by way of
distress for any cause whatsoever at one time, shall be im
pounded in several places, whereby the owner or owners of such
distress shall be constrained to sue several replevins for the de
livery of the said distress so taken at one time, upon pain that
every person offending therein shall, for every such offense, for
feit to the party grieved, forty dollars aud treble damages, to
be recovered by action of debt in any court of record where the
same shall be cognizable.

244

DISTRESS.

6. Whereas, the most usual and ready way for recovery of
arrears of rent is by distress, yet such distresses not being to be
sold, but only detained as pledges for enforcing the payment of
such rent, the persons distraining have little benefit thereby;
for remedy whereof, be it enacted, that where any goods or chat
tels shall be distrained for any rent reserved and due upon any
demise, lease, or contract whatsoever, and the tenant or owner
of the goods so distrained shall not, within ten days next after such
distress taken, and notice thereof, with the cause of such taking,
left at the chief mansion-house or other most notorious place on
the premises, charged with the rent distrained for, replevy the
same with sufficient security to be given to the sheriff, according
to law, that then in such case, after such distress and notice as
aforesaid and expiration of the said ten days, the person dis
training shall and may, on two days' notice to the tenant, with
the sheriff or undersheriff of the county, or with the constable
of the township, precinct, or place, where such distress shall be
taken (who are hereby required to be aiding and assisting therein),
cause the goods and-chattels, so distrained, to be inventoried
and appraised by three sworn appraisers (whom such sheriff,
undersheriff, or constable, are hereby empowered to summon for
that service, and to swear, well and truly to appraise the same,
at the true and intrinsic value thereof, according to the best of
their understanding), and after such inventory and appraisement
shall and may lawfully sell, at public vendue, the goods and
chattels so distrained (giving five days' public notice by adver
tising the articles to be sold, and the time and place of sale, in
at least three of the most public places in the township where
such distress shall be made), for the best price that can be gotten
for the same, towards satisfaction of the rent for which the said
goods and chattels shall be distrained, and of the charges of
such distress, appraisement, and sale, leaving the overplus, if
any, in the hands of such sheriff:', undersheriff, or constable for
the owner's use.
7. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons,
having rent in arrear and due upon any such demise, lease, or
contract as aforesaid, to seize and secure any sheaves, cocks, or
stacks of wheat, rye, buckwheat, barley, oats, Indian corn, or

DISTRESS.

245

other corn or grain, or wheat, rye, buckwheat, barley, oats, In
dian corn, or other corn or grain loose or in the straw, or flax,
hemp, or hay, iying or being in any barn, crib, or granary, or
upon any hovel, stack, rick, or barrack, or elsewhere, upon any
part of the laud charged with such rent, and to lock up or de
tain the same in the place where the same shall be found, for
and in the nature of a distress, until the same shall be replevied,
upon such security to be given as aforesaid; and in default of
replevying the same as aforesaid, within the time aforesaid, to
sell the same, after the appraisement thereof, in the manner as
above directed.
8. That it shall and may be lawful for all and every lessor
or landlord, lessors or landlords, or his, her, or their steward,
bailitf, receiver, or other person or persons empowered by him,
her, or them to take and seize as a distress for arrears of rent,
any of the goods and chattels of his, her, or their tenant or ten
ants, and not of any other person, although in possession of such
tenant or tenants, which may be found on the demised premises,
except such goods and chattels as are by law privileged from
distress ; and also any hogs, horses, cattle, or stock of his, her,
or their respective tenant or tenants, and not of any other per
son, although in possession of such tenant or tenants, feeding or
depasturing on the demised premises, or upon any common ap
pendant or appurtenant, or anyways belonging to all or any
part of the premises demised or holden ; and also to take or seize
all or any wheat, rye, buckwheat, barley, oats, Indian corn, or
other corn or grain, and grass, hops, roots, pulse, fruits, vege
tables, or other produce whatsoever, growing or being on the
premises or any part thereof, so demised or holden as a distress
for arrears of rent, and the same to cut, dig, pull, gather, make,
cure, carry, and lay up in some proper and convenient place on
the premises, and for want thereof in some other place to be
procured by such lessor or landlord, lessors or landlords (due
notice of such place being given to such tenant or lessee, or left
at his or her place of abode), and to appraise, sell, and dispose
of the same in the time and manner hereinbefore directed ; pro*
vided always, that it shall not be lawful for any lessor or land
lord, at one time to distrain for more than one year's rent in

246

DISTRESS.

arrear, and that such distress must be made within six months
after the same shall become due ; or where the rent is payable
in instalments, then within six mouths after the year's rent
shall have become due.
9. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons,
lawfully taking any distress for any kind of rent, to impound or
otherwise secure the distress so made, of what nature or kind
soever it may be, in such place or on such part of the premises
as shall be most convenient for the purpose, and to appraise,
sell, and dispose of the same upon the premises, in like manner
as any person taking a distress for rent may do off the premises
by virtue of this act ; and it shall and may be lawful to aud for
any person or persons whatsoever, to come and go to and from
such place or part of the premises, where any distress for rent
shall be impounded or secured as aforesaid, in order to view,
appraise, and buy, and also to carry off or remove the same on
account of the purchaser thereof.
10. That if any pound-breach or rescous shall be made of any
goods, chattels, or other things distrained for rent and im
pounded or otherwise secured by virtue of this act, the persou
or persons aggrieved thereby, shall in a special action upon the
case for the wrong thereby sustained, recover his, her, or their
treble damages and costs of suit against the offender or offenders
or any of them, in any such rescous or pound-breach, or against
the owner of the goods distrained in case the same be afterwards
found to have come into his or her use or possession.
11. Provide! always, That in case any such distress and sale as
aforesaid shall be made by virtue or color of this present act,
for rent pretended to be in arrear and due, where in truth no
rent is in arrear or due to the person or persons distraining, or
to him or them in whose name or names or right such distress
shall be taken as aforesaid, that then the owner of such goods
or chattels distrained and sold as aforesaid, his or her executors
or administrators shall and may, by action of trespass or upon
the case, to be brought against the person or persons so distraining or any of them, his, her, or their executors or administra
tors, recover double of the value of the goods or chattels so dis
trained and sold, together with full costs of suit.

DISTRESS.

247

12. That where any distress shall be made for any kind of
rent justly due and any irregularity or unlawful act shall be
afterwards done by the party or parties distraining, or by his,
her or their agent or agents, the distress itself shall not be there
for deemed to be unlawful, nor the party or parties making it
be deemed a trespasser or trespassers ab initio ; but the party or
parties aggrieved by such unlawful act or irregularity shall and
may recover full satisfaction for the special damage which he,
she or they shall have sustained thereby and no more, in an ac
tion of trespass, or on the case, at the election of the plaintifff or
plaintifffs ; provided, that where the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall
recover in such action, he, she or they shall be paid his, her or
their full costs of suit, and have the like remedies for the same
as in other cases of costs ; and provided also, that no tenant or
tenants, lessee or lessees shall recover in any action for such un
lawful act or irregularity as aforesaid, if tender of amends hath
been made by the party or parties distraining, his, her or their
agent or agents, before such action brought.
13. That in all actions of trespass or upon the case, to be
brought against any person or persons entitled to rents or ser
vices of any kind, his, her or their bailiff or receiver, or other
person or persons, relating to any entry by virtue of this act, or
otherwise, upon the premises chargeable with such rents, or to
any distress or seizure, sale or disposal of any goods or chattels
thereupon, it shall and may be lawful to and for the defendant
or defendants in such actions to plead the general issue and give
the special matter in evidence ; and in case the plaintifff or plain
tiffs shall become nonsuit, discontinue his, her or their action, or
have judgment against him, her or them, the defendant or de
fendants shall recover double costs of suit.
14. That if any tenant or tenants, lessee or lessees, for life or
lives, term of year or years, at will, sufferance, or otherwise, of
any messuage, lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall convey
away or carry off or from such premises, his, her or their goods
or chattels, leaving the rent or any part thereof unpaid, it shall
and may be lawful to and for every landlord or lessor, landlords
or lessors, or any person or persons by him, her or them for that
purpose lawfully empowered, within the space of thirty days

248

DISTRESS.

next after such conveying away or carrying off such goods or
chattels as aforesaid, to take and seize such goods and chattels
wherever the same shall he found as a distress for the said
arrears of rent, and the same to sell or otherwise dispose of, in
such manner as if the said goods and chattels had actually heen
distrained by such lessor or landlord, lessors or landlords, in and
upon such premises for such arrears of rent; provided always,
that no landlord or lessor or other person entitled to such arrears
of rent, shall take or seize any such goods or chattels as a dis
tress for the same, which shall he sold bona fide, or for a val
uable consideration, before such seizure made to any person not
privy to such fraud as aforesaid. This section shall extend to
all cases where rent shall have accrued and shall be unpaid, upon
any demise or contract hereafter made, although by the terms
thereof the rent shall not be payable.
15. And to deter tenants from such conveying away their
goods and chattels, leaving the rent unpaid, and others from
willfully aiding or assisting there'n, or concealing the same, be it
further enacted, that if any such tenant or lessee shall remove
and convey away bis or her goods or chattels as aforesaid, or if
any person or persons shall willfully and knowingly aid or assist
any such tenant or lessee in conveying away or carrying off any
part of his or her goods or chattels, or in concealing the same,
all and every person or persons so offending shall forfeit and pay
to the landlord or landlords, lessor or lessors, his, her or their
heirs or assigns, from whose estate such goods and chattels were
so carried off' as aforesaid, double the value of the goods or chat
tels by him, her or them respectively carried off or concealed as
aforesaid, to be recovered by action of debt in any court of
record.
16. That where any goods or chattels, conveyed or carried
away as aforesaid, by any tenant or tenants, lessee or lessees,
his, her or their servant or servants, agent or agents, or other
person or persons assisting therein, shall be put, placed or kept
in any house, barn, stable, out-house, yard, close, or place locked
up, fastened or otherwise secured, so as to prevent such goods or
chattels from being taken and seized as a distress for arrears of
rent, it shall and may be lawful to and for the landlord or laud

DISTRESS.

249

lords, lessor or lessors, his, her or their heirs or assigns, or his,
her or their steward, bailiff, receiver or other person or persons
empowered to take and seize, as a distress for rent such goods
and chattels, first calling to his, her or their assistance the con
stable or one of the constables or other peace officer of the town
ship, precinct or place where the same shall be suspected to be
concealed, who are hereby required to aid and assist therein,
and in case of a dwelling-house (oath being also first made be
fore some justice of the peace, of a reasonable ground to suspect
that such goods and chattels are therein) in the daytime, to
break open and enter into such house, barn, stable, out-house,
yard, close or place, and to take and seize such goods and chat
tels for the said arrears of rent, as he, she or they might have
done by virtue of this act, if such goods and chattels had been
put in any open field or place.
17. That it shall and may be lawful to and for any person or
persons having any rent in arrear and due upon a lease for term
of life or lives, year or years, or at will, ended or determined, to
distrain for such arrears after the determination of the said re
spective leases, in the same manner as they might have done if
such lease or leases had not been ended or determined ; provided,
that such distress be made within the space of six calendar
months after the determination of such lease, and during the
continuance of such landlord's title or interest, and during the
possession of the tenant from whom such arrears became due;
or if the landlord's title and interest shall have ceased, or the
tenant shall have removed from the leasehold premises, then
within thirty days after the end and determination of such term
or tenancy.
18. That if any person who now hath or hereafter shall have
any rents or fee-farms, for term of life or lives, of any other
person or persons, and the said rent or fee-farm now be or here
after shall be due, and behind and unpaid, in the life of such
person or persons, for whose life or lives the estate of the said
rent or fee-farm did depend or continue, and after the said person
or persons do die, then he or she, unto whom the said rent or
fee-farm was due, his or her executors or administrators, shall
and may have an action of debt against the tenant in demesne,
17

250

DISTRESS.

who ought to have paid the same when it was first due, his or
her executors or administrators ; and also may distrain for the
same arrearages upon the lands and tenements, out of which
the said rents or fee-farms were issuing and payable, in the like
manner and form, as he or she ought or might have done, if
the person or persons by whose death the aforesaid estate in the
said rents and fee-farms was determined and expired, were in
full life, and the avowry for the taking of the same distress to
make in manner and form aforesaid, and make appraisement
and sale of such distress in manner aforesaid.
19. That if any man who now hath or hereafter shall have in
the right of his wife, any estate in fee-simple, fee-tail or for term
of life, of or in any rents or fee-farms, and the same rents or feefarms now be or hereafter shall be due, behind, and unpaid, in
the lifetime of the said wife, then the said husband, after the
death of his said wife, his executors or administrators, shall
have an action of debt for the said arrearages, against the tenant
of the demesne, who ought to have paid the same, his or her
executors or administrators; and also, that the said husband,
after the death of his said wife, may distrain for the said ar
rearages, in like manner and form, as he might have clone if his
wife had been then living, and for the same distress make avowry
upon his matter aforesaid, and make appraisement and sale of
such distress in the manner aforesaid.
20. And whereas, by the common law, the executors or ad
ministrators of tenants in fee-simple, tenants in fee-tail, and
tenants for term of life, of rent-service, rent-charge, rent-seek,
and fee-farms, have no remedy to recover such arrearages of the
said rents or fee-farms, as were due unto their testators or intes
tates in their lives, nor may the heirs of such testator, nor any
person having the reversion of his or her estate after his or her
decease, distrain or have any lawful action to levy any such ar
rears of rents or fee-farms ; for remedy whereof, be it enacted,
that the executors or administrators of any such person or pereons, unto whom any such rent or fee-farm is or shall be due,
and not paid at the time of his, her, or their death, shall and
may have an action of debt for all such arrearages against the
tenant or tenants, who ought to have paid the said rent or fee

DISTRESS.

251

farm, so being behind in the life of the testator or intestate, or
against the executors or administrators of such tenant or ten
ants ; that it shall be lawful for every such executor or admin
istrator of any such person or persons, unto whom such rent or
fee-farm is or shall be due, and not paid at the time of his, her,
or their death as aforesaid, to distrain for the arrearages of all
such rents and fee-farms, upon the lands, tenements, and here
ditaments which were, are, or shall be charged with the pay
ment of such rents or fee-farms, and chargeable to the distress
of the testator or intestate, so long as the said lands, tenements,
or hereditaments continue, remain, and be in the seisin or pos
session of the said tenant in demesne, who ought immediately
to have paid the said rent or fee-farm, so being behind, to the
said testator or intestate, in his or her lifetime, or in the seisin
or possession of any other person or persons claiming the said
lands, tenements, and hereditaments only by or from the said
tenant, by purchase, gift, or descent, in like manner and form as
the said testator or intestate might or ought to have done in
his or her lifetime ; and the said executors or administrators
shall, for the same distress, lawfully make avowry upon their
matter aforesaid, and make appraisement and sale of such dis
tress in the manner aforesaid.
21. That in all cases where the value of the goods and chat
tels distrained as aforesaid, shall not be found to be of the full
value of the arrears distrained for, the party to whom such ar
rears are or shall be due, his or her executors, administrators, or
legal representatives may, from time to time, distrain for the
residue of the said arrears ; provided, that such distress shall be
made within the time limited by this act.
22. When premises shall be underlet by any tenant, the under
tenant shall be liable to pay to the lessor or landlord the rent
which shall accrue, from and after notice in writing shall be
served for that purpose upon tljie said under tenant, or which
shall be unpaid by said under tenant at the time of such notice ;
and the lessor or landlord shall have all the remedy for the re
covery of the same, as is provided in this act ; provided, however,
that the rent to be paid by such under tenant shall in no case
exceed the amount agreed to be paid by the first tenant ; and

252

DISTRESS.

provided also, that in case a part of the premises shall be under
let, payment shall be required only for the part underlet to such
tenant, and at a rate proportioned to the rent agreed to be paid
by the first tenant or lessee.
23. That in all cases where any justice of the peace is or shall
be required- or empowered, by any law of this State, to issue a
warrant of distress for the levying of any penalty inflicted, or
any sum of money directed to be paid by such law, and no mode
pointed out for the disposal of such distress, it shall be lawful
for the justice granting such warrant, therein to order and di
rect the goods aud chattels, so to be distrained, to be sold and
disposed of within a certain time to be limited in such warrant,
so as such time be not less than four days, nor more than ten
days, unless the penalty or sum of money for which such dis
tress shall be made, together with the reasonable charges (to be
taxed by such justice), of taking and keeping such distress be
sooner paid ; and the officer making such distress, shall and
may deduct the reasonable charges of taking, keeping, and sell
ing such distress (to be taxed as aforesaid), out of the money
arising by such sale, and the overplus, if any, after such charges,
and also the said penalty or sum of money shall be satisfied and
paid, shall be returned, on demand, to the owher of the goods
so distrained ; and the officer executing such warrant shall show
the same to the person whose goods are distrained, and shall
suffer a copy thereof to be taken ; provided always, that this
clause shall not be construed to affect any law wherein the sale
of any distress made on account of any penalty, fine, or sum of
money directed to be paid, and the manner and time of such
sale, are by such law particularly provided for and ascertained.
24. That goods and chattels of every kind, not exceeding in
value (exclusive of wearing apparel) the sum of two hundred
dollars, and all wearing apparel the property of any tenant
having a family residing in this State, shall be reserved, as well
after as before the death of such tenant, for the use of his family,
and shall not be liable to be sold as, or for, a distress for rent, by
force of this act or of any usage or law of this State ; that from
the inventory of the goods appraised under the sixth section of
this act, such tenant, or in his absence, his agent, attorney, or

DISTRESS.

253

any member of his family, may select articles, the value of
which, according to said appraisement, shall not exceed two
hundred dollars ; and if such tenant, or a member of his family,
his agent or attorney, cannot readily be found, such selection
may be made by said appraisers ; and the goods so selected shall
be left for the use of the family of said tenant.
25. That in case the laudlord, his attorney or agent, shall not,
within two days after being served with a request in writing
from his tenant to proceed and have the distrained goods ap
praised in the manner directed in the sixth section of this act,
it shall be lawful for such tenant, after five days' notice thereof
to his said landlord, his attorney or agent, to apply to the sheriff
or to any constable of the county, and have the said goods in
ventoried and appraised in the manner appointed in said sixth
Bection ; and from such inventory and appraisement the goods
exempted for the use of the family of the tenant, may be select
ed, in the manner provided in the next preceding section, and
with like effect.
26. That the provisions contained in the next two preceding
sections shall apply to the case of under tenants.
27. That all sheriffs and constables in this State are hereby
required to be aiding in the execution of the next three preced
ing sections of this act ; and for such services they and the ap
praisers therein mentioned, shall be entitled to the same fees
that are provided for like services in the act entitled " An act
respecting executions."
Approved March 27th, 1874.

262

ERROR.

this act, and shall make an affidavit or affirmation that he or
she is not worth one hundred dollars clear estate, the chancellor
may, at his discretion, assign to such poor person a solicitor and
counsel learned in the law, to prosecute the said cause, who,
together with all other officers, shall perform their respective
duties therein without fee or reward.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

ERROR.
AN' ACT RESPECTING WRITS OF ERROR.
A.—WHEW AND TO WHAT COURTS ERROR LIES.
'1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That a writ of error shall not be granted or
issued in any case, until final judgment be rendered.
2. No writ of error shall be brought or allowed on any judg
ment that shall have been, or hereafter may be entered or
obtained, unless the same shall be had and done within three
years after the judgment rendered ; provided, that in cases where
the person entitled to such writ of error be an infant, feme
covert, or insane, he or she shall have three years to bring such
writ of error after such disability shall be removed.
3. Errors happening in the supreme court shall be heard, rec
tified, and determined by the court of errors and appeals.
4. It shall and may be lawful for the attorney-general, in be
half of this State, or for any party, his legal representative, or
other person who may be damnified or aggrieved by any judg
ment rendered or to be rendered in the supreme court, to sue
forth a writ of error, to be directed to the justices of the said
supreme court, commanding them to cause the record of such

ERROR.

263

judgment, and all things concerning the same, to be brought
before the court of errors and appeals.
5. All errors happeuing in any circuit court, shall be heard,
rectified, and determined, either by the supreme court or by the
court of errors and appeals, at the option of the party prosecut
ing such writ of error.
6. All errors happening in any court of common pleas, shall
be heard, rectified, and determined by the supreme court, which
is hereby declared to have jurisdiction of the same, and out of
which a writ for that purpose shall be issued at the instance of
the State, or of any party, his legal representative, or other per
son who may be damnified or aggrieved by any judgment ren
dered or to be rendered in any of the said courts of common pleas.

B.—HOW WRIT ISSUED AND RETURNED: ASSIGNMENT
OF ERRORS, ETC
7. The party prosecuting a writ of error, shall, without delay,
cause a transcript of the said record to be made, and the said
justices or judges to whom the said writ of error may be
directed, or any one of them, shall annex the said transcript to,
and indorse a proper return on the said writ, and return the
same under his or their signature ; and unless the said party
shall procure the said writ to be returned to the day to which
it is made returnable, or show good cause why it is not returned,
the said writ shall be null and void.
8. Writs of error to remove causes into the court of errors
and appeals, shall issue out of that court and under its seal, and
shall be dated as of the day on which it issues, and in the name
of the chancellor, chief justice, or any other judge of said court.
9. All writs of error may be made returnable either in term
time or in vacation, and shall be made returnable within such
time as the court whence they issue shall, by rule, from time to
time direct.
10. The plaintifff in error shall assign and file errors, and serve
a copy thereof on the defendant in error or his attorney, in
thirty days after the return of the writ, or be nonprossed, unless
the court shall grant further time ; and in such case the plaintifff

264

ERROR.

shall assign and file errors, and serve a copy of the same on the
defendant or his attorney within the time so granted, or be
nonprossed.
11. The defendant shall join in error within thirty days after
service of copy of said assignment of errors, and in default
thereof, said errors shall be taken as confessed, and the cause be
set down to be heard ex parte.
12. After joinder in error, the plaintifff in error shall notice the
case for argument at the next term ; such notice shall be served
at least twenty days before such intended argument ; if there be
not sufficient time between the joining of said issue and the
next term, then the argument shall be noticed for a special day
in term, or at the subsequent term, at the option of the plaintifff
in error. If the plaintifff fail to give such notice, or bring on
the argument at the time appointed, the judgment shall be
affirmed, unless the court, in its discretion, shall grant further
time.
C—WRIT WHEN A SUPERSEDEAS.
13. No execution shall be stayed or delayed by any writ of
error or supersedeas thereon, for the reversal of judgment in any
action of debt founded upon a prior judgment, or upon any single
or penal bill for the payment of money only, or upon any obliga
tion with condition for the payment of money only, or upon any
action of debt, or upon the case for rent, or upon any contract
sued in the supreme court or any other court of record, unless
the plaintifff in such writ of error, or other responsible person in
his behalf, with two sufficient sureties, to be approved and
allowed, shall first become bound to the party for whom such
judgment is given by recognizance, as hereinafter directed, in
double the sum adjudged to be recovered by the said judgment,
to prosecute the said writ of error with effect, and also to pay
and satisfy, if the said judgment be affirmed, all the debt or
debts, damages and costs, adjudged on the former judgment,
and all costs and damages to be awarded for the delay of
execution.
14. No execution shall be stayed or delayed in any of the
courts mentioned in the section next preceding, by any writ of

ERROR.

265

error or supersedeas thereon, after verdict and judgment on such
verdict in any personal action whatsoever, unless such recog
nizance as is prescribed in the preceding section shall be first
acknowledged, as hereinafter directed.
15. No execution shall be stayed or delayed by writ of error,
to be brought upon judgment after verdict in dower or in eject
ment- unless the plaintifff in such writ of error, or other re
sponsible person in his behalf, with two sufficient sureties as
aforesaid, shall first become bound by recognizance to the
plaintifff in the writ of dower or actiou of ejectment, in such
reasonable sum as the court or a judge thereof to which the
writ of error is directed shall think fit, with condition that if
judgment be affirmed on the said writ of error, or if the said
writ of error be discontinued by default of the plaintifff therein,
or if the said plaintifff be nonsuit in the said writ of error, that
then the said plaintifff shall pay such costs, damages, and sum
or sums of money as shall be awarded upon or after such judg
ment affirmed, discontinuance or nonsuit ; and to the end that
the same damages and sum or sums of money may be ascertained,
the court wherein execution ought to be granted, shall upon
such affirmation, discontinuance, or nonsuit, issue a writ to
inquire, as well of the mesne profits, as of the damages by any
waste committed after the first judgment in dower or in eject
ment ; and upon return thereof, judgment shall be given and
execution awarded for such mesne profits and damages, and also
for the costs of suit.
lti. The recognizance mentioned in the thirteenth and four
teenth sections of this act may be acknowledged, and the
sureties therein may be approved and allowed, either by the
court in which judgment is given, in open court, or by any
justice or judge thereof ; or in case the said judgment be rendered
in the supreme court or circuit court, before any one of the com
missioners appointed by the supreme court to take recognizances
of bail, and the recognizances so taken shall be filed in the court
in which judgment is given.
17. The recognizance mentioned in the fifteenth section of this
act may be acknowledged before any one of the justices or judges
of the court to which the writ of error is directed, at his
18

266

ERROR.

chambers, in such reasonable sum as such justice or judge shall
think fit ; and such recognizance wben so acknowledged, as
aforesaid, and filed in the said court, shall be as good and
effectual in law as if the same had been acknowledged in open
courtlS. When a writ of error shall be issued pursuant to the laws
of this State, directed to the supreme court, or to any circuit
court or court of common pleas, and presented to the court or
to the presiding judge thereof, such writ of error shall stay ex
ecution ; provided, the plaintifff in error shall within fifteen days
after judgment rendered, unless further time be granted by the
«ourt or presiding judge, file in the office of the clerk of said
court such recognizance of bail duly taken, as by law is or shall
be required.
19. It shall be lawful for the court of errors and appeals, or
for the supreme court, or for any justice of the supreme court,
upon good cause shown, and upon reasonable notice, to require in
any case in addition to the bail in error abovementioned, such
further security by recognizance, to be given by the plaintifff in
error, as may seem proper ; and unless such additional recogniz
ance, to be taken in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, shall be
given within the time appointed by the said court or justice,
then the writ of error in such case shall forthwith cease to be
a supersedeas.
20. When it is apparent to the court that The writ of error
is brought against good faith or for the mere purpose of delay,
or it is returnable of a term previous to the entry of final judg
ment, or special bail, when requisite, is not put in and perfected
in due time, it shall not be a supersedeas or stay of execution ;
provided always, the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth sec
tions of this act shall not extend to any writ of errror to be
brought by any executor or administrator, nor to any action
popular, or action on any penal statute, nor to any indictment,
presentment, inquisition, or information.
Approved Mnreh 27th, 1874.

EVIDENCE.

267

EVIDENCE.
AN ACT CONCERNING EVIDENCE.
A.—WITNESSES.
I.—Competency and Examination of.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That no person offered as a witness in any
action or proceeding of a civil or criminal nature, shall be ex
cluded by reason of his having been convicted of crime, but
such conviction may be shown on the cross-examination of the
witness, or, by the production of the record thereof, for the pur
pose of affecting his credit.
2. In all civil actions in any court of record in this State, the
parties thereto shall be admitted to be sworn and give evidence
therein, when called as witnesses by the adverse party in such
action ; and when any party is called as a witness by the opposite
party, he shall be subject to the same rules as to examination
and cross-examination as other witnesses ; provided, that no party
to a suit shall be compelled to be sworn or give evidence in any
action brought to recover a penalty or to enforce a forfeiture ;
and provided, also, that this section shall not apply to suits for
divorce.
3. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in any suit or
proceedings at law or in equity by reason of his or her interest
in the event of the same as a party or otherwise, but such inter
est may be shown for the purpose of affecting his or her credit;
provided nevertheless, that no party shall be sworn in any case
when the opposite party is prohibited by any legal disability
from being sworn as a witness, or either of the parties in a cause
sue or are sued in a representative capacity, except as hereinafterprovided.
4. A party to a suit in a representative capacity may be ad

268

EVIDENCE.

mitted as a witness therein, and if called as a witness in his
own behalf, and admitted, the opposite party may in like manner
be admitted as a witness.
5. In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action, or proceeding in
any court, or before any person having by law or consent of par
ties authority to examine witnesses or hear evidence, the hus
band or wife of any person interested therein as a party or
otherwise, shall be competent and compellable to give evidence
the same as other witnesses, on behalf of any party to such suit,
action, or proceeding ; provided, that nothing herein shall render
any husband or wife competent or compellable to give evidence
for or against the other in any criminal action or proceeding, or
in any action or proceeding for divorce on account of adultery
except to prove the fact of marriage, or in any action for crimi
nal conversation ; nor shall any husband or wife be compellable
to disclose any confidential communication made by one to the
other during the marriage.
6. The complainant or petitioner, in any action or proceeding
of an equitable nature in any court, shall be a competent witness
to disprove so much of the defendant's answer as may be respon
sive to the allegations contained in the bill of complaint or peti
tion, and any defendant in any such action or proceeding shall
be a competent witness for or against any other defendant not
jointly interested with him in the matter in controversy.
7. Upon the trial of any indictment for falsely making, alter
ing, forging, or counterfeiting, or for uttering or publishing as
true any record, deed, or other instrument or writing, no person
named in such record, deed, or other instrument or writing, or
whose name, or any part of whose name, is or purports to be
written or signed therein or thereto, shall on that account be
deemed or taken to be an incompetent witness.
8. Upon the trial of any indictment, allegation, or accusation
of any person charged with crime, the person indicted or ac
cused shall be admitted to testify as a witness upon such trial,
if he shall offer himself as a witness therein in his own behalf.
9. The interest of a witness in the event of the action or pro
ceeding, or his conviction of a crime, may be proved by an ex

EVIDENCE.
amination of such witness or otherwise, and his answers upon
such examination may be contradicted by other evidence.
10. A witness shall not. be excused from answering any ques
tions relevant and material to the issue ; provided, the answers
will not expose him to a criminal prosecution or penalty, or to
a forfeiture of his estate.
11. When a party to any civil action in any court of record
in this State shall be entitled by law to be examined as a wit
ness in his own behalf, or to examine as a witness any adverse
party therein, it shall be lawful to obtain such testimony by
commission or examination de bene esse, or in any other way
that other witnesses may be examined in such suits, and the at
tendance of such party may be compelled by the same process
as is authorized in the case of other witnesses ; provided, that
nothing in this section shall compel any party to be examined
as a witness in any case where he cannot now be compelled by
law to be so examined.
12. In case of a new trial of any civil action, wherein the par
ties have been examined as witnesses, if either party shall have
died since the former trial, and the action shall have been -duly
revived, and proceeded with at the suit of, or against the legal
repre entatives of such deceased party, the surviving party, and
also such legal representative shall be competent witnesses on
such new trial, and the testimony of such deceased party on the
former trial of said action may also be proved and admitted on
the new trial thereof.

II.—Process for—Privilege.
13. If any person on whom lawful process shall have been
duly served to testify, depose, or give evidence concerning any
cause or matter pending in any court of this State, and to whom
shall have been paid or tendered at the time of such service,
fifty cents, if he is to attend in the county, and one dollar, if he
is to attend out of the county, shall not appear according to the
command of said process, having no lawful or reasonable excuse
for such default, he shall, for every such offense, forfeit to the
party aggrieved any sum not exceeding fifty dollars, to be ascer

EVIDENCE.

270

tained and adjudged by the court in which he may be subpoenaed
to attend, and shall also pay to the said party damages equiva
lent to the loss sustained by the want of his evidence, to be re
covered by action of trespass on the case, with costs, and shall,
in addition thereto, be punishable as for a contempt of the
court out of which such process shall issue.
14. Every circuit court, court of oyer and terminer and gen
eral jail delivery, court of common pleas, court of general quarter
sessions of the peace, and orphans' court, is hereby authorized
to issue process of subpoena requiring the attendance of a wit
ness who resides in any part of this State, out of the jurisdic
tion of the said court, to give evidence in any cause or matter
pending in the said court ; and every person who shall be duly
served with such subpoena, shall attend at the time and place
therein mentioned, under the same penalties, and shall be liable
to the same action which he would have incurred or have been
liable to in case of non-attendance, if he had been within the
jurisdiction of the said court at the time of the service of the
said subpoena.
15: Every witness shall be privileged from arrest in all civil
actions, and no other, during his necessary attendance at any
court or other place where his attendance shall have been re
quired by subpoena previously and duly served, and in going to
and returning from the same, allowing one day for every thirty
miles from his place of residence ; any arrest made in violation
of the privilege in this section shall be a contempt of the court
out of which the subpoena issued, and the said court or any
judge thereof may by an order forthwith discharge such witness
from arrest.

B

EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES.

16. In any action upon an)' instrument in writing, under seal,
the defendaut in such action may plead and set up as a defense
therein, fraud in the consideration of the contract upon which
recovery is sought, as fully and to all intents and purposes as if
such instrument were not under seal.
17. In any suit upon a foreign judgment, or a judgment of

EVIDENCE.

271

any court out of this State, the defendant, or person sought to
be affected by such judgment, may show that the defendant
therein was not summoned, did not appear, or was not within
the jurisdiction of such foreign court, notwithstanding it may
be recited in the record of such proceedings that he was sum
moned or did appear, or was within the jurisdiction of such
court ; and such recital shall not conclude said defendant, or
estop him from proving that the same is not true.
18. The omission to plead plene administravit or plene administravit prseter by executors or administrators in actions brought
against them in their representative capacity, shall not be held
to be conclusive evidence of a devastavit ; and in any action
brought against them upon any judgment suggesting a devas
tavit, where such judgment was to be made and levied of the
goods and chattels of the testator or intestate, executors or ad
ministrators may show that they have not eloigned, wasted and
converted, and disposed of to their own use said goods and
chattels, and that they duly administered the estate of their
testator or intestate, notwithstanding the omissiou by them to
plead either of said pleas in the original action against them ;
provided, that notice of their intention to offer such evidence
be given to the plaintifff twenty days before the trial of the
action upon such judgment.
19. In all case's where the genuineness of any signature or
writing is in dispute, comparison of the disputed signature or
writing with any writing proved to the satisfaction of the court
to be genuine, shall be permitted to be made by witnesses ; and
such writings and the testimony of witnesses respecting the
same, may be submitted to the court or jury as evidence of the
genuineness or otherwise of the signature or writing in dispute;
provided nevertheless, that where the handwriting of any person
is sought to be disproved by comparison with other writings
made by him, not admissible in evidence in the cause for any
other purpose, such writings, before they can be compared with
the signature or writing in dispute, must if sought to be used
before the court or jury by the party in whose handwriting they
are, be proved to have been written before any dispute arose as
to the genuineness of the signature or writing in controversy.

272

EVIDENCE.

20. The certificate of a notary public of this State, or of any
other State or Territory of the United States, under his hand and
official seal, accompanying any bill of exchange or promissory
note which has been protested by such notary for non-acceptance
or non-payment, shall be received in all the courts of this State
as competent and conclusive evidence of the official character
of said notary, and also of the facts therein certified as to the
presentment and dishonor of such bill or note, and of the time
and manner of giving or sending notice of dishonor to the par
ties to such bill or note ; provided, that the party offering the
same shall have annexed a copy of such certificate to his decla
ration, demand, or other pleading ; provided nevertheless, that if
the opposite party shall give notice with his plea or other plead
ing, or when the action is brought in the court for the trial of
small causes, by filing a notice on the return day of the sum
mons or the day after, that he intends to dispute the fact of due
presentment or notice of dishonor, then such certificate shall
not be made evidence by this section, but the facts necessary to
fix the liability of such party shall be established by proof as
heretofore.
.,
21. In any prosecution for a libel, either against the govern
ment of this State, or any of the officers thereof, or against
any other person, it shall be lawful for the defendant, upon the
trial of the cause, to give in evidence in his defense, the truth
of the matter charged in the indictment, any law, usage, or cus
tom to the contrary notwithstanding.
22. The printed statute-books and pampfilet session laws of
any of the United States, printed and published by the direc
tion or authority of such State, shall be received as evidence
of the public laws of such State, in any court of this State ; and
the court may determine whether any book or pampfilet, offered
as such, was so printed- or published, either from inspection or
the knowledge of the judge or judges, or from testimony; and
no error shall be assigned for the rejection of any book or pamph
let, offered as such, unless it be proved oh error that such book
or pampfilet is received as a statute-book or pampfilet contain
ing the session laws of said State, in the courts of such State
whose statute-book or pampfilet containing the session laws, it

EVIDENCE.

273

purports to be ; nor shall any error assigned for the admission
of such book or pampfilet be sustained, unless it be shown in
support thereof, that the statute offered in evidence, or some ma
terial part thereof, was not in force in such State at the time of
the transaction or matter to which it was offered as pertinent
or material.
23. The reports of the judicial decisions of other States and
countries may be judicially noticed by the courts of this State,
as evidence of the common law of such States or countries and
of the judicial construction of the statutes, or laws thereof, and
the usual printed books of such reports shall be plenary evidence
of such decisions.
V.—INSPECTION OP PROPERTY.
24. In any case in which it shall appear to the court or a judge
that an inspection or examination of any premises or chattels in
the possession or under the control of either party, in respect of
which, or some right in, or injury from or to which the action
shall be brought, would aid in ascertaining the truth of any
matter in dispute between the parties in the action, it shall be
lawful for the court or a judge, to order that the party in whose
possession, or under whose control such property shall be, shall
permit an inspection and examination of the said premises or
chattels, by the jury or by the opposite party, or by such per
sons as he shall name as witnesses, at such times and under such
regulations as the court or judge may prescribe; which said in
spection or examination may be ordered by the court or judge,
either before or during the progress of the trial.
*
».—DEPOSITIONS.
I.—Of Witnesses within the State.
25. If any material witness in an action or suit of a civil
nature in any of the courts of this State, be in this State, but
is ancient or very infirm, or is sick, or is about to go out of this
State, then the deposition of such witness may, at the option of

274

EVIDENCE.

either party, be taken de bene esse before any justice of the su
preme court, or judge of the court of common pleas, or supreme
court commissioner, or master in chancery ; provided, that the
officer before whom the deposition is to be taken, shall cause
notice to be given to the adverse party immediately, or at such
short day as the case, in the opinion of the said officer, may re
quire, to attend and be present at the taking thereof, and to put
questions and cross-examine, if he shall think fit.
26. Any material witness of the description aforesaid, being
in this State, may be compelled to appear and be examined be
fore any of the said officers, in the same manner and under the
same penalties as if subprenaed to appear and testify in the court
wherein the said action is pending; and shall be allowed com
pensation for his time and attendance at the same rate as if be
had personally appeared and given testimony in the cause be
fore the court in which it is pending.
27. Every person deposing as aforesaid, shall be sworn or af
firmed to testify the whole truth, and shall subscribe the testi
mony by him given, after the same shall be reduced to writing,
which shall be done only by the officer taking the deposition, or
by the deponent in his presence ; and the deposition so taken
shall be retained by such officer until he deliver the same, to
gether with a certificate of the reasons of its being taken, and
of the notice, if any was given, to the adverse party, with his own
hand to a judge or the clerk of the court for which it is taken ;
or the said deposition and certificate shall be by the said officer
sealed up, directed, and transmitted either by mail or private
messenger, to such judge or clerk, who shall open and immedi
ately file the same, in the office of the said clerk, there to re
main as of record.
28. The person by whom such deposition shall be transmitted
to the judge or clerk, as authorized in the preceding section,
shall make oath or affirmation that he received the same sealed
up from the hands of the officer by whom it was taken, desig
nating the time and place, when and where received, and that
the same has not been opened or altered since he so received it.

EVIDENCE.

275

II.—Of Witnesses residing out of the State.
29. If a material witness in any action or proceeding of a
civil nature in any of the courts of this State reside out of this
State, it shall be lawful for the court in which such action or
proceeding is pending, or for any judge thereof, in term or va
cation, on affidavit or proof thereof to the satisfaction of the
said court or judge, and on such terms as the court or judge
may direct, to award and issue, under the seal of the court, a
commission to such person or persons, as the court or judge may
think fit, authorizing such person or persons, or any two or
more of such persons, to examine de bene esse the said witness
on oath or affirmation.
30. The name of every witness, to be examined by virtue of
such commission, shall be inserted in the said commission ; and
the interrogatories for the examination of such witness shall be
drawn and signed by the parties or their attorneys, or counsel
in the cause in which the testimony is to be used, or such of
them as shall request the said commission, and be approved of
by the court or one of the judges thereof, and shall be annexed
to the commission ; and each party shall be at liberty, with the
approbation of the said court or judge, to insert in the said in
terrogatories such questions as he or she may think proper or
necessary.
31. A party intending to apply for a commission to examine
a witness or witnesses in any cause, shall give eight days' no
tice of such application, and of the name or names of the wit
ness or witnesses to be examined, and of the place of his, her, or
their residence, and also of the name or names of the person or
persons whom the party applying intends to nominate as com
missioner or commissioners ; and shall serve therewith a copy of
the interrogatories intended to be annexed to the said commis
sion, in order that the adverse party may examine the same
and submit cross interrogatories if he think proper.
The notice mentioned in this section shall be served on the
attorney or solicitor, when the party appears by attorney or
solicitor.
32. The issuing of the commission may be ordered and the

276

EVIDENCE.

interrogatories may be approved upon shorter notice than is di
rected by the foregoing section, by consent of parties, or upon
matter being made to appear to the said court or judge to ex
cuse the want of full notice, and that shorter notice is necessary
to prevent delay.
33. The commissioner or commissioners appointed under this
act, or under the general power or authority of the court of
chancery, or such of them as shall act, shall, before they enter
upon their duties, take an oath or affirmation faithfully, fairly,
and impartially to execute the said commission, which oath or
affirmation may be taken before any person lawfully authorized
to administer an oath or affirmation in the State, territory, or
kingdom, where the said commissioner or commissioners reside
or may be at the time.
34. The said commissioner or commissioners shall and may
examine every witness named in the said commission, or such as
can be met with, upou the interrogatories aunexed to the said
commission, on oath or affirmation, to be administered to each
and every witness by the said commissioner or commissioners,
and cause the examination of each witness to be reduced to
writing and signed by such witness ; and the said commissioner
or commissioners shall also sign the same.
35. The said commissioner or commissioners shall aunex such
examination to the said commission, and close the same up under
the hand and seal of the said commissioner, or under the hands
and seals of the said commissioners, or any two of them, and
direct the same to the chancellor or judges of the court out of
which the same issued, at the place of holding the said court ;
and may place the same in any post-office, certifying thereon
the time when, and the post-office in which the same may be so
placed ; and the chancellor, or any one of the judges of the court
out of which the said commission issued, or the clerk of the said
court, may take the same out of the post-office in which it may
be found in this State, and open the same, and indorse thereon
when and how he received it; and the said chancellor, judge, or
clerk shall immediately file the said commission and return in
the office of the clerk of the court out of which the said com
mission issued, there to remain as a record.

EVIDENCE.

277

36. If it shall be more convenient for the party in the said
commission, his attorney or agent, to receive the said commission
and return closed up and directed as aforesaid, from the hands
of the said commissioner or commissioners, it shall be lawful for
him so to do, and he shall thereupon deliver the same to the
chancellor, or one of the judges or the clerk of the court, out of
which the same issued, making oath or affirmation that he re
ceived the same sealed up from the hands of the said commis
sioner or commissioners, designating the time and place when
and where received, and that the same has not been opened or
altered since he received it; and the said chancellor, judge, or
clerk shall thereupon indorse and file the said commission and
return, and the said affidavit, as directed in the preceding sec
tion of this act.
37. Where a commission issued by virtue of this act shall be
executed in any foreign state, nation, or kingdom, such commis
sion and the return thereto, closed up and directed as aforesaid,
may be transmitted to the party on whose application such com
mission issued, his agent or attorney in the United States ; and
the person to whom the packet containing the said commission
and return shall be transmitted as aforesaid, may deliver the
same to the chancellor, or one of the judges, or the clerk of the
court out of which the commission issued, making oath or affir
mation when and how he received it, and that the same has not
been opened or altered since he received it, and that he verily
believes that it has not been opened or altered since it was closed
up and sealed as aforesaid; and the said chancellor, judge, or
clerk, being satisfied that it has not been opened or altered since
it was closed up and sealed as aforesaid, shall open the same,
and indorse thereon when and how he received it, and shall im
mediately file the said commission and return, and the said affi
davit, in the office of the clerk of the court out of which the
said commission issued, there to remain as a record.
38. Either party in a civil cause desiring the testimony of any
witness who resides out of this State, may, instead of taking his
testimony by commission, take the testimony of such witness
de bene esse before any judge of any supreme, circuit, or district
court, or court of common pleas, of the State where such witness

278

EVIDENCE.

is, or before any commissioner of deeds appointed by the'governor of this State, resident in the State where such witness is, or
before a commissioner specially appointed for that purpose by
the court in which such action is pending, or any judge thereof ;
provided, that notice in writing of the time aud place of such
examination, and of the names of the witnesses to be examined
shall be given to the adverse party, his attorney or solicitor, that
he may be present and put interrogatories if he shall see fit,
which notice shall be served, allowing time for attendance after
service, not less than at the rate of one day (Suudays excluded),
for every fifty miles of travel ; provided also, that in all cases at
least ten days' notice, exclusive of Sundays, shall be given; and
provided further, that in cases where such testimony is desiredto be taken of witnesses residing in any foreign state or king
dom, or in any State or Territory of the United States, situate
upon the Pacific Ocean, so many days' notice shall be given as
shall be directed by the court in which said cause shall be pend
ing, or any judge thereof, at chambers; the officer taking such
testimony shall first take an oath or affirmation fairly and im
partially to take the same, before some person authorized to ad
minister an oath in the State, Territory, or kingdom where he
shall reside; the testimony of such witness shall be taken on oath
or affirmation, administered according to the law of this State,
upon interrogatories to be then and there put by the parties, or
either of them, or any person authorized in their behalf, and
such interrogatories and the answers thereto, shall be reduced
to writing by the officer taking such testimony, and shall be
subscribed in his presence by the deponent ; and thereupon the
same shall be certified, sealed up, indorsed, directed, and for
warded, as is required in case of depositions taken under the
twenty-ninth section of this act.
39. The provisions of this act in relation to the examination
of witnesses by deposition shall apply to any proceeding in the
court of chancery, supreme court, circuit court, court of com
mon pleas, or orphans' court, wherein the testimony of witnesses
may be required as the basis of judicial action by virtue of any
statute or other law of this State.

EVIDENCE.

279

III.—Miscellaneous Provisions.
40. Documentary evidence exhibited before any officer, com
missioner or commissioners, taking any deposition or exhibits
proved by any witness may be annexed to and returned with
the depositions of the witnesses so taken : or the said officer,
commissioner or commissioners, shall, if requested by the party
exhibiting such documentary evidence or producing such ex
hibit, mark it as an exhibit in the suit, and return it to the
party offering the same, and the same shall be received in evi
dence in all respects as if annexed to and returned with the said
depositions.
41. Depositions taken by virtue of this act, in any cause in
the supreme court, may be transmitted to the judge holding the
circuit court of the county in which the venue is laid, or to the
clerk of such circuit court, to be by him filed, instead of being
filed in the office of the clerk of the supreme court.
42. The examination of any witness by commission or deposi
tion taken, returned, and filed, as provided for in this act, or a
duly certified copy thereof, shall be as competent evidence in
the cause in which it shall be taken, as if such witness had been
examined in open court, on the hearing or trial thereof, proof
being first made to the satisfaction of the court that such wit
ness resides, or is out of this State, or is dead, or by reason of
age, sickness, or bodily infirmity, is unable to attend the said
court, and if the testimony be taken under the thirty-eighth
section of this act, proof being made that notice of the taking
thereof was given as therein prescribed.
43. Any deposition or examination taken under this act shall
be subject to be excluded or overruled, wholly or in part, ac
cording to the opinion of the court, upon any objection taken to
the competency of the witness, the materiality or competency
of the evidence given, or the regularity of the questions put ;
but shall not be excluded for any irregularity or informality in
taking or returning the same, if the court in which the same is
offered shall be satisfied that the testimony of the witness has
been fairly and truly taken and returned ; and if such deposition
or examination shall be admitted in evidence by the court, no

280

EVIDENCE.

exception shall be taken to the admission thereof, on the ground
of any irregularity or informality in taking or returning the
same.
44. The party requiring such examination or deposition shall
be at the sole expense thereof, and shall not have any allowance
for the same in the taxation of costs.
45. The parties to the action shall, at their respective costs
and charges, be entitled to copies of such deposition, as soon as
the same is filed in the clerk's office.
46. The taking out of a commission for the examination of
witnesses shall not be a stay of proceedings in the action.
B.—EXAMINATIONS BEFORE COMMITTEES.
47. Whenever the common council of any city within this
State shall have appointed a committee of members of their
body upon any subject or matter within the jurisdiction of such
common council, or to examine any officer of the city or mem
ber of said council in relation to the discharge of his official
duties or conduct, or to the receipt or disbursement by him of
any monies in the discharge of said duties, or concerning the
possession or disposition by him, in his official capacity, of any
property belonging to the said city, or to inspect or examine
any book account, voucher, or document, in the possession or
under his control as such officer, relating to the affairs or in
terest of such city, such committee is hereby authorized to issue
a subpoena ad testificandum, or subpoena duces tecum, to any
person within this State, to appear before them to give testi
mony or information required for the purpose ahovementioned ;
and any member of such committee is hereby authorized to ad
minister oaths to all such witnesses as may appear or be brought
before them ; the subpoenas herein provided for may be served
by any police officer or constable of the said city ; and in case any
person summoned shall refuse to obey such subpoena, or to give
testimony, or to answer questions as required, or to produce any
books, papers, or documents, as required, it shall be lawful for
such committee, upon affidavit proving the facts, to apply to
any judge of the supreme court for an attachment against such

EVIDENCE.

'281

person, as for a contempt ; and it shall be the duty of such judge
to hear such application, and if satisfactory proof be made of
such refusal, to issue an attachment, directed to any constable
or police officer of such city, for the arrest of such person, and
upon his being brought before him, to proceed to a hearing of
the case; and the said judge shall have power to enforce, by
imprisonment in the county jail, obedience to such subpoena,
and the answering of any question that may be proper, or the
production of any book, paper, or document, that the witness
would be compelled to produce in a court of law, and also to
compel such witness to pay the costs of the said proceeding, to
be taxed by the judge; and any person who shall willfully and
corruptly testify falsely to any material matter upon oath or
affirmation, administered by any member of such committee,
upon such investigation or inquiry, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to the penalties of perjury.
48. Witnesses subpoenaed by virtue of the preceding section,
shall be entitled to the fees of witnesses in civil actions, to be
paid out of the city treasury upon certificate of such com
mittee.
F.—COMMISSIONS OUT OF COURTS OF OTHER STATES.
49. In case a commission issued out of any court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory in the United States,
shall be directed to any person or persons in this State, author
izing such person or persons to examine or take the deposition
of any witness named in such commission, and the person to be
examined under such commission shall refuse to attend and
give testimony before such commissioner or commissioners, any
justice of the supreme court of this State may, upon application
made to him by or on behalf of such commissioner or commis
sioners, and upon proof being made of such refusal, make an
order awarding process of subpoena out of the said court for
such witness to appear and testify before such commissioner or
commissioners; and, upon filing such order in the clerk's office
of the said supreme court, it shall be the duty of the said clerk
to issue process of subpoena under the seal of the said court, re
19

282

EXECUTIONS.

quiring such witness to appear and testify before such commis
sioner or commissioners.
50. The process of subpoena authorized in the last preceding
section, shall be served in the same manner, and be of the same
force and effect as like process in any other case ; and any person
attending in pursuance of such subpoena, shall be entitled to the
same fees as witnesses in other cases; and any witnesses dis
obeying such process shall be subject to the same penalties as
are provided for in cases pending in the supreme court of this
State.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

EXECUTIONS.
AN ACT RESPECTING EXECUTIONS.
A.—FORM OF AXB RECORDING.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That in every writ of execution, which shall
be issued against lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real
estate, the sheriff or other officer to whom the said writ may be
directed, shall be commanded, that of the goods and chattels in
his county, of the party against whom such execution issues, he
cause to be made the debt, damages, and costs or sum of money
mentioned in the said execution ; and if sufficient goods and
chattels of the said party cannot be found in his county, that
then he cause the whole or the residue, as the case may require,
.of the said debt, damages, and costs or sum of money, to be
made of the lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate,
whereof the said party was seized on the day when the said
lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate became liable
to such debt, damages, and costs or sum of money, specifying

EXECUTIONS.

283

the day particularly, or at any time afterwards, in whose hands
soever the same may then be ; but when such execution shall
be issued against terre tenants, or heirs or devisees (unless they
shall have made their estate liable by false pleading or other
wise), it shall only command the sheriff or other officer, that of
the lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate, whereof
the ancestor, testator, or person deceased, was seized on the day
when the said lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate
became liable as aforesaid, or at any time afterwards, or at the
time of his or her death, as the case may require, he cause to be
made the debt, damages, and costs or sum of money in the said
writ mentioned
2. Every writ of execution which shall be sued forth against
lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate, shall, before it
be delivered to the sheriff or other officer, be recorded in a book
by the clerk of the court out of which the same was issued ; and
the record of such writ so made, shall be as good evidence as the
writ itself.
B.—WHAT ,11 AY BE LEVIED OUT.
3. Money belonging to a defendant in execution may be levied
on and returned by virtue of such execution, as so much money
collected, without exposing the same to sale.
4. Bank notes, bills, or other evidences of debt, circulated as
money, or any share or interest in any bank, insurance company,
or other joint stock company, that is or may be incorporated
under the authority of this State, or incorporated or established
under the authority of the United states, belonging to the de
fendant in execution, may be taken and sold by virtue of such
execution, in the same manner as goods and chattels.
5. The clerk, cashier, or other officer of such company, who
has at the time the custody of the books of the company, shall
upon exhibiting to him the writ of execution, give to the officer
having such writ a certificate of the number of shares or amount
of the interest held by the defendant in such company ; and if
he shall neglect or refuse so to do, or if he shall willfully give a
false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to the plaintifff for
double the amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect

284

'

EXECUTIONS.

or false certificate, to be recovered in an action on the case
against him.
6. When the clerk, cashier, or other officer of any joint stock
company that is or hereafter may be incorporated under the
authority of this State, who has the custody of the books of
registry of the stock thereof, shall be non-resident in this State,
it shall be the duty of the sheritF or other officer, receiving a
writ of execution issued out of any court of this State against
the goods and chattels of a defendant in execution holding stock
in such company, to send by mail a notice in writing, di
rected to such non-resident clerk, cashier, or other officer, at the
post-office nearest his reputed place of residence, stating in such
notice that he, the said sheriff or other officer, holds such writ
of execution, and out of what court, at whose suit, for what
amount, and against whose goods and chattels, such writ has
been issued, and that by virtue of said writ, he, the said sheriff
or other officer, seizes and levies upon all the shares of the stock
of such company held by the defendant in execution on the day
of the date of such written notice ; and it shall also be the duty
of such sheriff or other officer, on the day of mailing such notice,
as aforesaid, to affix and set up upon any office or place of busi
ness of such company, within his county, a like notice in writing,
and on the same day to serve like notice in writing upon the
president and directors of said company, or upon such of them
as reside in his county, either personally or by leaving the same
at their respective places of abode ; and the sending, setting up,
and serving of such notices in the manner aforesaid, shall con
stitute such levy taken, a valid levy of such writ upon all shares
of stock in such company, held by the defendant in execution,
which have not, at the time of the receipt of such notice by the
said clerk, cashier, or other officer, who has custody of the books
of registry of the stocks thereof, been actually transferred by
the defendant ; and thereafter any transfer or sale of such shares
by the defendant in execution, shall be void as against the
plaintifff in said execution, or any purchaser of such stock at any
sale thereunder.
7. The non-resident clerk, cashier, or other officer in such
company, to whom notice in writing is sent, as prescribed in the

EXECUTIONS.

285

preceding section, shall thereupon send forthwith, by mail or
otherwise, to the officer having such writ, a statement of the
time when he received such notice, and a certificate of the
number of shares held by the defendant in such company at the
time of the receipt by him of such notice, not actually trans
ferred on the books of said company ; and the said sheriff or
other officer shall, on receipt by him of such certificate, insert
the number of such shares in the inventory attached to said
writ ; and if such clerk, cashier, or other officer in such com
pany, neglect to send such certificate, as aforesaid, or if he shall
willfully send a false certificate, he shall be liable to the plaintifff
for double the amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect
or false certificate, to be recovered in an action on the case
against him ; but the neglect to send, or miscarriage of such
certificate, shall not impair the validity of the levy upon the
stock.
8. All proprieties, rights, share and shares of propriety, and
rights to unlocated lands, shall be and hereby are made liable
to be levied upon and sold by executions, to be issued on judg
ments, for the payment of the debt or damages, and costs or
sum of money thereby recovered, in the same manner as lauds,
tenements, hereditaments, and real estate are made liable to be
levied upon and sold ; but every such execution shall issue out
of the supreme court, and if the said shares or rights be within
the western division, shall be directed to the sheriff of the county
of Burlington, and if within the eastern division, shall be directed
to the sheriff of the county of Middlesex ; and further, that the
said sheriff shall give notice by advertisements, signed by him
self and put up in five or more public places in the said county,
and by an advertisement in one of the newspapers published in
this State, of the time and place of exposing such shares or
rights to sale, at least two months before the time appointed
for selling the same.
9. Whenever a writ of execution shall be issued against the
inhabitants of any township, city, or borough of this State, by
any court authorized to issue the same, in case there should be
no property belonging to said township, city, or borough, suffi
cient to satisfy the same, whereon to levy, then the officer au

286

EXECUTIONS.

thorized to execute said process shall serve a copy of the same
on the collector of said township, city, or borough, who is hereby
required to pay and satisfy the same out of the first monies
belonging to said township, city, or borough, which shall come
into his hands.

C—PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM.
10. Goods and chattels of every kind, not exceeding in value
(exclusive of wearing apparel) the sum of two hundred dollars,
and all wearing apparel the property of any debtor having a
family residing in this State, shall be reserved, as well after as
before the death of the debtor, for the use of his family, and
shall not be liable to be seized or taken by virtue of any execu
tion or civil process whatever, issued out of any court of this
State, except the same be issued on a judgment founded on a
contract made before the fourteenth of March, eighteen hundred
and fifty-one; -provided, that nothing herein contained shall be
deemed or held to protect from sale under execution or other
process, any goods, chattels, or property, for the purchase
whereof the debt or demand for which the judgment on which
such execution or process was issued shall have been contracted ;
or to apply to process issued for the collection of taxes.
11. If any sheriff or other officer shall have an execution or
civil process against any defendant entitled to exemption as
aforesaid, it shall be the duty of such sheriff or other officer to
make a careful and particular inventory of the goods and chat
tels of every kind and description of such defendant which shall
be subject to levy under an execution, and thereupon to appoint,
in writing, three discreet and judicious persons of his county,
indifferent between the parties in said execution, to make a just
and true appraisement of the goods and chattels so levied upon ;
which persons shall, before they enter upon the duties of their
appointment, be severally sworn before said sheriff or other
officer, or before any person authorized to administer an oath,
faithfully, honestly, and impartially to appraise such property,
according to the true and intrinsic value thereof, and without
reference to what the same might be supposed to bring at a sale

EXECUTIONS.

287

by vendue under said execution or process, which said oath shall
be indorsed upon said appointment and filed, together with the
same, in the clerk's office of the court of common pleas of said
county.
12. The said appraisers shall appoint a time and place when
they will proceed to make the appraisement aforesaid, and shall
cause at least five days' notice, in writing, thereof to be given to
the plaintifff in said execution, or to his attorney ; and shall, at
the time and place so appointed, proceed to make the appraise
ment aforesaid, in the presence of the plaintifff in such execu
tion, or his attorney, if he shall see fit to attend, and shall set
down in writing a particular account of the articles and things
appraised with their respective values annexed, and sign the
same ; and if the said appraisement shall not exceed the sum of
two hundred dollars, the said sheriff or other officer shall suffer
the same to remain in the possession of the defendant for the
use of himself and his family ; but in case the amount of said
appraisement shall exceed two hundred dollars, then the defend
ant may select from such inventory articles to the amount of
two hundred dollars to be reserved for the use of himself and
his family, and shall annex a written statement thereof signed
by himself to said inventory ; and the said sheriff or other officer
shall proceed aud sell the residue of such goods and chattels or
tools of trade or other property in payment, or towards payment
of said execution ; and in either case it shall be the duty of such
sheriff or other officer to annex the said inventory and account
made by said appraisers, and the debtor's statement, if any, to
the execution or process, and return the same to the court from
which it was issued.
13. The sheriff or other officer having the execution or pro
cess, shall be entitled to the sum of fifty cents for making the
inventory aforesaid, and for the appointment of the appraisers
and drawing and administering to them the oath aforesaid, the
sum of fifty cents; the clerk for filing the same, eight cents; and
the said appraisers, for the services required of them, the sum of
fifty cents each, to be paid by the defendant.
14. When several executions into different counties shall issue
on the same judgment, the proceedings to set off the property

288

EXECUTIONS.

under the preceding sections for the benefit of the family of the
defendant, shall be had in the county in which his family resides,
and not in any other county to which execution shall have
issued, except for the deficiency of goods and chattels of the
defendant in the former county, to make the amount which is
reserved by law.
15. If the defendant in execution shall be absent from his
place of residence when the appraisement by the said appraisers
is completed and cannot readily be found, or shall refuse to make
selection from the goods and chattels inventoried and appraised,
as above required, such selection may be made by the wife or
family of the defendant, or by the appraisers, and the statement
annexed to and returned with the execution shall be signed ac
cordingly.
16. In case the defendant in execution shall die after execu
tion issued, and a levy and sale of goods and chattels be made
thereafter, the selection of goods and chattels to be reserved for
the use of his family shall be made by the person or persons
entitled to make the selection under the act entitled " An act re
specting the orphans' court, and relating to the powers and
duties of the ordinary, and the orphans' court and surrogates ;"
provided, that if the property reserved for the benefit of the
family of the deceased shall be set off under the provisions of
the latter act, the property so set off shall also be the property
exempted from sale under such execution.
17. The ninth section of an act entitled "An act respecting
executions and regulating the sale of personal estate by virtue
thereof," revision approved April sixteen, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-six, is hereby repealed, except so far as relates
to contracts made before the fourteenth of March, one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-one.

D.—FROM WHAT TIME BINDS PROPERTY.
18. No writ of execution shall bind the property or the goods
of the person against whom such writ is sued forth, but from
the time that such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff, undersheriff, coroner, or other officer, his deputy or agent, to be exe

EXECUTIONS.

289

cuted ; and for the better manifestation of the said time, such
sheriff, undersheriff*, coroner, or other officer, his deputy or agent,
shall, upon the receipt of any such writ, indorse thereon, with
out fee for so doing, the day of the month and year when he re
ceived the same ; and if two or more writs of execution shall
be delivered against the goods of the same person on the same
day, that which was first delivered shall be first executed and
satisfied.
19. Where sundry writs of execution shall be issued against
the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and
real estate of the same person, and sufficient cannot be found
to satisfy all the sums commanded to be made, then the like
priority and preference shall be given in such cases as is given
by the preceding section in writs of execution against the goods
only, and all disputes respecting the same shall be adjudged and
determined accordingly ; and for that purpose the like indorse
ment, as aforesaid, shall be made on the said writs, by the proper
officer, of the time that he shall have respectively received the
same.
20. If any person shall purchase, in good faith, of a defend
ant in execution, any goods or chattels, and pay for the same
prior to the actual levy of such execution, and without notice
thereof, the title of such purchaser shall not be divested by the
fact that such execution had been delivered before such purchase
was made.

E.—WHERE PRISONER FOR DEBT ESCAPES OR DIES.
21. If any person who is or shall be committed, in execution,
to any prison, shall escape therefrom, the creditor or creditors,
at whose suit such prisoner was charged in execution at the time
of such escape, may retake such prisoner by any new capias, or
capias ad satisfaciendum, or sue forth any other kind of execu
tion on the judgment, as if the body of such prisoner had never
been taken in execution.
22. The party or parties, at whose suit, or to whom any person
doth or shall stand charged in execution for any debt or dam
ages recovered, his, her, or their executors or administrators,

290

EXECUTIONS.

may, after the death of the said party so charged and dying in
execution, lawfully sue forth and have new execution against
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, or any of them, of
the person so deceased, in such manner and form, to all intents
and purposes, as he, she, or they, or any of them might have
had by the laws of this State if such person so deceased had
never been taken or charged in execution ; provided always, that
no person or persons, his, her, or their executors or administra
tors, at whose suit or suits any party shall be in execution, and
die in execution, shall have or take any new execution against
the lands, tenements, or hereditaments of such party so dying
in execution, which shall, at any time after the judgment or
judgments against such party so dying, and by reason whereof
such party was taken or charged in execution, be by him or her
sold, bona fide, for the payment of any of his or her creditors ;
and the money, which shall be paid for the lauds so sold, either
paid or secured to be paid to any of his or her creditors, with their
privity and consent, in discharge of his, her, or their debts, or
of some part thereof, nor against any lands, tenements, or heredit
aments of such party so dying in execution, which shall have
been sold by reason of any other judgment against him or her
so dying in execution.

F.—DISCOVERY IK AID OF.
23. When an execution against the property of any debtor, upon
a judgment recovered or docketed in the supreme court, or in the
circuit court, or court of common pleas for any county in this
State, or which now is or hereafter shall be docketed in the court
of common pleas from any of the courts for the trial of small causes
of this State, shall be returned by the officer to whom it is deliver
ed unsatisfied, in whole or in part, it shall be lawful for any judge
of the court out of which said execution issued, in term time
or vacation, on application by the judgment creditor in the man
ner hereinafter provided, to make order requiring the judgment
debtor to appear and make discovery on oath concerning his
proper y and things in action before said judge or a commis
sioner of the supreme court, to be designated in said order, at a

EXECUTIONS.

291

time and place in said order specified; provided, nevertheless, that
no such order shall be made when the amount due on such
judgment shall be less than fifty dollars.
24. The judgment creditor, before he shall be granted such
order, shall present to said judge a petition, verified by oath, in
which he shall state the amount due on said execution, the re
turn made thereon by the officer to whom it was issued, and
his belief that said judgment debtor hath property or money, or
things in action due to him, or held in trust for him, where the
trust has been created by or the fund held in trust has proceeded
from himself, over and above such property as is or may be re
served by law, to an amount exceeding fifty dollars, on presen
tation whereof said order shall be made ; and the said judge
shall further, on allegation in said petition, or in one supplemen
tary thereto, and proof by the oath of the party, or any other
person, of facts and circumstances, showing that any person owes
the said debtor otherwise than for his labor or personal services,
or the labor or personal services of any member or members of his
family, or holds money or property in possession or action in trust
for him or for his use as aforesaid, make order forbidding the
payment of such debt, or the transfer of said property or money
by or to the said debtor, or any third person, until further order
to be by him made ; affidavits verifying said petitions, may be
taken before any officer authorized by law to administer oaths ;
and if any person, in any affidavit or examination taken under
this act, shall willfully and corruptly swear falsely, he shall be
deemed guilty of perjury.
25. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify concern
ing said matters, by either party, by process of subpoena ad tes
tificandum issued out of the court wherein such judgment shall
be recovered or docketed; and the judge or commissioner may
adjourn the examination from time to time at the instance of
either party as may be needful.
26. When such examination of a judgment debtor or of wit
nesses shall be taken by a commissioner, it shall be certified to
the judge making said order under the hand of said commis
sioner ; and thereupon, after considering the evidence of said
party and witnesses, taken before said commissioner, or by him

292

EXECUTIONS.

self, it shall be lawful for said judge to make order appointing
a receiver of the property and things in action belonging or due
to or held in trust for such debtor as aforesaid, at the time of
the issuing said execution, or at any time afterwards, who there
by shall receive authority to possess, receive, and if need be, in
his own name as such receiver, sue for such property or things
in action ; and it shall be the duty of such receiver to apply the
same in payment of the said judgment, and the costs of the pro
ceedings thereon and the reasonable compensation of said re
ceiver to be taxed by the judge, and to pay the rest into said
court wherein said judgment was recovered or docketed, to be
there disposed of according to law ; and such judge shall order
said judgment debtor to convey and deliver to such receiver all
such property and rights in action and the evidence thereof;
and said receiver shall be subject to the authority and orders of
said court from time to time to be given, and shall on the ful
filment of his duties, or at other times when called upon, make
report in writing to said court of his doings in the premises.
27. In case the judgment creditor shall not appear and ex
amine the debtor at the time and place specified, or after exami
nation of the party and witnesses, no such property or things
in action shall be discovered, the petition of such judgment
creditor shall be dismissed, with costs, to be taxed by said judge,
which shall be allowed either party after the rates provided in
actions at law ; provided, that no attorney's fees shall be taxed
or recoverable on either side.
28. If any party or witness disobey any order of the judge, or
any subpoena issued as above authorized, and duly served, and
the fees of such witness paid, or refuse on attendance to answer
and testify, such party or witness may be punished by the judge
as for a contempt of the court whereof he is such judge.
29. The petitions, orders, examinations, and reports, made and
taken as above provided, shall be filed with the clerk of the
court whence the unsatisfied executions issued ; and whenever
a certiorari shall be brought to remove any of the proceedings,
the court out of which the certiorari issued may amend the pro
ceedings in matters of form, and shall give such judgment and

EXECUTIONS.

293

make such order as the judge before whom the proceedings were
had ought to have given or made.
30. The commissioner shall, for every certificate under this
act, be allowed the sum of fifty cents, and shall'be allowed for
taking examinations the same fees as are allowed in the court
of chancery to masters and examiners in chancery for the like
services.
G.—SALE UNDER.
31. No sale of any goods or chattels shall be made by virtue
of any execution, unless previous notice of the time and place of
such intended sale shall have been given by the officer making
the levy, by advertisements, signed by himself, and put up in
three or more of the most public places in the township where
they were taken, at least five days before the time appointed
for sale.
H.—PROCEEDINGS ON CLAIM OF PROPERTY.
32. In all cases where any sheriff shall by virtue of any writ
of execution, issued out of any court in this State, levy on or
take into his possession any goods or chattels, which shall be
claimed by notice in writing, delivered to said sheriff', by any
other person than the defendant, he shall, immediately upon
such claim, delay his sale of the same for the space of ten days,
that the said claimant may within the said term apply to one of
the judges of the court of common pleas, in the county where
the goods and chattels were so seized, for a venire to summon a
jury of twelve men. to try the right of said claimant to said
property ; and it shall be lawful for such judge to issue the
same, and direct a return thereof to be to him made, and to pro
ceed therein as in other cases of trial by jury ; hut the claimant
shall in all cases give at least eight days' previous notice in writ
ing to the plaintifff or his attorney, of the time and place of the
said trial ; and either party shall be entitled to process of sub
poena, out of the court from which such execution issued, to
compel the attendance of witnesses; and the judge before whom
such inquest may be held shall have power to adjourn, upon the

294

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

application of either party, for a reasonable time, upon good
cause shown for such adjournment.
38. The-verdict of such jury shall be reduced to writing, and
signed by the jury and judge before whom the matter shall be
tried, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court out
of which the said execution issued ; and the inquisition so taken
shall protect the said sheriff from any action, for taking and
seizing such property or delivery thereof to the claimant ; and
if the said property shall be found to belong to the claimant,
the sheriff shall proceed no further with the same ; but if it shall
be found to belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose
thereof as is directed in such process ; and the costs attending
such trial shall be taxed by the said judge as in other cases, and
shall be paid by the plaintifff at whose suit the said property was
taken and seized, if the claimant obtain a verdict in his favor,
and by such claimant, if the verdict is found against him ; pro
vided, that if the plaintifff, upon notice being given to him as
aforesaid, shall indemnify the sheriff against the demand of
the claimant, then he shall suspend any further proceedings
therein, and proceed to sell.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
AN ACT CONCERNING EXECUTORS, AND THE AD
MINISTRATION OF INTESTATES' ESTATES.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That all lawful acts done bona fide, by any
administrator, before notice of a will, and all purchasers made
of such administrator bona fide, before such notice, shall remain
good, and shall not be impeached or altered by any executor or

306

HABEAS CORPUS.

premises shall forfeit, for every such offense, two thousand dol
lars, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs, by any person
who will sue for the same, in any court of record having cogni
zance thereof; and all penalties recovered under this section
shall be appropriated one-half thereof to the use of the county
in which the action or actions for the recovery thereof shall
have been prosecuted, and the residue to the informer; and in
every action instituted under this section, the inhabitants of
the county where the same is instituted shall be competent to
serve as jurors, and admitted as witnesses in any such action,
notwithstanding their liability to taxation, or being interested.
9. Every grant, bargain, sale, conveyance, or transfer of any
goods, chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real estate,
which shall be made in pursuance of any such lottery forbidden
by the laws of this State is hereby declared to be invalid and
void.
[See Act for the Punishment of Crimes.]
Approved March 27th, 1874.

HABEAS CORPUS.
AN ACT FOR PREVENTING THE INJURY OF ILLEGAL
CONFINEMENT, AND BETTER SECURING THE
LIBERTY OF THE PEOPLE.
A.—WHO ENTITLED TO THE WRIT OF HABEAS C ORPUS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That every person committed, detained,
confined, or restrained of his liberty, within this State, for any
criminal, or supposed criminal matter, or under any pretense
whatsoever, except in the cases in the next section specified,
may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provis

HABEAS CORPUS.

307

ions of this act, to inquire into the cause of such imprisonment
or restraint.
2. The following persons shall not be entitled to prosecute
such writ :
I. Persons committed or detained by virtue of any process
issued by any court of the United States, or any judge thereof,
in cases where such courts or judges have exclusive jurisdiction
under the laws of the United States, or shall have acquired ex
clusive jurisdiction by the commencement of suits in such courts.
II. Persons committed or detained by virtue of the final judg
ment or decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal
jurisdiction, or by virtue of any execution issued upon such
judgment or decree, unless such judgment or decree be founded
upon contract ; but no order of commitment for any alleged
contempt, or upon proceedings as for contempt, to enforce the
rights or remedies of any party, shall be deemed a judgment or
decree within the meaning of this section ; nor shall any attach
ment or other process issued upon any such order, be deemed an
execution within the meaning of this section.
III. Persons in custody or detained for any capital crime,
plainly and specially expressed in the warrant or commitment,
unless the court or judge to whom the application may be made
shall, as an act of discretion, direct the writ to issue.

B.—THE APPLICATION FOR THE WRIT, ITS FORM, ETC
3. Application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed
either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some
person in his behalf, as follows:
I. To the supreme court, during its sitting ; or,
II. During any term or vacation of the supreme court, to the
chief justice, or to any one of the associate justices thereof, at
chambers :
4. The petition must state in substance:
I. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for is
imprisoned or restrained in his liberty ; the officer or person by
whom he is so confined or restrained, and the place where ;

308

HABEAS CORPUS.

naming both parties, if their names are known, or describing
them, if they are not ;
II. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint,
according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party ;
III. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any war
rant, order, process, or commitment, a copy thereof must be an
nexed ; or it must be averred that by reason of such prisoner's
being removed or concealed before the application, a demand of
such copy could not be made ; or that such demand was made,
and the legal fees therefore tendered to the officer or person
having such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was
refused ;
IV. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition
must also state in what the alleged illegality consists ;
V. It must be verified by the oath of the party making the
application.
5. The court of justice to whom such petition shall be
presented shall grant such writ without delay, unless it shall
appear from the petition itself, or from the documents annexed,
that the party applying therefore is, by the provisions of this
act, prohibited from prosecuting such writ ; the writ shall be
made returnable forthwith.
6. Every writ of habeas corpus issued under the provisions of
this act shall be substantially in the following form :
" The State of New Jersey to the sheriff of, etc. (or to A. B.):
We command you that you have the body of C. D., by you im
prisoned and detained, as it is said, by whatsoever name the said
C. D. shall be called or charged, before our justices of our supreme
court, etc. (or before E. F., justice, etc.), at, etc., immediately
after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what shall then
and there be considered concerning the said G. D. And have
you then there this writ. Witness, etc."
7. Such writs of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for any
defect of form.
8. All writs of habeas corpus shall be under the seal of the
supreme court, and shall be indorsed with a certificate that the
same has been allowed and with the date of such allowance ;
and which indorsement, if the writ be awarded by the court,

HABEAS CORPUS.

309

shall be signed by the chief justice, or in his absence, by the
presiding officer of such court ; if it be awarded by a justice of
said court, the indorsement shall be signed by him.
C—THE SERVICE OF THE WRIT.
9. Every writ of habeas corpus issued under this act, may be
served by delivering the same to the person to whom it is
directed ; if he cannot be found, it may be served by being left
at the jail or other place in which the prisoner may be confined,
with an under officer, or other person of proper age, having
charge for the time, of such prisoner.
10. If the person upon whom such writ ought to be served,
conceals himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting
to serve the same, it may be served by affixing the same in some
conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling-house,
or of the place where the party is confined.
11. The service of the writ shall not be deemed complete,
unless the party serving the same shall tender to the person in
whose custody the prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff,
coroner, constable, marshal, keeper of the jail, or other officer,
the fees allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner, together
with the charges for carrying him back ; nor unless he shall
give bond to such sheriff, coroner, constable, marshal, or other
officer, as the case may be, when, in the order allowing such
writ, a bond is required to be given, in a penalty double the
amount of the sum for which such prisoner shall be detained, if
he be detained for any specific sum of money, and if not, then
in the penalty of one thousand dollars conditioned that such
prisoner will not escape by the way, either in going to, or re
turning from, the place to which he is to be taken ; and if said
prisoner shall be discharged, such officer shall repay the monies,
which he may have received, for the charges of carrying back
such prisoner.
12. But the last section shall not apply to any case where the
writ is sued out by the attorney-general, or by any prosecutor
of the pleas, or where the court or justice acts therein on his
own motion.

310

HABEAS CORPUS.

13. It shall be the duty of every sheriff, coroner, constable,
marshal, or keeper of the jail, or other officer, upon whom a
writ of habeas corpus shall be served, whether such writ be
directed to him or not, upon payment or tender of the charges
allowed by law as aforesaid, and the delivery or tender of the
bond herein prescribed, whenever such bond is requisite, to obey
and return such writ according to the exigency thereof ; and it
shall be the duty of every other person upon whom such writ
shall be served, having the custody of the individual for whose
benefit the writ shall be issued, to obey and execute such writ,
according to the command thereof, without requiring any bond
or the payment of any charges, unless the payment of such
charges shall have been required by the officer issuing such writ.

D.—THE RETURN OF THE WRIT, AND THE PROCEED
INGS THEREUPON.
14. The person upon whom any such writ shall have been
duly served, shall return the same forthwith according to the
command thereof ; if the place at which the prisoner is to be pro
duced Be within twenty miles of the place of service of the writ,
such return shall be made and such prisoner shall be produced
within twenty-four hours ; and the like time shall be allowed
for every additional twenty miles.
15. The return shall state plainly and unequivocally :
I. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
under his power or restraint ;
II. If he has the party in his custody or power, or under his
restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or
restraint, setting forth the same at large;
III. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant,
or other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to
his return ; and the original shall be produced and exhibited on
the return of the writ, to the court or justice before whom the
same is returnable;
IV. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been
served, shall have had the party in his power or custody, or
under his restraint, but has transferred such custody or restraint

HABEAS CORPUS.

311

to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what
time, for what cause, and by what authority such transfer took
place ; the return must be signed by the person making the
same, and except where such person shall be a sworn public
officer, and shall make his return in his official capacity, it shall
be verified by his oath.
16. If, upon the return coming in, the court or justice shall
deem it advisable so to do, he may examine under oath the
officer or person making such return, with respect to the sub
ject-matter thereof.
17. If a writ of habeas corpus be issued, the officer or person
on whom it shall have been served, shall also bring in the body
of the person in his custody, according to the command of such
writ, except in the case of the sickness of such person, as here
inafter provided.
18. If the person upon whom such writ of habeas corpus shall
have been duly served shall refuse or neglect to obey the same,
by producing the party named in such writ of habeas corpus,
and making a full and explicit return thereto, within the time
required by this act, and no sufficient cause be shown for such
refusal or neglect, it shall be the duty of the court or justice
before whom such writ has been made returnable, upon due
proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue an attachment
against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county
within this State, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend
such person, and to bring him immediately before such court or
justice; and on such person being so brought, he shall be com
mitted to close custody, in the jail of the county in which such
court or justice shall be, until he shall make return to such writ,
and comply with any order that may be made by such court or
justice in relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall
have been issued.
19. If a sheriff of any county shall have neglected to return
such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner, or
other person, to be designated therein, who shall have full power
to execute the same ; and such sheriff, upon being brought up,
may be committed to the jail of any county other than his own.
20. The court or justice by whom any such attachment may be

312

HABEAS CORPUS.

issued, may also, at the same time or afterwards, issue a precept
to the same sheriff, or other person to whom such attachment
shall have been directed, commanding him to bring forthwith
before such court or justice, the party for whose benefit such
writ of habeas corpus shall have been allowed ; who shall there
after remain in the custody of such sheriff or person, until he
shall be discharged, bailed, or remanded, as such court or justice
shall direct.
21. In the execution of such attachment or precept, or either
of them, the sheriff or other person to whom they shall be di
rected, may call to his aid the power of the county as in other
cases.

E. THE HEARING ON THE RETURN OF WRIT AND
ORDER TO DISCHARGE OR REMAND.
22. The court or justice before whom the party shall be
brought on such writ of habeas corpus, shall immediately
after the return thereof, proceed to examine said return and the
facts as set forth therein, whether the same shall have been
upon process or commitment for any criminal, or supposed
criminal matter or not.
23. If no cause be shown for such imprisonment or restraint,
or for the continuation thereof- such court or justice shall dis
charge such party from the custody or restraint under which
he is held ; but if the party be not entitled to his discharge,
and be not bailed, the court or justice shall remand him to the
custody, or place him under the restraint, from which he was
taken, if the person under whose custody he was, be legally en
titled thereto ; if not so entitled, he shall be committed by such
court or justice, to the custody of such other officer or person,
as by law is entitled thereto.
24. If it appears that the party has been arrested or com
mitted for some criminal offense, or supposed criminal offense,
it shall be lawful for the court or justice in its or his discretion,
to inquire into the cause and grounds of the confinement or re
straint of such party ; and for this purpose may summon wit
nesses and take their depositions ; and may by an order in writ

HABEAS CORPUS.

313

ing require, of any person, the production of all affidavits,
documents, and writings relative to the premises; and if upon
such examination it shall appear that such party is not entitled
to his discharge, he shall be bailed or remanded in the manner
directed in the next preceding section ; when this course is taken
the party shall not be entitled to his discharge by reason of any
informality or insufficiency in the original arrest or commit
ment.
25. When it appears by the return, or otherwise, that the
prisoner is in custody by virtue of civil process, issued out of
any court of law or equity in this State, whether such process
be a capias ad respondendum or capias ad satisfaciendum, or
other precept whatsoever, in any action of debt, or other action
or proceeding, founded on contract, express or implied, it shall
be lawful for the said court or justice to make an order for the
taking of testimony concerning the truth of the affidavit, or
affidavits, and proofs upon which the order for said writ was
made, and said writ was issued ; which testimony shall be taken
orally before said court or justice, or in writing before any su
preme court commissioner ; which testimony, when taken be
fore such commissioner, shall be filed in the office of the clerk
of the supreme court; and if from the testimony so taken, the
said court or justice shall be of opinion that the said writ was
improperly or improvidently issued, or should not have been
issued, against the defendant therein, the said court or justice
shall order the defendant to be discharged ; in case said im
prisonment shall be upon a capias ad respondendum, the said
court or justice may order the defendant to be discharged upon
common bail, and may take such order for his discharge from
arrest or imprisonment, and the discharge of his bail, as the
nature of the case may require, and as may be deemed equita
ble and just.
26. That when any person is arrested or detained by virtue
of the process mentioned in the preceding section, he shall have
a right to a writ of habeas corpus as provided for in this act.
27. When it appears, on the return of a writ of habeas corpus,
that the party named therein is in custody on any civil process,
under which any other person has an interest in continuing his
21

314

HABEAS CORPUS.

imprisonment or restraint, no order shall be made for his dis
charge until it shall appear that the party so interested, or his
attorney, if he have one, shall have such notice of the hearing
under such habeas corpus as the court or justice allowing the
same shall direct.
28. All persons who are or may be in confinement on a charge
of a criminal offense, which is of a bailable nature, shall be en
titled to a writ of habeas corpus, as provided for in this act, for
the purpose of putting in such bail ; and, if, upon the return of
said writ, it shall appear that the prisoner is entitled to be
bailed, the said court or justice, within two days at the farthest
after such return, shall discharge said prisoner from his impris
onment, taking his recognizance, with one or more surety or
sureties, in any sum at the discretion of said court or justice,
having regard to the quality of the prisoner and the nature of
the offense, for his appearance in the supreme court the term
following, or at the next session of the court of oyer and ter
miner and general jail delivery of and for such county or place,
where the commitment was, or where the offense was com
mitted, or in such other court, where the said offense is properly
cognizable, as the case shall require, and shall then certify the
said writ with the return thereof, and the said recognizance or
recognizances, unto the said court, where such appearance is to
be made.
29. When any person, who is imprisoned or who is under re
straint, is desirous of testing the validity of the same, or of
being discharged upon bail, without being brought in person
before the said court or justice, he shall signify such desire in
his petition for the writ ; and thereupon, in the allowance of
the said writ, a waiver of the production of the body shall be
inserted ; the ret urn, and all other proceedings in other respects,
shall be the same as in other cases, with the exception as to the
mode of taking bail, which may be taken, in the discretion of
the said court or justice, in the manner provided for in the next
following section.
30 In case of proceedings by force of the next preceding sec
tion, if it shall appear that the prisoner should not be discharged,
but is entitled to be admitted to bail, the said court or justice,

HABEAS CORPUS.

315

if it is deemed advisable so to do, is hereby empowered to direct,
in writing, the sum for which such person shall be held to bail,
and the court, and at what term thereof, at which he shall be
required to appear ; and in the same order shall authorize a
supreme court commissioner to take the recognizance of the
person so imprisoned, and of two sufficient sureties, in the sum
so specified, with a condition for the appearance of such pris
oner at the court designated in such order, and that he will not
depart from such court without leave ; but previous to taking
such recognizance, such commissioner shall be satisfied, by the
oath of the persons ottering themselves as sureties, that they
are residents in the county in which the court, before which the
prisoner is to appear, is held, and are severally worth double the
sum in which they shall be required to be bound, over and above
all demands against them ; and such recognizance so taken,
shall be as valid and ettectual as though legally taken before
the supreme court.
31. The said supreme court commissioner shall file the said
recognizance, and the order by virtue of which the same has
been taken, with the clerk of the court before which the pris
oner shall be bound to appear, and shall certify on such order,
under his official signature, the compliance therewith ; the
production of such order, bo certified, or a copy thereof duly
certified under the hand of said clerk, shall entitle such prisoner
to be discharged from imprisonment for the cause mentioned
therein.
32. Until judgment be given upon the return to a habeas
corpus, the court or justice before whom such party shall be
brought may either commit such party to the custody of the
sheritt' of the county in which said court or justice shall be, or
place him in such care or under such custody as the circum
stances of the case may require.
33. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the person
directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such per
son cannot, without danger, be brought before the court or jus
tice, the party in whose custody he is may state that fact in his
return, verifying the same by his oath ; and if such court or
justice be satisfied of the truth of such allegation, and the re

316

HABEAS CORPUS.

turn be otherwise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon
such return, and to dispose of the matter, in the same manner
as if such person had been produced.

F.—EFFECT OF DISCHARGE; PENALTIES, ETC
34. No person who has been discharged by the order of said
court or justice, upon a habeas corpus issued pursuant to the
provisions of this act, shall be again imprisoned, restrained, or
kept in custody for the same cause ; but it shall not be deemed
the same cause—
I. If he shall have been discharged from a commitment on
a criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same
offense, by the legal order or process of the court wherein he
shall be bound by recognizance to appear, or in which he shall
be indicted or convicted for the same offense; or,
II. If after a discharge for defect or proof, or for any material
defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, the prisoner be
again arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal pro
cess for the same offense ; or,
III. If, in a civil suit, the party has been discharged for any
illegality in the judgment or process, hereinbefore specified, and
is afterwards imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of
action; or,
IV. If, in a civil suit, he shall have been discharged from com
mitment on mesne process, and shall afterwards be committed
on execution, in the same cause, or on mesne process, in any
other cause, after such first suit shall have been discontinued; or,
V. If the prisoner, having been discharged, shall be recom
mitted, on a reversal of the order of discharge, by a court hav
ing the right to review such order.
35. If any person, either solely or as a member of any court,
or in the execution of any order, judgment or process, shall
knowingly recommit, imprison, or restrain of his liberty, or
cause to be recommitted, imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty,
for the same cause, except as provided in the last section, any
person so discharged, or who shall knowingly aid or assist
therein, he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of four

HABEAS CORPUS.

317

teen hundred dollars, to be recovered in an action of debt in any
court having jurisdiction thereof, and shall be guilty of a mis
demeanor.
36. If any one having in his custody or under his power any
person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been
duly issued, pursuant to the provisions of this act, who, with
intent to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect
thereof, shall transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him
under the power or control of another, or conceal him, or change
the place of his confinement, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
37. Every person who shall knowingly aid or assist in the
violation of either of the last two preceding sections, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
38. If any officer or other person shall neglect or refuse to
make the returns aforesaid, or any of them, or to bring the body
of the prisoner according to the command of the said writ, or,
upon demand made by the prisoner, or by any person in his be
half, shall refuse to deliver, or within the space of six hours
after demand, shall not deliver to the person so demanding a
true copy of the warrant or warrants of commitment and de
tainer of such prisoner, all and every such officer and persons so
refusing or neglecting shall forfeit and pay to the party ag
grieved the sum of five hundred dollars, and shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
39. Every person convicted of a misdemeanor under either of
the last four sections, shall be punished by a fine or imprison
ment, or both, at the discretion of the court in which he shall
be convicted; but such fine shall not exceed one thousand dol
lars, nor such imprisonment six months.
G.—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
40. Whenever the supreme court, or any justice thereof, shall
have evidence from any judicial proceeding had before them,
that any person within this State is illegally confined and re
strained of his liberty, it shall be the duty of such court or jus
tice to issue a writ of habeas corpus for his relief, although no
petition be presented or application made for such writ.

318

HABEAS CORPUS.

41. 'Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof, that any
one is held in illegal confinement or custody, and that there is
good reason to believe that he will be carried out of the* State,
or suffer some irreparable injury, before he can be relieved by
the issuing of a habeas corpus, any justice of the supreme court
may issue a warrant under his hand and seal, reciting the facts
and directed to any sheriff, constable, or other person, and com
manding such officer or person to take such prisoner, and forth
with to bring him before such court or justice, to be dealt with
according to law.
42. When the proof mentioned in the last section shall also
be sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having such pris
oner in his custody, as for a criminal offense committed in the
taking or detaining of such prisoner, the warrant may also con
tain an order for the arrest of sucb person, for such offense.
43. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be
directed, shall execute the same, by bringing the prisoner therein
named, and the person who detains him, if so commanded by
the warrant, before the court or justice issuing the same; and
thereupon the person detaining such prisoner shall make a re
turn, in like manner, and the like proceeding shall be had as if
a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the first instance.
44. If the person having such prisoner in his custody shall be
brought before such justice, as for a criminal offense, he shall be
examined, committed, bailed, or discharged in like manner as in
other criminal cases of the like nature.
45. If any person shall be committed to any prison, or in the
custody of any officer or person whatsoever, for any criminal or
supposed criminal matter, the said person shall not be removed
from the said prison or custody, into the custody of any other
officer or person, unless it be by habeas corpus, or some other
legal writ or process, or where the prisoner is delivered to the
constable or other inferior officer, or where any person is sent
by order of any court, or judge or justice of the peace, to any
common workhouse or house of correction, or where the pris
oner is removed from one prison or place to another within the
same county, in order to his trial, or discharge, in due course of
law, or in case of sudden fire or infection, or other necessity ;

HABEAS CORPUS.

319

and if any person shall, after such commitment aforesaid, make
out, or sign, or countersign any warrant for such removal, con
trary to this act, as well he who makes, or signs or counter
signs such warrant, as the officer or person who obeys or exe
cutes the same, shall, for every such offense, forfeit to the pris
oner or party grieved the sum of five hundred dollars, to be re
covered in the manner aforesaid.
46. And for preventing illegal imprisonment of citizens of this
State in prisons out of this State, no citizen of this State, who
now is, or hereafter shall be, an inhabitant of, or resident within
this State, shall or may be sent prisoner to any place whatsoever
out of this State, for any crime or offense committed within this
State, and every such imprisonment is hereby declared to be
illegal ; and if any of the said citizens now is, or hereafter shall
be, so imprisoned, such citizen so imprisoned shall and may, for
every such imprisonment, maintain by virtue of this act, an
action or actions of false imprisonment in any court of record
having cognizance of such actions, against the person or persons
by whom he shall be so committed, detained, imprisoned, sent
prisoner, or transported contrary to the true intent and meaning
of this act, and against all or any person or persons who shall
frame, contrive, write, seal, sign, or countersign any warrant or
writing for such commitment, detainer, imprisonment, or trans
portation, or shall be advising, aiding, or assisting in the same
or any of them ; and the plaintifff in every such action shall have
judgment to recover double costs, besides damages, which dam
ages, so to be given, shall not be less than fifteen hundred dollars ;
and the person or persons who shall knowingly frame, contrive,
write, seal, sign, or countersign any warrant for such commitment,
detainer, or transportation, or shall so commit, detain, imprison,
or transport any person or persons contrary to this act, or be
anywise advising, aiding, or assisting therein, being lawfully
convicted thereof, shall from thenceforth be disabled to bear any
office of trust or profit under this State, and shall be fined or
imprisoned at hard labor, or both, at the discretion of the court
before which the conviction shall be had ; provided, also, if any
citizen of this State, or person at any time resident in the same,
shall have committed any treason, felony, or misdemeanor in any

320

HABEAS CORPUS.

other of the United States, or in any foreign country, where he
ought to be tried for such offense, such citizen or person may be
sent to such State or foreign country having jurisdiction of such
offense, there to receive such trial, in the same manner as he
might have been sent before the making of this act.
47. No person shall be sued or impleaded for any offense
against this act, unless the party offending be sued or impleaded
for the same within two years at farthest after such time
wherein the offense shall be committed ; but if the party grieved
shall be in prison, by reason of such wrongful act, then within
the space of two years after the decease of such party while in
prison, or his deliverance out of prison, whichever shall happen
first.
48. If any information, suit, or action, shall be brought or ex
hibited against any person or persons for any offense committed
against this act, it shall be lawful for such defendant to plead
the general issue that they are not guilty, or that they owe
nothing, and to give the special matter in evidence; and if such
special matter, in case it were duly pleaded, had been good and
sufficient in law to discharge the said defendant or defendants
against the said information, suit, or action, the same, so given
in evidence, shall be as available to them, to all intents and
purposes, as if he or they had sufficiently pleaded, set forth, or
alleged the said matter, in bar or discharge of such information,
suit, or action.
49. And to the intent that no person may avoid his trial at
the sessions of oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery, by
procuring his removal at such time before the commencement
of the court, as he cannot be brought back to receive his trial
at the same court after the sessions of oyer and terminer, or
general jail delivery, shall be proclaimed for that county where
the prisoner is detained, such prisoner shall not be removed
from the common jail upon habeas corpus, granted in pursuance
of this act ; but, upon any such habeas corpus, shall be brought be
fore the justice or justices of the said court of oyer and terminer,
or general jail delivery, in open court, who shall thereupon do
what to justice appertains; provided, after the sessions of oyer
and terminer, or general jail delivery, are ended, any person de

HABEAS CORPUS.

321

tained may have his or her habeas corpus, according to the di
rection of this act.
50. No information, for a matter merely criminal, for which
an indictment will lie, and in which no civil right is involved,
nor forfeiture or penalty given by law to any private person or
common informer, is prosecuted for, shall, from and after the
passing of this act, be exhibited or sustained in any court of
this State.
51. Nothing in this act shall extend to discharge out of prison
any person charged in debt, or other action, or on process in
any civil cause, unless by virtue of the proceeding herein for
that purpose specially provided ; and a discharge, under this act,
from imprisonment under a criminal charge, shall not have that
effect ; but the party so discharged shall be kept in custody ac
cording to law in such civil suit.
52. If any person shall be committed for treason, murder,
manslaughter, sodomy, rape, arson, burglary, robbery, forgery, or
larceny, or for rescues, or voluntary escapes in any such case, plainly
and specially expressed in the warrant of commitment, upon
his prayer or petition in open court, the first week of the term,
or first day of the sessions of oyer and terminer, or general jail
delivery, to be brought to his trial, shall not be indicted some
time in the next term, sessions of oyer and terminer, or general
jail delivery, after such commitment, it shall and may be lawful
to and for the justices of the supreme court, and justices of oyer
and terminer, or general jail delivery, and they are hereby re
quired, upon motion to them made in open court, the last day
of the term, session, or jail delivery, either by the prisoner or
any one in his behalf, to set at liberty such prisoner upon bail ;
unless it appear to the justices, upon oath or affirmation made,
that the witnesses against the prisoner could not be produced
the same term, sessions, or general jail delivery ; and if any
person committed as aforesaid, upon his prayer or petition in
open court, the first week of the term, or first day of the sessions
of oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery, to be brought to
his trial, shall not be indicted and tried the second term, ses
sions of oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery, after his com

322

HABEAS CORPUS.

mitment, or upon his trial shall be acquitted, he shall be dis
charged from his imprisonment.
II. -RIGHT OF APPEAL.
53. All proceedings commenced under this act before a jus'tice
of the supreme court, may be removed, after final decision by
such justice, by certiorari into the supreme court, that is to say,
if the imprisonment is for an alleged crime, and the decision is
against the right of the prisoner to a discharge, the prisoner
may remove such proceeding; if on civil process either party
may do so ; in like manner the final decision of the supreme
court thereon may be removed, by writ of error, into the court
of errors and appeals ; provided, however, that if a discharge has
been awarded, such appeal shall not stay such discharge.
54. The supreme court, and the court of errors and appeals in
the last resort, shall respectively have the power to make such
orders and to direct all such writs out of the supreme court, as
may be necessary, for the discharge or recommitment of such
prisoner, according to the judgment which shall be severally
given by said courts ; and generally to carry such judgment into
effect.
55. The provisions of this act shall not apply to the writ of
habeas corpus when used to bring a prisoner before a court as a
witness.
56. This act shall be liberally construed so as to secure, as far
as possible, the liberty of the citizen.
I.—FEES.
57. The following fees shall be allowed for services performed
under this act :
To sheriff or other officer for making return, two dollars ;
Mileage for himself and prisoner going and returning, at the
rate of four cents a mile for each ;
Court or justice granting writ, two dollars ;
Taking recognizance, one dollar ;
To justice taking examination of witnesses on return of writ,
three dollars per diem ;

358

JUDGMENTS.

offense, forfeit sixteen dollars, to be recovered by action of debt,
with costs, by any person who shall sue for the same; the one
moiety to the prosecutor, and the other to the State.
6. No bond, mortgage, or other security for the payment of
money heretofore made or issued, or that ruay hereafter be made
or issued by any railroad or canal corporation created by or
under the laws of this State, shall be held, deemed, or considered
invalid- because such bond, mortgage, or other security may have
been made, issued, sold, assigned, or otherwise disposed of by
such corporation below the par value thereof; prodded, such
bond, mortgage, or other security shall be valid on its face.
Approved Martli 27th, 1874.

JUDGMENTS.
AN ACT CONCERNING JUDGMENTS.
A.—LIEN OF.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That all lands, tenements, hereditaments,
and real estate shall be and hereby are made liable to be levied
upon and sold by executions to be issued on judgments, which
are or shall be obtained in any court of record of this State (ex
cept justices' courts constituted for the trial of small causes), for
the payment and satisfaction of the debt, damages, sum of money,
and costs so recovered or to be recovered ; provided, that no
lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real estate, of any testator
or intestate, shall be sold or in any wise affected by any judg
ment or execution against executors or administrators.
2. No judgment shall affect or bind any lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or real estate, but from the time of the actual
entry of such judgment on the minutes or records of the court.
3. Judgments of the court of common pleas upon appeals

JUDGMENTS.

359

from the courts for the trial of small causes shall not affect or
bind any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real estate, unless
a rule shall be entered in the minutes of the court of common
pleas in which such judgment shall be rendered, for recording
such judgment, which rule shall be a rule of course, and may be
entered at any time without notice ; and it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the several courts of common pleas, upon the entry
of such rule as aforesaid, to record any such judgment in the
book of judgments of said court, and index the same, as now
required by law respecting the judgments of such courts in suits
originally commenced therein, which record shall be a transcript
from the minutes of the said court on said judgment, and for
this service the clerk shall be entitled to receive twenty-five
cents ; and such judgment shall, from the time of entering such
rule, affect and bind all lands, tenements, hereditaments, and
real estate, within the county where such court of common pleas
is held, belonging to the person or persons against whom such
judgment may be ; and executions against the goods and chat
tels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate, of such
person or persons, may be issued out of such court of common
pleas thereupon, immediately upon the entry of such rule.

B.—RECORDING.
4. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, and
of the clerks of the several and respective circuit courts and
courts of common pleas in this State, to enter on record in a
book, the proceedings and judgments, and to make a complete
alphabetical index to the same, as required and directed by the
one hundred and ninety-second section of the act entitled, "An
act to regulate the practice of courts of law," within six months
after the final judgment in every civil cause, in which by law
such final judgment is required to be entered as aforesaid; and
no clerk shall charge any fee therefore, until such service shall
have been actually performed ; provided always, that nothing
herein contained shall afi'ect the validity or legal effect of any
such judgment as shall not be recorded within the time herein
limited.

360

JUDGMENTS.

5. If any clerk shall neglect or omit to perform the duty
required of him by the preceding section within the time therein
mentioned, the court in which such neglect or omission shall have
taken place may, by an order of the court, give notice thereof
to the attorney-general of this State ; and it shall be his duty,
on receiving such notice, to proceed by action at law, upon the
official bond of such defaulter, for the recovery of the penalty
thereof, with costs; and when judgment shall be obtained upon
any such bond, the court, where such judgment shall be recov
ered, shall direct so much money to be levied thereon by execu
tion, as shall be sufficient to pay all the expenses of entering or
recording the said proceedings and judgments which shall then
remain unrecorded by the said clerk, and indexed as aforesaid ;
and which service, the court, wherein such default takes place,
is hereby authorized and directed to have done and performed,
and paid for out of the money so recovered as aforesaid ; and if,
after judgment obtained on any such bond, any other neglect or
default shall take place, the court, in which such judgment shall
have been obtained, shall direct such further sum to be levied as
aforesaid thereon, as shall be sufficient to pay the expense of
recording all such proceedings and judgments as remain to be
recorded by the said clerk, and of making such index as afore
said, and which service the court is hereby directed and author
ized to have done and paid for as aforesaid, as often as any
neglect or default shall take place ; provided, that the sureties
in any such official bond shall not be charged hereby beyond the
penalty of such bond.
C—DOCKETING.
6. Any final judgment of a circuit court or court of common
pleas may be docketed in the supreme court, by the party recov
ering the same or by his executor or administrator.
7. The clerk of every circuit court and court of common pleas
shall provide and keep a docket, in which shall be entered, upon
the request of any party thereto, all final judgments rendered
in either of such courts for the payment of any debt, damages,
costs, or other sum of money.

JUDGMENTS.

361

8. Upon such request being made, and on payment of the fees
allowed for docketing such judgment, and for making and send
ing transcripts of such docket, as hereinafter directed, the said
clerk shall enter in such docket a statement of such judgment,
containing: first, the title of the court, the names at length of
all the parties to such judgment, designating particularly against
whom it is rendered, with their places of abode, description,
titles, trades, or professions, if any such appear by the record ;
second, the style of action, and the amount of the debt, dam
ages, or other sum of money recovered, with the costs ; third,
the time of signing such judgment and docketing the same.
9. The clerk docketing such judgment shall immediately
transmit a certified transcript thereof, from the docket, to the
clerk of the supreme court, who shall forthwith, on the receipt
thereof, and of the fees for that purpose hereinafter provided,
file the same and enter such transcript in a docket, to be by him
provided and kept for that purpose, and note therein the time
of receiving and of entering the same.
10. The clerks of the circuit courts, courts of common pleas,
and the clerk of the supreme court shall make to their respec
tive dockets a complete alphabetical index, and said dockets
shall be public records, to which all persons desirous of exam
ining the same shall have access.
11. Such judgment shall, from the time of such docketing in
the supreme court- operate as a judgment obtained in the su
preme court, and satisfaction thereof may be entered in the
margin of the docket, upon the same evidence and in the same
manner, as is now provided by law in case of judgments ren
dered in the supreme court.
12. After judgment shall be docketed in the supreme court,
no execution shall be issued upon the same, out of the court in
which it was originally obtained ; and if any judgment shall be
docketed in the supreme court, after an execution shall have
been issued thereon, out of the court from which such judgment
was docketed, then the supreme court may exercise the same
authority and control over such execution as if the same had
issued out of the supreme court.
13. Every judgment docketed as herein directed, may be r.e
24

362

JUDGMENTS.

vived by scire facias in the supreme court, in the same manner,
in the like cases, and with the like effect, as if such judgment
had been obtained in that court.
14. If any judgment recovered in any circuit court or court
of common pleas shall be removed by writ of error to the su
preme court or court of errors, and bail in error shall be duly
perfected thereon, and such judgment shall, either before or
after such removal, be docketed as herein provided, then execu
tion shall be stayed in the supreme court, in the same manner
as in such circuit court or court of common pleas.
15. A judgment docketed as herein provided, may be removed
to the supreme court by writ of error, in the same manner as if
such judgment had not been so docketed.
16. If any judgment docketed as herein provided, shall be
reversed on writ of error by the court of errors, and a transcript
of the judgment of reversal, duly certified, shall be delivered to
the clerk of the supreme court, it shall be his duty to file the
same in his office, and enter in the margin of the docket, oppo
site the entry of such judgment, the word " reversed," and the
date of such reversal.
17. The clerks of the supreme court, circuit courts, and courts
of common pleas, shall be entitle-d to receive, for docketing any
judgment, fifty cents ; for certified transcripts of such docket,
fifty cents ; and for filing certificate of reversal, and entering
the same in the docket, twelve cents.

D.—ASSIGNMENTS OF, RECORDED.
18. The clerk of the supreme court of this State, and the
clerks of the several counties of this State, are hereby authorized
and directed to record, in suitable hooks to be provided for that
purpose, properly indexed, any assignment of any judgment
recovered or docketed in said supreme court, or in the courts of
record of the several counties respectively, the same being in
writing, with the execution thereof, proved or acknowledged as
the execution of deeds is or shall be required to be proved to
authorize the same to be recorded ; and such recording shall be
notice, from the time such assignment is left for that purpose,

JUDGMENTS.

363

to all persons concerned, that said judgment is so assigned ;
provided always, that any sheriff, or other officer, who has an
execution placed in his hands, upon any judgment, by the owner
or owners of such judgment at that time, shall not be liable to
the assignee of such judgment, without actual notice of such
assignment, unless he fail to return such execution to the term
to which it is returnable.
19. The records and certified copies of such assignment shall
be evidence in the same manner and in like cases as the record
of deeds ; and it shall be lawful for the assignee of any judgment
so assigned of record, to receive satisfaction of the same, and to
authorize and empower the clerk of the court in which such
judgment was rendered, to enter an acknowledgment of satis
faction upon the record of such judgment, or to enter such sat
isfaction himself, in the same manner as the party, in whose
favor such judgment was obtained, or his attorney, might do
before this act was passed.
20. The clerk of the supreme court, and the clerks of the
several counties, shall be entitled to a fee of fifty cents for re
cording and indexing each assignment, and the proof or ac
knowledgment thereof, under this act.
E.-ESiTR¥ OF SATISFACTION.
21. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, and
of^every circuit court and court of common pleas in this State,
in recording judgments, to leave at the foot or bottom of the
record of each and every judgment, in the book of judgments, a
sufficient space for entering satisfaction of said judgment on the
record, and that all satisfactions of judgments entered, whether
by the directions of this act or by the order of the court, shall
be entered at the foot or bottom of the record of such judgments,
or in the margin thereof, in cases where there is not sufficient
space left at the foot or bottom of such judgment for entering
thereof.
22. Whenever any party, in whose favor a judgment is ren
dered in the supreme court, circuit court, or court of common
pleas in this State, shall have received satisfaction of such judg

364

JUDGMENTS.

ment, it shall be the duty of said party, either by himself or his
attorney, forthwith to enter an acknowledgment of satisfaction
upon the record of said judgment, or in case the judgment shall
not have been made up and recorded, then such acknowledg
ment shall be entered in the minutes of the court where such
judgment shall have been rendered ; and it shall thereupon
become the duty of the clerk of such court, as soon as the record
of such judgment is entered in the judgment-book, to make the
entry of satisfaction in the manner prescribed in the foregoing
section, and in the following form :
Satisfaction of this judgment has been duly acknowledged by
A. B. (or his attorney, as the case may be), in the minutes of
this court, of the term of
in the year
agreeably to the
act of the legislature in such case made and provided.
23. Whenever any party shall receive full satisfaction as afore
said, it shall be lawful for the said party to sign, seal, and de
liver to the party so making satisfaction as aforesaid, or his at
torney, a warrant or authority, directed to the clerk of the court
wherein such judgment shall be rendered, to enter satisfaction
as aforesaid, which said warrant may be as follows:
To the clerk of the
court of
Whereas I, A. B. heretofore, to wit, in the term of
ob
tained final judgment in the
court of
in the State of
New Jersey against C. D. for
debt, and
costs (or for
damages and costs, or for costs, as the case may be), as by the
record thereof may appear; and whereas I have received satis
faction for the same, these are thereforee to desire and authorize
you to enter an acknowledgment of satisfaction upon the record
of the said judgment, and for your so doing this shall be your
sufficient warrant and discharge in that behalf; in witness
whereof,
day Iofhave hereunto
eighteenset
hundred
my hand
and and affixed
.
my seal, the
Signed,
and delivered
)\
a B.
-o r[SEAL.]n
B . ' sealed,
.
,
A.
in the presence ot
)
Which said warrant or authority being acknowledged or
proved before any judge or other officer having authority to
take the acknowledgment or proof of deeds for the conveyance
of land in this State, or in case the party shall reside out of this

JUDGMENTS.

365

State, the same being acknowledged or proved before any judge
or justice of any supreme or superior court, or before any judge
of any court of common pleas or master in chancery of the king
dom, State or Territory wherein he shall reside, and, after such
proof or acknowledgment, such warrant or authority being de
livered to the clerk to whom the same shall be directed, it shall
be the duty of the said clerk forthwith to enter satisfaction on
the record of said judgment, as hereinbefore directed, in the
words following, or as nearly in conformity thereto as can be
conveniently done:
I, E. F., clerk of the
court of
in virtue of a special
warrant of attorney (duly acknowledged or proved, as the case
may be) from A. B. in the foregoing record named, and to me
directed, do hereby acknowledge that the said A. B. is satisfied
of the debt and cost (or damages and costs, or costs, as the case
may be) ; dated this
day of
eighteen hundred and
.
E. F., clerk.
And it shall be the duty of the said clerk forthwith, after
entering said satisfaction, to file the said warrant or authority,
with the declaration, pleadings, and other papers in the cause
in which said judgment shall have been obtained.
24. It shall be lawful for the attorney upon the record of said
judgment to authorize and empower the clerk of the court in
which said judgment was rendered to enter an acknowledgment
of satisfaction upon the record of said judgment by an instru
ment in writing' of the same general form and effect as that
mentioned and described in the last preceding section ; and when
such attorney upon the record shall have delivered to said clerk
a power of attorney, duly executed by him, and acknowledged
or proved, of the same tenor and effect as that mentioned in the
preceding section, the said clerk shall forthwith enter satisfac
tion of said judgment in pursuance thereof, and in conformity,
as nearly as may be, to the directions in cases wherein said
power of attorney may have been executed by the party in whose
favor the judgment was rendered, and the same fees shall be
charged for such services as in other cases.
25. The last preceding section shall apply to the satisfaction
of record of claims of mechanics' liens, if there be an attorney

366

JUDGMENTS.

of record of the same, and of any judgment entered thereon,
and also, to the satisfaction of decrees in the court of chancery
if there be a solicitor of the complainant of record.
26. The judge or other officer who shall take the acknowledg
ment or proof of any warrant or authority to enter satisfaction
on the record as aforesaid, shall be entitled to receive twentyfive cents, and no more, for each acknowledgment or proof taken
or had before him ; and the clerk for entering satisfaction on
the record, and filing the warrant or authority for so doing,
shall be entitled to receive the sum of twenty-five cents, and no
more
27. In case any party, having received full satisfaction for
any judgment obtained in either of the courts aforesaid, shall
refuse or neglect, when requested, to enter satisfaction as afore
said, or to sign, seal, and deliver a warrant, duly acknowledged
as aforesaid, to enter satisfaction as aforesaid, the party so mak
ing satisfaction may, on due notice given, apply to the court to
have satisfaction entered as aforesaid, and the said court may
order the same to be done, and that the party so having received
satisfaction shall pay the costs of the said application, which
costs may be recovered by a writ of fieri facias or capias ad
satisfaciendum.
28. When the original parties to the action or either of them
are dead, before satisfaction is entered on the record, the pre
ceding provisions and the like remedy shall apply as between
the survivor or survivors or the lawful representatives of any
deceased party, and a surviving party ; and the warrant to the
clerk mentioned in the twenty-third section of this act, and
other proceedings under the same, shall be in the same form, as
near as may be, as is required in the case of the original parties
to the suit.
29. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent
any party, making satisfaction as aforesaid, from proceeding,
according to the course of the respective courts, to enforce the
entering satisfaction on the record of judgments as heretofore,
nor to deprive any attorney at law from any lien which he may
have on any judgment for his costs.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

JUDGMENTS.

367

JUDGMENTS.
AN ACT DIRECTING THE MODE OF ENTERING JUDG
MENTS ON BONDS WITH WARRANTS OF AT
TORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That every warrant of attorney for confess
ing judgment which shall be included in the body of any bond,
bill, or other instrument, for the payment of money, shall be
void and of none effect ; and such bond, bill, or other instru
ment, shall have the same force, and no other, as if the said
warrant of attorney had not been incorporated therein.
2. No warrant of attorney for confessing a judgment, exe
cuted by any person in custody upon mesne process in a civil
action, to a plaintifff at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of
any force, unless some attorney, on behalf of such person in
custody, and expressly named by him, be present as a witness,
and inform him of the nature of such warrant.
3. A warrant of attorney to confess judgment shall not be
revocable by the party making the same.
4. Every attorney who shall confess judgment in auy case,
shall, at the time of making such confession, produce his war
rant for making the same, to the court, judge, or commissioner,
before whom he makes the confession ; and a copy of the said
warrant shall then be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment shall be entered.
5. In all cases where a bond or other obligation is given for
the payment of money only, together with a warrant under
hand and seal, directed to any attorney at law or other person,
to appear in any court of record in an action brought or to be
brought on such bond or obligation, against the person or per
sons executing the same, and to confess a judgment against him,
her, or them, for the sum mentioned in such bond and warrant
of attorney, with costs of suit, or to the like effect, it shall be
lawful for the obligee or obligees, his, her, or their executors,

368

JUDGMENTS.

administrators, or assigns, at any time after the day of payment
mentioned in said bond or obligation, to apply to any of the
justices of the supreme court, or to any one of the judges of the
circuit court, or court of common pleas, in any of the counties
of this State, and on the production of such bond or obligation
with the warrant of attorney, it shall be the duty of such jus
tice or judge, at the end of a fair copy of such bond or obliga
tion and warrant of attorney, to cause to be entered an appear
ance for the obligor or obligors to an action of debt, as of the
last precedent term of the court of which the said justice or
judge is a member, and a confession and judgment against him,
her, or them, for the sum mentioned in the said bond or obliga
tion and warrant of attorney, signed by the said justice or judge
in the following form, to wit :
Supreme court (or circuit court, or court of common pleas, as
the case may be), of the term of
A. B.
)
against V in debt on bond and warrant of attorney.
CD.
)
The defendant's appearance to this action is entered, and
judgment confessed to the plaintifff for the sum mentioned in
the above obligation, by virtue of the warrant of attorney there
unto annexed, and pursuant to the directions of an act entitled
" An act directing the mode of entering judgments on bonds
with warrants of attorney to confess judgments," whereupon it
is considered that the said A. B. do recover against the said
C. D. the sum of
debt, and four dollars, costs of suit.
Judgment signed- this
day of
.
E. F.
6. It shall be lawful for any supreme court commissioner to
sign and order entered judgmeuts by confession upon special
warrants of attorney, in any court wherein such judgments may
be entered ; and such judgments, so signed and ordered entered,
shall have the same force and validity as the same would have
if signed by a judge of such court.
7. The copy of the bond and warrant of attorney to confess .
judgment, with the entry of the judgment thereon, signed by
the justice, judge, or commissioner, shall be delivered to the clerk
of the court in which such judgment is to be entered; and the

JUDGMENTS.

369

clerk shall immediately file the same in his office, mark thereon
the time of filing the same, and enter the judgment in the min
utes of the court, and shall also enter all the proceedings on
which said judgment shall be founded as aforesaid, and the judg
ment itself at large in the judgment-book of said court, and
index the same, as in other cases of judgment.
8. If judgment be not entered within ten years after, the date
of the warrant of attorney, it shall not be done without leave of
the court ; and a motion to enter such judgment shall be founded
on an affidavit that the said warrant was duly executed, that
the defendant is living, and that the debt, or part of it, is un
satisfied.
9. All judgments entered as before directed shall be as good
and effectual in law, to all intents and purposes whatsoever, as
judgments entered by confession in the manner heretofore prac
ticed, and no such judgment shall be reversed for error or mis
prision of the clerk in entering the same, or defect of form in the
entry thereof; and execution shall issue thereon as in cases of
judgments entered by confession in the manner heretofore prac
ticed.
10. All judgments on bonds or obligations for the payment of
money only, in virtue of a warrant of attorney to confess judg
ment thereon, shall be entered as in and by this act is directed,
and not otherwise.
11. No judgment shall be entered in any court of record of
this State, on a warrant of attorney to confess such judgment,
or by the defendant appearing in person in open court and con
fessing the same, unless the plaintifff or his attorney shall pro
duce, at the time of confessing such judgment, to the court,
judge, justice, or commissioner before whom the judgment shall
be confessed, an affidavit of the plaintifff, his attorney or agent,
of the true consideration of the bill, bond, deed, note, or other
instrument of writing or demand for which the said judgment
shall be confessed; which affidavit shall further set forth that
the debt or demand for which the judgment is confessed is justly
and honestly due and owing to the person or persons to whom
the judgment is confessed, and that the said judgment is not

370

JUDGMENTS.

confessed to answer any fraudulent intent or purpose, or to pro
tect the property of the defendant from his other creditors.
12. The affidavit required by this act may be made before any
justice of the supreme court, judge of any circuit court or court
of common pleas, supreme court commissioner, master in chan
cery, or justice of the peace of this State, or, if the plaintifff be
out of this State, before any court of judicature or notary pub
lic of the State, kingdom, or* nation in which the said plaintifff
resides or shall happen to be; which affidavit shall be filed with
the other papers in the cause.
13. The following, and no other, fees, shall be allowed, viz. :
to the plaintifff, for the copy of the bond or obligation and war
rant of attorney, entering the proceedings thereon, attending
before the justice, judge, or commissioner to obtain the judgment,
and delivering the same, with the affidavit, to the clerk to be
filed, two dollars; to the justice, judge, or commissioner, for in
specting the bond and warrant, examining the copies and enter
ing and signing judgment, fifty cents; to the clerk, for making
and filing the proceedings and affidavit, and entering the judg
ment in the minutes of the court, fifty cents, and for entering
the proceedings and judgment at large in the book of judgments,
one dollar ; and when execution shall issue on any judgment, the
following additional fees shall be allowed, and no other., to wit :
to the plaintifff, for drawing the execution, twenty-five cents; to
the clerk, for sealing and recording the execution, and entering
and filing the execution and return of the sheriff, seventy-five
cents ; which costs shall be indorsed on the execution without
taxation, and collected with the debt, but to be paid by the
plaintifff as the duty is performed ; and further, that the sheriff
shall be entitled to execution'fees, as in other cases.
14. Tu case any clerk shall take other or greater fees for ser
vices done uuder this act than are by this act allowed, or shall
take such fees without performing the services for which such
fees are allowed, he shall, for every such offense, forfeit and pay
the sum of thirty dollars, to be sued for and recovered in an ac
tion of debt, with costs of suit, in any court having cognizance
thereof, by any person who shall be aggrieved by the same.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

JURIES.

371

JURIES.
AN ACT CONCERNING JURIES.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That the process for summoning a jury shall
be by venire facias, issued out of the court in which the cause
shall be triable, except in issues joined in the supreme court or
removed there for trial, in which cases the venire shall be issued
out of the supreme court, directed to the sheriff of the county
in which the circuit court in which such issue is triable is to be
held, and shall be returned to such circuit court to be there filed.
2. Every venire for the trial of any issue shall be awarded to
the county in which such issue is triable, except where a foreign
jury shall have been ordered.
3. Every person summoned as a petit juror in the supreme
court, the circuit courts, the courts of oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery, of common pleas and of general quarter
sessions of the peace, shall receive the sum of two dollars for
every day's attendance at such courts, to be paid at the expira
tion of each term of service, by the sheriff of the county in
which the juror shall serve.
4. No person summoned as a juror, shall be discharged from
attendance, except by order of the court in which his attendance
may be required.
5. No sheriff, coroner, or other officer, or any deputy of such
sheriff, coroner, of other officer, shall directly or indirectly take,
accept, or receive any money, or other reward or thing, to excuse
any person from serving or being summoned or returned on any
jury or inquest, or under that color or pretense, on pain of
forfeiting one hundred and fifty dollars for every such offense,
the one moiety to the State, and the other moiety to any person
who shall prosecute for the same, to be recovered, with costs,
by action of debt, in any court of record having cognizance of
that sum.

372

JURIES.

6. Every person summoned as a grand juror in any court of
this State, and every petit juror returned for the trial of any
action or suit of a civil or criminal nature, shall be a citizen
of this State and resident within the county from which he shall
be taken, and above the age of twenty-one and under the age of
sixty-five years ; and if any person, who is not so qualified, shall
be summoned as a grand juror or as a juror on the trial of any
such action in any of the courts of this State, it sball be good
cause of challenge to such juror, who shall be discharged upon
such challenge being verified according to law, or on his own
oath or affirmation in support thereof ; provided, that no excep
tion to any such juror on account of his citizenship, or age, or
any other legal disability, shall be allowed after he is sworn or
affirmed.
7. It shall be the duty of the respective sheriffs of the several
counties in this State, at their own expense, to procure every
year a list of the names of the persons who, in their respective
counties, are qualified to serve as jurors.
8. The summons of every grand or petit juror shall be made
by the sheriff or his deputy, or by one of the coroners, when
the venire shall be awarded to the coroners, either personally to,
or in writing under his hand, left at the dwelling-house of such
juror, six days at the least before the day on which such juror
is required to appear.
9. Every person summoned as a grand or petit juror and fail
ing to attend without reasonable excuse, shall be fined by the
court in any sum not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the
county where such offense was committed ; and may be punished
as for contempt of court.
10. The clerk of the court shall deliver a certified list of the
names of all defaulting jurors, specifying the fine awarded against
each of them, to the sheriff of the county, who shall, by himself
or his deputy, either personally or in writing, give notice to each
defaulting juror of the fine so awarded against him, at least six
days before the next term of the said court ; which notice, if in
writing, shall be signed by the said sheriff or his deputy, and
left at the dwelling-house of the said juror ; and if such fine shall
not be paid to the said sheriff by the second day of the next

JURIES.

373

term as aforesaid, or be then remitted by the court, the said
court shall issue process directed to the sheriff, commanding
him to levy and make the said fine, with costs, by distress and
sale of so much of the goods and chattels of such defaulting
juror as shall be sufficient to satisfy the same ; and the sheriff
for every such notice shall be allowed one dollar, to be paid by
the juror so making default, provided he shall have been
summoned as such agreeably to law.
11. In case of the sickness, death, or non-attendance of any
grand juror after he shall be sworn or affirmed, the court, in its
discretion, may cause another grand juror to be sworn or af
firmed in his stead.
12. The foreman of the grand jury, shall from the time of his
appointment until his discharge, have power to administer the
usual oath or affirmation to such witnesses as shall give evi
dence before the grand jury whereof he is foreman ; and it shall
be the duty of such foreman, before he be discharged, to certify
to the court, under his hand, the names of such witnesses as
shall have been by him so sworn or affirmed.
A.-OF THE GENERAL PANEL.
13. It shall be the duty of every sheriff in this State, or in
case of his death or disability, of the coroners of the respectivecounties, at least twenty days before the commencement of every'
circuit court, court of oyer and terminer and general jail de
livery, common pleas, and quarter sessions of the peace, to be
holden in such county, at the office' of the clerk of the said
county, and in the presence of the said clerk, between the hours
of ten o'clock in the forenoon and four o'clock in the afternoon, to
select from among the residents of the county qualified to serve
as jurors, the names of at least twice as many persons as he or the
said coroners shall deem necessary to be summoned as jurors at
the then next ensuing term of any of the aforesaid courts ; and
the names so selected shall be written on separate pieces of
paper ; which pieces of paper shall then be separately rolled up,
concealing the name of each juror, and put into a box, and which,
when so rolled up, shall be of the same size, color, and shape, as

374

JURIES.

nearly as may be ; after which the said box shall be closed up
and shaken in such a manner as to intermingle the pieces of
paper so as aforesaid rolled up and put therein; the box shall
then be opened, and the said sheriff, coroners, or clerk, or some
person appointed by them for that purpose, shall, in an open and
public manner, in the presence of the said officers and of such
other persons as may choose to be present on the occasion, be
tween the hours aforesaid, draw out of the said box as many
pieces of paper as the number of jurors the said sheriff or cor
oners shall deem necessary to summon as aforesaid; and the
several persons whose names shall be found written on the
papers so drawn out shall constitute the general panel of jurors,
to be summoned and returned by the said sheriff or coroners to
the next ensuing term of the said courts ; and the said sheriff,
coroners, or clerk shall make, or cause to be made, two complete
lists of the names so drawn, and certify the same under their
hands, to be the panel of jurors selected to serve at such ensuing
court or courts, one whereof shall be filed by the said clerk, and
the other shall be delivered to the said sheriff or coroners.
14. In case of the death, disability, or absence of the clerk,
any judge of the court of common pleas of such county may
perform the duties directed to be performed by the clerk in the
last preceding section ; and one copy of the list of jurors drawn
and certified by such judge and sheriff or coroners, shall be filed
in the clerk's office of the county.
15. The sheriff shall, as soon as may be after the commence
ment of the term of each of the said courts, deliver a list of the
jurors by him summoned for service at such term, certified by
him to be a true list, to the clerk of such court, who shall
thereupon file the said list, and forthwith lay the same before
the said court ; and no person shall serve as a juror whose name
is not contained on said list, if the objection be made before
such person is sworn or affirmed as a juror, unless when a tales
de circumstantibus is ordered, or an order has been made for a
special venire for a jury of view or for a struck jury ; provided,
nevertheless, that if on a challenge to the array or for other good
cause, the whole panel of jurors, returned for the term, shall be
set aside, the court may order the sheriff or other proper officer

JURIES.

375

forthwith to return a competent number of jurors to serve for
the term, to be by him selected in the manner prescribed by the
thirteenth section of this act.
16. If at any time the number of jurors in attendance at any
court shall be greater than is necessary for the business of the
court, the court may discharge a specific number of such jurors
from further attendance at that term ; in which case the clerk
or sheriff, or some person under the direction of the court, shall
in open court draw from the said box such number of the
papers therein contained as the court shall direct ; and the
jurors whose names shall be found written thereon shall be dis
charged from further attendance at that time ; provided, how
ever, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to pre
vent any court from excusing or discharging individual jurors
for sufficient reason.
17. Nothing in the four preceding sections shall apply to
cases in which any writ of venire facias shall be directed to the
coroners, or to elisors for the trial of any particular cause ; in
which case such writ shall be executed, and the jury thereby
required shall be summoned by such coroners or elisors in the
same manner as by law was required to be done in such cases
before the ninth day of March, one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-six.
B.-STRIC'K JI RIES.
18. The supreme court, the circuit courts, the courts of com
mon pleas, court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery,
and the courts of general quarter sessions of the peace, respec
tively, may on motion in behalf of the State, or of any prose
cutor or defendant in any indictment or information in the na
ture of a quo warranto, or on motion in behalf of the State, or
of any plaintifff or defendant, in any action triable by a jury,
order a jury to be struck for the trial thereof; provided that no
order for a struck jury shall be made in any civil action unless
the court or judge to whom the application is made shall be
satisfied, by affidavit, that the nature and importance of the
matter or matters in controversy, in such suit or action, render
it reasonable and proper that said order be made.

376

JURIES.

1!'. If a rule for a struck jury shall be entered in any cause,
it shall remain in force until the cause shall .be tried, and no
common jury shall be summoned therein, unless the said rule
shall be first vacated by the court, except as is hereinafter pro
vided.
20. In motions for a struck jury, the plaintifff shall have the
preference; and the defendant shall not apply for a struck jury
without two days' notice to the plaintifff, unless he shall have a
rule for trial by proviso, and then he shall have the preference ;
and in that case the plaintifff shall not apply for a struck jury
without two days' notice to the defendant ; and there shall not
be two such rules existing in the same cause at the same time.
21. Where the defendant has a rule for a struck jury, or has
a rule for trial by proviso, and the plaintifff has a rule for a
struck jury, in order to give reasonable time to strike the same
according to law, there shall be thirty days' notice of trial ; but
the party having such rule hiay, at any time, before notice of
trial, procure such jury to be struck at his peril, giving to the
adverse party the lawful notice thereof.
22. Where the defendant shall have a rule for a struck jury
and shall not procure such jury to be struck, and the panel
thereof duly certified to be delivered to the plaintifff or his at
torney, twelve days at least before the day appointed for trial,
the plaintifff may issue his venire for a common jury ; and if the
defendant shall have a rule for trial by proviso, and the plain
tiff a rule for a struck jury, then if the plaintifff shall not pro
cure such jury to be struck and the panel thereof to be delivered
to the defendant as aforesaid, the defendant may issue his venire
for a common jury.
23. If the cause wherein any jury shall be struck shall not be
brought to trial at the next term of the court after the said
striking, the jury so struck shall not be summoned or returned,
but a new jury shall be struck.
24. When an order shall be made for a struck jury, the sheriff
of the proper county, or other officer who ought to empanel
the jury in such case, shall deliver at a certain day and place,
to the judge of the court before whom the jury is to be struck,
a book containing the names of the several persons in his county

JURIES.

377

qualified to serve as jurors, with their places of abode; and the
party applying for such struck jury, or his attorney, shall give
six days' previous notice to the adverse party or his attorney,
and to the judge, sheriff, or other officer aforesaid, of the time
and place of striking the said jury ; at which time and place the
judge shall, in the presence of the parties or their agents or at
torneys, or such of them as shall attend for that purpose, select
and transcribe from the said book the names of forty-eight such
persons, with their places of abode, as he shall think most im
partial aud indifferent between the parties, and best qualified as
to talents, knowledge, integrity, firmness, and independence of
sentiment, to try the said cause; and thereupon the party ap
plying for such jury, his agent or attorney, shall first strike out
one of the said names, and then the adverse party, his agent or
attorney, shall strike out another, and so on, alternately, until
each shall have stricken out twelve; but if the adverse party
shall not attend such striking, nor any person in his behalf, then
the said judge shall strike for him; and when each shall have
stricken out twelve, as aforesaid, the remaining twenty-four
shall be the jury to be returned to try the said cause; and the
said judge shall thereupon make a fair copy of the names of the
remaining twenty-four persons, with their places of abode, and
certify the same under his hand to be the list of jurors struck
as aforesaid, for the trial of the said cause; which list shall be
delivered to the sheriff or other officer, who ought to summon
such jury, together with the venire facias, by the person apply
ing for such struck jury, his agent or attorney, at least ten
days previous to the time appointed for the trial of such cause,
and such sheriff or other officer shall thereupon annex the same
list to the said venire facias, and return the same as the panel
of the jury to try the said cause, and summon them according
to the command of the said writ ; and in case of neglect or re
fusal to deliver the list and venire as aforesaid, the cause shall
be tried by a common jury of the county, unless the court shall
for some good cause determine otherwise.
25. The order for a struck jury for the. trial of any eivilcause
may be made by the court or any judge thereof, and the court
or judge, in their or his discretion, may order that the list of
25

378

JURIES.

names from which such jury shall be struck shall contain the
names of thirty-six persons, instead of forty-eight, and in such
case the parties shall be entitled, respectively, to strike the
names of nine persons from said list, and the remaining eighteen
shall be returned as the list of persons from whom the jury shall
be selected to try the cause.
26. The party applying for such struck jury shall pay the fees
for striking the same, and shall not have any allowance there
for upon the taxation of costs.
C—IMPANELLING JURY.
27. The name of each person who shall be summoned and re
turned by any sheriff or coroners as petit jurors in any of the
aforesaid courts, shall be written or printed on separate pieces
of paper, of the same size, color, and shape, as nearly as may be:
which pieces of paper shall be severally rolled up by the sheriff,
coroners, or clerk, or by some person employed by him for that
purpose, and put into a box ; and whenever for the trial of a
cause, civil or criminal, a jury shall be required, the said box
shall be shaken so as to intermix the said papers ; and thereupon
the sheriff or clerk, or some other person, by the direction of
the court, publicly and in open court, shall draw such papers
from the said box, one at a time, until twelve persons, whose
names are found written thereon, shall appear; and if any of
the twelve persons so appearing shall be successfully challenged
or be excused from serving on that jury, the said drawing shall
be continued until twelve persons not thus challenged or ex
cused shall appear; and such twelve being severally sworn or
affirmed, shall constitute a jury for the trial of the said cause;
and if by reason of challenges, or the default of jurors or other
wise, a sufficient number cannot be had of the jurors on the
original panel to try the issue or cause, then either party may
pray for, and the court shall award a tales de circumstantibus ;
whereupon the sheriff or other proper officer shall summon such
number of talesmen as may be necessary to complete the said
jury, and make return thereof immediately ; which talesmen
.shall be liable to the same challenges as the principal jurors; and

JURIES.

379

if any talesman, when present.be called and shall not appear, or
if he appear, shall willfully withdraw from the court, then the
said court may set a reasonable fine upon him, to be levied and
made by distress and sale, in the manner prescribed by this act.
28. After the jury shall be selected and sworn or affirmed as
aforesaid, the sheriff or other proper officer shall annex their
names to the venire in the cause, and return the same as the
panel of jurors summoned therein ; but the trial of the cause
may forthwith proceed in the same manner as if such return
had already been made.
29. After a jury shall have been empaneled and sworn or
affirmed for the trial of any cause, the clerk, sheriff, or other
proper officer shall, before another jury shall be drawn, replace
in the said box all the papers which may have been drawn there
from, except those containing the names of the jurors so im
paneled and sworn or affirmed ; but as soon as they shall have
rendered a verdict, or be discharged therefrom by the court,
their names shall also be replaced in the said box.
30. Whenever a struck jury shall have been returned for the
trial of any cause, civil or criminal, a jury for the trial of such
cause shall be selected from the persons whose names have been
certified by the judge as the list of jurors, in the same manner,
as near as may be, as is provided for the selection of a jury from
the general panel.
D.—JURY OF VIEW.
31. In actions in the supreme court, or any circuit eourt, or
court of common pleas, where it shall be proper or necessary
that the jurors who are to try the issue should view the mes
suages, lands, or place in question, in order to their better under
standing the evidence that will be given on the trial, the court,
or a judge thereof, may order a special writ of venire facias, to
issue, by which the sheriff, or other officer to whom the same
shall be directed, shall be commanded to hav« six or more of
the first twelve of the jurors, named in the panel to such writ
annexed, at the place in question, at a day therein named, prior
to the first day of the court, who then and there shall have the
matters in question shown to them by two persons in the said

380

JURIES.

writ named, to be appointed by the court or judge; and the
shcriti' or other officer who is to execute the said writ, shall, by
a special return on the same, certify under his hand that the
view hath been had according to the command of the said writ.
32. Whenever a jury shall be struck for the trial of a civil
cause, the court or judge by whom the order for a struck jury
was made, may direct that a view be had of the lands or place
in question ; in which case the venire shall contain a clause of
view, and the officer summoning such jury shall have twelve or
more of the persons named in the list certified by the judge be
fore whom such jury is struck, at said view, and the view shall
in all respects be conducted as in case of an ordinary jury of
view.
83. When a view shall have been ordered under either of the
last two preceding sections, the trial shall proceed notwithstand
ing no view shall be had ; and no objection shall be made by
either side for want of a view, or that a view was not had by
any particular number of jurors named in the venire, or for
want of a proper return to the writ.
34. When a view shall be ordered, the expenses thereof shall
be equally borne by both parties, and no evidence shall be given
on either side at the time of taking thereof.
35. The court in which any cause of a criminal or civil nature
is pending, may at any time after the jury for the trial of the
same is drawn, or at any time during the trial- order that the
jury empaneled for the trial thereof shall view any lands or
place, if in the judgment of the court such view is necessary to
enable the jury better to understand the evidence given in the
cause, and such view shall thereupon be had in such manner as
the court shall direct.
E.—FOREIGN JURY.
86. The supreme court may, in its discretion, order trials by
foreign juries in all cases, civil or criminal, which may have
been commenced in that court, or may be removed to that court
from any other court.
37. The supreme court, whenever in their opinion a fair and

JURIES.

381

impartial trial cannot be had before a jury of the proper county,
may upon motion in behalf of the State, or on the part of any
defendant or prisoner, order any indictment, found at any court
of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, or at any court
of general quarter sessions of the peace, to be tried by a foreign
jury in the court and county in which such indictment was
found.
38. Whenever a foreign jury shall be ordered, the order for a
jury shall specify the number of jurors to be returned, and the
venire shall be directed to the sberiffof the county from which
such jury shall be taken, and shall be returnable to the circuit
court in which the issue is triable; the jurors shall be selected
in the same manner as the general panel of jurors is selected,
and shall be such as are competent jurors for the county from
which they are taken ; and the expense of summoning and re
turning such jurors, and of their attendance at the court, shall
be paid by the county within which such court shall be held.
P.—CHALLENGES.
39. It shall not be a ground of exception or challenge to the
array or to the polls, in any action wherein the board of chosen
freeholders of any county, or the inhabitants of any township
or city, are or may be parties to the record, or otherwise inter
ested, that the sheriff, constable, or jurors are inhabitants of the
county, township, or city, interested in such action, or liable to
be taxed therein.
40. Upon the trial of any issue in any civil suit or action in
any court of this State, each party shall be entitled to challenge
peremptorily, as their names are drawn from the box, three of
the general panel of jurors summoned and returned by the
sheriff or other officer ; and upon the trial of any indictment
where twenty peremptory challenges are not allowed, the de
fendant or defendants shall be entitled to challenge peremptorily,
as their names are drawn from the box, three of the general
panel of jurors summoned and returned by the sheriff or other
officer.
41. Upon the trial of any indictment, the attorney-general or
prosecutor of the pleas of the State shall be entitled to challenge

382

JURIES.

peremptorily three of the panel of jurors summoned and return
ed for the trial thereof; and upon the trial of any indictment
in cases where the defendant is entitled to twenty peremptory
challenges, the attorney-general or prosecutor of the pleas shall
be entitled to challenge peremptorily, and without assigning any
cause, ten of the jurors returned for the trial of such indict
ment.
42. Upon the trial of any civil cause or indictment, for which
a struck jury shall be summoned and returned, three peremp
tory challenges shall be allowed, as in other cases.
43 All challenges to the array or to individual jurors, for any
cause whatever, shall be triable by the court.
G

EXEMPTIONS FROM JURY DUTY.

44. No fireman shall be entitled to claim exemption from
jury duty in any of the courts of this State, except courts for
the trial of small causes, unless he shall give evidence of his en
rolment in a fire company, in addition to the requirements of
existing laws, by filing his name in the office of the clerk of the
county in which he resides, with the title and location of said
company, at least thirty days before the commencement of the
term at which he may offer his excuse.
45. The clerk of each county shall provide, at the expense of
the county, a suitable book, which shall be entitled " The Fire
men's Register," in which he shall arrange in alphabetical order
the names thus filed in his office, the date of filing, and the
name of the company to which each person belongs, and also
the time when he ceased to be such exempted fireman, which
information shall be furnished annually on the first day of Jan
uary, by the chief officer of each company, by his sending to the
clerk a certified list of those whose names have been taken off'
during the year; said book to be open for inspection without
charge, for which services the clerk performing the same shall
be entitled to demand and receive twenty-five cents from the
person filing his name, before the same shall be marked filed or
registered.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

JUSTICES' COURTS.

383

JUSTICES' COURTS.
AN ACT CONSTITUTING COURTS FOR THE TRIAL
OF SMALL CAUSES.
A.—JURISDICTION.
1. Be it -enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State- of New Jersey, That every suit of a civil nature at law,
where the debt, balance, or other matter in dispute does not
exceed, exclusive of costs, the sura or value of one hundred dol
lars, shall be and hereby is made cognizable before any justice
of the peace of any county in this State, who is hereby author
ized to hold a court within such county, to hear, try, and de
termine the same according to law, although the cause of action
did not arise in said county ; which court shall be a court of
record and vested for the purposes aforesaid with all such power
as is usual in courts of record of this State ; provided always,
that this act shall not extend to any action of replevin, slander,
trespass for assault, battery, or imprisonment, nor to auy action
wherein the title to any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or
other real estate shall or may in any wise come in question.
2. Whenever the amount really due or recoverable upon any
bond, bill, note, or other contract in writing, does not exceed,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of one hundred dollars at
the time when the suit is instituted, such amount shall be
recoverable before a justice of the peace, without regard to any
kind of penalty expressed therein, in the same manner as any
other debt or demand of one hundred dollars or under is made
recoverable by this act.
3. Where the debt, balance, or other matter in dispute, or
amount really due or recoverable as aforesaid exceeds, exclusive
of costs, the sum or value of one hundred dollars, the plaintifff
may recover in such court a sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars and costs, but such recovery shall be a bar to the recov

384

JUSTICES' COURTS.

ery of the residue of such debt, balance, or other matter in dis
pute in any court whatsoever.
4. Nothing in sections two or three of this act shall be held
or construed as conferring jurisdiction upon any justice in any
of the cases excepted out of the justice's jurisdiction by section
one.
5. Every sum of money or penalty, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, to be sued for and recovered by virtue of any law of this
State, in any court of record, or in any court having cognizance
thereof, shall be and hereby is made cognizable before any justice
of the peace, in manner aforesaid.
6. Parties may agree to enter without process any action
before a justice of the peace to the decision of which he is" com
petent, if process had been executed, and the court shall proceed
thereon to final judgment and execution, in the same manner as
if a summons or warrant had been issued and duly served.
7. Any body politic or corporate in this State may sue and be
sued in any court for the trial of small causes, in any action or
proceeding over which said court has jurisdiction ; and all at
torneys at law shall and may be sued in said court in like man
ner, or form of action, as other citizens of this State are liable
to be sued in said court.
8. Any justice of the peace whose term of office may hereafter
expire shall proceed to the final determination of any cause or
proceeding then undetermined before him, and also make return
to all writs, orders, or rules to him directed, issuing out of any
court in this State, in the same manner as if his term of office
had not expired.
9. The territorial jurisdiction of every justice of the peace
under this act shall be coextensive with the limits of the county
for which he is appointed and commissioned ; his writs, precepts,
and process shall run in and through such county, and he may,
in causes pending before him, award writs of subpoena for wit
nesses into other counties of this State.

JUSTICES' COURTS.

385

B.—PROCESS.
10. All the precepts, summons, warrants, writs, and other pro
cess of said court for the trial of small causes, shall be tested
the day on which they are respectively issued, and shall be
signed and sealed by the justice who issued the same.
11. If any justice of the peace shall sign his name to any
blank summons or warrant, and allow any constable or other
person to fill up the blank or blanks in the said process, without
the special direction of the said justice, and in his presence, and
shall afterwards issue the said process, or suffer the same to be
served, such justice shall be deemed guilty of misbehavior in
office, and on conviction thereof shall forfeit and pay the sum of
fifty dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, by any person
who shall prosecute for the same, in any court having jurisdic
tion of the case, one-half for the use of the person prosecuting,
and the other half for the township in which such justice shall
reside.
12. The service of any summons or warrant which shall have
been issued by the justice as aforesaid in blank, and afterwards
filled up by the constable or other person, without the special
direction of the justice, as aforesaid, shall be taken and con
sidered to be altogether void, and any judgment or other pro
ceeding afterwards had or taken, in consequence of such service,
or founded thereupon, shall be void and of no effect.
13. The first process to compel appearance shall be a sum
mons or warrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum ;
provided, that no warrant shall issue against the body of any
female ; the summons may be used in any case whatsoever ; the
warrant shall only be used in the following cases:
I. Where the defendant is not a freeholder and resident of the
county in which process shall issue, and where the action being
founded upon contract express or implied, due proof is made on
oath or affirmation to the satisfaction of the justice, of the
amount of the debt or damages claimed, and of such other facts
and circumstances as would warrant a justice of the supreme
court in making an order to hold to bail in pursuance of the

386

JUSTICES' COURTS.

fifty-eighth section of an act entitled " An act to regulate the
practice of courts of law."
II. Where the defendant is not a freeholder and resident of
the county in which such process shall issue, and where, the
action being founded upon tort, due proof is made on oath or
affirmation to the satisfaction of the justice, of the amount of
the damages claimed, and of such other facts and circumstances
as would, by the practice of the supreme court, warrant a jus
tice thereof in making an order to hold to bail in a case of tort.
III. If the defendant be a freeholder and resident of the
county in which such process shall issue, and due proof is made
on oath or affirmation to the satisfaction of such justice, that
the defendant has assigned or disposed of, or is about to assign
or dispose of, all his land lying in said county with intent to de
fraud his creditors, then such defendant may be held to bail in
like manner, and upon the same proof that would warrant his
arrest in case he were uot a freeholder and resident in the couuty
in which such process shall issue.
14. Upon proof made as aforesaid the justice shall make and
subscribe an order that a warrant issue against the defendant
for such amount as such proof shall justify and require; but be
fore said warrant issue, such order and the affidavit or affidavits
upon which the order is founded, shall be filed by said justice.
15. If the defendant be arrested upon such warrant, he may,
at any time before the trial of the cause, make application to a
justice of the supreme court, or to the law judge, if any, of the
court of common pleas of the couuty in which such process is
sued, or to any supreme court commissioner, to set aside said
order, the defendant having first given reasonable notice to the
plaintifff of such application, and the giving bond or entering
into recognizance in manner hereinafter directed shall be no
waiver of the defendant's right to make such application ; and
if such justice of the supreme court, law judge or commissioner,
shall deem the proof made, insufficient to warrant an arrest, he
may order that the order made by the justice be set aside; such
order setting aside the justice's order shall thereupon operate as
a discontinuance of the suit in which such warrant issued ; the
bond or recognizance, if any, shall become void, and the plain

JUSTICES' COURTS.

387

tiff shall be forever thereafter barred from proceeding against
the body of the defendant for the same cause of action, but he
may proceed against the defendant by summons in the same
manner as if no other proceeding had been instituted.
16. The order made by the justice of the supreme court, law
judge, or commissioner, shall be filed with the justice who issued
the warrant, and such justice shall furnish certified copies thereof
to the parties or their agents on request.
17. The summons shall be made returnable between the hours
of nine o'clock in the forenoon and three o'clock in the after
noon, both inclusive, and shall specify a certain place and time,
not less than five nor more than fifteen days, from the date of
such process, and shall be served at least five days before the
time of appearance mentioned therein, by reading the same to
the defendant, and delivering to him a copy thereof, if he or she
shall be found, and if not found, by leaving a copy thereof at
his or her house or place of abode, in presence of some person of
the family, of the age of fourteen years, who shall be informed
of the contents thereof, and the constable serving such summons
shall, on the oath of his office, indorse thereupon the time and
manner he executed the same, and sign his name thereto
18. If the defendant be a body politic or corporate, the sum
mons may be served on the president, treasurer, cashier, or clerk
of said corporation if found, and if not found, on any of the di
rectors or managers thereof, in the manner hereinabove directed.
19. The said justice shall enter in the body of every summons
or warrant, the sum demanded (and indorse the same, with
costs, on the said summons or warrant), which he shall issue by
virtue of this act ; and if the defendant think proper to pay such
debt, damages, or demand, with costs, so entered or indorsed,
without any further proceedings in the cause, then it shall be
lawful for the constable to receive the same, and his receipt shall
be a full discharge to such defendant from such debt, damages,
or demand, and costs aforesaid ; and if any constable shall not
pay the money so by him received for such debt, damages, or
demand, to the justice issuing such process, or to the plaintifff
in the said process, or his legal representative, within fifteen
days after he shall have received the same, then such constable

388

JUSTICES' COURTS.

shall be liable to pay to sucb plaintifff or his legal representative,
the amount of the said debt, damages, or demand, with interest,
to be recovered by action of debt, with double costs.
lO. The warrant commanding the defendant to be arrested
shall be returnable forthwith after service thereof ; and the con
stable serving said warrant shall, according to the tenor thereof,
forthwith convey the said defendant before the justice who is
sued the same, who shall thereupon, at his discretion, either
cause the said defendant to enter into recognizance in the man
ner hereinafter mentioned, or on neglect or refusal, shall com
mand the said constable to convey the said defendant to the jail
of the county, to be there detained in custody until time may
be had for the hearing or trial of the cause, not exceeding three
days from the time of the return of the said warrant, or such
justice may direct the said constable to hold the said defendant
in custody, until the plaintifff shall be notified and have time to
appear and proceed to such hearing or trial ; and the constable
who served the said warrant as aforesaid shall, on the oath of
his office, indorse thereon the execution of the same, and sign
his name thereto ; provided always, that nothing in this act con
tained shall be construed to prevent the constable from discharg
ing from arrest any person arrested either on mesne process or
process of execution, in pursuance of the act entitled, " An act
abolishing imprisonment on civil process in certain cases ;" and
provided also, that if any person or persons whatsoever, shall
hereafter be arrested by virtue of such warrant, it shall be law
ful for the constable who served the same, to permit the defend
ant to enter into bond to the plaintifff, with a good and suffici
ent freeholder, resident in the county, to the amount of the debt
or damages and costs indorsed on the warrant, for his, her, or
their appearance on the day and hour mentioned in the bond,
not more than eight days [excluding Sundays] from the service
of the warrant ; the bond to be entered into by the defendant
shall be in the form and to the effect following, to wit : We, A.
B. and C. D., do hereby acknowledge ourselves indebted to E.
F. in the sum of
to be paid to said E. F. on the following
conditions:
one of the
that justices
if the said
of the
A. peace
B. shallof be and
onappear
the
before
day

JUSTICES' COURTS.

389

of
at
o'clock
noori, and answer unto the com
plaint of the said E. F. then this bond to be void, or else to be
and remain in full force and virtue ; in witness whereof we
have hereunto set our hands and seals, the
day of
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
;
sealed and delivered in the presence of G. H., I. K. ; signed A.
B. and C. D. ; which bond the said constable is hereby ordered
and directed, when taken, to deliver to the justice on the return
of the warrant, to be by him filed in his office to and for the use
of the plaintifff, for which service the constable shall be entitled
to thirty-five cents costs, to be paid by the defendant, and not
recoverable by him from the plaintifff; and in all casef, the said
constable shall attend at the said justice's court, on the day and
hour mentioned in said bond, to be there and then ready to se
cure and take into his custody the said defendant ; and if the
said justice shall not be found at his dwelling, or usual place of
holding trials, the defendant shall be permitted to renew his
bond, with sureties as aforesaid, for his appearance at some fu
ture day, not exceeding ten.
21. The recognizance directed in the twentieth section of this
act, shall be entered into by the defendant, with at least one
surety, having sufficient freehold, and residing in the county, to
the plaintifff in the said action, in the amount of the demand
specified in the warrant, according to the effect and meaning of
the following
county, to
form,
wit :that is to say :
Whereas A. B. hath been arrested and is now in custody, by
virtue of a warrant issued by C. D , one of the justices of the
peace in and for the said county, at the suit of E. F., in an ac
tion of
for the sum of.
; now be it remembered,
that on the
day of
in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and
the said A. B and G. II.,
of the county aforesaid, personally appeared before me the said
C. D., and jointly and severally acknowledged themselves to
owe to the said E. F. the sum of
to be made and levied
of their several goods and chattels, upon condition, that if the
said A. B. shall not appear on the
day of
next,
before the said justice, or if he docs appear and is condemned in

390

JUSTICES' COURTS.

the said action, at the suit of the plaintifff, that he shall pay the
costs and condemnation-money, or surrender him up to the con
stable, on the execution to be thereafter issued against him, on
the day judgment shall be obtained, and if he fails so to do, that
he the said G. H. will pay the said costs and condemnationmoney for him, and suffer judgment to be entered up against
him for the same.
Acknowledged the day and year last above said, before me
C. D., one of the justices of the peace in and for the said county
of
; and every justice of the peace is hereby empowered
and directed to take such recognizance, which shall remain with
such justice, for the benefit of the plaintifff in the suit.
C—PLEADING.
22. All suits brought or commenced before any justice of the
peace in this State, on any bond or other specialty, note of hand,
bill of exchange, book account, or any other demand founded
on simple contract for the payment of money only, shall be in
the name and style of actions of debt, any law, usage, or custom
to the contrary notwithstanding.
23. The plaintifff in such suit shall, on or before the return
day of the said summons, or on the return of the warrant, or at
the time of appearance specified in the recognizance, deliver, or
cause to be delivered, to the justice before whom the action is
to be tried, a copy of his or her account or state of demand
against the defendant, and in default thereof, the said plaintifff
shall be uonsuited with costs ; and if the defendant have any
account or demand against the plaintifff, he shall be permitted
to discount or set off the same against the account, debt, or
demand of such plaintifff; but such copy of his or her account,
or state of his or her demand, so intended to be set off, shall be
delivered to the said justice, on or before the return day of the
summons, or on or before the day to which the hearing shall be
first adjourned, or if on a warrant, then at the time of hearing
of the cause ; and in default thereof the said account or demand
shall not be received in evidence on the trial of the said cause ;
but if the said warrant shall not have been executed three days
prior to the day of hearing, then the said defendant, if he or

JUSTICES' COURTS.

391

she have any account or demand to set off, and will enter into
recognizance, as directed by the twentieth section of this act,
shall be allowed further time, not exceeding three days, to de
liver to the said justice such copy of his or her account or state
of demand as aforesaid.
24. If any defendant neglect or refuse to deliver a copy of his
or her account or state of demand, against such plaintifff, he or
she shall forever thereafter be precluded from having or main
taining any action for such account or demand or from setting
off the same in any future suit ; provided always, that where the
balance found to be due to such defendant exceeds the sum of
one hundred dollars, then the said defeudant shall not be pre
cluded from- recovering his or her account or demand against
such plaintifff, in any other court of record having cognizance
of the same.
25. When, in any action to be brought by virtue of this act,
the defendant shall, as a justification, plead title to any real es
tate in himself or another, under whom he acted or entered,
such defendant shall commit the said plea to writing, and hav
ing signed the same shall deliver such plea to the said justice,
who shall countersign and deliver it to the plaintifff; and there
upon it shall and may be lawful to and for such plaintifff to
commence and prosecute his action against such defendant in
the supreme court, or in the circuit court of the county wherein
such action shall have been commenced, and if in such action
the plaintifff recover any damages, he shall be entitled to and
recover therewith all costs of suit.
26. On every trial so to be had in such action where title is
pleaded, the plea so as aforesaid signed by the said defendant,
shall be conclusive evidence that such defendant relied on title
by way of justification.
27. The justice, to whom a plea of justification is tendered as
aforesaid, shall, before he receives such plea, require and obtain
from the defendant a bond, with one good surety, being a free
holder in the said county, in the penalty of one hundred dollars,
executed to the plaintifff, and conditioned, that if the said plain
tiff shall commence such action in the supreme court, or in the
circuit court of the county wherein the justice holds his court,

392

JUSTICES' COURTS.

within three months thereafter, the said defendant will appear
thereto, within twenty days after the writ to be thereupon is
sued against him shall be returned served, and shall pay sueh
costs as may be awarded against him in the said action ; and in
case such plea is tendered and the defendant shall not forthwith
enter into such bond to the plaintifff, the said justice shall pro
ceed in the same manner as if such plea had not been tendered.

D.—TRIAL.
28. If the defendant does not appear at the time and place
expressed in the summons or recognizance, and no sufficient
reason shall be assigned by the justice why the defendant does
not appear, and if, where the process is a summons, it shall fur
ther appear by the return indorsed thereon that the summons
was duly served, then the said justice may proceed to hear and
determine the cause in the absence of such defendant.
2U. When the parties in any suit to be instituted by virtue of
this act shall appear at the place and the time expressed in the
summons, or at the return of the warrant, or at the time of ap
pearance mentioned in the recognizance, the said justice shall
proceed to hear or examine their respective allegations and
proof's, unless he shall think it proper to adjourn the trial.
30. Any justice of the peace, before whom a suit is instituted
by virtue of this act, may, to prevent fraud or surprise on either
side, or on reasonable cause being assigned by or in behalf of
either party, adjourn the trial to any time not exceeding thirtydays from the return day of the summons, or, if the process be
by warrant, from the time when the same was returned, or from
the time of appearance mentioned in the recognizance, except
where the applicant for such adjournment shall make oath or
affirmation that he cannot safely go to trial for want of a mate
rial witness, whom he shall name, being absent and out of this
State, and then such justice may postpone the trial to any time
not exceeding three months from the return day of the sum
mons ; provided, that if the process is by warrant, the defendant
shall, previous to such adjournment, if required by the justice,
enter into recognizance to the plaintifff, as in and by this act is

JUSTICES' COURTS.

393

before directed ; provided also, that if either of the parties to a
suit, hereafter brought before a justice of the peace, cannot, on
the day of the first adjournment, safely go to trial for the want
of a material witness in the cause, whom he shall name, and
thinks he can produce on a future day, and shall file an affidavit
thereof with the justice, then the justice may adjourn the trial
to any future day, not more than thirty days from the day of
such adjournment, on payment of the cost by the party who
makes application for the same.
31. All adjournments shall be made to some hour between the
hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and three o'clock in the
afternoon, both inclusive, unless the respective parties mutually
agree that the cause be adjourned to some other hour.
32. If the defendant file his set-off on the day to which the
hearing shall be first adjourned, he shall then consent to an ad
journment of said hearing if the plaintifff' request the same, and
shall also pay the witness fees of said plaintifff for that da}\
33. In every action, it shall and may be lawful for either of
the parties, after the defendant has appeared or put in his plea
to such action, and before the said justice has proceeded to in
quire into the merits of the cause, to demand a trial by jury,
which the said justice is hereby required to grant, and there
upon a venire shall be issued to summon a jury of six men, and
no more, if the debt, demand, or matter in dispute do not exceed
the sum of fifty dollars, or a jury of twelve men, if the debt,
demand, or matter in dispute exceed the sum or value of fifty
dollars, being citizens of this State, above the age of twenty-one
years- and under the age of sixty-five years, and in no wise akin
to the plaintifff or defendant, nor interested in the suit, to he and
appear before the said justice at such time and place as shall be
expressed in the venire, to make a jury for the trial of the action
between the parties mentioned therein ; and the constable shall,
at the return of the said venire, return, annexed thereto, a panel
containing the names of the jurors whom he shall have sum
moned by virtue thereof ; and, if on the return of the venire it
shall appear that one or more of the jurors are disqualified to
serve or do not appear, then it shall be lawful for the constable
26

394

JUSTICES' COURTS.

who served the same, by order of the court, immediately to
summon others who shall serve in their stead.
34. To the jurors and each of them who shall be returned to
try the said cause as aforesaid, the said justice shall administer
the following oath or affirmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do affirm,
as the case may require), that you will well and truly try the
matter in difference between
plaintifff, and
defendant,
and a true verdict give, according to evidence.
That to every witness produced at the said trial, the justice
shall administer the following oath or affirmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do affirm,
as the case may require), that the evidence you shall give to the
court and jury in this matter in difference between
plaintifff,
and
defendant, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth.
And that to the constable who shall be appointed to attend
the jury, the said justice shall administer the following oath or
affirmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do affirm,
as the case may require), that you will, to the utmost of your
ability, keep every person sworn (or affirmed) on this jury to
gether in some private or convenient place without meat or
drink, water excepted, that you will not suffer any person to
speak to them nor speak to them yourself, except by order of
the court, unless it be to ask them whether they have agreed
on their verdict, until they have agreed on their verdict.
35. Every person summoned as a juror or subpoenaed as a wit
ness, who shall not appear, or appearing, shall refuse to serve or
give evidence in any such action, shall forfeit and pay for every
such default or refusal, unless some reasonable cause be assigned ,
such fine, not exceeding twenty dollars nor less than one dollar,
as the said justice shall think proper to impose; and such jus
tice is hereby authorized and required to issue an execution, di
rected to any constable of the said county, to levy the same of
the goods and chattels of the offender, which fine when recov
ered shall be applied by the said justice to the use of the said
county.

JUSTICES' COURTS.

395

36. If the defendant have filed an offset the plaintifff shall
not be permitted to withdraw his suit, nor shall any judgment
of nonsuit or discontinuance be entered without the consent of
the defendant, but the case shall be beard on motion of the de
fendant, if the plaintifff neglect or refuse to move the same, and
if it shall appear upon evidence produced by the defendant that
the plaintifff is actually indebted to the defendant, judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount found
due him; provided, such defendant have filed an affidavit with
the justice at the time of filing his offset, that the offset is not
filed for the purpose of delay, and that he verily believes he does
not owe the plaintifff anything, but that the plaintifff is indebted
to him in a certain sum, which shall be stated in the affidavit
37. Whenever the nature of the plaintifff's demand is such
that his book or account of original entries would be competent
evidence and the defendant does not appear at the hearing, or if
appearing does not require the production of said book or ac
count, a copy of the entries therein, so far as they relate to the
plaintifff's demand, together with a statement of the credits or
allowances if any, to which the defendant is entitled, shall be
received in evidence, with the same effect as if the plaintifff's
books or accounts were produced and proved ; provided, such
copy and statement be accompanied by an affidavit or affidavits,
setting forth that the copy is a true copy of said original entries,
and that all the credits and allowances to which the defendant
is entitled appear on such statement, or in case the defendant is
not entitled to any, then setting forth that the defendant is not
entitled to any credits or allowances, and that the sum of money
or balance claimed by the plaintifff is justly due and owing to
him.
38. Where a copy of said entries may be used by the plaintifff
it shall be competent to prove any partnership by affidavit.
39. In actions upon promissory notes, bills of exchange, checks,
drafts, or other written contracts, whether simple or under seal,
for the payment of money only, if the defendant does not appear
at the hearing, or if he appear and consent thereto, the plaintifff
may prove his case by affidavit ; the affidavit or affidavits shall
contain a copy of the writing or writings sued on, and shall set

396

JUSTICES' COURTS.

forth and aver such facts and circumstances as would warrant
a recovery in case such facts and circumstances were proved by
witnesses.
40. In all cases in which proof is made by affidavit, it must
appear by affidavit that the affiant or affiants have competent
knowledge of the fact or facts sworn to, and in actions upon
promissory notes, bills of exchange, checks, drafts, or other writ
ten contracts, simple or under seal, for the payment of money
only, such notes, bills, checks, drafts, or other contracts, must
be produced at the hearing, or their non-production accounted
for by affidavit.
41. If the jury disagree, other writs of venire may issue in
the same cause until a verdict be obtained.
'

E.—JUDGMENT.
42. If the plaintifff, other than executors or administrators, in
any action shall be nonsuited or shall discontinue or withdraw
his action, without the consent of the defendant, where he may
lawfully do so, then judgment shall be given against such plain
tiff for the costs which have accrued, or if such plaintifff shall
appear to owe, or be indebted to the defendant, then judgment
shall be given against him for the debt, or damages and costs,
as the case may require.
43. If judgment by confession shall be entered against the de
fendant, unless an affidavit shall first be made, as directed by
the act entitled "An act directing the mode of entering judg
ments on bonds, with warrants of attorney to confess judgments"
(which affidavit shall he filed and preserved by the said justice);
such judgment shall not operate or have any effect against any
person or persons not parties in said action, but shall be binding
and have its full effect so far as relates to the parties in the suit
only.
44. In cases of trial by jury, there shall be no judgment of
nonsuit or discontinuance after the merits of the cause on either
flide are submitted to the jury, unless by the consent of both
parties.
45. Where the amount really due and recoverable upon any

JUSTICES' COURTS.

397

bond, bill, note, or other contract in writing, does not exceed,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of one hundred dollars, at
the time when the suit is instituted, proof shall be made of the
amount really due and owing, and the justice shall give judg
ment therefore, with costs, and not for the amount of the penalty
expressed, whether such penalty exceed or be less than one hun
dred dollars.
F—EXECUTION.
46. When judgment shall be given against the plaintifff or de
fendant, by virtue of this act, the said justice shall grant execu
tion thereupon, commanding the constable to levy and make the
debt, or damages and costs, of the goods and chattels of the
party; and in the cases hereinafter specified, for want of sufficient
goods and chattels whereon to levy and make the same, to take
the body of such party and convey him to the jail of the county ;
provided, that no execution shall issue against the body of any
female ; and provided also, that when judgment shall be obtained
against executors or administrators, execution shall issue thereon,
in the same manner as it is issued against them in the other
courts of law of this State.
47f An execution against the body shall be granted only in
the following cases :
I. Where a warrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum
has issued upon an order made in accordance with the provisions
of the fourteenth section of this act, and such order has not been
set aside, or if set aside has been subsequently approved by a
justice of the supreme court.
II. Where no warrant in the nature of a capias ad responden
dum having been issued for the same cause of action, due proof
is made on oath or affirmation to the satisfaction of the justice,
that the defendant, at the time wben execution is applied for, is
not a freeholder in the county where the same shall be issued,
and judgment has been rendered in an action of tort.
III. Where no warrant in the nature of a capias ad respon
dendum has issued for the same cause of action, and the action
being founded upon contract express or implied, due proof is
made to the satisfaction of the justice by affidavit or affidavits,

398

JUSTICES' COURTS.

filed as aforesaid, establishing the particulars specified in the
first subdivision of the thirteenth section of this act, or estab
lishing that the defendant has rights or credits, monies or effects,
either in his own possession, or in the possession of any other
person or persons, to his use, of the value of ten dollars or over,
which he unlawfully and fraudulently refuses to apply in pay
ment of such judgment.
48. If the requirements of the next preceding section have
been complied with, the justice shall make and subscribe an
order, that execution issue against the goods and chattels of the
defendant, and for want of sufficient goods and chattels, against
the body, whereupon execution may issue in accordance with
such order as directed in section forty-five- of this act.
4^. Except where previous application has been made and
passed upon under the fifteenth section of this act, the defendant
may, at any time, after order made under the forty-eighth sec
tion of this act, apply to any one of the persons to whom he
may apply under said fifteenth section, to set aside said order so
far as it authorizes the taking of the body, the defendant having
first given reasonable notice to the plaintifff of such application,
and if such person to whom application is made shall deem the
proofs made insufficient to warrant the issuing of process against
the body, be may make order that the justice's order, so far as
it authorizes the taking of the defendant's body, be set aside.
50. Such order shall be delivered to the justice, who shall file
the same with the other papers in the cause, and who shall
furnish certified copies thereof to the defendant or his agent on
request.
51. The order, from the time of the filing thereof with the
justice, shall operate to discharge the defendant from arrest or
imprisonment, if arrested or imprisoned, or if not, from liability
to arrest or imprisonment in the suit in which the order was
made, and shall have no other or further operation.
52. !No constable, jailer, warden, or other officer or person,
taking or detaining the body of the defendant in pursuance of
the warrant mentioned in the thirteenth section of this act, or
in pursuance of the writ of execution, shall incur any liability
whatsoever for any act done or committed pursuant to the com

JUSTICES' COURTS.

399

mands of the writ, in or about such taking or detention, prior
to service upon him of a copy of the order of the justice of the
supreme court, law judge, or commissioner, certified by the jus
tice of the peace with whom such order is filed.
53. Service of said order upon the person in whose custody
the defendant may be, shall warrant the immediate discharge
of such defendant from arrest or imprisonment under said writ.
54. The justice shall furnish to the defendant or his agent on
request, a certified copy of the order and affidavit or affidavits
upon which the warrant or execution against the body issued
or may issue, and such copy may be used before the justice of
the supreme court, law judge, or commissioner, who may make
order thereupon in the same manner as if the original order and
affidavit or affidavits were produced before him.
55. Where a justice of the peace has made an order pursuant
to the fourteenth section or to the forty-seventh section of this
act, and application has been made in the first instance to a
justice of the supreme court to set the order aside, if the justice
refuse to do so, the defendant shall not be permitted to renew
his application, but if such application has been made in the first
instance to a law judge or commissioner, who either makes or
refuses to make such order, then either party may, on notice to
the other party, within six days after such order has been made
or refused, apply to a justice of the supreme court, to review the
action of the law judge or commissioner; such justice of the
supreme court may, in his discretion, modify or set aside the
order of the law judge or commissioner, and make such other
order in reference to the taking or retaking of the defendant's
body either on the warrant or on any execution issued or that
may be issued, as the nature of the case may justify or require,
and the order of such justice shall be final.
56. If any defendant shall appear at the return of the sum
mons or warrant, or by consent without process, or on the day
that judgment shall be rendered, or before the issuing of execu
tion, whether the suit has been defended or not, and procure a
good and sufficient freeholder, resident in the county, to join
with such defendant in a confession of judgment, to the JKlverse
party, with costs, then if the judgment shall not be more than

400

JUSTICES' COURTS.

fifteen dollars, nor less than five dollars, no execution shall issue
until after one month from the time of rendering such judg
ment ; and when the judgment shall exceed fifteen, and not
exceed sixty dollars, no execution shall issue until after three
months from the time of rendering such judgment ; and when
the judgment shall exceed sixty dollars, no execution shall issue
until after six months from the time of rendering such judgment.
57. Where a suit shall be brought upon any judgment recov
ered before a justice of the peace, and judgment rendered in
favor of the plaintifff, no stay of execution shall be allowed
thereon: provided, the time herein before limited, for stay of
execution upon such sum, shall have expired since the date of
the first judgment, and if not, such further stay of execution
shall be allowed as with the time already passed since the date
of the first judgment, will make up the time allowed for stay of
execution on such sum, as is directed by the preceding section
of this act.
58. The constable who, by virtue of such execution, levies on
any goods and chattels, shall give notice by advertisements,
signed by himself, and put up in three of the most public places
in the township where they were taken, of the time and place
they will be exposed to sale, at least five days before the time
appointed for selling them, and therein describe the goods and
chattels so taken ; and shall, at the time and place so appointed,
expose them to sale by public vendue, and strike them off to the
highest bidder, and pay the money thence arising to the plain
tiff, or in case of his absence to the justice, and within thirty
days from the time he shall receive the execution, make return to
the justice who issued the same of the proceedings had thereon,
and the said justice shall make a record thereof.
59. In all cases where any constable shall, by virtue of any
writ of execution or attachment, issuing out of this court, levy
on, attach, or take into his possession, any goods or chattels
which shall be claimed, by notice in writing, delivered to said
constable, by any other person than the defendant, he shall, im
mediately upon such claim, delay his sale of the same for the
space qf ten days, that the said claimant may, within the said
term, apply to some justice of the peace within or near the

JUSTICES' COURTS.

.

401

township where such goods or chattels were so seized, for a
venire to summon a jury of six lawful men as jurors, to try the
right of such claimant to said property; and it shall be lawful
for such justice of the peace to issue the same, and direct a return
thereof to be to him made, and to proceed therein as in other
cases of trial by jury; but the claimant shall, in all cases, give
notice in writing to the plaintifff of the time and place of the
said trial ; but if the said claimant shall not, within ten days,
apply to a justice and have his right tried, as aforesaid, the said
claim shall be considered abandoned, and the constable shall pro
ceed as if it had not been made.
60. The verdict of such jury shall protect the said constable
from any action for taking and seizing such property, or de
livery thereof to the claimant; and if the said property shall be
found to. belong to the said claimant, the said constable shall
proceed no further with the same ; but if it shall be found to
belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose of the same,
as is directed in such process ; and the costs attending such trial
shall be taxed by the said justice as in other cases, and shall be
paid by the plaintifff at whose suit the said property was taken
and seized, if the said claimant obtain a verdict in his favor;
and by such claimant if the verdict is found against him ; pro
vided, that if the plaintifff, upon notice being given to him, as
aforesaid, shall indemnify the constable against the demand of
the claimant, then he shall suspend any further proceeding
therein, and proceed to sell.
61. For want of goods and chattels whereon to levy, the said
constable shall, when execution is issued against the body,
according to the tenor of the said execution, take the body of
the person against whom the said execution is issued, and con
vey and deliver him to the keeper of the common jail of the
county, who is hereby commanded to keep such person in sale
custody, in the common jail aforesaid, until the debt or damages,
with costs, be fully paid, or until he be thence delivered by due
course of law ; and the said constable shall, at the same time,
deliver to the said jailer a copy of said execution, and shall take
said jailer's receipt upon the execution, and return the same to
the justice who issued it, who shall make a record thereof in his

402

JUSTICES' COURTS.

docket ; and if the said keeper shall sufl'er such person so com
mitted to his custody to go or to be at large out of said jail, except
by virtue of some writ of habeas corpus, or by virtue of the order
mentioned in the fifty-second section of this act, before the said
debt or damages, with costs, be paid, or he be thence delivered
by and in due course of law, then every such going or being out
of the said jail shall be an escape, for which the sheriff shall be
responsible to the plaintifff to the amount of the debt or damages
and costs, for which such person shall be committed, to be recov
ered by the said plaintifff, with costs, by action of debt.
62. Execution may issue without a revival of the judgment
by scire facias at any time within twenty years from its re
covery, if the justice, by successive elections or otherwise, con
tinues so long in office ; provided, that if more than six years
have elapsed since the recovery of the judgment, a special order
of the justice shall be necessary before the execution issue, to
be made upon ten days' notice to the defendant of the applica
tion therefore, and proof to the satisfaction of the justice of the
amount remaining due upon the judgment.
63. The notice required by the last preceding section, may be
served upon the defendant personally, either within or without
this State, or in case he resides within this State, may be served
by leaving a copy at his residence in the presence of some person
of the family of the age of fourteen years, who shall be in
formed of the contents.
64. Every execution which shall or may be issued by any
justice of the peace, upon any judgment rendered in pursuance
of this act, shall be in full force and operation against the goods
and chattels levied on for the term of one year from the time
of issuing the same, unless sooner satisfied ; and all executions
which shall remain unsatisfied for the space of one year there
after, shall be null and void ; but the plaintifff may thereupon
have a subsequent execution or executions, which shall continue
in force and operation and become void in like manner.
65. Upon the return of the original execution unsatisfied, the
justice who issued the same shall have power and authority to
issue an alias execution, and upon the return of the alias unsat
isfied, the said justice may issue a pluries execution, which said

JUSTICES' COURTS.

403

writs may be levied on the goods and chattels of the defendant,
and shall be made returnable, and be in all things executed in
like manner as the original execution.
66. Where one or more executions, issued by virtue of this
act, shall have been levied by one or more constables upon the
goods and chattels of any defendant, the said executions shall
have and obtain priority according to the time of levying the
same, and all surplus monies arising upon any sale by virtue of
any execution, shall be paid to the officer or person holding the
next oldest execution which shall have been levied as aforesaid,
until all executions levied upon the goods and chattels of any
defendant, at the time of sale upon the first execution, be satis
fied or so far satisfied as there shall be proceeds for that pur
pose, according to their respective seniority as aforesaid ; and in
case two or more executions, at the suit of different plaintifffs,
shall be levied at the same time, such execution or executions
shall have preference according to the time when they were re
ceived, which shall be noted on each execution by the constable
at the time of receiving the same ; and if two or more execu
tions shall have been delivered to a constable at the same time,
against the same defendant, then the monies arising from the
sale under or by virtue of the said executions, or either of them,
shall, if not sufficient to satisfy both or all of them, be applied
towards the satisfaction of the several executions in proportion
to the sums due on them respectively.
67. It shall be the duty of the constable to whom shall be
delivered any execution, issued under the provisions of this act,
to take' an inventory, in writing, of such and so much of the
property of the defendant as he means and intends to levy
upon ; which inventory and levy and the actual time of making
the same, shall be annexed to the said execution, and signed by
the said constable, under his oath of office, and shall, at all
times, be received as evidence of the levy and of the time of
making the same, as contemplated by this act, and that the
property so levied upon shall be bound from the time of such
levy and not before.
68. If the constable to whom any execution is delivered shall
not perform the duties, or any of them prescribed by this act,

404

JUSTICES' COURTS.

respecting such execution, such constable shall be liable to pay
to the person in whose favor the said execution is issued, the
debt, or damages, and costs, or any of them, mentioned therein,
to be recovered by action of debt with double costs, by the per
son so as aforesaid injured thereby; and when any constable
shall have in his hands one or more executions, and not have
performed the duty required of him by law on the same, he
shall be liable to be prosecuted on such execution or executions,
separately or jointly, by the person or persons in whose favor
said execution or executions were issued, who may recover as
aforesaid in an action of debt with double costs ; and if it shall
appear that the said constable has received the money or any
part thereof, on any execution for which a suit shall be brought,
in that case he shall pay to the plaintifff treble costs; and when
any judgment shall be had against any constable for any delin
quency in his office, execution may be issued immediately against
him for debt and costs.
6 P. If judgment shall be given against any body politic or
corporate by virtue of this act, the justice shall grant execution
thereupon against the goods and chattels of such body politic
or corporate, which may be levied on and sold according to law.

G.— DOCKETING JVDGMEtTS.
70. Final judgments of courts for the trial of small causes in
any county of this State, if not less than ten dollars, including
costs, remain due on such judgments, may be docketed in the
court of common pleas of that county, in the manner herein
directed.
71. The clerk of every court of common pleas shall provide
and keep a docket in which shall be entered, upon complying
with the provisions of this act, all such final judgments if not
less than ten dollars remain due thcreou as aforesaid.
72. 'When a judgment is obtained in any court for the trial of
small causes, for an amount not less than ten dollars, including
costs, and execution shall issue thereon, and be returned by the
constable to whom it has been delivered to be executed, indorsed
to the effect that he could not find any personal property of the

JUSTICES' COURTS.

405

party against whom the execution was issued on which to levy,
or that he had levied and sold goods and chattels, and had made
thereof part of said judgment, and that the same was not fully
satisfied, and stating the balance still unsatisfied, the clerk of
the court of common pleas of the county where such judgment
was obtained, upon the request of the person or persons obtain
ing such judgment, and upon filing in his office a transcript of
the proceedings from the docket of the justice of the peace be
fore whom such judgment was obtained, under the hand and
seal of said justice, and a certified copy of the state of demand
and set-off filed in said action, with a certified copy of the return
of the constable, and also an oath or affirmation of the party,
his or their attorney or agent making such request, that at the
time of filing such transcript a certain amount not less than ten
dollars is still due, stating the amount, and that he believes the
debtor is not possessed of goods and chattels sufficient to satisfy
said amount due, shall enter in the docket provided for that
purpose the transcript of such judgment in words at length con
taining the name of the justice of the peace before whom the
judgment was obtained, the names at length of the parties to
said judgment, the style of the action, the date of the judg
ment, the amount recovered with costs, the substance of the
return of the constable, and the amount stated to be due in the
affidavit.
73. The said judgment shall from the time of said docketing
in the court of common pleas, operate as a judgment obtained
in a suit originally commenced in said court, and satisfaction
thereof may be entered in the margin of the docket, in the same
manner and upon the same evidence as is now provided by law
in case of judgments rendered in the courts of common pleas;
and the execution issued thereon shall be of the same effect as
to the property of the debtor, either of a personal or real nature,
as if issued on a judgment originally obtained in the courts of
common pleas, upon a suit commenced therein.
74. After such judgment shall be docketed in the court of
common pleas, no execution shall issue thereon out of the court
for the trial of small causes, nor shall any proceeding be had
except the due and proper granting of an appeal or certiorari.

406

JUSTICES' COURTS.

75. Every judgment docketed, as herein directed, may be re
vived by scire facias in the court of common pleas, in the same
manner, in the like cases, and with the like effect, as if said
judgment had been obtained in a suit originally commenced in
that court.
76. The clerk of the court of common pleas shall make to the
docket in which such judgments are to be entered, a complete
alphabetical index; and said docket shall be a public record, to
which all persons desiring to examine the same shall have access.
77. If any judgment recovered in any court for the trial of
small causes shall be removed by appeal or certiorari, and the
necessary bond be perfected, and such judgment shall, either
before or after such removal, be docketed as herein provided,
execution from the court of common pleas in which said judg
ment is docketed shall be stayed and suspended until the final
determination of such appeal or certiorari.
78. If any judgment, docketed as hereinbefore provided, shall
be reviewed upon certiorari or appeal, and a duly certified tran
script of the judgment of the court wherein such appeal or cer
tiorari may have been determined, shall be delivered to the clerk
of the court of common pleas of the county where such judg
ment is docketed, it shall be the duty of the said clerk to file
the same in his office, and enter in the margin of the docket op
posite the entry of said judgment, in short form, the substance
of such determination upon the appeal or certiorari.

II—APPEAL.
79. From any judgment which may be obtained before any
justice of the peace except such as shall have been given by con
fession, either party may appeal to the court of common pleas of
the county, to be holden next after the rendering of such judg
ment; which appeal the said justice is hereby directed to grant,
on the following and no other terms, that is to say: the party
demanding such appeal shall enter into bond to the other party,
with at least oue sufficient surety, being a freeholder in the
county, and in double the sum for which such judgment was
given, conditioned that the appellant shall appear and prosecute

JUSTICES' COURTS.

407

the said appeal in the said court of common pleas, shall stand to
and abide the judgment of the said court, and pay such further
costs as shall be taxed, if the judgment be affirmed; provided
always, that no appeal shall be granted to remove a judgment
rendered upon the verdict of a jury, or on the report of referees,
unless the party demanding the appeal shall, at the time of
filing the appeal bond with the justice, also file with him an
affidavit, made by said party, before any justice of the peace,
stating that the said appeal is not intended for the purpose of
delay, and that he verily believes that he hath a just and legal
ground of appeal upon the merits of the case; which said affi
davit the said justice shall cause to be sent up to the court to
which the appeal is taken, with the other papers in the cause.
80. In all cases of appeal the court of common pleas to which
such appeal shall be taken, upon filing of the appeal bond with
the clerk of said court shall, if they are satisfied with the legality
and sufficiency of the same, have power to order a stay of the
execution which may have been issued by the justice, until the
said court of common pleas shall make some further order
thereon, a rule to which effect shall be entered in the minutes of
the said court, and a copy thereof certified by the clerk, shall be
served on the constable in whose hands the execution may be.
81. If a legal and sufficient appeal bond be filed with any
judge of the court of common pleas lo which said appeal shall
be taken, or if satisfactory proof be made to him, that such a
bond has been filed with the clerk of said court or with the
justice from whose judgment such appeal was taken, such judge,
if the other requirements of the law have been complied with,
shall have power in vacation to order a stay of the execution
which may have been issued by the justice, until the said court
of common pleas shall make some further order thereon, a rule
to which effect shall be entered in the minutes of the said court,
and a copy thereof certified by the clerk shall be served on the
constable in whose hands the execution may be.
82. The court of common pleas may permit the appellant to
substitute a new appeal bond in the place of the appeal bond
filed and sent up by the justice ; provided, that no delay in the
trial of the said appeal shall be occasioned thereby.

408

*
A"
77•

JUSTICES' COURTS.

83. The justice who grants an appeal as aforesaid shall send a
transcript of the proceedings and judgment in the said cause,
under his hand and seal, together with the bond aforesaid, to the
clerk of the court of common pleas to which such appeal is made,
on or before the first day of the court next ensuing such appeal.
84. Either party to an appeal may bring on the hearing
thereof at the term of court to be holden next after the render
ing of judgment by the justice, upon giving notice in writing of
such hearing to the opposite party, at least fifteen days previous,
and filing a copy of such notice and proof or an acknowledgment
of service, with the clerk of said court at least ten days previous
to the first day of said term.
85. The several courts of common pleas in and for the re
spective counties of this State, shall have cognizance of and
hear and determine all such appeals in a summary way,- and give
judgment and award execution thereon with cost, either on the
affirmance or reversal of the judgment so appealed.
86. If either party to an appeal shall desire to produce upon
the trial thereof, in the court of common pleas, any witness or
witnesses not produced or sworn in the court below, or any
documentary evidence not offered or admitted in the court
below, the said party shall be at liberty to do so, and the same
shall be admitted by the court if otherwise legal and competent;
provided, that the court of common pleas shall be satisfied that
the said evidence was not withheld on the trial below for any
unfair or fraudulent purIioses ; and provided, that the party first
offering such new evidence shall have given the opposite party
or his attorney ten days' notice thereof in writing, setting forth
the substance of such evidence if documentary, and the names of
the witnesses intended to be produced at the trial of the appeal.
W7. In all cases of appeal from the judgment of any justice of
the peace not rendered on the verdict of a jury, it shall and may
be lawful for either party to the appeal, upon giving notice in
writing to the clerk of the court of common pleas of the county,
at least ten days previous to the first day of the term to which
the appeal shall have been sent up, if the trial be had at that
term, or if not, then at least ten days' previous to the first day
of the term next succeeding, to demand a trial of said appeal by

JUSTICES' COURTS.

409

jury, and upon receiving such notice, said clerk shall file the
same in his office, and said appeal shall be tried by a jury in the
same manner as jury appeals are now tried and determined ;
otherwise, such appeal shall be heard and determined by the
court.
88. Every appeal from the judgment of any justice of the
peace, founded on the verdict of a jury, shall be heard and de
termined l>y the court, to whom such appeal is or shall be made,
unless either of the parties to the said appeal shall demand a
trial by jury, in which case the sheriff shall return a jury either
immediately, or at such future time as the said court shall direct,
and that by Order of the court and without writ.
89. If such judgment shall have been rendered upon the re
port of referees, the court of common pleas to which such appeal
shall be made, shall have power to inquire into such report of
referees, and the judgment thereupon, and either to affirm or set
aside the same, for the same causes and upon the same principles
as reports of referees are set aside in such court in other cases,
and to award a trial before themselves, if need be, in the same
manner as is directed in other cases.
90. The provisions of the forty-fourth section of this act shall
apply as well to causes on appeal before the court of common
pleas as to causes pending before the justice.
91. After the trial of an appeal in the court of common pleas,
no new trial shall be granted by the said court.
92. Ko justice of the peace who heard and determined the
said cause, shall sit as a judge of any of the courts of common
pleas, on the hearing and determining of the same cause on
appeal, or give any opinion thereon.
93. Judgments of the court of common pleas upon appeals
from the courts for the trial of small causes shall not affect or
bind any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real estate, unless a
rule shall be entered in the minutes of the court of common
pleas in which such judgment shall be rendered, for recording
such judgment, which rule shall be a rule of course, and may be
entered at any time without notice.
94. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the several courts of
common pleas, upon the entry of such rule as aforesaid, to record
27

410

JUSTICES' COURTS.

any such judgment in the book of judgments of said court, and
index the same, as now required by law respecting the judg
ments of such courts in suits originally commenced therein,
which record shall be a transcript from the minutes of the said
court on said judgment, and for this service the clerk shall be
entitled to receive twenty-five cents ; and such judgment shall,
from the time of entering such rule, affect and bind all lands,
tenements, hereditaments, and real estate, within the county
where such court of common pleas is held, belonging to the
person or persons against whom such judgment may be ; and
executions against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements,
hereditaments, and real estate of such person or persons, may
be issued out of such court of common pleas thereupon, imme
diately upon the entry of such rule.
I.—CERTIORARI.
95. No judgment, order, or proceeding, to be had or made by
virtue of this act, shall be removed by writ of error, but by cer
tiorari only.
96. Where the justice has jurisdiction, no judgment hereafter
to be rendered in any court for the trial of small causes, from
which an appeal is given to the court of common pleas by this
act, shall be removed into the supreme court or circuit court by
certiorari or otherwise, for the correction of any supposed error
therein ; but the party thinking himself aggrieved shall have
relief upon the appeal only, and that both as to matter of law
and matter of fact.
97. No justice of the supreme court shall grant or allow any
certiorari to remove any judgment, order, or proceeding, to be
had by virtue of this act, unless the party applying for such
certiorari, shall present to the said justice the reasons therefore,
drawn up in writing and subscribed by himself or some attorney
at law, and the same to be deemed by the said justice to contain
a probable cause for allowing such certiorari; and also, unless
such applicant shall enter into bond to the other party in the
sum of one hundred and fifty dollars, with one or more good
surety or sureties, conditioned, that such applicaut shall prose

JUSTICES' COURTS.

411

cute the said certiorari in the supreme court, shall pay the sum
recovered in the court below, with interest and costs, if the judg
ment be affirmed, and shall, in all things, stand to and abide the
judgment of the said supreme court respecting the judgment,
order, or proceeding given, or made by the court below ; which
said bond shall likewise be tendered to the justice granting such
certiorari, to be by him filed with the clerk of the supreme court,
for the benefit of the obligee therein named, and on failure
thereof, no certiorari shall be allowed.
98. Such certiorari shall be determined and adjudicated upon
by the supreme court, at the first term after due return thereof
shall be made, or be dismissed with costs, unless the said court
shall think proper to adjourn the same till the next term, for
further argument and advisement.
99. If any judgment, to be given by virtue of this act, shall,
on removal by certiorari, be affirmed by the supreme court, the
plaintifff in certiorari shall pay to the defendant all costs arising
on such suit in the said supreme court, for which the party en
titled to such costs may have execution, to be issued out of the
supreme court, against the body, or goods aud chattels of the
adverse party ; but if such judgment be reversed, then the
plaintifff in certiorari shall not be entitled to any costs.
100. The provisions of the last three preceding sections of
this act shall extend to the circuit courts in the several counties
of this State.
101. No judgment of any justice of the peace, removed by
certiorari before the supreme court or circuit court, shall be re
versed in the whole on account of any error or mistake made
by the justice by whom such judgment may have been ren
dered, in the entering, calculating, or awarding of the costs of
suit, but such judgment shall only be reversed so far as respects
the said error or mistake ; which error or mistake the court are
hereby empowered to correct.
102. In case any judgment be so affirmed in part and reversed
in part, neither party shall pay costs in certiorari to the other.
103. It shall not be lawful for the supreme court or circuit
court to reverse any judgment of any court for the trial of small
causes, for any irregularity in the proceedings of such court,.

412

JUSTICES' COURTS.

unless such irregularity tends to defeat or impair the substantial
right or interest of the party in certiorari praying such reversal.
104. If in any cause or proceeding removed by certiorari, it
shall appear equitable and just that a rehearing thereof be had
before a justice, the supreme court or circuit court may order
that snch rehearing be had upon such terms and conditions as
are reasonable, and the justice shall thereupon proceed to rehear
said cause or proceeding and give judgment as in other cases.
K.-COSTS.
105. In all actions which may be brought by virtue of this
act, the following and no other fees shall be allowed :
Justices.
Summons,
25 cents
Each copy thereof,
10 cents
Warrant,
25 cents
Order that warrant issue, ...... 50 cents
Entering each suit,
20 ceuts
Recording return on summons,
10 cents
Recognizance,
35 cents
Entering every nonsuit,
...... 20 cents
Entering discontinuance,
20 cents
Venire facias,
35 cents
Administering every oath or affirmation, .
.
.10 cents
Subpoena for every witness,
10 cents
Swearing the jury,
35 cents
Entry of every verdict,
20 cents
Entry of every rule of reference,
.
.
.
.50 cents
Every copy thereof,
25 cents
Entry of every judgment, .
.
.
.
.
. 20 cents
Every execution,
....... 35 cents
Recording return of execution,
15 cents
Drawing, signing, and sealing return to certiorari, .
§1 00
Copy of docket < or of any proceeding or paper, per
folio,
.
.
.15 cents
Transcript of judgment,
50 cents

JUSTICES' COURTS.
Entering suit without process,
50 cents
Filing each paper requiring to be filed,
.
.
.10 cents
Issuing commission to take deposition,
.
.
.25 cents
Recording return of commission,
.
.
.
.
$1 50
Entering particulars of costs, .
.
.
.
.15 cents
Every affidavit,
25 cents
Every adjournment,
20 cents
Hearing every contested case,
75 cents
Hearing case not contested,
25 cents
Granting appeal aud sending up transcript and papers, 50 cents
Recording description of each paper offered in evi
dence,
7 cents
Approving bond,
.
.
.
.
.
.
.50 cents
Taking deposition per folio,
15 cents
Scire facias,
........ 35 cents

Constables.
Serving every summons on one defendant, .
.
.60 cents
And for service thereof on every additional defendant
in the same summons, ...... 30 cents
Serving every warrant, against one or more persons,
for each person,
75 cents
Serving every scire facias, against one or more persons,
for each person,
60 cents
Serving every subpoena,
35 cents
Summoning every jury of six men, .
.
.
.75 cents
Summoning every jury of twelve men,
.
.
.
$1 00
Attending jury until agreed on their verdict, .
. 50 cents
Serving every execution, ...... 75 cents
In addition to which three cents on each dollar secured to
the plaintifff.
Advertising property under execution, .
.
.35 cents
Selling property under execution,
.
.
.
.50 cents
For every copy of an execution filed with the jailer, 25 cents
For every mile of travel in serving any summons or
warrant, issued by a justice of the peace, after the
first mile, the distance to be computed by counting

414

JUSTICES' COURTS.

the number of miles in and out, by the most direct
route from the place where such process is issued
and returnable,

4 cents

Jurors.
For all cases tried,
When summoned to attend, and cause not tried,

25 cents a man
15 cents a man

Witnesses.
For their services under sections 116 and 117 of this
act,
50 cents
For all other services the same fees as are or shall be allowed
in causes before the court of common pleas; provided, that no
fees shall be allowed for the service of any subpoenas for more
than two witnesses, nor shall fees be allowed to more than two
witnesses for each party in a cause.
106. On all appeals as aforesaid, heard and determined in the
court of common pleas, the following and no other fees shall be
allowed :
Courts.
Every appeal heard,

50 cents
Clerks.

Entering action and filing bond and transcript, .
. 50
Every subpoena, ........ 10
Entering judgment, ....... 10
Every witness sworn or affirmed,
.
.
.
.10
Every order or rule of court, or of a judge,
.
. 10
Every execution,
....'... 40
Entering and filing execution,
20
Calling and swearing a jury,
20
Taking and entering verdict,
10
Docketingjudgment and filing transcript and affidavit, 75

cents
cents
cents
cents
cents
cents
cents
cents
cents
cents

Sheriff.
Making out and returning a list of the jury,

.

.

20 cents

JUSTICES' COURTS.

415

Constables.
Serving every subpoena,
Attending jury, ........

35 cents
50 cents

Criers.
Every appeal,
Calling and swearing each witness,
Calling jury,

....

10 cents
5 cents
10 cents

To the Jurors.
The same fees as are allowed in other cases in the court of
common pleas.
Judge oh Commissioner.
Supreme court justice, law judge, or commissioner,
for hearing application to set aside order, .
.

$1 00

107. When the plaintifff, in any action of debt, shall demand
a jury of twelve men, and such jury shall find a sum in favor of
the plaintifff, not exceeding fifty dollars, and not less than ten
dollars, then the plaintifff shall pay one-half of the costs of the
jury ; and if the sum found by such jury in favor of the plaintifff*
be less than ten dollars, then the plaintifff shall pay the whole
costs of the jury.
108. When the plaintifff, in an action of debt, shall demand a
jury of six men, and such jury shall find a sum in favor of the
plaintifff, under ten dollars, the plaintifff shall pay the whole
costs of the jury.
109. No constable or other officer, authorized to serve a sub
poena, summons, or other mesne process issued out of the court
for the trial of small causes, shall be required to serve such pro
cess until his legal fees and mileage for so doing shall have been
paid to the officer of whom such service is required.
110. No appeal from the judgment of a justice shall be al
lowed until the party applying for the same shall, in addition
to the matters now required by law, pay to said justice all costs

JUSTICES' COURTS.

416

incurred by him except such as shall be adjudged to the prevail
ing party.
111. The fee of the court for hearing the appeal, and the fees
of the clerk for entering the action and filing the bond and
transcript, shall be paid in the first instance by the appellant ;
if he refule to pay the same before the hearing, the court shall,
on application of the clerk, refuse to hear such appellant, and
the appellee, if he will pay the same, may move the court to
make, and the court may thereupon make such disposition of
the case as if the appellant failed to appear and prosecute his
appeal.
L.—MISCELLANEOUS.
•

I. —Amendment.

112. When judgment shall have been rendered upon the ver
dict of the jury, the court of common pleas, to which such ap
peal shall be made, shall, before they proceed to hear and deter
mine the same, amend the process, proceeding, verdict, and
judgment in all things which by the act entitled, "An act re
specting amendment and jeofails," are amendable on writs of
error, after verdict in other courts ; and if it should be incon
venient, actually to make such amendments, then everything so
amendable shall be taken and considered as amended, and pro
ceeding shall be had thereupon as if the same had been actually
done.
113. The provisions of the one hundred and thirty-eighth sec
tion of an act entitled, " An act to regulate the practice of the
courts of law," are hereby extended to the courts constituted by
this act, and to the courts of common pleas on an appeal taken
thereto; provided, that if any objections be made before the jus
tice by either party, in any cause, upon the return day or upon
the trial or hearing of the same, to any process or pleading in_
respect to any matter which might be amended by the justice
under the provisions of said section of said act, and no such
amendment shall be made before the conclusion of the trial or
hearing, then it shall not be in the power of the court of com
mon pleas, on the trial of the appeal, to amend or to order

JUSTICES' COURTS.

417

amended the said process or pleading in respect of any of the
matters to which such objections shall relate or were made.
114. If the constable's return to any summons or warrant be
defective, and such constable has, in point of fact, complied with
all the requirements of this act, in serving such writ, whether
the defendant appears or does not appear, and whether he ob
jects or does not object, such constable may amend his return
in such manner as to make it conform to the fact ; provided, he
do so on or before the return day.
II.—References.
115. In every suit to be instituted before any justice of the
peace by virtue of this act, and in every appeal to be made before
any court of common pleas, it shall and may be lawful for such
justice of the peace, or court of common pleas, as the case may
be, with the assent and at the request of the parties, to enter
rules of reference of the matters in difference, to such person or
persons as shall be nominated and agreed upon by and between
the parties ; and the reference so made shall and may be con
ducted in the same manner in all respects, as directed in the case
of references by rule of court, in and by the act entitled " An
act for regulating references, and determining controversies by
arbitration," and the report of the said referee or referees, or the
major part of them, whether in favor of the plaintifff or defendant,
appellant or appellee, shall be final and conclusive to the parties ;
judgment shall be entered thereon with costs, and execution
issued accordingly.
Ill —Depositions.
116. If a material witness in an action, instituted in the said
court for the trial of small causes, be in the State, but is ancient
or very infirm, or is sick, or is bound on a voyage, or is about
to go out of the State, the deposition of such witness may, at
the option of either party, be taken before a justice of the peace ;
provided, the person at whose request the deposition is to be
taken, shall cause notice to be given to the adverse party of the
time and place, and before whom the deposition shall be taken,

418

JUSTICES' COURTS.

immediately, or at such short day as the cause in the opinion of
the said justice may require, to attend and be present at the
taking thereof, and to put questions, and cross-examine, if he
shall think fit; and a deposition so taken and offered in evidence,
shall be subject to the same rules and exceptions that the wit
ness would be if personally present.
117. Every person deposing as last aforesaid, shall be carefully
examined and cautioned, and sworn or affirmed, to testify the
whole truth, and shall subscribe the. testimony by him or her
given, after the same shall be reduced to writing, which shall
be done only by the magistrate taking the deposition, or by the
deponent, in his presence, and the deposition, so taken, shall be
retained by such magistrate until he deliver the same, with his
own hand, into the*court for which it was taken, or shall be by
him, the said magistrate, sealed up, directed, and transmitted
to such court, and remain under his seal until opened in court,
and when so opened, the same shall be deposited in the office of
the justice before whom the action shall be brought, there to
remain on record, and that either of the parties in the said
action or suit,#may, at his or her cost and charges, take copies
of such deposition as soon as it is deposited in the office as afore
said.
118. The provisions of the act entitled "An act concerning
evidence" for taking the testimony of witnesses residing out of
this State, so far as the same can be applied, be and they are
hereby extended to the courts for the trial of small causes.

IV.—Justices—their Duties and Dockets.
119. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace, before
whom any suit shall be instituted, to enter in a book, to be kept
for that purpose, the names of the plaintifff and defendant, the
style and nature of the action, the sum demanded, the time of
issuing process, and when returnable, the return made thereto
by the constable, when the copy of the account, or state of the
demand, or set-off, was delivered by the parties, or either of
them, the time of taking the recognizance, of making or filing
any order, the adjournment, the rule of reference, and report of

JUSTICES' COURTS.

419

referees, the jury, when and by whom demanded, the venire,
when issued and how returned, the time of trial, and names of
the jurors and witnesses, the admission of evidence objected to,
and the rejection of evidence offered, a description of each paper
offered in evidence, the verdict and judgment and when given,
the execution or executions, when issued, the indorsement
thereon, and how returned by the constable, the appeal, when
and by whom demanded, and all the proceedings before him
had, touching the said suit ; and further, it shall be the duty of
such justice to grant to either party, when required, a certified
copy of such proceedings.
120. It shall be the duty of the justice before whom any
judgment is rendered, to make out and enter upon his docket a
full bill of costs in the case, specifying each item, and the fees
for the same, and the amount paid him by each party.
121. Every justice of the peace, whose term of office has expired,
or may hereafter expire, or who has resigned, or may hereafter c&>2m■
resign, shall and may, when required so to do, make out transcripts from his docket or dockets, under his hand and seal, and
certify them as late justice of the peace ; which said transcripts, ^ ^
so certified, shall be used as evidence in all courts of law and y^. . %J
equity in this State, and have the same force and effect, and be
liable to the like legal objections, as though the said justice was
still in commission.
122. The book in which such proceedings shall be entered by
any justice of the peace, shall, within one year after death of
the said justice, be deposited in the office of the clerk of the
county wherein the said justice resided and held his commission,
to be there kept as a public record ; and if the executors or ad
ministrators of such deceased justice shall neglect or refuse to
deliver the said book, at the expiration of the said term of one
year, to the said clerk, as aforesaid, he, she, or they, so refusing
or neglecting, shall forfeit and pay the sum of sixty dollars, to
be recovered by action of debt, with costs, in any court having
cognizance of the same, and paid when recovered, to the collec
tor of the county, for the use of the county, who is hereby
authorized and required to prosecute for the same.
123. If any justice of the peace shall be hereafter removed

420

JUSTICES' COURTS.

from his office by impeachment, the docket or dockets of the
said justice shall be forthwith deposited in the clerk's office of
the county in which he resides at the time of impeachment,
there to be kept as a public record.
124. If any justice of the peace, either before or after the ex
piration of his term of office, shall be about to remove from the
county in which he was commissioned, it shall be his duty to
deposit his docket or dockets in the clerk's office of said county,
prior to his removal therefrom, there to be kept as a public
record.
125. Every justice of the peace and his legal representatives
shall and may at all times, after the said docket or dockets are
deposited as aforesaid, have free access to the same without pay
ment of any fees to the clerk therefore, to enable them to recover
any costs which may be due the said justice thereon.
126. If any justice of the peace shall neglect or refuse to de
posit his docket or dockets in the clerk's office, at the time and
in the manner by this act directed, he shall forfeit and pay the
sum of fifty dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs,
in any court of competent jurisdiction, and to be paid, when re
covered, to the collector of the county, for the use of the county ;
which suit shall be brought by the county collector, for the use
of the county.
127. A transcript of the record of any case entered in any
docket, deposited in the clerk's office as aforesaid, certified to be
a true transcript by said clerk, shall be received in evidence in
any court of this State, and be as good, effectual, and available
in law, as if the deposited docket were then and there produced.
128. It shall not be lawful for the court of common pleas, or
any other court or municipal authority having power to grant
license to keep an inn and tavern in any of the counties, cities,
or towns corporate within this State, to grant a license to any
person to keep an inn and tavern, who shall be at the same time
a justice of the peace, or in virtue of his office exercising the
powers of a justice of the peace ; and if any person shall be ap
pointed a justice of the peace, or an officer with the power of a
justice of the peace, in any of the couuties, cities, or towns cor

JUSTICES' COURTS.

421

porate within this State, during the time that he holds a license
to keep an inn and tavern, and accept of the said office, such
license shall thenceforth be absolutely void.
129. No justice of the peace or constable shall appear and
prosecute or defend in any action before any justice of the peace,
unless such justice or constable shall be one of the parties on
record in the cause; and any justice or constable who shall
offend against the provision of this section, shall forfeit the sum
of fifty dollars, to be recovered by action of debt with costs
of suit, in any court having cognizance thereof, by and for the
use of any person who shall prosecute for the same ; and such
suit shall be commenced within six months after the offense
shall have been committed ; provided, that nothing herein con
tained shall prevent a justice from transacting the general con
cerns of a person who is absent and resident without the State.
V.—Constables—their Duties.
160. The constables of the several townships in any county
shall be the ministerial officers of the said courts, and it shall
be the duty of said constables to execute within the county all
precepts, summons, warrants, writs, and other process, issuing
out of the said court, and to them or any of them directed and
delivered, and make return thereof, and to perform all matters,
acts, and things appertaining to their offices aforesaid.
VI. —Parties
131. The provisions of sections nineteen, twenty, twenty-one,
twenty-three, twenty-five, and twenty-six, of an " Act to regu
late the practice of courts of law," shall apply to the courts for
the trial of small causes, except where they conflict with the
provisions of this act.
VII.—Construction.
132. The provisions of section three hundred, of an " Act to
regulate the practice of courts of law," shall be extended to
courts for the trial of small causes.
133. The provisions of this act shall apply to the district courts

422

LANDLORD AND TENANT.

of the city of Newark, except where the provisions hereof are
inconsistent with the provisions of the act constituting said
courts and of the supplements thereto.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

LANDLORD AND TENANT.
AN ACT CONCERNING LANDLORDS AND TENANTS.
A.—SI ITS FOR RENT.
1. Be it enacted hy the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of Ne.w Jersey, That it shall and may be lawful for any
person or persons, having any rent in arrear or due upon a lease
for life or lives^to bring an action or actions of debt for such
arrears of rent, in the same manner as he, she, or they might
have done in case such rent was reserved and due upon a lease
for years.
2. That where any tenant for life shall happen to die before
or on the day on which any rent was reserved or made payable,
upon any demise or lease of any lauds, tenements, or heredita
ments, which determined on the death of any tenant for life,
that the executors or administrators of such tenant for life shall
and may, in an action on the case, recover of and from such
undertenant or undertenants of such lands, tenements, or here
ditaments, if such tenant for life die on the day on which the
same was made payable, the whole, or if before such day, then
a proportion of such rent, according to the time such tenant for
life lived of the last year, or quarter of a year, or other time
in which the said rent was growing due, as aforesaid, making all
just allowances, or a proportionable part thereof, respectively.
3. That it shall and may be lawful to and for the landlord or

440

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

or upon a condition or any contingency, the executor or admin
istrator cum testamento annexo shall not he compelled to pay
or deliver the property so bequeathed to the person having any
such life interest, or other interest, as aforesaid, until security
shall be given in the orphans' court, having jurisdiction of such
executor's or administrator's accounts, in such sum and form as
in the judgment of the said court shall sufficiently secure the
interest of the person or persons entitled in remainder, whenever
the same shall accrue or vest in possession; but in no case or
event, where the person or persons next immediately in remain
der shall be the lineal descendant of any such life tenant, or
person having any limited estate as aforesaid, and such executor
or administrator shall not have filed any security, shall such life
tenant or other person having such limited interest or estate as
aforesaid, be required to give security, as herein provided, in a
greater sum than fifty thousand dollars.
[For proceedings to recover Legacies in Orphans' Court, see
Orphans' Court, § .]
(Add under this title "An act to provide for the payment of
contingent legacies and to set apart sufficient lands charged or
to become chargeable therewith, and to discharge the residue."
Acts 1800, p. 430.)
Approvkd Murch 27th, 1874.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
AN ACT FOR. THE LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That all actions of trespass quare clausum
fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue, trover, and replevin for
taking away of goods and chattels, all actions of debt, founded

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

441

upon any lending or contract without specialty, or for arrearages
of rent due on a parol demise, and all actions of account and
upon the case, except actions for slander, and except, also, such
actions as concern the trade or merchandise between merchant
and merchant, their factors, agents, and servants, shall be com
menced and sued within six years next after the cause of such
actions shall have accrued, and not after.
2. That all actions of trespass for assault, menace, battery,
wounding, and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be com
menced and sued within four years next after the cause of such
action shall have accrued, and not after.
3. That every action upon the case for words shall be com
menced and sued within two years next after the words spoken,
and not after.
4. That if any person or persons who is, are, or shall be en
titled to any of the actions specified in the three preceding sec
tions of this act, is, are, or shall be, at the time of any such cause
of action accruing, within the age of twenty-one years, or insane,
that then such person or persons shall be at liberty to bring the
said action so as he, she, or they institute or take the same within
such time as is before limited after his, her, or their coming to
or being of full age, or of sane memory, as by other person or
persons having no such impediment might be done.
5. That any prosecution to be had or commenced upon any
bond heretofore given or hereafter to be given, by any sheriff '
and his securities for the faithful performance of the office of
sheriff, shall in no wise operate against or in any manner affect
the said securities named and bound in said bond, unless such
prosecution shall be commenced within nine years after the date
of the said bond, and not after; and any prosecution to be had
or commenced upon any bond heretofore given or hereafter to
be given by any constable and his securities, for the true and
faithful performance of all the duties enjoined on him as con
stable, shall in no wise operate against or in any manner affect
the said securities named and bound in said bond, unless such
prosecution shall be commenced within four years after the date
of the said bond, and not after.
6. That every action of debt or covenant for rent or arrear29

442

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

ages of rent, founded upon any lease under seal, whether in
dented or poll, and every action of debt upon any single or penal
bill for the payment of money only, or upon any obligation with
condition for the payment of money only, or upon any award
under the hands and seals of arbitrators for the payment of
money only, shall be commenced and sued within sixteen years
next after the cause of such action sliall have accrued, and not
after ; but if any payment shall have been made on any such
lease, specialty, or award within or after the said period of six
teen years, then an action instituted on such lease, specialty, or
award, within sixteen years after such payment, shall be good
and effectual in law, and not after ; provided always, that the
time during which the person who is or shall be entitled to any
of the actions specified in this section shall have been within
the age of twenty-one years, or insane, shall not be taken or
computed as part of the said limited period of sixteen years.
7. That judgments in any court of record of this State may
be revived by scire facias, or an action of debt may be brought
thereon within twenty years next after the date of such judg
ment, and not after ; provided, that the time during which the
person who is or shall be entitled to the benefit of such judg
ment shall have been under the age of twenty-one years, or
insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the said limited
period of twenty years.
8. That if any person or persons against whom there is or
shall be any such cause of action as is specified in the first, sec
ond, third, fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of this act, shall
not be resident in this State when such cause of action accrues,
or shall remove from this State after the same shall accrue, and
before the time of limitation mentioned in said sections is ex
pired, then the time or times during which such person or per
sons shall not reside in this State shall not be computed as part
of the said limited period within which such action or actions
are required to be brought as aforesaid ; but the person or per
sons having, or who may have such cause of action as aforesaid,
shall be entitled to all the time mentioned in the said several
sections, for bringing their said actions, after the cause thereof
shall accrue, exclusive of the time or times during which the

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

443

person or persons liable to such actions shall be not resident in
this State as aforesaid.
9. That if any person, against whom there is or shall be any
such cause of action as is specified in the first, fifth, sixth, or
seventh sections of this act, shall have died or shall hereafter
die before the expiration of the times of limitation therein men
tioned, the space or term of six months next succeeding the
death of such person shall not be computed as part of the lim
ited period within which such action or actions is or are required
to be brought by the said sections.
10. That in actions of debt or upon the case, grounded on
any simple contract, no acknowledgment or promise by words
only shall be deemed sufficient evidence of a new or continu
ing contract, whereby to take any case out of the operation of
this act, or to deprive any person of the benefit thereof, unless
such acknowledgment or promise shall be made or continued by
or in some writing to be signed by the party chargeable thereby ;
and that where there shall be two or more joint contractors, or
executors, or administrators of auy contractor, no such joint
contractor, executor, or administrator shall lose the benefit of
this act so as to be chargeable in respect, or by reason only of
any written acknowledgment or promise, and signed by any
other or others of them ; provided always, that nothing herein
contained shall alter, or take away, or lessen the effect of any
payment of any principal or interest made by any person what
soever ; provided also, that in actions to be commenced against
two or more such joint contractors, or executors, or adminis
trators, if it shall appear at the trial or otherwise that the
plaintifff, though barred by this act as to one or more of such
joint contractors, or executors, or administrators, shall, never
theless, be entitled to recover against any other or others of the
defendants by virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise, or
otherwise, judgment may be given, and with costs allowed for
the plaintifff as to such defendant or defendants, against whom
he shall recover, and for the other defendant or defendants
against the plaintifff.
11. That no indorsement or memorandum of any payment
written or made, after this act shall go into effect, upon any

444

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

promissory note, bill of exchange, or other writing, by or on
behalf of the party to whom such payment shall be made, shall
be deemed sufficient proof of such payment so as to take the
case out of the operation of this act.
12. That this act shall be deemed and taken to apply to the
case of any debt on simple contract alleged by way of set-off
on the part of the defendant.
13. That no action which may be brought upon any bond
given by any executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, receiver,
or assignee, under any law relating to insolvent debtors or in
solvent estates, for the faithful performance of all or any of the
duties of such executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, re
ceiver, or assignee, shall in any wise operate against, or in any
manner affect the surety or sureties named in said bond, unless
such action be commenced within twenty years next after the
date of said bond ; and such surety or sureties, his or their heirs,
devisees, or personal representatives, may plead this act in bar
of any action not commenced within that time ; provided, that
the time during which the person who is or shall be entitled to
the benefit of such bond shall have been under the age of twentyone years, or insane, shall not be computed as part of the said
limited period of twenty years ; and provided further, that if any
such surety shall not reside in this State when the cause of
action accrues on such bond, or shall remove from this State
after the same shall accrue, and before the limitation herein
mentioned shall expire, then the time or times during which
such surety shall not reside in this State shall not, in acti6ns
against such surety, his heirs, devisees, or personal representa
tives, be computed as part of the said limited period ; and if
any such surety shall die before the expiration of the time of
limitation herein mentioned, then the space or ten** of six
months next succeeding such death shall not, in actions against
the heirs, devisees, or personal representatives of such surety, be
computed as part of the said limited period.
14. That any prosecution to be had or commenced upon any
bond heretofore given, or hereafter to be given, by any insolvent
debtor or person arrested upon final process in any civil action,
to the sheriff of any county in this State, for the benefit of the

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

445

prison limits, shall in no wise operate against or in any manner
affect the securities named and bound in such bond, unless such
prosecution shall be commenced within six years next after the
date of said bond.
15. That any prosecution to be had or commenced upon any
bond heretofore given, or hereafter to be given by any justice of
the peace and his securities, according to the eleventh section of
the act entitled "An act relating to justices of the peace," ap
proved April seventeenth, eighteen hundred and forty-six, shall
in no wise operate against, or in any manner may affect the said
securities named and bound in said bond, their heirs, executors,
or administrators, unless such prosecution shall be commenced
within ten years after the date of said bond, and not after.
16. That no person who now hath, or hereafter may have any
right or title of entry into any lands, tenements, or heredita
ments, shall make any entry therein, but within twenty years
next after such right or title shall accrue ; and such person shall
be barred from any entry afterwards; provided always, that the
time during which the person who hath or shall have such right
or title of entry, shall have been under the age of twenty-one
years, or insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the
said limited period of twenty years.
17. That every real possessory, ancestral, mixed, or other
action, for any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall be
brought or instituted within twenty years next after the right
or title thereto, or cause of such action shall accrue, and not
after ; provided always, that the time during which the person
who hath or shall have such right or title, or cause of action,
shall have been under the age of twenty-one years, or insane,
shall not be taken or computed as part of the said limited period
of twenty-one years.
18. That if a mortgagee and those under him be in possession
of the lands; tenements, and hereditaments contained in the
mortgage, or any part thereof, for twenty years after default of
payment by the mortgagor, then the right or equity of redemp
tion therein shall be forever barred.
19. That if in any of the said actions specified in any of the
preceding sections of this act, judgment be given for the plain

446

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

tiff, and the same be reversed by writ of error, or if a verdict
pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter alleged in arrest of judg
ment, the judgment be given against the plaintifff, then the
said plaintifff, his or her heirs, executors, or administrators, as
the case shall require, may commence a new action within one
year after such judgment reversed or given against the plaintifff,
and not after.
20. That no person or persons, bodies politic, or corporate,
shall be sued or impleaded by the State of New Jersey, for any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or for any rents, revenues,
issues,or profits thereof, but within twenty years after the right,
title, or cause of action to the same shall accrue, and not after.
21. That all actions or informations which shall be brought
or exhibited for any forfeiture upon any penal statute made or
to be made, whereby the said forfeiture is or shall be limited to
the State of New Jersey only, shall be brought or exhibited
within two years next after the offense committed or to be com
mitted against such penal statute, and not after ; and all actions
or informations, which shall be brought or exhibited for any
forfeiture upon any penal statute, made or to be made, the bene
fit and suit whereof is or shall be by the said statute limited or
given to any person or persons who shall prosecute for the same,
or to the State of New Jersey, and to any other who shall prose
cute in that behalf, shall be brought or exhibited by any person
or persons who may lawfully sue for the same as aforesaid,
within one year next after the offense committed or to be com
mitted against the said statute ; and in default of such suit,
then the same shall be brought or exhibited for the State of New
Jersey, at any time within one year after the termination of the
aforesaid year, and not after ; and all actions or informations
which shall be brought or exhibited for any forfeiture or cause
upon any statute, made or to be made, the benefit and suit
whereof is or shall be limited or given to the party aggrieved,
shall be brought or exhibited within the space of two years next
after the offense committed or to be committed, or cause of
action accrued, and not after; provided always, that where any
action or information is or shall be limited by any statute to be
brought or exhibited within a shorter time than is limited by

MECHANICS' LIEN.

447

this section, then the said action or information shall be brought
or exhibited within such shorter time so limited by such statute.
22. That all actions or informations which shall be brought
or exhibited for any forfeiture upon any penal statute, made or
to be made, whereby the said forfeiture is or shall be limited to
any county, township, or town corporate, or to any officer of
such county, township, or town corporate, or to any person or
persons for the use of such county, township, or town corporate,
or to the use of the poor of such township or town corporate,
either in whole or together with any other person or persons who
may lawfully sue for the same, shall be brought or exhibited
within one year next after the offense committed or to be com
mitted, and not after ; provided always, that where any action or
information is or shall be limited by any statute to be brought
or exhibited within a shorter time than is limited by this sec
tion, then the said action or information shall be brought or ex
hibited within such shorter time so limited by such statute.
Approvkd March 27ih, 1874.

MECHANICS' LIEN.
AN ACT TO SECURE TO MECHANICS AND OTHERS
PAYMENT FOR THEIR LABOR AND MATERIALS
LN ERECTING! ANY BUILDING.
A.—OF THE LIEN.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That every building, hereafter erected or
built within this State, shall be liable for the payment of any
debt contracted and owing to any person, for labor performed,
or materials furnished for the erection and construction thereof,

PARTITION.

555

PARTITION.
AN ACT FOR THE MORE EASY PARTITION OF LANDS
HELD BY COPARCENERS, JOINT TENANTS,
AND TENANTS IN COMMON.
A.—APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS BY A JUSTICE
OK JUDGE.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That any person being a coparcener, joint
tenant, or tenant in common, in any tracts of land within this
State, may apply to any justice of the supreme court, or judge
of any circuit court or court of common pleas of the county
wherein such lands may lie, for a partition of such tract or
tracts of land ; whereupon the said justice or judge shall ascer
tain the number of equal shares or parts in which such tract or
tracts were, or at the time of such application, are held by the
original coparceners, joint tenants, or tenauts in common, and
shall nominate three persons not interested in the said land, as
commissioners, to make partition of such tract or tracts into as
many parts or shares as the same was originally held ; and the
said justice or judge shall thereupon order an advertisement to
be inserted in one of the public newspapers of this State, and in
such other public newspapers or places as the said justice or
judge shall direct, for four weeks successively, at least once in
each week, to the following or like effect, he or they making
such alterations or additions as the nature of the case may re
quire :
By
, justice of the supreme court of New Jersey, or judge
of the circuit court or the court of common pleas, of the county
of
:
Notice is hereby given, that on application to me by
, of
, who claims an undivided
part of all that tract of
land (giving a description of the tract or tracts intended to be
divided), I have nominated A. B., C. D., and E. F., commission

556

PARTITION.

ers to divide the said tract (or tracts) of land into
equal
shares or parts ; and unless proper objections are stated tome
at
, on the
day of
next (which is to be at least
thirty days from the date of the notice), the said A. B., C. D.,
and E. F., will then be appointed commissioners to make parti
tion of the said land, pursuant to an act entitled "An act for
the more easy partition of lands held by coparceners, joint ten
ants, and tenants in common." Given under my hand, this
day of
.
2. That if no objections are made before the said justice or
judge, on the day appointed by him for that purpose, to the per
sons nominated as commissioners, then the said justice or judge
shall, in writing, under his hand and seal, appoint the persons
so nominated to be commissioners to divide the said land pur
suant to the directions prescribed in this act ; and the said jus
tice or judge shall, in the said writing, describe the tract or
tracts so to be divided, and direct the number of parts or shares
into which the same is to be allotted ; but if objections are made
to the persons nominated as commissioners, or any of them, the
said justice or judge shall then proceed to hear and determine
such objections, and in case he find them well founded, to ap
point under his hand and seal, other fit and disinterested per
sons in the room of those he may think proper to remove.
B.— PROCEEDINGS OF COMMISSIONERS.
3. The said commissioners having taken the oath or affirma
tion hereinafter prescribed, shall cause a survey to be made, in
their presence, of the tract or tracts to be divided, and shall
then proceed to divide the same into the number of parts or
shares directed by the said justice or judge in the writing con
taining their appointment ; each part or share to contain one or
more lots, as the commissioners may think proper, they having
due regard in the partition to the situation, quantity, quality,
and advantages of each part or share, so that they may be equal
in value as nearly as may be ; and if the bounds of any tract or
tracts so to be divided, shall be controverted, the commissioners
are hereby directed, if such controverted part is valuable, to

PARTITION.

557

separate the same from the uncontroverted part, and to make
partition of the tract or tracts, in such manner that a propor
tion of the controverted part may be allotted to each share, as
well as a proportion of the uncontroverted part ; and the said
commissioners, previous to the said survey, shall administer an
oath or affirmation to the surveyor and chain-bearers, that they
will well and truly perform their respective duties, honestly and
impartially ; which oath or affirmation any one of the said com
missioners is hereby empowered to administer.
4. The said commissioners shall number the several parts or
shares by them laid off, from number one, progressively, and
shall, in the same manner, number each lot in the several shares,
if the same contain more than one lot, and shall make a true
field-book, specifying the bounds and numbers of each lot, and
also a map or maps of the tract or tracts, on which the several
shares or lots shall be laid down and numbered, and shall keep
an exact and particular account of their time expended in the
execution of the duties of this act, and of the money due for
the same, and also of all expenses accrued for surveying or
otherwise, agreeably to the directions of this act ; and the said
commissioners shall thereupon give notice, by advertisement in
manner aforesaid, for three weeks successively, that on a certain
day by them named, not less than one month from the date of
such notification, attendance will be given at a place therein
named, and an allotment, by ballot, take place, of the several
parts or shares of the tract or tracts therein described, to the
original coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, their
heirs or assigns.
5. On application made to the said justice or judge by one of
the parties to the partition intended to be made, the said jus
tice or judge shall attend at the time and place specified in the
advertisement of the commissioners, and shall, with the assist
ance of the said commissioners, proceed to allot the several
parts or shares of the tract or tracts intended to be divided, in
the manner hereinafter described ; but if no application shall be
made to the said justice or judge for his attendance, then the
said commissioners shall, on the day appointed for that purpose,
proceed, in a public manner, to number as many tickets as there

558

PARTITION.

are shares ot land marked on the map, which shall be put in a
box, and the names of the original coparceners, joint tenants, or
tenants in common shall be put, in separate tickets, into another
box, when a person, appointed by the said justice, judge, or com
missioners, shall proceed to draw a ticket of the names, and
then a ticket of the numbers, and so proceed until all the tickets
are drawn, and the share on the map bearing the number of the
ticket drawn next after drawing the ticket with the name, shall
be the separate and divided share of that original coparcener,
joint tenant, or tenant in common, his or her heirs or assigns, in
the land so divided ; of which balloting the said justice or judge
or commissioners shall make a full and ample certificate, under
his or their hands and seals, specifying particularly the time,
place, and manner of balloting, and the allotment of the shares.
6. The said justice or judge and the said commissioners are
hereby authorized, as the case may require, to issue his or their
precept or precepts, under his or their hands and seals, com
manding such person or persons who are able to give any neces
sary information, to come before him or them, when and where
lie or they may direct, to testify, by an oath or affirmation, con
cerning such acts, matters, or things as may be necessary for the
said justice or judge or commissioners to investigate in the exe
cution of the trust, duties, and service required of them by this
act, and to bring with them all such patents, surveys, maps,
records, deeds, or other writings as may be necessary to be ex
amined by the said justice, judge, or commissioners.
7. The said commissioners shall transmit the writing con
taining their appointment and their oath or affirmation of office,
properly certified by the person administering the same, and
the map and field-book, together with the said certificate of al
lotment, and also their accounts, to the justice or judge from
whom they received their appointment, or in case of his death,
resignation, or removal, then to any other justice or judge of the
same court, who, after inspecting the same, shall order the said
instruments, excepting the account of expenses, to be recorded
in the clerk's office of the supreme court, or in the clerk's office
of the county in which the lands lie, which shall be good evi
dence of such partition ; and which partition shall be as valid

PARTITION.

559

and effectual in law to divide and separate the said lands as if
the same had been made on writs of partition, according to the
course of the common law.
8. The said justice or judge shall be allowed for the services
hereinbefore required of him, at the rate of three dollars a day
while employed in the said business.
9. After the said justice or judge shall have ascertained the
whole expense of such partition, he shall divide the same among
the several parts or shares, which shall be paid by the persons
to whom such shares were allotted, their heirs or assigns, within
four weeks after the same shall be ascertained, or in default of
payment of such expense, the said justice or judge shall direct
a sale to be made by the commissioners of so much of those
parts or shares deficient in paying the expense, as will be suffi
cient to pay their respective proportions thereof, together with
the expense accruing on such sale, and shall direct the same to
be sold by the said commissioners, at public auction, to the
highest bidder; and the said commissioner's deed to the pur
chaser shall pass as good a title for the separate enjoyment of
the same as if all the owners and claimants of shares of the
entire tract divided had joined therein.

C—PARTITION IN PREROGATIVE OR ORPHANS'
COURT.
10. That when two or more persons shall hold real estate as
coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, any one or more
of whom are minors under the age of twenty-one years, it shall
and may be lawful for the orphans' court of the county in which
such real estate may be, or for the prerogative court, when such
real estate is situate in two or more counties, upon application
made by one or more of said coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants
in common, or by any person duly authorized in their behalf, or
claiming under them or any of them, to order and direct a di
vision of such real estate to be made between the said owners,
in such shares and proportions as they may be entitled to by
law ; the metes and bounds of each share to be ascertained by
three disinterested commissioners to be appointed by the court,.

560

PARTITION.

whose report, made in writing under their hands, to the next or
any subsequent term of the said court after such division shall
be made and approved by the said court, shall be conclusive to
all parties concerned ; and a copy of the appointment of said
commissioners, together with their report, shall be recorded in
a book to be kept for that purpose in the office of the clerk of
said court, and copies thereof, duly certified under the seal of
said court, shall be evidence in all courts of law or equity.
11. That notice of application to the prerogative court or
orphans' court for the partition of any real estate shall be served
upon all the joint tenants, coparceners, or tenants in common
interested therein, who shall not have joined in such application,
and upon the guardian or guardians (if any there be) of such as
are minors, at least four weeks before the time of making such
application, or be published for the like space of time in one of
the newspapers of this State circulated in the neighborhood of
the said real estate; and no order for partition shall be made
upon such application until satisfactoiw proof be made to the
court of the service or publication of such notice as aforesaid.
12. That where partition shall be made by commissioners ap
pointed by the orphans' court, it shall be lawful for said court to
order a certified copy of the report of such commissioners, with
maps annexed, if any there be, to be recorded by the clerk of
such county, whereupon it shall be the duty of such commission
ers to cause the same to be recorded accordingly, at the cost and
expense of the parties interested in said lands.
13. Upon filing such copy of the report and maps, if any there
be, and of said order with such clerk, it shall be his duty to
record the same in the proper book as a deed ; and that the
papers required by the seventh section of this act to be recorded
shall be recorded by such clerk in the proper book as a deed, and
not elsewhere.
14. That the necessary costs and expenses which shall arise
under an order of the prerogative court or orphans' court in any
of the cases aforesaid, shall be assessed by the said court upon
each share, in proportion to the value divided to him or her,
and may be recovered by a warrant from the said court, direct
ing distress and sale to be made of so much timber, wood, or

PARTITION.

561

herbage as may be found on the part divided to him or her, or
of other property belonging to such owner as will be sufficient
to pay the costs and expenses aforesaid, and costs of such dis
tress and sale.
15. That on a partition made by virtue of an order of the
prerogative court or orphans' court in any of the cases aforesaid,
if any owner or any person claiming under him or her, hath,
after the death of the testator or intestate, and before the divis
ion, cut off or made use of any timber or committed any waste
or destruction on the premises, the commissioners appointed to
make the division shall estimate the damage done by such owner
or person claiming under him or her, and divide the premises
so that the owner shall be charged with said damage and have
a share proportionably less in value than the other owners who
have done no waste or damage.

D.—SALE WHEN PARTITION CANNOT BE MADE.
16. If the commissioners appointed by virtue of this act shall
in any case be of opinion that the tract or tracts of land or real
estate in question are so circumstanced that a partition thereof
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners of the
same, they shall so report ; and if it shall appear by satisfactory
proof that the said tract or tracts of land or real estate cannot
be partitioned among the owners and proprietors without great
prejudice to their interest, then and in such case the court or
justice or judge to whom the application for the partition of
such tract or tracts of land or real estate shall have been made,
or in case of the death, resignation, or removal of the said justice
or judge, any other justice or judge of the same court may order
the said commissioners, or persons appointed to make partition
as aforesaid, to sell such tract or tracts of land or real estate at
public auction to the highest bidder.
17. The said commissioners shall, after making such sale or / &
sales, report the same by writing, under their hands, to the next A .
stated or special term of the court by which, or by a justice or
—
judge whereof, such sale was ordered to be made.
18. If the court to which the report of the sale of such land

562

PARTITION.

or real estate shall be made as aforesaid, shall approve of such
sale it shall confirm the same as valid and effectual in law, and
shall by rule of said court, direct the said report to be recorded,
and the said commissioners to execute good and sufficient con
veyances in the law to the purchaser or purchasers for the tract
or tracts of land or real estate so sold ; which said conveyances
duly executed as aforesaid, shall operate as an effectual bar, both
in law and equity, against the said owners and proprietors, and
against all and every person or persons claiming by, from, or
under them, or cither of them ; and a copy of any such report,
so recorded as aforesaid, duly certified under the seal of said
court, shall be evidence in any court of this State.
19. Every commissioner appointed by virtue of this act shall,
before he enters upon the duties of his appointment, take an •
oath or affirmation before some person duly authorized to ad
minister oaths and affirmations in this State that he will hon
estly, faithfully, and impartially execute the trust and perform
the duties and services required of him by this act, to the best
of his skill, knowledge, and judgment.
20. In case of the death, resignation, neglect, or refusal to
serve of any of the commissioners to be appointed by virtue of
this act, before the trust, duties, and services hereby required of
them shall be completed, then the court, justice, or judge to
whom the application for partition shall have been made, or in
case of the death, resignation, or removal of such justice or
judge, any other justice or judge of the same court shall, by
writing under his hand and seal, appoint another commissioner
or commissioners, who. after taking the oath or affirmation pre
scribed by this act, shall be vested with the like powers and au
thority as if he or they had been originally appointed.
21. In all cases where a sale shall be made by commissioners
by virtue of this act, if any of the said commissioners shall die
after making such sale, and cither before or after the confirmation
thereof, it shall and may be lawful for the surviving commis
sioner or commissioners to make report of such sale, and if the
sale be confirmed, to execute a deed or deeds of conveyance to
the purchasers of the said real estate, pursuant to such sale ;

PARTITION.

563

which deed or deeds shall have the same force, effect, and valid
ity as if made and executed by all the said commissioners.
22. The monies arising from every sale as aforesaid shall be
ordered by the court to be paid by the commissioners to the
parties interested in the real estate so sold, their guardians or
legal representatives, in proportion to their respective rights in
the same, deducting from their respective shares the costs and
charges which may be allowed and ordered to be retained out of
the same; and if any of the said parties shall be absent from this
State, without such legal representative, the proportion of the
money due to every such party shall be put out at interest on
sufficient security of real property, or invested in public stock,
by order and under the direction and control of said court, for
the benefit of such party.
23. It shall be the duty of the said. courts respectively, to re
quire of the guardian of any person under the age of twenty-one
years, entitled to a proportion of the monies arising from any
sale as aforesaid, such security by bond to the ordinary of this
State as the said court shall judge to be sufficient, for the bene
fit of such minor, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
trust committed to such guardian.
24. In all cases where commissioners appointed by virtue of
this act to make partition of real estate, shall make sale thereof
as aforesaid, and shall pay the net proceeds of such sale or sales
to the persons entitled by law to receive the same, it shall and
may be lawful for the said commissioners to produce the receipts
and discharges therefore to the surrogate of the county in which
the said real estate, or the more valuable part thereof, is situ
ate; and the said surrogate shall immediately record the same
in the book of receipts and discharges in his office, provided the
same be first proved or acknowledged in the manner that deeds
of conveyance of land are required to be proved or acknowl
edged, which proof or acknowledgment shall be recorded with
such receipts and discharges ; and the said surrogate shall in
dorse on such receipts and discharges the book and page on
which the same are recorded, with the time of recording the
same, and sign his name thereto ; and the said record, or a cer
tified copy thereof, under the hand and seal of office of the sur

v

564

PARTITION.

rogate, shall be received in evidence in any court of record in
this State, if it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of
said court that the original receipt and discharge hath been lost,
or that it is not in the power of the party offering the copy in
evidence to produce the same.

E.—PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO REMAINDERS,
REVERSIONS, AMD EXPECTANCIES.
25. Partition of lands held by coparceners, joint tenants, or
tenants in common, may be made by any court or jurisdiction
having authority to make partition of lands, on any proceeding
authorized for that purpose, notwithstanding the share held by
any coparcener, joint tenant, or tenant in common, may be for
a less estate than a fee, or may be limited over after an estate
for life, or any estate therein ; and such partition shall bind all
tenants of such share, in remainder, reversion, or expectancy,
who shall be entitled only to that part of the lands partitioned
as may be set off in severalty to the share upon which such re
mainder or expectancy is limited ; provided, that in all cases
where such remainder, reversion, or expectancy is limited over
to any person in being, such person shall be served with like
notice or process as may be by law required to be served on the
owner or tenant of such share in such proceeding of partition, if
notice be required therein ; and in all such cases where partition
is made of lands, of which any share is limited over, and which
are held in equal undivided shares, the commissioners, or other
persons making partition, shall divide said lands and allot the
shares, and certify such division and allotment in the manner
directed by this act.
26. In all proceedings for the partition of lands, where all or
any of the undivided shares thereof is or are limited over in the
manner specified in the next preceding section of this act, a sale
thereof may be made upon an order or decree of the court of
chancery, when such proceedings shall have been commenced in
that court ; but no such sale shall be ordered unless a division
of said lands cannot be made without impairing their value to
the extent of at least one-fourth part thereof, and shall be so

PARTITION.

565

reported or otherwise made to appear to the satisfaction of the
chancellor.
27. In all such partition proceedings, when a sale shall be
made as aforesaid, such sale and deed to the purchaser shall
convey the title to said lands of all the tenants either in posses
sion, remainder, reversion, or expectancy ; but the. net proceeds
of the sale of any share not held in fee simple or limited over,
shall be invested and kept invested in the name of the State of
New Jersey, under the order and direction of the court of chan
cery, for the use of the person or persons owning such share,
upon bond secured by mortgage to said estate, either upon the
property so sold, or any part thereof, or the fee simple of other
unincumbered real estate in this State, worth at least double
the principal sum so secured thereon, two-thirds of which value
shall be in the land itself, independently of any building thereon ;
and such bond and mortgage, after being duly recorded, shall
be filed in the office of the clerk in chancery, and there remain
as of record until duly satisfied and discharged ; and said clerk
shall be authorized to certify copies thereof under the seal of
said court, and such copies, so certified, shall be evidence as other
records and files of said court are, when so certified ; and the
interest accruing on such bond shall be paid yearly or halfyearly, according to the condition thereof, to the person or per
sons who would have been tenant or tenants of the particular
estate of such share if there had been no such sale thereof, his
heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, and shall be so se
cured by the condition of such bond and mortgage ; and the
principal and the interest also, when not paid as aforesaid, shall
be collected under the order and direction of the court of chan
cery.
28. Whenever all or any portion of the principal sum of money
so as aforesaid secured shall be collected, it shall be paid only to
the said clerk in chancery, and when so paid it shall be consid
ered as in that court, and shall there remain until paid out or
reinvested under the order and direction of that court, and said
clerk and his sureties shall be responsible therefore, and no other
payment shall discharge such bond and mortgage or authorize
any county clerk to discharge the registry or record thereof;

566

PARTITION.

and the said clerk in chancery shall be entitled to one-quarter
of one per centum on all monies paid into said court and re
invested or paid out under or by virtue of this act, to be taken
out of the increase or interest and not out of said principal ;
and whenever the particular estate or estates in such share of
said lands would have been determined and the same become
vested in fee simple absolute, if no such sale thereof had been
made, then the said principal shall be paid or such bond and mort
gage assigned, under the order and direction of said court of
chancery, to the person or persons in whom such share would
then have become vested in fee simple absolute, had no such
sale been made, his, her, or their heirs or assigns.
29. If any master in chancery, clerk, or other person, shall
willfully embezzle or convert to his own use any money that
shall come to his hands under or by virtue of the provisions of
this act, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment at hard labor, or
otherwise, not exceeding two years, or by fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars, or both.
30. Where there is an estate for life or lives, or other less
estate, in any lands or tenements situate in this State, and the
reversion or remainder in fee is owned by several persons as
joint tenants, coparceners, or tenants in common, and the par
ticular tenant or tenants shall consent thereto, partition of the
said lands or tenements may be made among said joint tenants,
coparceners, or tenants in common, by any court or jurisdiction
having authority to make partition of lands; and the said par
ticular tenant or tenants shall have the same estate or estates in
the respective parts which may be set off in severalty, as he,
she, or they may have had in the whole lands or tenements
before such partition shall have been made ; and in case parti
tion cannot be made of such lands or tenements, or any part
thereof, without great prejudice to the said joint tenants, copar
ceners, or tenants in common, so that a sale thereof shall be
ordered, the whole estate, in possession as well as in expectancy,
in the said lands or tenements, or in the said part thereof which
cannot be divided, shall be sold, and such portion of the proceeds
of said sale shall be paid to the particular tenant or tenants as

PARTITION.

567

shall be just and reasonable, according to the quantity of his,
.her, or their estate and interest in said lands or tenements, and
as shall be ascertained by the court ordering such partition or
sale.
F.-PROCEEDINGS WHERE SOME OF THE OWNERS
ARE UNKNOWN, OR THE RESIDENCE OF SOME OF
THEM IS UNKNOWN.
31. Where real estate is held by coparceners, joint tenants,
or tenants in common, some or any one of whom are unknown,
the others, or either one or more of thein, may commence a suit
by bill, for partition, in the court of chancery, in the same
manner as if all the owners of such real estate were known,
making such unknown owner or owners of said real estate a
party or parties thereto, by a publication according to the law
and practice of said court in case of absent defendants, under
the order (said order describing such real estate in such manner
and terms as will identify the same, by abuttals and boundaries
or otherwise, and naming the ancestor or other person last own
ing the said real estate in severalty) of the chancellor, in one or
more of the newspapers of this State, or elsewhere, directing
such unknown owner or owners to appear, plead, answer, or
demur to the said bill, within such time as the chancellor shall
direct, not less than six months from the date of such order ;
which order shall be published, as aforesaid, within twenty days
from the date thereof, and continued in said newspaper or news
papers at least once each week to within ten days of the expira
tion of the time limited to appear, plead, answer, or demur ; and
at the expiration of the time limited in said order, the chancellor
shall make such decree against said unknown owner or owners
as if they were known to the court, and as may be equitable
and just ; and shall have power to decree a partition of said real
estate among the owners thereof, in the same manner as if all
were known and by name had been made parties to said suit ; and
if the court shall be unable to determine the estates of such
unknown parties, then the chancellor shall make partition among
those owners whose estates can be ascertained, in such manner
as may in his judgment be equitable, and so that the owners of

508

PARTITION.

such ascertained estates shall hold their respective shares in
severalty ; and in case it shall appear to the chancellor that the.
said real estate is so circumstanced that such partition thereof
cannot he made without great prejudice to the interests of the
owners thereof, then the chancellor shall have power to decree
a sale of said real estate, and to direct the execution of a deed
or deeds therefore, to the purchaser or purchasers, which deed or
deeds shall convey all the right, title, and estate of all the owners
of said real estate, ascertained and unascertained, as completely
and effectually as if all the owners were by name made parties
to said bill, and, as such, brought before the court ; and after
such sale the chancellor shall decree the distribution of the
monies arising therefrom among the owners of said real estate,
in such shares as they may be entitled to, and shall invest,
under the direction and control of said court, such portion of
the proceeds of said sale as may belong to those owners who are
unknown to the court, for the benefit of such owners, and shall
order the payment thereof, from time to time, to those who are
entitled to receive the same, and as they shall be ascertained by
the court.
32. That in proceedings under the preceding section the chan
cellor shall be governed by the rules and practice of said court,
and by the provisions of this act, in suits in partition in said
court, except only as the same may be altered by the next pre
ceding section ; and all estate by curtesy and dower in said real
estate, may be sold by the decree of said court, and a certain
sum be ordered to be paid in lieu thereof ; or a certain share of
the proceeds of the sales of said real estate be invested for the
benefit of the person or persons entitled to such estate, in the
same manner as is provided for on the sale of such estates.
33. That the chancellor shall make such order for the pay
ment of the costs and expenses of the proceedings aforesaid, as
the practice and authority of said court, in partition and sale
thereon, will permit, and as he shall deem equitable and just.
34. That where the residence of any person interested in the
proceeds of lands or real estate which have been heretofore or
may he hereafter sold, by virtue of any proceedings in partition
in this State, is unknown ; or where it is not known whether a

PARTITION.

569

person who, if living, would be interested in such proceeds of
the sale of lands or real estate, is living or not, it shall be lawful
for the court having the power, by order or decree, of distribu
ting such proceeds, to order the share or interest of any such
person to be invested in bonds of this State, or of any city or
county of this State, authorized by law to issue bonds, or on
bonds secured by mortgage on real estate, or in such public or
other securities as the court may approve, and to direct and
control the custody of the securities which may be taken, from
time to time, for any investment ordered : and also, either be
fore or after an investment is ordered, at such time as the court
may determine, to order or decree a distribution of the share or
interest, which any such person, if living, would be entitled to,
among and to the person or persons interested in such proceeds,
as are known to be living, in proportion to their interest therein
respectively, or to and among the person or persons who are, if
it shall appear such person has died, entitled by law, to receive
the same as an heir or heirs ; and the court may fix the time
when it shall be supposed or deemed such person died ; and
may order refunding bonds, to be given by or on behalf of any
of the persons to whom any part of such share shall be distribu
ted, to the clerk of the court and his successors in office, in such
sum and with such condition, with or without security, as the
court may direct.
35. That it shall be lawful for said court to control the cus
tody of said refunding bonds ; and on petition of any person or
persons who shall make it appear to the satisfaction of said
court that the petitioner or petitioners is or are entitled to the
money secured by one or more of said refunding bonds, or any
part thereof, to order that the money secured thereby be col
lected for the benefit of such person or persons, by and in the
name of the clerk of the court, who is hereby authorized to sue
thereon, and in case of his death pending a suit thereon, the
same may be continued in the name of his successor, and said
court may dispose of the money collected thereon, by order or
decree, as to said court may seem just and right ; and the said
court may order and decree the payment of such costs and ex

570

PARTITION.

penses out of said share or interest at any time- as the court
may deem necessary and expedient.

G.—GENERAL PROVISIONS.
36. That it' there be, at the time of making any partition by
virtue of this act, a lien upon the undivided estate of any owner,
by judgment- decree, mortgage, or otherwise, such lien shall
thereafter be a lien only on the share assigned or allotted to
such owner; and such share shall be first charged with its just
proportion of the costs of the partition in preference to any
such lien.
37. In all proceedings for partition under this act, it shall and
may be lawful to divide a part of the lands included in the appli
cation, and to sell the remainder thereof, whenever it shall ap
pear by the report of the commissioners, which shall designate
the lands to be divided and those to be sold, and by other satis
factory proof, that the whole of the lands cannot be divided
among owners and proprietors without great prejudice to their
interest.
38. In all causes now pending, or which may hereafter be
commenced in the court of chancery, for partition of lands de
vised by a parent to his or her children, of which lands any
sbare is limited over, the proceedings may be in conformity with
the authority and practice of said court, as the same were before
the passage of this act; unless the said court shall otherwise
order and direct.
39. That the court of chancery shall have power upon bill
filed in that court for the partition of real estate, to decree the
sale thereof.
40. That all the courts in this State, exercising power under
this act, are hereby authorized to receive reports of all sales
made by their order or by the order of a justice or judge thereof,
at any special term of said courts, and to confirm such sales and
order title to be made to the purchaser, and which shall be valid
and effectual in law, as if made at any stated term of said court.
41. That in case the term of office of the justice or judge who
shall have made, or who shall hereafter make an appointment

PARTITION.

571

of commissioners for the division of real estate shall have ex
pired, or shall hereafter expire, or in case of his death during
the progress of the proceedings, then any justice or judge of the
same court, or the court to which such justice or judge belonged,
may order the said commissioners to sell such real estate, in the
same manner as such justice could have done in case he had
survived and his term of office had not expired.
42. No partition of lands in this State heretofore made between
coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, by order of any
orphans' court in said State, nor any sale thereof by commis
sioners appointed to make such partition, shall be held or esteemed
to be invalid by reason of any defect in the form of the applica
tion, or of any supposed want of power in said court to order or
decree said partition or sale, where the said application for par
tition is in fact between coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in
common, and the heir or heirs of a deceased coparcener, joint
tenant, or tenant in common, or any claiming under them, but
that the said partition and sale, if in other respects legal, shall
and the same is hereby declared to be valid and effectual in law.
43. Any partition of lands heretofore made or hereafter to be
made upon application by any coparcener, joint tenant, or tenant
in common therein, to any court, judge, judges, or other officers
having jurisdiction in matters of partition, in which process has
been served or notice given in the manner required by law, and
any sale of lands by virtue of an order therefore made in any such
proceeding for partition, shall be binding and conclusive upon
all coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, and all per
sons claiming or to claim any interest in any share in said lands,
in reversion, or remainder, notwithstanding any error or illegality
in such proceedings for partition or sale, unless such proceedings
shall have been reversed or set aside on certiorari, writ of error,
or other proceedings to review the same, brought within three
years after such partition or sale.
44. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed
as to injure, prejudice, defeat, or destroy the estate, right, or title
of any person or persons claiming such tract or tracts of land,
or any part thereof,or anything therein, by title under any other
person or persons, or by title paramount or superior to the title

572

PARTITION.

of such coparcener, joint tenant, or tenant in common, among
whom partition is to be made; and that nothing in this act con
tained shall extend to the partitioning of the lands held in com
mon by the general proprietors of the eastern or western divi
sions of this State.
H.—FEES.
45. There shall be allowed in proceedings under this act :
TO THE JUSTICE, JUDGE, OR COURT.
For order for sale, one dollar ;
For confirmation of sale and ordering conveyance, one dollar.
TO THE CLERK.
For entering and filing report of sale, fifty cents ;
For recording the same, for each sheet, eight cents ;
For entering order of confirmation and for conveyance, fifty
cents.
TO THE SURROGATE.
For drawing petition, reading, filing, and recording decree
appointing commissioners, and a certified copy of such decree,
three dollars and forty cents ;
For recording report of commissioners, for each sheet, eight
cents.
COMMISSIONERS.
For each commissioner one dollar and fifty cents a day for
each day employed in the service, together with all actual ex
penses for surveying, chain-bearing assistants, and other neces
sary expenses, and such further reasonable allowance as the
court may judge proper, to be taxed by the court.
46. That whenever any commissioners, appointed under this
act, shall make sale of any lands, and the court or judge shall
allow them commissions on the amount of sales, such commis
sions shall not exceed the following rates, to wit: on all sums
not exceeding one thousand dollars, two per cent. ; if over one

POOR.

573

thousand dollars, and not exceeding three thousand dollars, one
per cent- on such excess; and if over three thousand dollars,
one-half of one per cent- on such excess.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

POOR
AN ACT FOR THE SETTLEMENT AND EELIEF OP
THE POOR.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That every person who shall become seized
of any freehold estate, of the value of one hundred and thirty
dollars, in any township, and shall dwell upon the said estate,
or in the said township in which such estate doth lie, for one
full year, shall thereby obtain a legal settlement in such town
ship ; and every person who shall have served an apprentice
ship under indenture and every indentured servant legally and
directly imported from Europe, or brought in from the neigh
boring States into this State, shall obtain a legal settlement in
the township in which such apprentice or servant shall first
serve with his or her master or mistress for the space of one
full year ; and if afterwards such apprentice or servant shall
duly serve in any other place for the space of one full year, such
apprentice or servant shall obtain a legal settlement in the town
ship where such apprenticeship or service was last performed,
either with his or her first master or mistress, or with the
assignee or assignees, on an assignment of the said indentures ;
and that all mariners coming into this State, and having no
settlement in this nor any of the neighboring States, and every
other healthy person directly coming from Europe into this

594

PRACTICE OF LAW.

PRACTICE OF LAW.
AIST ACT TO REGULATE THE PRACTICE OF COURTS
OF LAW.
A.—ATTORNEYS.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of (he
State of New Jersey, That attorneys at law and solicitors in
chancery, partners in their business as attorneys and solicitors,
may, in their partnership name, appear and prosecute or defend
any action in any court of this State.
2. Attorneys at law shall, for any debt, demand, or damages,
be liable to be sued before any of the courts of this State in like
manner, and by the same process and form of action as other
persons, not being attorneys, are liable to be sued, any plea of
privilege or exemption to the contrary notwithstanding.
3. No warrant of attorney, or copy thereof, need be filed in
any action, except in cases of judgment by confession in actions
not commenced by process.
4. Any attorney whose name shall be indorsed on any sum
mons or capias ad respondendum, shall, on demand in writing,
made by or on behalf of any defendant, declare forthwith in
writing, whether such writ has been issued by him or by his
authority, and also the place of abode of the plaintifff ; and if
such attorney shall declare that the writ was not issued by him,
or by his authority, or shall refuse to declare the place of abode
of the plaintifff, then no further proceedings shall be taken in
the action without leave of the court.
5. If any counsellor, solicitor, or attorney at law shall be
guilty of malpractice in any of the courts, he shall be put out of
the roll, and never after be permitted to practice as a counsellor,
solicitor, or attorney at law, unless he shall obtain a new license,
and be again enrolled in due form of law.
6. When any solicitor or attorney shall die or remove out of
this State, or be put out of the roll, the person for whom he was

*

PRACTICE OF LAW.

595

solicitor or attorney shall be warned to appoint another in his
stead, and if he fail to do so the adverse party may proceed in
the action.
7. If any solicitor or attorney at law shall neglect or misman
age any cause in which he shall be employed, he shall be liable
for all damages sustained by his client, to be recovered by action
of trespass on the case, with costs.
8. Every attorney at law, before he issues execution, shall file
the taxed bill of costs, or a copy thereof, in the office of the clerk
of the court out of which the same is to issue ; and if he fail so
to do, he shall forfeit ten dollars to the party aggrieved, to be
recovered by action of debt, with costs.
9. When any solicitor or attorney at law shall receive the
costs accruing on any suit, he shall, if required by the party at
the time of payment or at any time within six months after
wards, draw up and deliver the bill of particulars, with a receipt
to the party paying or who shall have paid the same ; and if he
fail so to do, he shall forfeit ten dollars to the party aggrieved,
to be recovered by action of debt, with costs.
10. If any solicitor or attorney at law shall charge in his bill
of costs for services not actually done, or for services not allowed
by law, or shall take any greater fee or reward for any service
by him done than is or shall be allowed by law, he shall pay to
the party aggrieved thirty dollars, to be recovered by action of
debt, with costs.
11. The penalties mentioned in the three preceding sections of
this act shall be sued for within one year after the offense com
mitted, and not after.
1.2. No solicitor or attorney shall commence or maintain any
suit for the recovery of any fees, charges, or disbursements, in
equity or at law, against his client or legal representative, until
after such solicitor or attorney shall have delivered to such
client or his representative, or left for him at his dwelling-house
or last place of abode a copy of the taxed bill of such fees,
charges, and disbursements.
13. No practicing attorney of the courts of the State shall be
permitted to become surety, on any bond given as security for
costs, nor upon any replevin bond, nor any bond given to obtain

596

PRACTICE OF LAW.

a certiorari to a justice of the peace, or any court of common
pleas; and any such bond signed by any practicing attorney as
surety, shall be held to be insufficient.
14. No admissions, consents, or agreements, made out of court
by the parties, or their attorneys or counsellors, with respect to
the conducting of any suit, shall be taken notice of by the court,
unless the same shall bave been reduced to writing, and sub
scribed by the persons making the same.

B.-IIOW TO PROSECl'TE A\D DEFEND.
15. Every person of full age and sound memory may appear
and prosecute or defend any action in any of the courts of this
State, in person or by his solicitor in chancery or attorney at
law.
16. No person, except' in his own case or in the case of an in
fant, shall be permitted to appear and prosecute or defend any
action in any of the said courts, but such as is a licensed solici
tor or attorney at law, who shall be under the direction of the
court in which he acts.
17. If the action be prosecuted by the plaintifff in person, then
the summons, or capias ad respondendum, shall be indorsed
with a memorandum, expressing that the same has been sued
out by the plaintifff in person, and mentioning the place of his
abode.
18. If an infant be entitled to any action, or if an action be
brought against him, his guardian duly appointed by competent
authority, or specially admitted for that purpose, shall be per
mitted to prosecute or defend for him ; but in no case shall the
proceedings be deferred or stayed until the infant arrives at
full age.
C—PARTIES.
19. All bills, bonds, and other writings, whether sealed or not,
containing any agreement for the payment of money, and all
contracts for the sale and conveyance of real estate, shall be as
signable at law; and the assignee ma}' sue thereon in his own
name; but in such suit there shall be allowed all just set-offs,

PRACTICE OF LAW.

597

discounts, and defenses, not only against the plaintifff, but also
against the assignor, before notice of such assignment shall be
given to the defendant.
20. The assignment of any sealed instrument by writing not
under seal, shall be as valid and effectual, both at law and in
equity, as if made by writing under seal.
21. The assignee for a valuable consideration of any chose in
action, heretofore or hereafter assigned, if the assignor be dead,
may sue for ^nd recover the same in his own name; and the de
fendant in any such action may set up and avail himself of any
defense thereto, arising before he shall have received due notice
of such assignment, in the same manner, and with the like effect,
as if the assignor had been living, and the action had been brought
in his name.
22. In any action by a husband and his wife for an injury
done to the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined as
co-plaintifff, it shall be lawful for the husband to add thereto
claims in his own right arising ex delicto, and separate actions
brought in respect to such claims may, by order of the court, or
a judge, be consolidated; provided, that in case of the death of
either plaintifff, such suit shall abate only so far as relates to the
cause or causes of action, if any, which do not survive.
23. No action now pending or hereafter to be brought in any
court of record in this State, wherein a female is or may be a
party, shall abate, by reason of the marriage of such female
after suit brought; but the action shall proceed to final judgment
in the name of such female as plaintifff or complainant, or as de
fendant, as the case may be, notwithstanding such marriage.
24. Any married woman, living separate from her husband,
may bring suit in her own name for the recovery of damages
for any injury done to her person, or reputation, and it shall not
be lawful for the husband of such married woman to control,
discontinue, release, or in any way interfere with such action,
but the same shall proceed, and be under the control and direc
tion of said married woman, as if she were a feme sole.
25. In actions against several executors or administrators, all
the same executors or administrators shall be considered as one
person, representing the testator or intestate, and such of the

598

PRACTICE OF LAW.

executors or administrators as the sheriff shall return summoned,
shall answer to the plaintifff; and in case judgment shall pass
for the plaintifff he shall have his judgment and execution against
such of the executors or administrators as the sheriff shall
have returned summoned, and against all others named in the
writ, of the goods and chattels of the deceased, the same as if
they had all been summoned or had. appeared.
26. In case any executor or executors have refused, or shall
refuse, in writing, to prove the last will and testament of any
testator, and shall file such refusal in the surrogate's office of
the proper county, the executor or executors who have proved,
or shall prove said last will and testament, may maintain a suit
at law, without joining in such suit such executor or executors
so refusing as aforesaid.
27. If any plaintifff after suit commenced shall become a bank
rupt, or make an assignment for the equal benefit of his credi
tors, the assignee in bankruptcy or under the deed of assign
ment, may, by order of the court or a judge, be substituted as
plaintifff, and the suit shall thereafter be continued in his name ;
provided, that the defendant in such action shall be entitled to
the same defenses and set-off as if the suit had been continued
in the name of the original plaintifff.
28. In all actions upon bills of exchange, promissory notes, or
other written instruments, any of the parties to which are des
ignated by the initial letter or letters or some contraction of the
christian or first name or names, it shall be sufficient in every
affidavit to hold to bail, and in the process or declaration to
designate such party by the same initial letter or letters or con
traction of the christian or first name or names, instead of stat
ing the christian or first name or names in full.
To Actions ox Bills and Notes.
29. The holder of any bill of exchange or promissory note,
instead of bringing separate actions against the parties sepa
rately liable thereon, may include all or any of them in one ac
tion, and proceed to judgment and execution, in the same man
ner as though all the defendants were joint contractors, subject,
however, to the qualifications hereinafter provided.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

.

599

30. In every such action the plaintifff may declare on the
money counts alone, annexing to the declaration a notice con
taining a copy of the bill or note, with the indorsements, and
stating that the action is brought to recover the amount due
thereon ; but he shall not declare against any several drawer,
maker, indorser, or acceptor, not served with process, or a copy
of the declaration; and any joint drawer, maker, indorser, or
acceptor may plead in abatement the nonjoinder of any other
joint drawer, maker, indorser, or acceptor ; and no judgment
shall be rendered, or record made up against any several drawer,
maker, indorser, or acceptor, not served with process, or a copy
of the declaration, which copy shall be served on or before the
filing of the same, and an affidavit of such service shall be an
nexed to and filed with the declaration ; but judgment may be
obtained against joint contractors, some only of whom have
been served with process, and such judgment shall have the
same effect against the joint contractors as heretofore.
81. In any such action, judgment may be rendered for the
plaintifff against some one or more of the defendants, and also in
favor of some one or more of the defendants against the plain
tiff, according as the rights and liabilities of the respective par
ties shall appear, either upon confession, default in pleading, or
on a trial ; and any person sued shall be entitled to set off his
demands against the plaintifff in the same manner as though
such defendant had been sued in the form heretofore used ; and
when judgment shall be rendered in favor of any defendant, he
shall recover his costs against the plaintifff in the same manner
as though judgment had been rendered for all the defendants.
32. If, upon the trial of any such action, the whole amount
of the set-off allowed shall equal or exceed the amount allowed
to the plaintifff, then, in the first case, the verdict or report shall
be in favor of the defendants generally, and in the last case for
the excess, and in all cases the verdict or report shall certify
the amount allowed to each defendant as a set-off.
33. The rights and responsibilities of the several parties to
any such bill or note, as between each other, shall remain as here
tofore, saving only the rights of the plaintifff so far as they may
have been determined by the judgment, and any one or more of

600

.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

the defendants shall he entitled to the testimony of any co-de
fendant as a witness in all cases where he or they would he en
titled to his testimony had the suit been brought in the form
heretofore used ; and the plaintifff shall be entitled to the testi
mony of any defendant as a witness in all cases where he would
be entitled to his testimony against the olher parties to the bill
or note had the suit been brought in the form heretofore. used.
34. It shall not bo necessary for the plaintifff to include in the
same record a judgment against all the parties to said bill or
note, but judgment may be entered against any of them when
ever the plaintifff would Save been entitled to the same had the
suit been commenced against such party only; and if the trial
or hearing of such cause be put oh" by any of the parties to said
bill or note, or if a judgment by default shall have been obtained
against part of the defendants, the plaintifff may proceed to the
trial or hearing against the other parties in the same manner as
if the suit had been commenced against the other parties only.
35. Any party to any promissory note or bill of exchange,
who shall be sued jointly with any other party thereto, may
apply to the court, or a judge thereof, for any order or relief to
which he would be entitled if he had been separately sued, and
the court or judge may, in their discretion, grant to him such
order or relief as would be granted to such party if separately
sued.
36. Whenever an execution against goods, or against goods
or lands, shall issue in any such action upon a bill or note, as is
hereinbefore provided, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other
officer, after making a levy upon the property liable to the exe
cution, to make the money out of the property of the defendant
or defendants primarily liable, as between themselves, for its
payment, according to the terms of the bill or note, if it can be
done before selling the property of the person or persons second
arily liable; and for the information of such officer, it shall be
the duty of the plaintifff or his attorney to indorse on the exe
cution the order in which the defendants, according to the
terms of the bill or note, are liable, as between themselves for its
payment; and if such indorsement be omitted, or be untruly
made, it shall be the duty of the court to set aside the execution

PRACTICE OF LAW.
601
*
as irregular; and if the judgment be paid by a defendant or de
fendants secondarily liable, as between themselves, it shall not
be considered satisfied as against the defendant or defendants
liable over on the bill or note to the defendant making such
payment, but he shall have, on application to the court or a
judge, giving notice thereof to the other parties to the judg
ment, and subject to such regulations as may be imposed, the
full benefit and control of such judgment for the purpose of
compelling repayment from the defendant or defendants liable
to him for such repayment, and on this application the court or
judge may order an issue to try the question in controversy.

Objections for Nonjoinder or Misjoinder.
37. The nonjoinder or misjoinder of a plaintifff shall not be ob
jected to by the defendant, unless he give written notice of such
objection to the plaintifff within five days after filing his plea or
demurrer, and state in such notice the name of the person al
leged to have been omitted or improperly joined ; and it shall
be lawful for the court or a judge, at any time before the trial
of the issue, whether of law or of fact, to order, upon such terms
as they or he shall think proper, that any person not joined as
plaintifff in such cause shall be so joined, or that any person
originally joined as plaintifff shall be struck out from such cause,
if it shall appear that injustice will not be done by such amend
ment, and that the person to be added as aforesaid, either in
person or by writing under his hand, consent to be so joined, or
that the person to be struck out, as aforesaid, was originally
made a party without his consent, or that such person consent,
in manner aforesaid, to be struck out ; and upon making and
filing such order and written consent, the previous proceedings
in the cause on the part of the plaintifff shall be amended in con
formity thereto, and when any such amendment shall be made,
the liability of any person who shall be added as co-plaintifff
shall, subject to any terms imposed as aforesaid, be the same as
if such person had been originally joined as plaintifff; and the
defendant shall plead to such amended declaration in thirty
days after a service of a copy thereof on him.
89

602

PRACTICE OF LAAV.

»
38. The joinder of too many defendants in any action upon
contract shall not be objected to on the trial of the cause, unless
the defendant, within five days after filing his plea or demurrer,
give written notice to the plaintifff' of such intended objection ;
and upon such notice being given, it shall be lawful for the
court, or a judge, at any time before the trial of the cause, to
order, upon such terms as they or he shall think proper, that
the name of one or more of such defendants be struck out, if it
shall appear that injustice will not be done by such amendment ;
and upon making and filing such order, the previous proceedings
in the cause, on the part of the plaintifff', shall be amended in
conformity thereto, and the defendant shall plead de novo in
thirty days after service of a copy of the amended declaration.
39. In any action on contract, commenced by summons, where
the nonjoinder of any person as a co-defendant shall be pleaded
in abatement, the plaintifff shall be at liberty, without any order,
to amend the writ and declaration by adding the name of the
person named in such plea in abatement as a joint contractor,
and to serve the amended writ upon the person so named in such
plea in abatement, and to proceed against him and the original
defendant ; and they shall plead to the amended declaration in
thirty days after service of a copy thereof, but the date of such
amendment shall, as between the person so added and the plain
tiff, be considered for all purposes as the commencement of the
action ; provided, that if the person so added do not reside within
the jurisdiction of the court, then the amended writ and declara
tion need not be served upon him ; and provided further, that all
pleas in abatement of the nonjoinder of any other defendant
shall state the place of residence of the person whose nonjoinder
is pleaded.
40. In all cases after such plea in abatement and amendment,
as is provided for in the next preceding section, if it shall ap
pear upon the trial of the action that the person so named in
such plea in abatement was jointly liable with the original de
fendant, the original defendant shall be entitled, as against the
plaintifff, to the costs of such plea in abatement ; but if, at such
trial, it shall appear that the original defendant is liable, but
.that one or more of the persons named in such plea in abate

PRACTICE OF LAW.

603

ment is or are not liable as a contracting party or parties, the
plaintifff shall nevertheless be entitled to judgment against the
other defendant or defendants who shall appear to be liable ;
and every defendant who is not so liable shall have judgment,
with his costs, as against the plaintifff, who shall be allowed the
same, together with his costs, on the plea in abatement and
amendment, as costs in the cause against the original defendant,
who shall have so pleaded in abatement the nonjoinder of such
person ; provided, that any defendant so pleading in abatement
shall be at liberty, on the trial, to prove the liability of the de
fendant or defendants named by him in such plea in abatement.

D.—PROCESS.
41. Courts of law shall always be open (except on Sunday) for
the return of all writs and process in civil actions, except writs
of error, certiorari, mandamus, and quo warranto.
42. The circuit court and court of common pleas shall be open
at all times (except on Sunday) for the presenting and return of
writs of error and certiorari.
43. All writs and process shall bear date on the day on which
the same shall be issued, and may be on paper or parchment,
and the date shall be prima facie evidence that they were issued
on that day, but such date may be disproved whenever the same
shall come in question; and if any person shall antedate any
original process, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the party
aggrieved, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs, and
also be liable to him for all damages which he may sustain
thereby, to be recovered in an action of trespass on the case with
costs.
44. If the defendants in any action in the supreme court re
side in different counties, original process may issue at the same
time to each county in which any of the defendants reside; the
names of all the defendants shall be inserted in each process, and
it shall be the duty of the proper officer to serve the same upon
such defendants as he can find in his county, and make return
thereto in the manner provided by law.
45. Every summons, capias ad respondendum and writ of exe

604

PRACTICE OF LAW.

cution shall, before the service or execution thereof, be sub
scribed or indorsed with the name of the attorney, or party, and.
clerk by whom such summons, capias ad respondendum, or exe
cution shall be sued forth and sealed.
46. If the plaintifff, or his attorney, shall omit to insert in, or
indorse on, any writ or process, any of the matters required to
be inserted or indorsed, such writ or process shall not on that accouut be held void, but it may be net aside as irregular or amend
ed, on such terms as to the court may seem fit ; and such
amendment may be made upon an application to set aside the
writ.
47. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or officer to whom any
summons, capias ad respondendum, or other process is directed,
to return the same at the time and place therein mentioned,
which shall be filed by the clerk of the court; and if the said
sheriff or officer fail to make such return, he shall be amerced
by the court in any sum not exceeding the plaintifffs debt or de
mand, to and for the use of the said plaintifff.
48. The return of the officer serving any writ or process may,
in the same action, be shown to be untrue by either of the
parties.
49. The first process to be made use of in personal actions in
any of the courts of law in this State, in cases where the plain
tiff is not entitled to bail, shall be a summons, a copy whereof
shall be served on the defendant in person, at least two days be
fore its return, or left at his dwelling-house or usual place of
abode at least six days before its return ; and when the sheriff
or other officer to whom such summons shall be directed shall
return the same "served" or "summoned," the party shall be
considered as being in court, and may be proceeded against ac
cordingly.
50. When the service of the summons in any civil action is
defective or insufficient, by reason of any mistake on the part
of the plaintifff or of the officer, as to the place where, or the
person with whom the summons or copy of the summons ought
to have been left, the court, or a judge thereof, may in their dis
cretion order the summons to be amended and reissued and
served in such manner as they or he shall direct ; and the ser

PRACTICE OF LAW.

605

vice so made and returned shall be as valid and effectual to all
intents and purposes, as if duly made and returned on the sum
mons as originally issued.
51. The sheriff or other officer shall execute the writ of capias
ad respondendum, by taking the body of the defendant, and in
such case shall return thereon, that he hath taken the body, or
that he hath taken the body into custody, the first usually ab
breviated and expressed thus, 0. C, and the second thus, C. C. C.
52. The sheriff or other officer shall indorse on the capais ad
respondendum the names of the bail by him taken, and shall
deliver a copy of the bail bond to the clerk of the court, at or
before the return day of the writ ; which copy shall be safely
kept by the said clerk in his office.
53. Where a sheriff or officer returns on a capias ad respon
dendum, that he hath taken the body into custody or C. C. C,
such return shall have the same effect as if the sheriff, on a
rule for that purpose, had brought the body of the defendant
into court, and the court had thereon committed such defendant
to the custody of the sheriff ; upon which the plaintifff shall de
clare against the said defendant as a prisoner or in custody.

E.—ARREST.
54. It shall not be lawful to arrest or imprison the person of
any female by virtue of any mesne process or process of exe
cution in any civil action.
55. Where bail shall be required in any civil action, an
affidavit shall be made and filed of the cause of such action,
which affidavit may be made before any officer authorized by
the laws of this State to administer an oath or affirmation ; or,
if the plaintifff be out of this State, before any judge of any
court of judicature or notary public of the state, kingdom, or
nation in which he resides or happens to be ; and the sum speci
fied in such affidavit shall be indorsed on the writ or process ;
provided, that nothing in this section shall prevent any court, or
any judge thereof, from ordering, as heretofore, the defendant
in any action to be held to special bail, in such sum as the said
court or judge, under all the circumstances of the case, shall

606

PRACTICE OF LAW.

think proper to direct, which sum shall be indorsed on the pro
cess.
56. The sheriff or other officer to whom any capias ad res
pondendum is directed, shall take bail for the sum indorsed oh
the writ, and no more.
57. Every supreme court commissioner shall have the same
power and authority as a justice of the supreme court, to make
an order to hold the defendant to bail in any action of tort.
58. The writ of capias ad respondendum shall not henceforth
be awarded, issued, or served in any action founded upon con
tract, express or implied, except upon proof made on oath or
affirmation, before a justice of the supreme court, or a supreme
court commissioner, that there is a debt or demand founded
upon contract, express or implied, due to the plaintifff from the
defendant, specifying the nature and particulars of said debt or
demand, and establishing, by the oath or affirmation of the
plaintifff or some other person or persons, to the satisfaction of
such justice or commissioner, one or more of the following par
ticulars :
First. That the defendant is about to remove any of his
property out of the jurisdiction of the court in which an action
is about to be commenced, with intent to defraud his creditors;
or,
Second. That the defendant has property or rights in action
which he fraudulently conceals ; or,
Third. That he has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is
about to assign, remove, or dispose of any of his property with
the intent to defraud his creditors ; or,
Fourth. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt
or incurred the obligation respecting which such suit is brought ;
And upon such proof being made, it shall be the duty of the
justice or commissioner, before whom such proof of all or any
of the said particulars shall have been made, to make an order
to hold the defendant to bail in such sum as shall be sworn to by
the plaintifff or his agent, to be due to the plaintifff from the
defendant ; and upon such order being made, and upon filing
such affidavits in the office of the clerk of the court wherein
the action is about to be commenced, a capias ad respondendum

PRACTICE OF LAW.

607

may be issued according to law as heretofore; provided, that
nothing in this section shall apply to proceedings as for con
tempt to enforce civil remedies ; and provided further, that in
actions on promises to marry, and actions for the recovery of
monies collected by public officers, or damages for misconduct
or neglect in office, the justice of the supreme court or com
missioner may order the defendant to be held to bail in such
sum as the said justice or commissioner, under all the circum
stances of the case, shall .think proper to direct.
59. In actions on contract against two or more defendants,
where in the affidavit for bail sufficient cause is shown for order
ing a capias ad respondendum against one or more of the de
fendants, but not against all the defendants, the justice of the
supreme court or commissioner may make an order in such
action for the holding to bail 'of such of the defendants against
whom sufficient cause for arrest is shown ; and in such case pro
cess shall issue against all the defendants in the action, but in
form shall command the sheriff or other officer to whom it is
directed to take the bodies of such of the defendants against
whom the order for bail may be made, and to summon the other
defendants to answer ; and the justice or commissioner shall in
dorse on such process an order that the defendant against whom
such order for bail may be made only, shall be arrested and held
to bail, and that the writ shall be served on the other defendants
as writs of summons are served, and the same shall be executed
and served accordingly ; and the bail bond to the sheriff or other
officer shall be for the appearance of the defendant against whom
such order for bail has been made, and if special bail be not put in
and perfected by such defendant according to law and the prac
tice of the court, an assignment of the bail bond may be taken
and such proceedings be had thereon as if such defendant were
solely liable in the action.
60. In cases provided for in the last preceding section, t he de
fendant summoned may appear as in actions commenced by
summons, and the appearance of the other defendants shall be
by putting in and perfecting special bail, as in actions com
menced by capias ; and the plaintifff in the declaration shall de
scribe the former as served and the latter as being in custody,

608

PRACTICE OF LAW.

and the pleadings, practice, and proceedings thereafter to final
judgment shall be the same as if all the defendants were brought
into court in the same manner; and if judgment be recovered
in the action by the plaintifff against the defendants, the execu
tion thereon shall be special to the effect that the sheriff, or
other officer to whom the same is directed, shall make the debt
or damages and costs of the goods aud chattels, lands and tene
ments of the defendants, and for want of sufficient goods and
chattels, whereof to make the same, to take the bodies of such
of the defendants against whom such order for bail has beeu
made
61. The sheriff or other officer under and by virtue of any
execution, issued in the manner provided in the last section,
may seize and levy on the goods and chattels, lands and tene
ments of all the defendants in His county, and also take the
bodies of such of them as he is commanded in and by said writ,
in satisfaction of such judgment ; or the sheriff or other officer,
after such levy, may, by the direction of the plaintifff, return
the execution non est inventus, in order to fix the bail, and
thereupon the plaintifff may proceed against the bail as in other
cases ; but the bail shall only be liable for what may remain
unpaid on the judgment after applying thereon the amount
made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements levied on,
and shall be entitled, on satisfying such deficiency, to an assign
ment of the judgment, whereby to obtain indemnity for such
payment, by execution thereon, out of the property of any of
the defendants which may not have been levied on, or of which
any of the defendants may become seized or possessed ; and the
bail may surrender the defendants for whom they are bail as in
other cases, and the proceedings for, and effect of, such surren
der shall in all respects be the same as if such action had been
prosecuted against such defendants only.
62. Any judge of the court, out of which a capias ad respon
dendum shall issue, at chambers, upon four days' notice to the
plaintifff or plaintifffs, or to his or their attorney, upon motion,
may examine and determine upon the legality of orders made
for bail, and discharge parties illegally arrested in civil actions.
63. Whenever application shall be made to set aside the writ

PRACTICE OF LAW.

609

upon which any defendant shall be arrested, or to discharge him
from arrest, the court or judge hearing the application shall
consider and determine the sufficiency, in fact, as well as in law,
of the proof upon which the order for issuing such writ was
founded.
64. In actions of law commenced by writ of capias ad respon
dendum, it shall be lawful at any time within thirty days after
any defendant shall be arrested by virtue of such writ, for a
judge of the court out of which said writ shall issue, upon the
application of such defendant, and upon two days' notice in
writing to the plaintifff or his attorney of such application, to
make an order for the taking of testimony concerning the truth
of the affidavit or affidavits, and proofs upon which the order
for said writ was made and said writ issued, which testimony
shall be taken orally before said* judge, or in writing before any
supreme court commissioner, or master in chancery, that the
said judge shall nominate and appoint, which testimony, when
taken before such commissioner or master, shall be filed in the
clerk's office of the court out of which said writ issued; and if,
from the testimony so taken, the said judge shall be of opinion
that the said writ was improperly or improvidently issued, or
should not have been issued against the defendant or defendants
therein, the said judge shall order the said defendant or defendants
discharged upon common bail, or take such order for his or their
discharge from arrest or imprisonment, aud discharge of his or
her bail, as the nature of the case may require, and upon such
terms as he shall deem equitable and just.
65. Filing special bail shall be no waiver of the right to appty
for an order to take testimony concerning the truth of the affi
davits upon which the order for bail was made.
F.— BAIL.
I.—Commissioners of.
66. The justices of the supreme court, or any two of them, of
whom the chief justice shall be one, shall and may commission,
under the seal of the said court, from time to time, such and so
many persons as they shall think fit aud necessary, in the sev

610

PRACTICE OF LAW.

eral counties of this State, to take such recognizance or recog
nizances of bail, as any person or persons shall be willing to
acknowledge or make in any action or suit in said court, in such
manner and form as the justices of the supreme court have used
to take the same ; which said recognizance or recognizances of
bail and bailpiece shall be transmitted to the office of the clerk
of the said court within the time allowed by law for putting in
special bail ; and the said clerk shall file and docket the same;
which recognizance or recognizances of bail and bailpiece so
taken and transmitted, shall be of like effect as if the same were
taken de bene esse before any of the justices of said court ; and
for the taking of every such recognizance of bail and bailpiece,
the said commissioners shall be entitled to the same fees as are
now allowed by law to said justices in like cases.
67. The commissioners in the last section provided for, shall
be styled supreme court commissioners, and hereafter shall be
commissioned as such ; and every such commissioner heretofore
or hereafter appointed shall have power to take recognizances
of bail, and authority to administer an oath or affirmation to
any person who may desire to make such oath or affirmation
before him, in any cause in any of the courts of this State; and
any recognizance of bail or affidavit taken or made before such
commissioner shall be good and effectual.

II.—Special Bail.
68. Neither the plaintifff nor any other person shall be per
mitted to declare by the bye against the defendant in any action.
69. If the defendant on a capias ad respondendum be returned
in custody, or, when produced in court, be committed by order
of the court, the plaintifff, if he have other cause of action, or
any other person having cause of action against the said defend
ant, shall issue process against such defendant, in the same
manner as if he was at large, and not in custody or in prison ;
and on such process, when served, the like proceedings shall be
had as in other cases.
70. The plaintifff shall not, in any action commenced by capias
ad respondendum, be permitted to declare until special bail be

PRACTICE OF LAW.

611

filed and perfected, if required, or the defendant be returned in
custody or brought into court, on a rule for that purpose, or be
surrendered by his bail, and a committitur entered, unless the
said plaintifff will waive his right, and enter such waiver on the
minutes of the court ; and then if the sheriff or other officer hath
returned on the said capias ad respondendum that he bath taken
the body, or that he hath taken the body into custody, the de
fendant shall be considered as in court, and may be proceeded
against accordingly.
71. Where the plaintifff in any action shall declare for or re
cover a greater sum than is expresed in the capias ad responden
dum upon which he declares, the bail shall not be discharged,
but be liable for so much as is sworn to, or ordered by the court
or a judge, and indorsed on the said process, or for any less sum
which the plaintifff in such action shall recover, together with
the costs of the original action.
72. Special bail shall be filed on the return day of the capias
ad respondendum, or on the day after, unless the court, or a
judge thereof shall by a rule or order allow further time, for
filing special bail ; and in such case the bail shall be filed within
the time limited by such rule or order.
73. No person shall be permitted to be special bail in any such
action, unless he be a freeholder and resident in this State, and
of sufficient property, if the writ or process issue out of the
supreme court, or if it issue out of the circuit court, or court of
common pleas, unless he be a freeholder of sufficient property
and resident in the county where such court is held.
74. No attorney at law, under sheriff, sheriff's deputy, bailiff,
or other person concerned in the execution of process, shall be
permitted to be special bail in any action, except as hereinafter
provided.
75. The recognizance of special bail shall be to the effect fol
lowing :
A. B. 1
against > In debt or case, or as the action may be.
CD. J
New Jersey,
county, to wit :
Be it remembered, that on the
day of
, in the year of

612

PRACTICE OF LAW.

our Lord one thousand
, C. D., E. F., and G. H.,of the said
county of
, personally appeared before ine, J. K., one of the
justices of the supreme court of the State of New Jersey (or one
of the judges of the circuit court or court of common pleas in and
for the said county of
, or one of the supreme court commis
sioners, as the case may be1, and severally acknowledged them
selves to owe unto A. B. the sum of
(double the sum in
dorsed on the writ), each to be levied upon their several goods
and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate,
upon condition that if the defendant C. D. shall be condemned
in this action at the suit of A. IB. the plaintifff, he shall pay the
costs and condemnation of the court, or render himself into the
custody of the sheriff of said county for the same, or if he fail so
to do, that the said E. F. and G. H. will pay the costs and con
demnation for him.
Taken and acknowledged the day and \
year above written, before me, J. K. j
And on acknowledging the aforesaid recognizance, the bailpiece shall be to the effect following, to wit :
New Jersey supreme court (or
circuit court or court of
common pleas). Of
in the year of our Lord one thousand
C. D., of the county of, is delivered to bail on a eepi
corpus, unto E. F., of the township of
, in the said county,
and G. H. of the township of
, in the said couuty, at the
suit of A. B. in a plea of debt (or of trespass on the case, or as
the action may be).
L. M., attorney for the defendant.
76. If special bail be not put in aud perfected in due time, the
plaintifff may proceed on the bail bond, or rule the sheriff to
bring in the body of the defendant.
77. If on a return that he hath taken the body, or C. C., the
sheriff or other officer shall not ret urn bail and a copy of the
bail bond, or if the plaintifff be dissatisfied with the bail taken by
such sheriff or officer, and the defendant shall fail to appear and
give special bail within the time above prescribed, the court or
a judge shall order by a rule of court such sheriff or officer to
bring in the body of the defendant at a certain time in said rule
specified ; and if the said sheriff or officer fail to do so, he shall

PRACTICE OF LAW.

613

be amerced by the court at the next term, in any sum not ex
ceeding the plaintifff's debt or demand, with costs ; which amerce
ment shall have the force and effect of a judgment, whereupon
an execution, in the name and for the use of the said plaintifff,
may instantly, on motion in open court, and without any further
proceedings, be awarded and issued against the goods and chat
tels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of the said
sheriff or officer so amerced as aforesaid ; provided, nevertheless,
if such sheriff or other officer shall cause special bail to be put in
and justified, if justification be required, during the same term,
he shall be excused from bringing in the body, and no amerce
ment shall be entered against him on the said rule ; and pro
vided farther, that this section shall extend to persons whose
office is expired, as well as to sheriffs and officers for the time
being.
7*4. No sheriff or officer shall be liable to be called upon to pro
duce the body of any defendant on a capias ad respondendum,
returned cepi corpus, unless he be required so to do within six
months after the expiration of his office; and if, on such rule,
he shall not bring in the body, he may be proceeded against by
amercement, in the manner hereinbefore mentioned.
79. If the sheriff or officer, when ruled to do so, shall, on a
cepi corpus, bring in the body of the defendant, such defendant
shall be committed, and upon the entry of such committitur, the
plaintifff may proceed in the action, and declare against the de
fendant as a prisoner, or being in custody.
80. The sheriff or other officer, in order to save himself, may
put in special bail for the defendant, against his consent ; and
the bail to such sheriff or officer may do the same for their in
demnity.
III.—Exceptions to.
81. Exceptions to special bail shall be taken and entered in
the clerk's book within twenty days after bail filed ; and in such
case the defendant shall procure his bail, to justify in eight days,
exclusive, after notice of such exception, or shall add other bail,
who shall justify within the said eight days; and an exception

614

PRACTICE OF LAW.

entered after the expiration of the said time shall be of no va
lidity.
82. Two days' notice of justification of bail, or of new or ad
ditional bail, and justification thereof, shall be given by the
defendant or his attorney, to the plaintifff or his attorney, ex
clusive of the day it is given, and if Sunday intervene, three
days' notice shall be given.
83. If the bail do not justify at the time appointed, they shall
be out of court ; and when they do justify, and are allowed,
an order of such allowance shall be drawn, and a copy thereof
served on the plaintifff or his attorney.
84. Without the consent of the plaintifff or his attorney, in
cases where the sheriff or other officer shall be ruled to bring in
the body, justification of bail shall not be permitted after the
expiration of twenty days from the time when the said rule is
entered, and served.
IV. —Justification of.
85. The supreme court shall make such rules and orders for
justifying bail, and making the same absolute, as to the said
court shall seem meet, so as the cognizor or cognizors of such
bail be not compelled to appear in person in the court to justify ;
but the same may be determined by affidavit or affidavits duly
taken before supreme court commissioners, who are hereby re
spectively empowered and required to take the same, and also
to examine the sureties on oath or affirmation touching the
value of their respective estates, and to certify such justification
to the court.
86. Special bail may justify by affidavit in the court out of
which the writ issued, or before one of the judges thereof, either
in term time or vacation, or before a supreme court commis
sioner; which affidavit shall set forth that the bail are free
holders and residents in the State of New Jersey, if the writ
issued out of the supreme court, or if the writ issued out of any
of the circuit courts or courts of common pleas, then that they
are freeholders and residents in the county in which such court
is held, and also shall set forth that they are respectively worth

PRACTICE OF LAW.

615

so much 'mentioning the sum they are bailed for) after all their
debts are paid.
V.—Render in Discharge of.
87. Subsequent to the return of the capias ad respondendum,
the defendant may render himself, or be rendered in discharge
of his bail, cither before or after judgment ; provided, that such
render be made within twenty days after the return day of the
scire facias against the bail, or of the procees in the action on
the recognizance of bail, and not after; but in either case the
special bail shall pay the costs of the scire facias or action, and
judgment for the same shall be entered against them accord88. The court or judge before whom the render is made, shall
make an entry or minute of such render and commitment ; and
thereupon the defendant shall be committed to the custody of
the sheriff or jailer attending the said court or judge.
89. On such render and commitment duly certified to the
clerk of the court, if in vacation, or not done in open court, it
shall be the duty of the said clerk to enter an exoneretur on the
bailpiece, and thereupon the bail shall be discharged, and the
said bail shall give immediate notice of such render to the plain
tiff or his attorney.
VI. —Proceedings Against.
90. After a capias ad satisfaciendum shall have been returned
non est inventus, the plaintifff may proceed against the special
bail upon their recognizance.
91. On a scire facias or in an action of debt against the special
bail, on their recognizance, when a writ of error is brought by
the principal, and allowed, and the said bail apply within the
time limited for surrendering the principal, the court may stay
the proceedings against such special bail, if they enter into re
cognizance to the party for whom judgment is given, in double
the sum recovered, to pay the condemnation-money, or surrender
the principal to the custody of the sheriff, within twenty days

616

PRACTICE OF LAW.

next after the determination of the said writ of error, if it he
in favor of the defendant in error.
92. The court shall not stay proceedings against the special
bail pending the writ of error, by their principal, if they do not
make application for that purpose until their time to surrender
the principal be expired.
93. Where special bail in any action are compelled to pay the
judgment recovered against their principal, such payment shall
not be a satisfaction of such judgment as in favor of the hail ;
but after such payment the court wherein the judgment was
recovered, on proof of payment thereof by the bail, and upon
notice to the plaintifff and the defendant in the judgment, may
make an order that such judgment remain in force for the benefit
of the bail so far as to enable them to recover the money paid
by them as bail out of the property of the defendant in the
judgment, and thereafter execution may issue on such judgment,
against the property of the defendant, notwithstanding such
payment, in the name of the plaintifff, but for the benefit of the
bail ; and after the entry of such order in the minutes of the
court, satisfaction of such judgment shall not be entered of
record without the consent in writing of such bail or a special
order of the court.
VII.—Bail Bond.
94. If any person shall be arrested by any writ, or process
issued out of any court of record, at the suit of any person or
persons, and the sheriff or other officer shall take bail from such
person against whom such writ or process shall be taken out,
the sheriff or other officer shall (if requested by the plaintifff* in
such action or suit, or his attorney'i, assign to the plaintifff in
such action the bail bond or other security taken from such
bail, by indorsing on the same an assignment under his hand
and seal, in the words or to the effect following: I, the within
named A. 13., do hereby assign and set over the within bond to
the within named C. IX, the plaintifff, pursuant to the statute.
Witness my hand and seal, this
day of
, in the year
of our Lord one thousand
.
A. B. [L. s.]

PRACTICE OF LAW.

617

And if special bail be not put in and perfected in due time,
the plaintifff, after sucb assignment, may bring an action on the
said bail bond, or other security taken for bail, in his own name;
and the court in which the action is brought may, by rule of
court, give such relief to the plaintifff and defendant in the
original action, and to the bail upon the bail bond, or other
security taken from such bail, as is agreeable to justice and
reason ; and such rule shall have the nature and effect of a
defeasance of such bail bond or other security for bail.
95. The proceedings on the bail bond may be set aside, if
irregular, or stayed, if regular, upon terms, in order that a trial
may be had in the original action.
96. Where the plaintifff has not lost a trial, in the original
action, by reason of special bail not being filed in due time, the
court or a judge may stay the proceedings on the bail bond,
upon putting in and perfecting special bail, paying the costs in
curred by the assignment and prosecution of the bail bond, re
ceiving a declaration in the original action, pleading issuably,
and taking short notice of trial, so that the cause may, if the
plaintifff desires it, be tried the same term, at which it might
have been tried if special bail had been filed in season.
97. WThere the plaintifff has lost a trial in the original action,
for the want of special bail being filed in due time, it shall be
the duty of the court or a judge, before proceedings be stayed
on the bail bond, further to require that the bail consent that
judgment be entered against them on the bail bond, for the
plaintifff's security; and in such case, if the defendant fail in
the original action, the bail shall be liable to immediate execu
tion, and shall not discharge themselves by a render of the
principal.
98. If the plaintifff might have had judgment in the original
action, if bail had been filed in due time, then the proceedings
shall not be stayed on the bail bond.
99. Whenever the defendant is guilty of a neglect in not put
ting in special bail whereby the bail bond becomes forfeited, the
notice, in case the party means to put in special bail in order to
stay proceedings upon the bail bond, shall be, that he will put
in and perfect special bail, in open court, or before a judge
40

618

PRACTICE OF LAW.

thereof, on such a day, specifying the day ; and in that case the
plaintifff may oppose the bail without its being a waiver of the
bail bond.
VIII.—Deposit in Lieu of Bail.
100. Any defendant, who may be arrested by virtue of a writ
of capias ad respondendum, shall be allowed, in lien of giving
bail to the sheriff, to deposit in the hands of the sheriff or other
officer making the arrest the sum indorsed on the writ by virtue
of the affidavit, to hold to bail, together with thirty dollars, to
answer for costs, and thereupon he shall be discharged from ar
rest ; and the sheriff or other officer shall, at the return of the
said writ, pay into court the money so deposited with him,
which shall remain in court subject to the order of the court ;
and in such case the defendant shall be permitted to appear to
the action without filing special bail, or his appearance may be
entered by the plaintifff without a waiver of his right to bail ;
provided, that the making of such deposit shall not prevent the
defendant making application to set aside the writ or order for
arrest, the same as may be done where bail is given to the
sheriff.
101. If the defendant, who shall have made a deposit in lieu
of bail to the sheriff as is provided for in the last section, shall,
at the return of the writ, duly put in and perfect bail to the
action according to the practice of the court, or if the writ or
order for arrest shall be set aside, the money so deposited and
paid into the court shall by order of the court be repaid to the
defendant ; but otherwise shall remain subject to the order of
the court, and if the plaintifff recover in the action sball be ap
plied in satisfaction in the whole or in part, as the case may be,
of the judgment recovered ; and if the plaintifff shall recover
for debt or damages, together with costs, a sum exceeding the
amount of such deposit, he shall be entitled to issue a writ of
capias ad satisfaciendum, and to collect thereon the balance re
maining due on the judgment ; but if the defendant recover
judgment in the action, the sum deposited and paid into court
shall be repaid to him.
102. Any defendant who may have given bail to the sheriff,

PRACTICE OF LAW.

619

or who shall have been surrendered by his bail before judgment
in the original action, may, in lieu of filing special bail or re
newing bail, make deposit into court of the sum for which bail
was ordered, together with thirty dollars, to answer for costs,
which monies shall be held and applied as is mentioned in the
last preceding section.
G

PLEADING.

103. The plaintifff shall file his declaration against the defend
ant within thirty days after being returned summoned, or after
entering of special bail, and perfecting the same, or his being
returned in custody, or the entering of a committitur or waiver
of bail, or on failure thereof, shall become nonprossed, unless the
court, under special circumstances, shall grant the plaintifff
further time; and in such case, the plaintifff shall declare within
the time so granted, or become nonprossed.
104. The defendant shall file his plea within thirty days after
the expiration of the time limited or granted for filing the dec
laration, or on failure thereof, judgment shall be entered against
him, unless the court under special circumstances shall grant
the defendant further time ; and in such case the defendant
shall plead within the time so granted, or judgment be entered
against him.
105. If the plaintifff, after the defendant is in court, files his
declaration sooner than is required by law, and serves a copy
thereof on the defendant, he shall file his plea or demurrer in
thirty days after such service, or on failure thereof judgment
shall be entered against him ; provided, that there shall be in
dorsed on such copy served, a notice that unless the defendant
shall appear and file a plea or demurrer, within thirty days after
the date of such service, judgment will be entered against him,
and the plaintifff, before entering the judgment, shall file an
affidavit of such service.
106. The service of a copy of the declaration in the last pre
ceding section mentioned may be made by delivering the same
to the defendant personally, or by leaving it at his dwellinghouse or last place of abode ; and where the defendant is a cor

620

PRACTICE OF LAW.

poration, service may be made by delivering the same to the
president or other head officer, or to the secretary or clerk
thereof, personally, or by leaving the same at his dwelling-house
or place of abode ; and the plaintifff, if he shall be entitled to
costs in the cause, shall be allowed for such service the sum of
two dollars for each defendant so served, not exceeding three,
and the same to be included in the taxed bill of costs.
107. If further pleadings shall be necessary, they shall be filed
within thirty days, each after the other, or on failure thereof, the
like judgment as aforesaid shall be entered against the party so
failing, unless the court under special circumstances shall grant
further time as aforesaid.
108. If the plaintifff amend his declaration, the defendant shall
have twenty days to alter his plea or to plead anew ; and if the
defendant amend his plea the plaintifff shall have twenty days
to alter his replication or to reply anew ; and the like time shall
be allowed if any of the subsequent pleadings be amended ; but
all amendments shall be made on such equitable terms as the
court shall direct.
109. Parties shall take notice of the filing of the pleadings in
the cause, which shall have been filed within the time prescribed,
without service of a copy or notice of the filing thereof.
110. If an)' party shall not file his pleading in the cause within
the time required by law, and shall file the same after the expi
ration of such time, he shall give the adverse party notice, in
writing, of the time of filing such pleading, and the adverse
party shall not be required to plead or reply thereto until ruled
so to do.
111. In cases where any declaration, plea, or other pleading
shall be filed after the time allowed by law, no subsequent
pleading shall in any case be required in a shorter time than
thirty days from the time of the service of a rule to plead or
reply thereto:
112. The declaration, pleadings, and other papers relative to
every cause shall be all filed together in the office of the clerk of
the court.
113. If any party would take advantage of the failure of the
adverse party in not filing his declaration, plea, or other plead

PRACTICE OF LAW.

621

ing, within the time prescribed by law, he shall take such ad
vantage at the term next after such failure, by moving the
court for the judgment to which he is thereupon by law enti
tled ; and if he fail so to do, it shall be considered as a waiver
of his right, and he shall not afterwards have such judgment,
unless he shall rule the party to plead ; which rule may be
granted by the court or by a judge in vacation.
114. The defendant in every action at law shall file with his
plea or demurrer an affidavit that the same is not intended for
the purpose of delay, and that the affiant verily believes that
the defendant hath a just and legal defense to said action on
the merits of the case, which affidavit shall be made by the
defendant, or in his absence may be made by his attorney or
agent in the action, and for want of such affidavit the plea or
demurrer shall be treated as a nullity ; provided, however, that
the court, or a judge, may give the defendant leave to plead or
demur without filing any affidavit therewith.
115. No dilatory plea, or plea of another judgment, shall be
received, unless the party offering such plea, do offer therewith
to be filed, an affidavit proving the truth thereof; or do show
some probable oause to the court to induce them to believe that
the matter therein set forth is true.
116. Where a defendant in an action of assumpsit pleads the
general issue alone, or in connection with other pleas, the plain
tiff shall be at liberty, by a demand in writing, to require a
specification of the defenses intended to be made under such
plea of the general issue, and the defendant shall thereupon,
within twenty days after such demand, furnish the plaintifff's
attorney with a specification in writing of the defenses intended
to be made under such plea ; and at the trial the defendant
shall, under such plea, be confined to the subject-matters of
defense contained in such specification ; and in case of the
neglect or refusal of the defendant to furnish such specification
within the time limited, he shall not be permitted under such
plea to give in evidence any defense except a denial of the mak
ing of the contract sued on ; provided, that where the ends of
justice require it, the court, or any judge thereof, may at, or at
any time before, the trial, and upon such terms as shall be

622

PRACTICE OF LAW.

equitable, permit the defendant to serve such specification when
the time above limited has expired, or to amend the specifica
tion which shall have been served.
117. The defendant in any action, except in cases of mutual
dealings, may plead the general issue, and give any special matter
in evidence, which, if pleaded, would be a bar to such action
upon giving notice, with such plea, of the matter so intended to
be given in evidence.
118 The plaintifff in replevin, and the defendant in every
other action, may plead, in any court of record, with leave of
the court, as many several matters as he shall think necessary
for his defense ; but if on demurrer any such matter be adjudged
to be insufficient, or if a verdict be found on any issue in such
action for the plaintifff, costs shall thereupon be awarded by the
court.
119. Where the defendant pleads the general issue, and gives
notice with it of special matter which he intends to give in evi
dence in bar of the action, the plaintifff shall, within thirty days
after filing such plea, or within such further time as he may be
granted by the court or a judge, file a written notice to the
defendant of any special matter which he intends to give in
evidence in denial or avoidance of such special matter so given
notice of by the defendant, and to which it would have been
necessary to reply specially had the defendant's defense been
specially pleaded, or else be precluded from giving the same in
evidence ; and such notice, both of plaintifff and defendant, shall
be copied as a part of the circuit record, and recorded with the
pleadings.
120. The plaintifff in any action may, by leave of the court, or
a judge, plead in answer to the plea or subsequent pleading of
the defendant as many several matters as he shall think neces
sary to sustain his action ; provided, that the costs of any issue
either in fact.or law shall follow the finding or judgment upon
such issue, and be adjudged to the successful party whatever
may be the result of the other issue or issues.
121. The defendant at any time before issue joined may move
the court to consolidate unnecessary actions, or to strike out
superfluous counts in the declaration.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

623

122. Whenever any pleading concludes to the country, issue
shall be considered as joined thereon, unless a demurrer be filed
thereto, and a similiter, when necessary, may be added at any
time.
123. If any writing, whereof a copy is annexed to the declara
tion, pica, or notice of set-off', or other notice, be referred to in
the body of the pleading as so annexed, the said copy shall cure
any defect by reason of not setting forth the same, or the in
sufficient setting forth of the same in the body of the declara
tion, plea, notice of set-off, or other notice ; and in all cases
where any copy of a writing signed by a party to the same shall
be so annexed and referred to, the same shall be recorded with
the pleadings, and form part of the record.
124. In actions of libel and slander the plaintifff shall be at
liberty to aver that the words or matter complained of were
used in a defamatory sense, specifying such defamatory sense,
without any prefatory averment to show how such words or
matter were used in that sense, and such averment shall be put
in issue by the denial of the alleged libel or slander ; and where
the words or matter set forth, with or without the alleged
meaning, show a cause of action, the declaration shall be
sufficient.
125. In actions upon bonds with a condition the plaintifff shall
state the condition and assign breaches thereof in his declara
tion ; and no evidence shall be given of any breach not so assigned.
126. The plaintifff or defendant in any action may aver per
formance of conditions precedent generally ; and the opposite
party shall not deny such averment generally, but shall specify
in his pleading the condition precedent, the performance of
which he intends to contest.
127. Express color and special traverses shall not be necessary
in any pleading.
128. A right by virtue of a private way may be pleaded
generally in the same manner as in pleading a public way.
129. In actions on contracts not under seal the defendant may
set up as a defense in abatement of the damages to be recovered
by the plaintifff, a defect in, or partial failure of, the considera
tion of the contract sued on, and may also recoup any damages

6'24

PRACTICE OF LAW.

which he may have sustained by reason of the non-performance
or defective performance of any part of the same contract by the
plaintifff; provided, that a notice of the particulars of such de
fence be annexed to the plea and filed therewith.
130. In actions on contracts made in another State it shall
not be lawful for a defendant to set up as a defense usury or
illegality in the consideration under the provisions of any statute
of such State, unless the defendant shall plead such statute
specially and annex to such plea a note of the time when the
same was passed.
131. Pleas puis darrein continuance shall be pleadable only
by permission of the court or a judge ; and the court or a judge,
in allowing any such plea, may direct that the pleading thereof
shall not be a waiver of former pleas.
132. The court or a judge in vacation shall have power, on
four days' notice, to strike out any pleading which is irregular
or defective, or is so framed as to prejudice, embarrass, or delay
a fair trial of the action, and the order striking out such pleading
shall be entered on the record, if required by the party against
whom the same is made, and error may be assigned thereon.
133. Any frivolous plea or demurrer, or sham plea, may be
struck out by the court or by a judge thereof, in term time or
vacation ; and upon an application to strike out any plea as a
sham plea, the court or judge may by an order direct the taking
of testimony, to be read on the hearing of a motion.
1M. A notice of set-off shall, with respect to the rights and
liabilities of the parties to the suit, be considered as a cross
action brought by the defendant ; the plaintifff may at the trial
make any defense to the subject-matter of the set-off, without
any counter notice which he would be entitled to make under
the general issue if the defendaut had brought an action for the
same ; but any defense which in an action would be required to
be specially pleaded, shall not be available to the plaintifff in an
swer to such set-off, unless he shall file a notice of such special
matter, as a pleading in the cause.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

625

II.—AMENDMENT AND VARIANCE.
135. Any pleading may be amended by the party, of course,
without application to the court, without costs, and without
prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before a
pleading in answer thereto has been filed ; and in such case a
copy of (he amended pleading shall be served on the adverse
party within five days after filing the same, who shall plead
thereto in thirty days after such service.
136. Ko variance between the allegation in a pleading and
the proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled
the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or
defense upon the merits; whenever it shall be alleged that a
party has been so misled, that fact shall be established to the
satisfaction of the court trying the cause, and thereupon the
court may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as
shall be just.
137. When the variance is not established to be material, as
provided in the last section, the court may order an immediate
amendment of the pleading, without costs ; but where the alle
gation of the cause of action, or defense, to which the proof is
directed, is untrue, not in some particular or particulars only,
but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a
case of variance, but a failure of proof.
138. In order to prevent the failure of justice by reason of
mistakes and objections of form, it shall be lawful for the court,
or any judge thereof, at all times, to amend all defects and errors
in any proceeding in civil causes, whether there is anything in
writing to amend by or not, and whether the defect or error be
that of the party applying to amend or not, and all such amend
ments may be made with or without costs, and upon such terms
as to the court or judge may seem fit ; and all such amendments
as may be necessary for the purpose of determining in the exist
ing suit the real question in controversy between the parties
shall be so made.

626

PRACTICE OF LAW.

I.—DEMURRER.
139. No pleading shall be deemed insufficient for any defect
which could heretofore be objected to only by special demurrer;
and where issue is joined on a demurrer, the court shall give
judgment according as the very right of the cause and matter
in law shall appear, without regarding any imperfection, omis
sion, defect in, or lack of form; and no judgment shall be ar
rested, stayed, or reversed, for any such imperfection, omission,
defect in, or lack of form.
140. If the plaintifff or defendant shall not join in demurrer,
in thirty days after the filing thereof, such plaintifff shall be
nonprossed, and such defendant shall have judgment awarded
against him.
141. Where there are several issues in law and in fact, the
issue in law shall be first determined before the issue in fact
shall be tried.
142. Either party may give notice of the argument of a de
murrer, which notice shall be served at least ten days before the
time for hearing.
143. In actions in the circuit court, the demurrer may be
brought on for argument before the justice of the supreme
court, assigned to hold such circuit, either in term time or va
cation.
K.—JUDGMENT BY DEFAI LT AMD ASSESSMENT OF
DAMAGES.
144. The plaintifff, in any action of law, when the defendant
shall have omitted to file a plea or demurrer to the declaration,
or any subsequent pleading within the time required by law,
may enter as of course, either in term or vacation, in the min
utes of the court, such rule for judgment by default, either in
terlocutory or final, as he would by law have been entitled to if
such rule were applied for in open court, expressing in such rule
the true date of the actual entry thereof; and such rule, when
lawfully entered, shall have the same force and effect as if en
tered by order of the court, and if unlawfully entered shall be

PRACTICE OF LAW.

627

utterly void ; and for the purposes of this section, any frivolous
plea or demurrer, or sham plea, or plea irregularly pleaded,
may be treated and regarded as if the same had not been filed.
145. Any judge of the court, in which the action is pending,
may, upon application made before the entry of a rule for judg
ment by default, upon affidavit made by the defendant, or his
attorney in the suit, or agent in the matter in controversy, that
the defendant hath a defense to said action, which such affiant
believes to be just and legal, that he hath in good faith endeav
ored to prepare his plea, and setting forth a sufficient excuse
why he has not been able so to do, or upon affidavit made by
any person on behalf of the defendant, that he believes that the
defendant has a real defense to said action, and has been absent
from the State ever since the service of process, or upon affidavit
showing that the ends of justice require that further time be
given, grant, by order, under his hand, further time to plead,
not exceeding thirty days ; which order, if filed with the clerk
before the entry of judgment by default, shall during the time
therein granted stay the entry of such judgment, except upon
application in open court.
146. Where the declaration contains only common counts, or
common counts on which a recovery is sought, in addition to
any matter or thing mentioned in any special count, and the
plaintifff shall desire to file and serve his declaration, as is men
tioned in the one hundred and fifth section of this act, he shall
not take judgment at the end of the thirty days in said section
mentioned, unless he shall have annexed to his declaration, and
served therewith, a statement of the particulars of his demand
or of the amount for which judgment will be claimed.
147. If judgment by default be entered for want of a plea, it
shall be lawful for the court, or any judge thereof in term time
or vacation, on four days' notice, upon satisfactory proof that
such judgment was improvidently or fraudulently entered, or
that the defendant has a real defense to the action, to make an
order that such judgment be set aside or opened to let the de
fendant in to plead ; provided, that if such judgment shall have
been regularly obtained and without fraud, the order shall be
that the defendant be permitted to plead on such terms as may

628

PRACTICE OF LAW.

be equitable, and the lien acquired by such judgment and by the
execution thereon shall remain as security for the satisfaction of
any judgment the plaintifff may recover in the action.
148. Where a judgment shall be entered as for want of a plea,
on the ground that the plea or demurrer filed by the defendant
is frivolous, or that the plea is a sham plea, application may be
made to any judge of the court in which such judgment shall
be entered for the vacation of such judgment; and if it shall
appear that the judgment was illegally or improper!y entered,
it shall be lawful for such judge in term time or vacation, to
make an order that the same be vacated and set aside ; and upon
the making and filing of such order, such judgment shall be
come utterly void and of no effect, and the plaintifff shall be
compelled to pay the costs of such application.
149. Where interlocutory judgment in actions of assumpsit
shall be entered by default against the defendant, the plaintifff
may have his damages assessed by the court, or when the court
is not actually in session by any judge thereof or by the clerk,
unless a rule shall be entered for a writ of inquiry or assessment
of damages in open court.
150. In all actions ex-contractu, where the damages or sum
recoverable are a mere matter of calculation, or can readily be
ascertained, the same may be assessed or ascertained, on judg
ment by default, by the court or clerk as in actions of assumpsit.
151. The plaintifff may enter a rule for a writ of inquiry in
term time or vacation as of course ; but the defendant shall not
enter a rule that the damages shall be assessed by a writ of in
quiry in cases where the plaintifff is entitled to have his dam
ages assessed by the court, or a judge, or the clerk thereof,
unless he shall enter a rule therefore before the expiration of the
time for pleading, and shall, at the time of entering such rule,
file with the clerk of the court an affidavit, that the amount
claimed to be due to the plaintifff in the bill of particulars, or
some part thereof, is not due from the defendant to the plain
tiff, specifying what amount, if anything, is due to the plaintifff,
and that the rule for the assessment of damages by a writ of
inquiry is not intended for the purpose of delay, but only to have
the amount due to the plaintifff correctly ascertained ; which

PRACTICE OF LAW.

629

affidavit shall be made by the defendant, or in his absence by
his attorney or agent in such action ; and in case such affidavit
shall specify any sum to be due to the plaintifff, the plaintifff
shall be at liberty forthwith to enter final judgment therefore,
which shall operate as a waiver of the residue of his claim, as
set forth in his bill of particulars; provided, nevertheless, that the
court, or a judge thereof, may upon application by the defend
ant before final judgment is entered, order that the damages be
assessed in open court.
152. The same notice shall be given of executing writs of in
quiry and of countermand as is required for the trial of issues
in fact.
158. If the plaintifff shall not proceed to execute the writ of
inquiry according to notice, or countermand such notice in due
time, the defendant shall be entitled to costs.
154. Where the damages are assessed by a writ of inquiry,
no rule for final judgment shall be entered, except by order of
the court, or a judge thereof, on two days' notice to the defend
ant or his attorney ; but where the damages are assessed by the
court, or a judge, or the clerk, a rule for final judgment may
be entered upon filing such assessment, as of course, which judg
ment shall be signed and take effect as of the day when such
rule is actually entered.

L.—DISCOVERY BEFORE TRIAL.
L — Upon Interrogatories.
155. After an action at law is at issue, either party may serve
upon the opposite party written interrogatories upon any matter
material to the issue, and the same shall be answered in writing,
under oath, and the answer served upon the party proposing the
interrogatories, in fifteen days after their service, and the an
swer shall be strictly responsive to the interrogatories proposed ;
and the court may, by an attachment for contempt or otherwise,
compel an answer thereto ; and such answer shall be evidence
in the action, if offered as such by the parties proposing the in
terrogatories, but not otherwise ; provided, however, that the

630

PRACTICE OF LAW.

court, or a judge out of court, may, upon good cause shown,
and upon two days' notice to the other party, order any of said
interrogatories to be stricken out, or amended, or new ones to
be added, or give further time for answering the same, or order
the answer to be amended.
II.— Admission of Execution of Papers.
156. Either party may, by written notice, served at least fif
teen days before the trial, call ou the other party to admit, in
writing, the execution of any document, saving all just excep
tions ; and in case of refusal or neglect to admit for ten days
after such service, the costs of proving the document shall be
paid by the party so refusing or neglecting, whatever the result
of the cause may be, unless at the trial the judge shall certify
that the refusal or neglect to admit was reasonable ; and an affi
davit of the attorney in the cause of the due signature of any
admissions made in pursuance of such notice, and annexed to
the affidavit, shail be in all cases sufficient evidence of such ad
mission.
III.—Inspection of Books, etc.
157. The court, other than the court for the trial of small
causes, before which a civil action or proceeding, whether of a
legal or equitable nature, is pending, or a judge thereof, in term
time or vacation, may, in their discretion, and upon five days'
notice of the application, order either party to give to the other,
within a specified time, and under such terms as may be imposed,
an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any
books, papers, or documents in his possession or under his con
trol, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or
proceeding, or of the defense thereto, and if compliance with
the order be refused, and such books, papers, or documents shall
not be given in evidence in such action or proceeding, the court
may punish the party so refusing as for a contempt of the court.
158. Any application, in pursuance of the next preceding sec
tion, shall be by petition, stating the grounds of such applica
tion, and verified by the oath of the party, or of his attorney,

PRACTICE OF LAW.

631

solicitor, or agent in the matter ; and the affidavit of the oppo
site party, or of his attorney, solicitor, or agent in the matter,
maybe read in opposition to such application, without notice of
the taking of such affidavit, or either party, or any other wit
ness, may, on such application, be examined in relation thereto.

IV.—EXAMINAHON OF ADVERSE PARTY BEFORE TRIAL.
159. Any party to an action in the supreme or circuit court
may be examined as a witness at the instance of any adverse
party or parties, or of any one of the several adverse parties,
after issue joined in said action and before the trial of said
action ; said examination may be before any justice of the su
preme court, or before any supreme court commissioner, on a
previous notice to the party to be examined of at least five
days, unless a shorter time is, for good cause shown, prescribed
by a justice of the supreme court ; the party shall only be exam
ined upon an order made by a justice of the supreme court to
whom application therefore is made, and the granting of said
order shall be discretionary with the justice to whom such ap
plication is made ; the service of said order shall be sufficient
summons and notice to the party or parties named therein to
attend before said justice or supreme court commissioner therein
named.
160. Iso party to be examined who shall reside in the State
of New Jersey, shall be compelled to attend in any other county
than that where he resides, but any party residing out of this
State may be compelled to attend in any county named in the
order of the said justice of the supreme court ; and a non-resi
dent plaintifff may be served out of this State, with personal
notice to attend such examination, and if he does not appear, in
compliance with said notice, all proceedings shall be stayed on
his part until his appearance, of which appearance he shall give
the same notice to the defendant as required by the next pre
ceding section of this act.
161. Any party to be examined, named in said order of said
justice of the supreme court, may be compelled to attend before
the justice of the supreme court or supreme court commissioner,

632

PRACTICE OF LAW.

named in said order, in the same manner as any witness may be
compelled to attend upon the trial of a civil action where he has
been duly subpoenaed to attend.
162. The said examination of said party or parties shall be
taken by said justice or commissioner orally, the same as on the
trial of a cause, with the risdit of examination and cross-examination ; and said examination shall be reduced to writing, and
shall be signed by the party or parties so examined as aforesaid,
and certified by said justice or commissioner, and filed with the
clerk of the county where the cause is to be tried ; and said ex
amination may be read by cither party at the trial ; where the
examination is made before a justice of the supreme court, he
may authorize the same to be reduced to writing, by any clerk
of any circuit court, or by any attorney or counsellor of said
court ; any question may be objected to, and the answer taken
subject to the objection, or if the party refuse to answer, any
justice of the supreme court shall compel the party to answer
the same, if the party examining is legally entitled to have the
same answered.
163. The examination of the party thus taken shall not be
conclusive on the opposite party, but may be rebutted at the
trial by adverse testimony.
164. If a party refuse to attend and testify as hereinabove
provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and all or any
of the pleadings in the case upon his part, stricken out by order
of any justice of the supreme court in his discretion.
165. The party examined shall receive the same fees as if
subpoenaed and attending as a witness on the trial of a cause,
and the justice or commissioner taking the testimony shall re
ceive the same fees for his services as are now allowed by law
to a master in chancery for taking testimony in a cause.
166. The party examining shall in the first instance pay the
witness fees and all the costs and expenses of said examination,
unless a justice of the supreme court otberwise order, and shall
tax therefore in his bill of costs only such sum as a justice of the
supreme court shall certify to be reasonable and proper.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

633

M.-TRIAL.
I.—When Cause to be Tried.—Notice of Trial.
167. Every cause shall be tried at the next term after issue
joined.
1(38. Notice of trial may be given for a day, in term, if the
cause be not at issue in season to be noticed for the first day of
the term.
169. If the plaintifff, in any action at law, shall neglect to
bring his cause to trial at any term of the court, after the cause
is at issue, and after sufficient time has elapsed to enable him to
give the requisite notice of trial for the first day of the term,
judgment shall be awarded for the defendant as in case of a non
suit with costs, unless the court, upon just and reasonable terms,
allow further time.
170. If the plaintifff do not bring on the trial of the cause in
due time after issue joined, the defendant, instead of taking
judgment as in case of a nonsuit, may move the court for a trial
by proviso ; and of such trial the defendant shall give the like
notice to the plaintifff as the plaintifff would have been obliged
to give to the defendant ; and if the defendant do not proceed to
trial according to notice, or countermand the same in due time,
the plaintifff shall be entitled to costs.
171. Notice of trial shall be in writing, and given to the de
fendant, if he appear in person, or to his attorney, or to the
sheriff or keeper of the jail if the defendant be in custody or in
prison, at least twenty days before such intended trial ; and it
shall be the duty of the said sheriff or jailer to deliver without
delay the said notice to the defendant therein named, and in
default thereof, the said sheriff or jailer shall be liable to the
said defendant for all damages occasioned thereby.
172. When any cause shall have slept four terms after issue
joined, thirty days' notice of trial shall be given; after which,
if the cause shall not then be tried, the usual notice shall be suf
ficient, unless the same shall again sleep four terms.
173. Every countermand of notice of trial shall be in writing,
and given at least seven days before such intended trial, and on
41

634

PRACTICE OF LAW.

failure thereof, costs shall be awarded in like manner as if notice
of trial had not been countermanded.
174. Short notice of trial, when directed by the court, shall
be given five days before such trial.
175. All notices of trial shall be filed with the clerk at least
six days before the term, whose duty it shall be to furnish the
court, on the first day of every term, with a list of the causes to
be tried and argued, in their course and order.

II. —Proceedings at the Trial.
176. All issues of fact may, by consent of the parties, be tried
by the court, or if the action be pending in the supreme court,
then by a justice thereof, at the circuit court, in the proper
county; and the report or determination of the court or justice
upon such issue shall be entered in the minutes of the court, or
annexed to the circuit record as a postea, and judgment given
thereon in like manner as in case of a verdict, and either party
may allege an exception, and have the same sealed, or move for
a new trial, as in case of a trial by jury.
177. All actions in which matters of account are in contro
versy may, by rule of the court, be referred to some competent
person or persons, as a referee or referees, to state and report an
account between the parties, and the amount that may be due
from either party to the other, which report, when confirmed
by the court, shall be final and conclusive between the parties,
and judgment entered thereon, and execution issued, in the
manner provided by law in cases of reference; but either party
may, at the time of ordering such reference, enter in the min
utes of the court his dissent therefrom, and, at the same term in
which the report is filed, may demand a trial by jury, in which
case the action shall be tried by jury, the costs of the reference
to abide the result; and upon such trial, the report of the referee
or referees shall be prima facie evidence of all the facts therein
found and reported; and the party demanding a trial by jury
shall file his exceptions to the report in twenty days after the
same shall be filed, and no other exceptions shall be considered
on the trial.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

635

178. Where more than one referee is appointed by an order
of reference, a report signed by a majority of the referees shall
be considered as the report of the referees.
179. Any justice of the supreme court may refer all actions
in which matters of account are in controversy, pending in said
court, and coming on for trial before such justice at the circuit
court, in the proper county, and also confirm the report of the
referee or referees in such cases, and order judgment to be en
tered thereon, subject, however, to all the provisions of the pre
ceding section ; and the postea shall be framed accordingly ; but
no such confirmation and order shall be made in vacation,
except upon two days' notice to the opposite party or his attorney,
nor where either party shall have demanded a trial by jury,
pursuant to the preceding section.
180. The court or justice referring such action shall make
just allowance to the referee or referees for his or their services,
to be paid in the manner and by the party which said court or
justice shall by order direct.
181. In all cases in which matters of account shall be referred
by the court, or judge, to a referee or referees, the party moving
for a confirmation of the report shall give notice in writing of
the filing thereof; and the opposite party shall have the time
limited in the statute to put in exceptions thereto after the
receipt of such notice.
182. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal, may be
carried from the bar by the jury.
183. Jurors who know anything relative to the point in issue,
shall, during trial, disclose the same in open court, when called
as witnesses.
184. No jury shall in any case be compelled to give a general
verdict, so that they find a special verdict and show the truth
of the fact, and require the aid of the court ; but if of their
own will they give a general verdict, the same shall be received.
185. It shall not be necessary to call the plaintifff when the
jury returns to the bar to deliver their verdict; and the plaintifff
shall have no right to submit to a nonsuit after the jury have
gone from the bar to consider of their verdict.
186. When there are in a declaration several counts, some of

636

PRACTICE OF LAW.

which are faulty or bad, and others not, and entire damages are
given, the verdict shall be good ; but the defendant may apply
to the court to instruct the jury to disregard such faulty or bad
counts.
187. If in detinue the verdict shall omit price or value, the
court may at any time award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the
same.
188. If on an issue concerning several things in one count in
detinue, no verdict be found for part of them, it shall not be
error; but the plaintifff shall be barred of his title to the things
omitted.
189. The party against whom a verdict hath been rendered
may first move for a new trial ; and if it be denied, may then
move in arrest of judgment ; but he shall not be permitted to
move for a new trial after he hath moved in arrest of judgment
and failed.
190. Every special verdict and demurrer to evidence shall be
entered on the minutes of the court, after which either party
may move the court to assign a day for argument.

IV.—JUDGMENT.
191. The inspection of judgment and process shall not be
deemed necessary in any case.
192. No judgment roll shall be made up in any action ; but
when any civil cause, of whatever nature it be, shall be finally
determined, the clerk of the court shall enter the warrauts of
attorney, declaration, pleadings, proceedings, and judgment in
such cause, so as to make a complete record thereof in a sepa
rate book to be kept for that purpose, with a complete alpha
betical index to the same; which entry shall constitute the
record- and shall be signed by one of the judges of the said
court, as of the day on which the judgment was entered ; and
the clerk for such service shall be allowed one dollar, and no
more.
193. The justices of the supreme court, and the judges of the
circuit courts of this State, and the judges of the court of com
mon pleas in the several counties of this State, for the time

PRACTICE OF LAW.

637

being, shall be, and they are hereby authorized to sign all judg
ments, in their respective courts, that have been or may here
after be recorded in their said courts, respectively ; and such
judgments, so signed by any one of the said justices or judges
in office, though not in office at the time of rendering such
judgments, shall be as good and effectual in law as if such
judgments had been rendered and recorded, and signed, by a
justice or judge who was in office at the time of rendering, re
cording, and signing the same.
194. In any civil cause which has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be finally determined, until the clerk of the court
shall enter the warrants of attorney, declaration, pleadings,
proceedings, and judgment in such cause, as is required by the
one hundred and ninety-second section of this act, the verdict or
rule for judgment in the minutes of the court, shall be held and
taken in the court in which the same is obtained, to be the
record of the judgment in such cause, and shall be received in
evidence in said court, as such judgment, as fully as if the
record had been made up and signed as by said section required.
O.—EXECUTION.
195. Upon judgment for debt, damages, aud costs, or other
sum of money, in the supreme court, or in any circuit court or
court of common pleas of this State, the party obtaining the
same may have execution against the body or against the goods
and chattels, or against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements,
hereditaments, and real estate of the party against whom such
judgment is or shall be awarded ; but no execution shall be is
sued against the proper goods and chattels, lauds, tenements,
hereditaments, and real estate of any executor, administrator,
heir, or devisee, unless he or she should have made his or her
estate liable for the money so recovered by false pleading or
otherwise.
196. The party at whose instance auy writ of execution shall
issue against the body or against the goods and chattels, or
against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments,
and real estate of any person, shall indorse on the said writ,

638

PRACTICE OF LAW.

before it be sealed, the debt, damages, and costs, or sum of
money really due and to be made.
197. Executions against goods and chattels, or against goods
and chattels, lands, tenements, and hereditaments, may be made
returnable and returned, either in term or in vacation, and for
the purpose of such return the court shall be always open, ex
cept on Sunday, and upon such return being made in vacation,
the like proceedings may follow and be had thereon, as if the
same were made at a regular term of the court.
198. Upon all judgments recovered or docketed in the su
preme court, executions may issue at the same time to any
county or counties in this State without any suggestion of the
issuing of a prior execution to the county in which the venue
may be laid ; provided, that if more than one execution be
levied at the same time, there shall not be any sale made of the
property of the person against whom such executions are issued
under more than one of them, except to satisfy a deficiency re
maining after a sale under that one ; and if any sale be made
contrary to this provision, the party in whose favor such execu
tions are issued and his attorney shall be liable to the other
party as trespassers, for all damages he may sustain thereby, to
be recovered in an action of trespass ; and the court or a judge
may, for good cause shown, stay the proceedings on any one or
more of such executions, or direct under which a sale shall first
be made, or order the proceeds of any sale to be paid into
court.
199. In actions against a principal and surety or sureties,
where an execution has been issued, the court or a judge, on ap
plication of any surety, and notice of the application to the prin
cipal debtor and to the plaintifff, may direct the sheriff, or other
officer, after making a levy upon the property liable to the exe
cution, to make the money out of the property of the principal,
if it can be done, before selling the property of such surety ; and
if the judgment be paid by a surety, it shall not be considered
satisfied, except as to such surety; and he, on like application to
the court or a judge, and like notice, and subject to such regu
lations as may be imposed, shall have the full benefit and con
trol of the judgment, for the purpose of compelling repayment

PRACTICE OF LAW.

639

from the principal or contribution from his co-surety, and on
this last application, the court or judge may order an issue to
try the questions in controversy.
200. If the defendant bring a writ of error, and the plaintifff
bring an action on the judgment, and recover, he shall not sue
out execution on the second judgment till the writ of error be
determined.
. 201. Execution may issue, without a revival of the judgment
by scire facias, at any time within twenty years from its re
covery ; provided, that if more than six years have elapsed since
the recovery of the judgment, a special order of the court or a
judge thereof shall be necessary before the execution issue, to be
made upon ten days' notice to the defendant of the application
therefore, and proof to the satisfaction of the court or judge of
the amount remaining due upon the judgment.
202. The notice required by the last preceding section shall
be served upon the defendant personally, or by leaving a copy
at his residence in case he resides within this State ; or if he do
not reside in this Stat,e, then by publication, as the court or a
judge thereof shall direct, in a newspaper printed and circulating
in any county where the defendant may be possessed of real
estate, or have any estate or interest therein, for the space of
twenty days next preceding such application, at least once in
every week during said time, and the cost of such publication
shall be included in said execution and collected thereby.
203. When one or more of several parties in whose favor
judgment is recovered shall die after judgment and before exe
cution issued, execution may be sued out in the name of the sur
vivor or survivors, such death being suggested on the record.
204. Where a sole party in whose favor a judgment is recov
ered shall die after judgment it shall be lawful for the court in
which such judgment was recovered, or for any judge thereof, on
the application of the executor or administrator of the deceased,
to make an order that such death and the fact of the grant of
letters testamentary, or of administration, be entered upon the
record; and thereupon execution may issue on such judgment
in the name of the executor or administrator, without the judg
ment being revived by scire facias.

640

PRACTICE OF LAW.

205. Where any judgment shall be had in the name of any
executor or administrator, and administration de bonis non shall
afterwards be granted, such administrator de bonis non may, by
order of the court, or a judge, suggest such grant of adminis
tration on the record, and have execution on such judgment in
his own name, or may sue out a scire facias to revive the same.
206. Where one or more of several parties against whom a
judgment has been recovered shall die after judgment and before*
execution issued, execution may be. sued out against such par
ties as if such death had not occurred ; but the execution shall
be executed upon the persons and property of the survivors only.
207. If a party, in whose favor a judgment shall be recovered,
shall become bankrupt, and the proceedings in bankruptcy shall
have proceeded to the appointment of an assignee, or shall make
an assignment for the equal benefit of his creditors, before exe
cution issued, it shall be lawful for the assignee of such party' to
suggest such bankruptcy or assignment upon the record, and
issue execution upon such judgment in his own name.
208. Whenever a writ of scire facias shall issue out of any of
the courts of record in this State, the sheriff or other officer to
whom the writ of scire facias shall be directed, shall serve the
same either personally on the defendant , or by leaving the copy
of the writ with some person of the age of fourteen years, at his
or her usual place of abode, at least six days before its return.
209. Whenever a writ of scire facias shall issue, and the defend
ant has removed out of the jurisdiction of the court issuing
such process, or cannot be found by the sheriff or other officer
to whom the writ shall be directed, the plaintifff may proceed
as though the said writ of scire facias had been duly served in
the manner prescribed in the next preceding sectiou of this act ;
provided, the said plaintifff first cause the said writ to be pub
lished four successive weeks in one of the newspapers printed in
this State, as near the last residence of the defendant as can be
conveniently ascertained, or cause a copy of the said writ to be
served on the defendant, wherever found, either in this State
or in any other place, at least twelve days before the return
thereof.
210. Every sheriff, under sheriff, or coroner of this State, to

PRACTICE OF LAW.

641

whom any execution is or shall he delivered, shall, without fee
or reward, when he returns said execution, return and file with
the same, in the office of the clerk of the court from which the
execution issued, a true statement, in writing, specifying the
amount of money, if any, and the time when collected by him,
and the balance due thereon, and also the items of his bill of
costs or execution fees, verified by his written oath or affirma
tion annexed to or indorsed on said statement, which statement
shall not be conclusive against any person other than the officer
making the same; and the sheriff, under sheriff, or coroner shall
not be entitled to receive or collect of the plaintifff any fees or
costs thereon, until he shall have returned such statement,
verified as aforesaid.
Capias ad Satisfaciendum.
21 1. The writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall not be awarded
or issued upon any judgment founded upon contract, express or
implied, except—
First. Upon satisfactory proof being made before a justice of
the supreme court, or a supreme court commissioner, to be cer
tified by such justice or commissioner, and filed in the office of
the clerk of the court wherein such judgment was recovered,
establishing the particulars specified in either of the subdivisions
of the fifty-eighth section of this act ; or,
Second, That the defendant has rights or credits, monies or
effects, either in his own possession or in the possession of any
other person or persons to his use, of the value of fifty dollars
or over, which he unlawfully and fraudulently refuses to apply
in payment of such judgment.
212. The oath or affirmation required by the preceding sec
tion, may, if the person by whom the same is to be made be out
of the State, be made before a judge of any court of record or
notary public of the State, kingdom, or nation, in which such
person resides or happens to be.
213. Where an order to hold the defendant to bail has been
duly made according to the provisions of the fifty-eighth section
of this act, and remains in force, it shall be lawful for the plain

642

PRACTICE OF LAW.

tiff, upon the recovery of. a judgment in such action against the
defendant, to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum without any other
or further proof, notwithstanding anything in the preceding
sections contained.
214. Nothing in the last three preceding sections shall apply
to proceedings as for contempt to enforce civil remedies.
215. The plaintifff shall indorse on every capias ad satisfaci
endum, before the, delivery thereof to the sheriff, the real debt
or damages due and claimed by such plaintifff, and the costs of
suit, in words at length.

P.—MISCELLANEOI'S PROVISIONS.
I.—Notice.
216. There shall be two days' notice of all special motions
before the court or a judge, in matters of practice, unless other
wise specially directed by this act ; provided, that if the exi
gency of the case be such as not to admit of such notice, the
court or judge may dispense with such notice and make such
order as the ends of justice may require ; but no application for
any judgment or other proceeding in the regular course of the
cause shall for this- purpose be considered a special motion.
217. All notices required to be given by this act shall be in
writing, and shall be served upon the attorney, when the party
appears by attorney, unless otherwise specially provided.
218. Where, by any act of the legislature of this State, now in
force or hereafter to be enacted, advertisement, publication, or
notice of any suit, order, or proceeding, in any court of this
State, is required to be made or given in any newspaper printed
and published in this State, the court in which such suit may
be pending, or by which such order or proceeding may be made
or taken, may, whenever the circumstances of the case shall, in
the opinion of the court, require a more extensive publication,
order and direct such advertisement, publication, or notice, to
be made or given in one of the newspapers printed and pub
lished in any of the other States of the United States, or in the

PRACTICE OF LAW.

643

District of Columbia, at the discretion of the court, and for
such time as the court may deem proper.
II. —Affidavits.
219. Affidavits taken in pursuance of any rule of court, shall
be taken on four days' notice of the time and place of taking
the same.
220. When leave is granted by rule to eithfer party in a cause
to take affidavits, both parties may take affidavits within the
purview of such rule, without further leave or rule; and on
notice for the taking of affidavits, given by either party, both
parties may take affidavits, but the officer shall, if required, first
take the affidavits of the party giving the notice.
221. The party producing the witness shall first examine him
without interruption, and then the other party shall crossexamine, if he shall think fit ; and the testimony shall be re
duced to writing by the officer himself, or by the deponent, and
shall be signed by such deponent.
III.—Habeas Corpus Cum Causa.
222. Any suit or action commenced in any circuit court, or
court of common pleas, where the debt, damages, matter, or
thing in controversy shall exceed two hundred dollars (but not
otherwise), may be removed into the supreme court at any time
before issue joined by writ of habeas corpus, first duly allowed
by one of the justices of the said supreme court ; provided, the
defendant shall, at or before the allowance of said writ, enter
into recognizance to the plaintifff with two sufficient sureties in
double the sum demanded, for the payment of the condemna
tion-money and costs, in case judgment shall pass against him ;
which recognizance shall be filed with said writ and returned
with the same to the supreme court, and in default thereof, said
suit or action shall not be removed, nor said writ returned.
223. Exceptions to the bail required upon the removal of a
cause by habeas corpus shall be taken and entered in the clerk's
book at the return of the said writ or within ten days there
after, and justification shall be made within the time and in the

644

PRACTICE OF LAW.

manner prescribed for the justification of bail in other cases ;
and if such bail, when excepted to, shall not be perfected in due
time, the plaintifff shall have a procedendo.
224. The circuit courts and courts of common pleas, in and
for the several counties of this State, shall be open at all times
for the presentation and return of writs of habeas corpus in
civil cases.
225. No writ of habeas corpus, for the removal of a cause,
shall be received by the circuit court or court of common pleas,
to which it may be directed, nor shall any cause be removed by
such writ, after issue joined upon matter of law or of fact.
226. If any cause be removed or stayed by writ of habeas
corpus, and afterwards be remanded or sent back by writ of
procedendo or other writ, the same cause shall never again be
removed or stayed by any writ of habeas corpus.
227. If any writ of habeas corpus, for the removal of a cause,
shall be issued out of the supreme court, contrary to the true
intent and meaning of this act, then the court to which such
writ shall be directed or offered shall proceed in the said cause
as though no such writ had been issued or offered.
228. Upon the return of the habeas corpus, the plaintifff shall
be deemed to be in court, and the declaration and pleadings of
the parties shall be filed within the time allowed or granted in
other cases; or else the plaintifff shall be nonprossed, or judg
ment be awarded against the defendant.
IV.—Venue.
229. Every issue joined in the supreme court, or any other
court and brought into the supreme court to be tried, and which
is or may be triable by the country, shall be tried in the county
where the lands, tenements, or hereditaments in question are
situate, or the cause of action or offense hath arisen or been
committed, or shall arise or be committed ; unless the supreme
court, upon motion in behalf of this State, if the State be inter
ested, or upon motion of either party in the action, shall think
proper to order the trial to be at the bar of the said supreme
court, which shall only be done where the matter or property in

PKACTICE OF LAW.

645

dispute shall be of the value of three thousand dollars ; and if
the party who shall obtain a rule for a trial at bar shall not re
cover to the amount of the said sum, he shall be entitled to no
more costs than if the cause had been tried at the circuit court
of the proper county.
230. An action merely transitory shall, at the discretion of the
court, be tried in the county in which the cause of action arose,
or the plaintifff or defendant reside at the tjme of instituting
such action, or if the defendant be not an inhabitant of this State,
in the county in which process shall have been served upon him.
231. In causes commenced in the supreme court or removed
there from any other court, a justice of the supreme court in
vacation, on application of the defendant and upon good cause
shown, may grant a rule to show cause before the said court at
the next term, why the venue should not be changed to some
other county than that in which it is laid in the declaration, and
for the taking of depositions to be used on the argument of
such rule ; which rule shall be granted with or without a stay
of proceedings, as such justice may, in his discretion, in such
order direct.
V.—Security for Costs.
232. If the plaintifff reside out of this State, he shall, if re
quired before issue joined, give bond to the defendant in one
hundred dollars, with sufficient sureties, being freeholders and
residents in this State, with condition to prosecute his action
with effect, and to pay costs if he discontinue, be nonsuited or
a judgment pass against him ; which bond shall be filed in the
clerk's office of the court in which such action is pending.
.J33. In lieu of the bond mentioned in the last preceding sec
tion the plaintifff may deposit the sum named with the clerk of
the court in which the action is pending, to be and remain as
security to defendant for costs.
234. When a defendant is entitled to security for costs, he
shall give notice in writing to the plaintifff that he requires such
security, and thereupon all proceedings shall be stayed until
such security is filed or deposit made, and the plaintifff upon
filing such security, or making such deposit, shall give notice

646

PRACTICE OF LAW.

thereof in writing to the defendant, with the names and resi
dences of the sureties ; and after the service of such notice, the
defendant shall have the same time to plead that he had at the
service of the notice requiring security.
235. The plaintifff may, at the time of filing his hond for
costs, file therewith an affidavit of each surety, that he is a resi
dent of this State, and is worth two hundred dollars after all his
debts are paid ; or an approval of the sureties indorsed on said
bond by a judge of the court in which the action is pending;
in case no such affidavit or approval be filed, the defendant may,
within ten days from service of notice of filing security, give
notice that he excepts to the sureties ; in which case the plain
tiff shall file such affidavit, or a new bond with such affidavit of
the sureties thereto annexed ; and the defendant shall have the
same time to plead after service of notice of filing such affidavit
or new bond, as he had at the service of the notice of excep
tions; any plaintifff may file such bond and affidavit and give
notice thereof before security is required.

VI. —Particulars of Demand.
236. In any action on a record, or on a contract express or
implied, if the defendant shall, before plea filed, demand in
writing a bill of particulars of the demand, or a copy of any
note, bond, contract, deed, record, or writing on which the dec
laration is founded, or if in any such action the plaintifff shall,
before replication filed, demand in writing a bill of particulars
of the demand, or a copy of any bond, note, contract, deed, rec
ord, or writing on which a plea or notice of set-off' is founded,
it shall be the duty of the party, or his attorney, on whom such
demand shall be made, to comply therewith within fifteen days,
or in default thereof, besides the remedies now allowed, such
defaulting parties shall, if it be the plaintifff, be barred in such
suit from all claim under such declaration, or, if it be the de
fendant, be barred in such suit from all claim under such plea
or notice ; provided, however, that the court or a judge thereof, in
vacation, may, upon good cause shown before or after such de
fault, extend the time for complying with such demaud.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

647

237. The plaintifff or defendant may annex to his declaration
or plea, a schedule containing such particulars of demand, and
copies of such notes, bonds, contracts, deeds, records, or writings
on which the declaration, plea, or notice is founded, and in such
case the adverse party shall not be at liberty to make the de
mand aforesaid ; but the party so annexing the same shall be
bound thereby, unless in case of surprise, or for other good cause,
the court shall give relief, which they are hereby empowered
to do.
238. The attorney for such schedules, and each copy thereof,
shall be entitled to receive eight cents per folio, and the clerk of
the court, for copying the same in the record, shall receive six
cents per folio.

VII.—Circuit Record.

Postea and Judgment.

239. When an issue in the supreme court is to be tried at a
circuit court, a transcript of the declaration and pleadings in
the cause, with a proper placita,and nothing more, shall be made
and sent, under the seal of the supreme court, to the said circuit
court, which shall be a sufficient warrant or authority for the
latter to proceed upon, hear, and determine the said cause ; and
the plaintifff or defendant, or both, may have such transcript of
the said proceedings, if required.
240. The justice before whom such circuit court shall be held
shall return the said transcript, with the verdict and other pro
ceedings before him had upon it, to the supreme court at the
next term, and the said supreme court shall receive and file the
same, and give judgment thereon according to law.
241. In actions in the supreme court, whenever a cognovit or
relicta is given, or a verdict is obtained at the circuit, the party
obtaining the same may, by order of the justice at the circuit,
on two days' notice, and upon such terms as he may impose, file
the circuit record and postea, and enter judgment, and issue
execution thereon forthwith, after the making of such order;
but in case a rule nisi for a new trial shall be granted, the pro
ceedings on such judgment and execution shall be stayed until

648

PRACTICE OF LAW.

the determination of the same, and the court in bank may in all
cases, in its discretion, stay said execution.

VIII. —Bills of Exceptions and Rules to Show Cause.
242. When any person, impleaded before any court, in any
cause where a writ of error lies to a higher court, shall allege
an exception, praying that the court will allow it, if he who
alleged the exception instantly writes the same, and requires
that the judge or judges of the said court shall put thereto his
or their seal or seals in testimony thereof, such judge or judges,
or the greater part of them present, shall so do ; and if such
higher court, upon the cause being removed before them, do not
find the same exception in the record, and the plaintifff show the
exception, written and sealed as aforesaid, the said higher court
shall proceed to judgment according to the same exception, as it
ought to be allowed or disallowed.
243. Where exceptions shall have been taken at the trial of
any cause in cases where a bill of exceptions may be taken, and
the justice of the supreme court or judge of the circuit court
shall die without having sealed such exceptions, the cause shall
be heard in the court of errors, upon such exceptions being
stated and agreed to in writing by the parties or their attorneys ;
or, if the parties or their attorneys cannot agree upon the bill of
exceptions that were in fact taken, though not sealed, the same
shall be settled and sealed, on five days' notice, by any justice of
the supreme court, as the same shall be found by him to have
been in fact taken,and shall be returned with the writ of error.
244. A bill of exceptions shall contain only so much of the
evidence as may be necessary to present the questions of law
upon which exceptions were taken at the trial ; and it shall be
the duty of the judge, upon the settlement of the bill, to strike
out of the same all the evidence and other matters which shall
not have been necessarily inserted.
245. Every bill of exceptions shall be returned and filed with
the writ of error and record in the case; and unless so returned
and filed, the judgment shall not be reversed, nor shall there be
any assignment of error, for any matter contained therein.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

649

246. Where the party holding a bill or bills of exceptions
applies for a rule to show cause why a new trial should not be
granted, the granting thereof shall be a waiver of all bills of
exceptions, except on points expressly reserved in said rule ; a
rule to show cause why a new trial should not be granted, may,
in the discretion of the court, be special, and then the case shall
be heard and decided on the grounds upon which the rule was
allowed.
IX.—Case Certified.
247. The judge holding any circuit court, may at his discre
tion, and upon such terms as he may think reasonable, direct
any case of doubt or difficulty to be made and stated, and certi
fied by him to be argued at the bar of the supreme court ; which
court shall hear the same, and after opinion given therein, shall
certify the same to the said circuit court, which court shall
render judgment therein in conformity to such opinion.
248. Whenever a case is certified from any circuit court for
the advisory opinion of the supreme court, the clerk shall file
the certificate, enter a rule as of course, setting the cause down
for argument, and place the same on the paper, giving it priority
according to the date of filing the certificate.
249. Where judgment shall be rendered by any circuit court,
in conformity to the certified opinion of the supreme court, upon
a case certified, and a writ of error shall be brought to reverse
such judgment, such certified opinion shall be returned with the
writ of error as part of the record, and errors may be assigned
thereon ; and if error be found therein, the judgment may be
reversed therefore.
X.—Stenographic Reporter.
250. The judge of the circuit court in the several counties of
this State, whenever in his discretion it shall seem proper, may
employ a competent stenographic reporter, whose duly it shall
be to attend all trials in said circuit court and in the court of
oyer and terminer, and exactly and truly take notes and record
verbatim all the evidence and proceedings under the direction
42

650

PRACTICE OF LAW.

of said judge; except the arguments of counsel upon such trials,
and when requested, make and furnish true reports thereof to
the judge, and to each party in such cause.
251. The compensation of such reporter shall not exceed ten
dollars per day, which sum shall be paid by the board of chosen
freeholders of said county, on certificate of said judge as to the
number of days upon which he shall be employed ; provided,
that said reporter shall, for reports of evidence and other pro
ceedings by him furnished, be paid by the party in such cause
requesting the same, at the rate not to exceed ten cents for one
hundred words ; provided further, that said reports shall be fur
nished within one day after request is made; provided also, that
said reporter shall be duly sworn in open court, faithfully to
perform all the duties required by this act ; and such reporter
shall be removable, and other appointments made from time to
time by the judge of said court at his discretion.
252. Towards defraying the expense of the county under this
act, a fee of one dollar shall be paid to the clerk of said county,
by the party noticing any trial in the circuit court, at every
term the same shall be noticed, which fee shall be included in
the taxed bill of costs, and be recoverable as other costs in said
suit, and the clerk of such county shall pay such fees at the
end of every term to the county collector of said county.

XL—Suits by Common Informers.
253. Upon every action or information, which shall be insti
tuted or exhibited by any informer on a penal statute, a special
note shall be made of the very day, month, and year of its in
stitution or exhibition, and such action or information shall be
of record from that time and not before; and further, that no
manner of antedating thereof shall be made or allowed.
254. Lrpon every process which may be sued out in such ac
tion or information to compel the appearance of the.defendant,
shall be indorsed the name of the party who prosecutes, and
the title of the statute upon which the said action or informa
tion is founded. And any clerk, issuing process contrary to
this provision, shall forfeit to the party against whom such

PRACTICE OF LAW.

651

process is awarded ten dollars for every offense, to be recovered
by action of debt, with costs, in any court having cognizance
of that sum.
255. If any action or information shall be brought or ex
hibited for an offense against any penal law, made or to be
made, the defendant in such action or information may plead
the general issue, that he is not guilty, or that he oweth noth
ing, and give in evidence any special matter which, if pleaded,
would be a bar to the said action or information, giving notice,
with the same plea, of the matter so intended to be given in
evidence.
256. Xo recovery, by verdict or otherwise, obtained by covin
or collusion in an action popular, shall be a bar to any other ac
tion prosecuted in good faith.
.
257. If any prosecutor of an action or information, for the
recovery of any penalty not wholly appropriated to the use of
such prosecutor, shall compound with the defendant, or direct
such action or information to be discontinued, unless it be by
leave of the court in which the said action or information shall
be pending, then such prosecutor shall be liable for so much of
the penalty to the State of Jfew Jersey, or any other person
than the prosecutor, as the said State or such other person
would have been entitled to, if the defendant had beeu con
victed.
258. Every informer or prosecutor on a penal statute shall pay
costs to the defendant, if he discontinue or be nonsuit, or if a
verdict or judgment pass against him, for which costs the said
defendant shall have execution against the goods, chattels, and
person of such informer or prosecutor.
259. Nothing in the last six preceding sections shall apply to
any certain person, body politic or corporate, to whom or to
whose use any forfeiture, penalty, or suit is or shall be specially
limited or granted by any statute, but that every such certain
person, body politic or coporate, may in such case sue, prosecute,
or inform, as he or they might have done if this act had not
been made.

652

PRACTICE OF LAW.
XII.—Exceptions to Judges.

260. No justice or judge of any court of record in this State,
who shall be related in the third degree to either of the parties
in any cause pending in such court, or be interested in the event
of any such cause, or shall have been attorney on record or
counsel for either party in any such cause, or shall have given
his opinion upon the matter in question in any such cause, shall
sit in judgment upon the trial or argument of any point in
controversy in any such cause ; and the degrees of kindred, in
such case, shall be calculated according to the common-law
manner of computation ; provided, nevertheless, that any matter
or thing herein contained shall not be construed to prevent
any justice or judge from sitting on the trial or argument of
any point in controversy in such cause, merely because he may
have given his opinion in any other cause where the same mat
ter in controversy shall have come in question, nor from his
having given his opinion on any question in controversy in the
same cause, in the course of the previous proceedings therein.
261. No justice or judge of any court of record in this State,
who shall be related in the third degree, as aforesa'd, to either
of the parties in any cause pending in such court, or shall be
interested in the event of any such cause, or shall have given
his opinion in either of the said relations upon the matter in
question in said cause, shall nominate or strike the jury in any
such cause.
262. All challenges to a justice or judge, for the causes afore
said, shall be made previous to the trial or argument, and the
court may try such challenges, or appoint three indifferent per
sons triors for that purpose, at the discretion of the court, and
the finding of a majority of such triors, shall be received as the
determination of such triors.
263. No judge of any court in this State shall act as clerk of
the court of which he is a judge, nor as attorney at law or coun
sellor in any court in this State, unless otherwise specially pro
vided by act of the legislature.
264. No justice or judge of any court of record in this State
shall be disqualified from sitting in judgment upon the trial or

PRACTICE OF LAW.

653

argument of any cause, or of any point in controversy in any
cause pending in such court, wherein the board of chosen free
holders of any county, or the inhabitants of any township or
city, are or may be parties to the record, or otherwise interested,
because such justice or judge is an inhabitant of such county,
township, or city, or liable to be taxed within the same.
Q.- COSTS.
265. If the plaintifff in any action, real, personal, or mixed,
shall by verdict or otherwise, recover debt or damages in such
action, he shall have judgment to recover his costs against the
defendant, to be taxed in the manner prescribed by law, which
shall be levied and collected by execution, together with the
debt or damages aforesaid.
266. In any action wherein the plaintifff, on a judgment in his
favor, would be entitled to recover costs, the defendant, if the
plaintifff shall be nonprossed or nonsuited, or a verdict shall be
rendered for the defendant, shall have judgment to recover his
costs against the plaintifff (except against executors or admin
istrators prosecuting in the right of their testators or intestates),
to be taxed as aforesaid, and may have such process or execution
as the plaintifff might have had against him, if judgment had
been giyen in such action for the plaintifff.
267. Where judgment shall be arrested, each party shall pay
his own costs.
268. If in any suit commenced in the supreme court, the plain
tiff shall not recover above two hundred dollars, exclusive of
costs, then such plaintifff shall not be entitled to costs; but this
sectiou shall not extend to any suit in which the title to lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or other real estate, may in any wise
come in question.
269. In all actions of*trespass commenced or prosecuted in the
supreme court, wherein the justice, at the trial of the cause,
shall find and certify, under his hand, upon the back of the
record, that the title to lands, tenements, hereditaments, or other
real estate came in question on the trial of said cause, and the
plaintifff shall recover any damages, he shall recover full costs
of suit.

v

/ /jM_x
., ^y^j^c
a
^ "
/ Irv.

2z
3c
3S"
/ &

654

PRACTICE OF LAW.

270. If any suit commenced in any circuit court or court of
common pleas, shall be removed by writ of habeas corpus into
the supreme court by the defendant, and the plaintifff shall re
cover in the supreme court, he shall recover full costs in case he
would have been entitled to recover costs, had the suit remained
and been tried in the circuit court or court of common pleas.
271. The same costs and fees shall be allowed in all personal
actions brought originally in the circuit courts, as are by law
allowed in the courts of common pleas for like services, and
shall bo recoverable in like manner; provided, costs would have
been recovered in such case, in said courts of common pleas and
not otherwise ; and in all actions, real and mixed, originally
commenced in said circuit courts, and all personal actions re
moved therein, the same costs and fees shall be allowed and re
covered as are by law allowed and recovered for like services in
the supreme court.
272. If any person shall institute a suit for any debt, demand,
or cause of action, made cognizable before the courts for the
trial of small causes, in any other of the courts of law of this
State, and obtain judgment therein for any sum which, without
costs, shall not exceed one hundred dollars, then such person
shall not recover any costs in such suit, except as hereinafter
provided.
273. Whenever in an action on contract brought in 'the su
preme or circuit court, the plaintifff shall recover, but the amount
of the debt or damages recovered shall be reduced below the
sum which would entitle the plaintifff to costs in such courts,
by allowance made to the defendant for a partial failure of the
consideration of the contract sued on, or abatement by way of
recoupment of damages- the plaintifff shall be entitled to his
costs, if the justice of the supreme court, before whom such
action is tried, shall certify that in his judgment the plaintifff
had reasonable grounds for bringing his action in such court.
274. If any action to recover damages for a tort, which is
cognizable before the courts for the trial of small causes, shall
be brought in the circuit court, the plaintifff shall be eutitled to
recover his costs, notwithstanding that he shall not recover a
sum exceeding one hundred dollars ; provided, that the judge,

PRACTICE OF LAW.
before whom such action is tried, shall, immediately after verdict
found, certify that in his judgment the said action should have
been brought in the circuit court.
275. In suits on the same instrument, bond, or note, where
several are bound, and in suits against the maker, indorser, or
indorsers of any note, and in suits on any inland bill of exchange
against the drawer, acceptor, or any indorser or indorsers thereof,
there shall be a taxation and recovery of the attorney and coun
sel fees taxable by law in one of the said suits only, at the elec
tion of the plaintifff; and no fees for attorney or counsel shall
be allowed or taxed in any bill of costs, in any suit or suits
brought on the same instrument, bond, note, or inland bill of
exchange against any party or parties thereto, other than in the
one where the election is made as aforesaid.
276. In suits upon any writ of scire facias, the plaintifff ob
taining judgment or award of execution, after plea pleaded, or
demurrer joined therein, shall recover his costs of suit ; and if
the plaintifff shall become nonsuit, or suffer a discontinuance,
or a verdict shall pass against him, the defendant shall recover
his costs, and have execution for the same, in the manner afore
said.
277. In actions for assault, battery, or imprisonment, or for
slander, or libel, if the plaintifff shall not recover damages to
the. amount of fifty dollars, he shall recover no more costs than
damages.
278. Where several persons are made defendants to any action
of trespass, assault, false imprisonment, trespass on the case, re
plevin, or ejectment, and any one or more of them shall be, upon
the trial thereof, acquitted by verdict, every person so acquitted
shall recover his costs of suit, in like manner as if all the de
fendants had been acquitted ; unless the judge before whom
such cause shall be tried shall, immediately after the trial thereof,
in open court, certify upon the record or in the minutes of the
court, under his hand, that there was a reasonable cause for the
making such person or persons a defendant or defendants to
such action.
-279. If any person shall prosecute, in any court of record, any
action or suit, wherein, upon any demurrer, either by plaintifff

656

PRACTICE OF LAW.

or defendant, judgment shall be given by the court against such
plaintifff, in every such action or suit the defendant shall have
judgment to recover his costs against such plaintifff, and have
execution for the same in manner aforesaid.
280. When a demurrer shall be overruled after argument,
and the court shall give the party demurring liberty to plead
anew, it shall be upon terms of the payment to the adverse
party of the costs upon the demurrer.
281. In suits upon any obligation or specialty, or upon any
contract, express or implied, to or with the State of New Jersey,
or the governor thereof, or any person to or for the use of the
said State, the State of New Jersey or other plaintifff shall re
cover costs, as any other persons may do in suits for his or her
debts ; but if the plaintifff in such action shall be nonsuited, or
if a verdict shall pass against him, the defendant shall not re
cover any costs against such plaintifff; provided, that nothing in
this section shall extend to any popular action, nor to any action
to be prosecuted by any person in behalf of himself and this
State, upon any penal statute, nor to any indictment, present
ment, or inquisition.
282. The clerk of the court shall tax and subscribe his name
to all bills of costs in any civil cause in the court whereof he
is clerk, agreeably to the fees allowed by law, and shall in no
case allow any item or charge unless the service, in his opinion,
shall have been necessary in regularly conducting the cause, and
shall have actually been performed, and shall so appear on the
minutes of the court.
283. Every judge, clerk, or other person, who, by law, is au
thorized to tax any bill of costs, shall, in such bill, class and set
together those which belong to the court, or justices, or judges,
clerk, attorney and counsellor, sheriff, and other person or per
sons distributively.
284. Any person aggrieved by any bill of costs may apply to
the court in which the action is pending, at the next term after
payment demanded, to have the same retaxed according to law,
whose decision shall be final ; and if any charge is contained in
such bill as taxed, for services not actually rendered, or any item
therein is charged higher than is allowed by law, the court shall

PRACTICE OF LAW.

657

order that the expense of retaxation shall he paid by the attor
ney who drew said bill, or by the clerk who taxed the same, as
the court may direct ; but if the court shall find the said bill to
be taxed according to law, the applicant shall pay the expense
of retaxation.
285. The supreme court and the court of errors and appeals
shall have power by general rule or by a special rule in any case
pending in said courts, to make such order for the payment of
the cost of printing and other disbursements by either party,
and. the taxation and allowance thereof in the bill of costs, as
said courts may deem just.

K.—POWERS OP THE COURT OR A JUDGE.
286. In any action in which the right to real estate or to
goods and chattels is in controversy, the court or any judge
thereof, may make an order for the protection of the property
in controversy from waste, destruction, or removal beyond the
jurisdiction of the court, upon satisfactory proof being made of
the necessity for such order, and to enforce such order by an at
tachment forcontempt.
287. The justice of the supreme court to whom a judicial dis
trict has been or may be assigned, is authorized to appoint a
suitable person in each county in the district as sergeaut-at-arms
of the courts within the county, to hold office during the pleas
ure of said justice; whose duty it shall be to attend daily upon
the said courts in the county wherein appointed during the sev
eral terms thereof; for which services they shall be entitled sev
erally to receive two dollars per day for each day of actual at
tendance upon said courts, to be paid by the county collector of
the county on the certificate of the presiding judge ; provided,
however, that he shall not for the same time receive a per diem
compensation as a constable, or as crier of the courts in the
county.
288. The court in which any civil action is tried, before a
jury, may, unless objection is made by either party, direct that
the verdict of the jury shall be taken by the clerk in open court,
in the absence of the judge, and may order that the court re

658

PRACTICE OF LAW.

main open for that purpose ; and any such verdict shall be valid,
the same as if it were given in the presence of the judge.
289. Where several actions are pending in the same court
brought by the same plaintifff against the same defendant, in
which the same or similar matters of controversy are involved,
or cross-actions are pending between the same parties in the
same court, with respect to the same transaction, which are tri
able in the same manner, and may conveniently be tried to
gether, it shall be lawful for the court in which such actions
are pending, on the application of either party, or on its own
motion, to order that such actions be consolidated for the pur
pose of trial : and in case of the consolidation of cross-actions,
the court shall make such order for the trial and for the appor
tionment of the costs as shall be just and equitable.
290. Wherever it is provided by this act, that application
may be made to a judge,' as distinguished from the court, for
any rule or order touching any action, such application may be
made before any judge of the court where the action is pending,
in vacation or term time.
291. Any justice of the supreme court or judge of the circuit
court shall have power in vacation to grant all rules and make
all orders that may be necessary or proper in any cause pending
in said courts, and may direct the taking of testimony to be
read on the application for such rule or order; provided, that
this power shall not extend to the final hearing of motions to
set aside judgments entered in the supreme court on bond and
warrant of attorney, or by confession; nor to the appropriation
of monies in the supreme court between judgment creditors ex
cept by consent in writing; nor to any matter which by the
rules or practice of the supreme court is required to be placed
on the argument list of the said court.
292. Any justice of the supreme court shall have power in
vacation, upon affidavit laid before him showing that any judg
ment entered in the supreme court by confession or otherwise
was confessed or obtained for the purpose of defrauding the
creditors of the defendant, to grant a rule to show cause before
the supreme court at the next term why such judgment should
not be set aside as in favor of other judgment creditors of the

PRACTICE OF LAW.

659

defendant, and to stay the execution issued thereon ; and also
to order that testimony be taken to be used at the hearing.
293. Whenever a controversy arises between execution credi
tors as to the application of the proceeds realized from the sale
of the property of a defendant under executions issued out of
different courts, it shall be lawful for a justice of the supreme
court, by an order, to direct into which of the said courts the
monies so made shall be paid ; and the court into which such
payment shall be directed to be made, shall thereby obtain juris
diction to hear and decide the whole controversy between such
execution creditors in relation to the proceeds of such sale ; and
the said justice may, at the time of making such order, or at
any time thereafter, grant a rule to show cause before the said
court, in such form as will present for decision the matter in
controversy, and may make an ordej for taking testimony to
be read on the argument of such rule.
294. Any justice of the supreme court in vacation may grant
rules to show cause why writs of mandamus and of quo warranto
should not issue, and make orders for the taking of testimony
to be used on the argument of such rules.
295. The argument of any motion or cause in the supreme
court which by the rules and practice of the court is cognizable
before the branch of the supreme court sitting for the hearing
and deciding of common business, may, by the consent of the
parties interested, be heard before one or more of the justices of
the supreme court at chambers, either in term time or vaca
tion ; whose decisions and judgments shall be as good and effec
tual as if they had been rendered at the bar of said court.
296. Any justice of the supreme court or judge of the circuit
court to whom application may be made for any rule or order
by virtue of this act, may, in his discretion, refer the same to
the supreme court, and make such order for the taking of testi
mony and for stay of proceedings as may be equitable.
297. The justices of the supreme court, and the judges of the
courts of common pleas in every county of this State, shall
make such rules and regulations for expediting and conducting
suits, and the management of business in their respective courts,
as they shall from time to time judge proper.

660

PRACTICE OF LAW.

298. It shall be lawful for the justices of the supreme court
to provide by general rules for the hearing and argument of any
litigated or unlitigated motions before any one of the justices of
the said court in vacation, whenever, in their judgment, it may
be expedient so to do, and under such regulations as they may
prescribe, and for fixing the costs to be allowed for and in re
spect of the matters herein contained, and the performance
thereof, where said costs are not fixed by law, and for appor
tioning the costs of issues; and it shall be the duty of the jus
tices of the said court to make all such rules and regulations as
may be necessary to obviate any difficulties that may arise in
the practice of the courts of law by reason of any omissions or
defects in the same, and to regulate the pleadings and practice
in the said courts so as to render the practice and proceedings
therein more efficient, expeditious, and simple, and for that pur
pose they shall have power to change and regulate such plead
ings and practice.
299. The justices of the supreme court shall and may adopt
uniform rules of practice in all matters not regulated by law for
the government of the circuit courts, and the same from time to
time, alter, repeal, and modify, as occasion may require.

S.—CONSTRUCTION.
300. Whenever, in describing or referring to any person,
party, matter, or thing, any word importing the singular number
or masculine gender is used in this act, the same shall be under
stood to include, and shall apply to several persons and parties,
as well as one person or party, and females as well as males, and
bodies corporate as well as individuals, and several matters and
things as well as one matter or thing, unless it be otherwise
provided, or there be something in the subject or context re
pugnant to such construction.
301. Nothing in this act contained shall in any way affect
any proceedings by virtue of the act entitled, " An act con
stituting courts for the trial of small causes," except that the
provisions of this act relating to variances and amendments of

PRACTICE OF LAW.

601

pleadings (as modified by the act above referred to) shall apply
to actions in the several courts of common pleas on appeal from
any court for the trial of small causes.
Approved March 27th, 187').

PRACTICE OF LAW.
AN ACT CONCERNING THE ACTION OF EJECTMENT.
A.—SUMMONS AND SERVICE.
1. Be it enacted hy the. Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That, 1. In actions of ejectment, the con
sent rule, and all the fictions heretofore used in such actions, be
and the same are hereby abolished.
2. The action shall be commenced by summons, in the name
of the person claiming the premises in question, as plaintifff.
3. The defendant in the action shall be the person in posses
sion, if the premises are occupied,' or some I>erson exercising
ownership on the premises or claiming title thereto, in case they
are unoccupied.
4. The plaintifff may join as a defendant with the person in
possession any other person who as landlord, remainderman,
reversioner, or otherwise may claim title to the premises ad
versely to the plaintifff.
5. The summons shall be according to form number one in
the schedule hereto annexed, or to the like effect ; and shall
describe the premises with such certainty as will distinctly ap
prise the defendant of their description and situation, so that
from such description possession thereof may be delivered ; and
if the plaintifff claims only an undivided interest therein, it shall
also state such interest.
6. The summons shall be tested on the day it is issued, and

6G2

PRACTICE OF LAW.

may be made returnable in term time or vacation, and shall be
served at least ten days before its return, on the defendant in
person, or by leaving a copy at his dwelling-house Or place of
abode, with some member of his family above the age of four
teen years ; and if such service cannot be made, then the sum
mons shall be served in such manner as the court or a judge
thereof shall direct.
7. The summons shall in all cases be returned with an affi
davit of the time and manner of service.
8. Every tenant, on whom any summons in ejectment shall
be served for any lands, tenements, or hereditaments in his pos
session, shall forthwith give notice thereof to his landlord, or
his agent or attorney, under the penalty of forfeiting the value
of three years' rent of the premises in the possession of such
tenant, to the person of whom he- holds, to be recovered by ac
tion of debt, in any court of record in this State.

B.—PLEADING A.\D PRACTICE.

f. /

9. The pleadings shall be filed within the times limited for
filing the same in personal actions ; and the practice and pro
ceedings shall be in all respects in conformity with the practice
in personal actions, so far as the same may be applicable, unless
otherwise specially provided.
10. The declaration shall describe the premises claimed with
the same certainty as the summons, and shall state the time when
the plaintifff's right to the possession thereof accrued, and may
contain- several counts; and shall be according to one^>f the
forms of declarations contained in said schedule, as the circum
stances of the case may require, or to the like effect.
11. If no plea be filed within the time limited, the plaintifff
shall be entitled to a judgment that he recover possession of the
premises claimed in the declaration, upon which a writ of pos
session may issue.
12. The plea shall be according to one of the forms of pleas
contained in said schedule, as the circumstances of the case may
require, or to the like effect, and, under such plea, the defendant

PRACTICE OF LAW.

663

may give in evidence an)' lawful defense to the action, not in
consistent with the other provisions of this act.
13. The plea of the defendant shall, for the purposes of that
action, be an admission that he was in possession of the premises
for which he defends, or that he claimed title thereto, at the
time of commencing the action.
14. The defendants named in the summons may plead to and
defend the action, either jointly or separately.
15. The defendants, or either of them, may defend for a part
only of the premises, and when for a part, it shall be described
in the plea with the same certainty as is required in the sum
mons.
16. If the premises be not described with sufficient certainty
in the declaration or plea, the court or a judge may order it to
be amended so as to be so described, and if either party fail to
comply with such order, judgment may be entered as for want
of a declaration or plea, according to the circumstances of the
case.
17. The landlord of a tenant in possession, or other proper
person, may by leave of the court or a judge, be admitted to
appear and defend the action, in all cases where the same would
have been allowed heretofore ; provided, the application therefore
be made in twenty days after the return day of the summons,
or within such further time as may be granted by the court or
a judge, and five days' notice of such application, and of the
taking of affidavits to be used thereon, be given to the plaintifff;
and the landlord or other person admitted under this section to
defend, in respect of property whereof he is in possession only
by the tenant, shall state, in his plea, that he defends as land
lord, and shall be at liberty to set up such defense as a land
lord has heretofore been allowed to set up, and no other.
18. If the landlord or any other person than the defendant
named in the summons be admitted to defend the action, the
plaintifff shall declare against him and the defendant named in
the summons, and he may join with the tenant in possession in
the defense, or they may defend separately.
19. If a plea be filed limiting the defense to a part only of
the premises, the plaintifff shall be entitled to a judgment that

664

PRACTICE OF LAW.

be recover possession of the part not defended for, upon which
a writ of possession may issue ; and where a part only of the
premises are defended for, the plaintifff may enter a discontinu
ance of the action as to that part, and enter judgment for the
residue, without thereby becoming liable to pay costs to the de
fendants, or any of them.
20. The plaintifff may, at any time, discontinue the action, as
to any or all of the defendants, upon payment of his or their
costs.
21. If one of several plaintifffs desires to discontinue, he may
apply to the court or a judge to have his name struck out of
the proceedings, which may be ordered upon such terms as the
court or judge may think just, and the action shall thereupon
proceed at the suit of the other plaintifff.
22. Any person made a defendant, who is not in actual pos
session of the premises at the commencement of the action, may
appear at any time before the time for pleading has expired, and
disclaim all right or title in or to the premises, and thereupon
such disclaimer, if allowed by the court or a judge, shall be en
tered on the record, and the defendant shall have judgment that
he recover his costs of the plaintifff, and the plaintifff shall as
against such defendant be entitled to a judgment forthwith that
he recover possession of the premises.
23. If one of several defendants, who defends separately for a
portion of the property, retracts his plea, and confesses the plain
tiffs action as to such portion, the plaintifff may forthwith enter
judgment, and issue execution for the recovery of the possession
of that portion, and for the costs occasioned by the defense re
lating to the same, and the action may proceed as to the resi
due; provided, that if any other defendant defends for the same
portion, then the plaintifff shall not be at liberty to issue execu
tion for the recovery of the possession of that portion until he
has recovered a judgment against all the defendants who de
fended therefore.
I.—By and against Joint Tenants.
24. If the action be brought by one of several joint tenants
or tenants in common or coparceners, any co-tenant or copar

PRACTICE OF LAW.

665

cener defending the action may give notice with his plea, that
he defends as such and admits the right of the plaintifff to an
undivided share of the property (stating what share), but de
nies an actual ouster of him from the property, which notice
shall be copied as a part of the circuit record, and recorded with
the pleadings; and upon the trial of such issue, the additional
question of whether an actual ouster has taken place shall be
tried; and if, upon the trial of the issue, it be proved that the
defendant is such joint tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener,
with the plaintifff, and no such actual ouster shall be proved,
then the plaintifff shall be nonsuited, with costs; but if it shall
be proved either that the defendant is not such joint tenant,
tenant in common, or coparcener, or that an actual ouster has
taken place, then the jury shall so find by their verdict, and the
plaintifff shall have judgment, in accordance with the verdict,
for the recovery of possession and costs.
II. —Bill of Particulars.
25. After issue joined in ejectment, either party may demand
in writing of the other a bill of particulars of his claim or title
to the premises in question ; and such bill of particulars shall be
delivered in twenty days after the same shall be demanded, or
within such further time as the court or a judge on good cause
shown may grant, and in default thereof no evidence of such
title shall be given on the trial.
26. The bill of particulars shall include an abstract of such
documentary evidence of title as the party may intend to give
in evidence on the trial ; and if any such documents may by law
be recorded, it shall also state where they are recorded, or if not
recorded, then it shall include copies of such thereof as are in
the possession of the party, with the name or names of the sub
scribing witness or witnesses, if any.
27. The court or a judge may, upon good cause shown, allow
either party to serve an amended bill of particulars ; but in all
cases the evidence of title shall at the trial be confined to the
matters contained in the bill of particulars.
48

666

PRACTICE OF LAW.
III.—Death of Parties.

28. The death of a plaintifff or defendant in ejectment shall
not cause the action to abate, but it may be continued as here
inafter provided.
29. In case the right of the deceased plaintifff shall survive to
another plaintifff, a suggestion may be made of the death, which
suggestion shall not be traversable, but be subject to be set aside
if untrue, and the action may proceed at the suit of the surviv
ing plaintifff; and if such suggestion be made before the trial,
then the plaintifff shall have a verdict, and recover such judg
ment as aforesaid, upon its appearing that he was entitled to
bring the action, either separately or jointly with the deceased
plaintifff; and in case of the death before trial of one of several
plaintifffs, whose right does not survive to any other of the
plaintifffs, if the legal representatives of the deceased plaintifff
shall not become a party to the action, in the manner herein
after provided, a suggestion may be made of the death, which
shall not be traversable, but be subject to be set aside if untrue,
and the action may proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff,
for such share of the property as he is entitled to, and costs.
30. In case of a verdict for two or more plaintifffs, if one of
such plaintifffs die before execution executed by delivery of pos
session thereupon, the other plaintifff may, whether the legal
fight to the property shall survive or not, suggest the death in
manner aforesaid, and proceed to judgment and execution for
recovery of the possession of the whole of the premises in ques
tion to which the right of possession may be found by the ver
dict ; but nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the
legal representative of the deceased plaintifff, or the liability of
the surviving plaintifff to such representative; and the entry and
possession of such surviving plaintifff, under such execution, shall
be considered as an entry and possession on behalf of such rep
resentative, in respect of the share of the premises in question to
which he shall be entitled as such representative, and the court
may direct possession to be delivered accordingly.
31. In case of the death before trial of a sole plaintifff, or of
one of several plaintifffs whose right does not survive to any

PRACTICE OF LAW.

667

other plaintifff, the legal representative of such deceased plaintifff
may, by leave of the court, enter a suggestion of such death, and
that he is such legal representative, and the action shall there
upon proceed ; and the truth of such suggestion shall be tried on
the trial of the action, together with the title of the deceased
plaintifff; and such judgment shall follow upon the verdict in
favor of or against the person making such suggestion, as is
hereinbefore provided with reference to a judgment for or against
such deceased plaintifff.
82. In case a sole plaintifff die after a verdict in his favor, and
before execution executed by delivery of possession thereon,
judgment shall nevertheless be entered in his favor, and have
the same effect as if entered in his lifetime; and the court, upon
suggestion of such death, and application of the legal represen
tative of the deceased plaintifff, may order that a writ issue for
the delivery to such representative of the possession of the
premises recovered, and the same shall be delivered accordingly,
subject, however, to such terms as the court may impose ; and
the personal representatives of such deceased plaintifff shall have
like remedies for the collection of the costs recovered by such
judgment as they would have upon any other judgment for
money in favor of said deceased.
33. If, after a verdict in favor of a defendant, a sole plaintifff,
or one of several plaintifffs, die before judgment, the defendant
shall nevertheless be entitled to judgment as if no such death
had happened ; and in case of a sole plaintifff, the defendant
may proceed for the recovery of his costs, in like manner as
upon any other judgment for money, against such deceased ; and
in case of several plaintifffs, the defendant may have execution
against the surviving plaintifff for his costs ; and if, after such
verdict in favor of a defendant, and before judgment, he shall
die, judgment shall nevertheless be entered in his favor, and
have the same effect as if entered in his lifetime.
34. In case of the death before judgment of one of several de
fendants who defends jointly, a suggestion may be made of the
death, which suggestion shall not be traversable, but be subject
to be set aside if untrue, and the action may proceed against
the surviving defendant to judgment and execution ; but if such

608

PRACTICE OF LAW.

death happen before trial, the court, in its discretion, may order
that notice be given to the legal representative of such deceased
defendant to appear and defend the action within a time to be
limited by the court, the notice to be served in such manner as
the court may direct ; and in case such representative appear
and plead he shall plead the same plea, and the same proceed
ings may be taken against him as if he had been originally ad
mitted to defend the action ; and if no such order be made, or
if one be made, and such representative do not appear and plead
within the time so limited, and an affidavit be filed of the due
service of such notice, then the plaintifff suggesting the death,
in manner aforesaid, may proceed against the surviving defend
ant to judgment and execution.
35. In case of the death of a sole defendant, or of all the de
fendants, before trial, a suggestion may be made of the death,
which suggestion shall not be traversable, but be subject to be
set aside if untrue, and the plaintifff shall be entitled to a judg
ment for recovery of the possession of the premises in question,
unless some other person shall appear and defend within the
time to be appointed for that purpose by the order of the court,
to be made on the application of the plaintifff; and the court,
upon such application, may order that the plaintifff shall be at
liberty to sign judgment within such time as the court may
think. fit, unless the legal representative of the deceased defend
ant or defendants shall, within such time, appear and plead to
the action ; and such order may be served in such manner as the
court under the circumstances may direct; and in case such
person shall appear and plead, he shall plead the same plea, and
the same proceedings may be taken against him as if he had
been originally admitted to defend the action ; and if no plea
be filed within the time limited, then the plaintifff, upon filing
an affidavit of the due service of such order, shall be at liberty
to sign judgment pursuant thereto.
36. In case of the death of a sole defendant, or of all the de
fendants, after verdict against him or them, the plaintifff shall
nevertheless be entitled to judgment as if no such death had
taken place, and to proceed by execution for the recovery of pos
session without suggestion or revivor, and to proceed for the

PRACTICE OF LAW.

669

recovery of the costs in like manner as upon any judgment for
money against such defendant or defendants.
37. In case of the death of one of several defendants, who
defends separately for a portion of the premises in question, for
which no other defendant defends, before trial, or after a verdict
against him, the same proceedings may be taken as to such por
tion as in case of the death of a sole defendant, or the plaintifff
may proceed against the surviving defendant in respect of the
portion of the premises in question for which he defends.
38. In case of the death before trial of one of the several de
fendants who defends separately in respect of property for which
a surviving defendant also defends, the court, at any time before
the trial, may order that notice be given to the legal represen
tative of such deceased defendant to appear and defend the ac
tion within a time to be limited by the court, the notice to be
served in such manner as the court may under the circumstances
direct ; and in case such representative appear and plead, he
shall plead the same plea and the same proceedings may be taken
against him, as if he had been originally admitted to defend the
action ; and if no such order be made, or if one be made and
such representative do not appear and plead within the time so
limited, and an affidavit be filed of the due service of such no
tice, then the plaintifff suggesting the death, in manner aforesaid,
may proceed against the surviving defendant to judgment and
execution.
•
39. If, after verdict, a new trial be granted, then, for the pur
pose of preventing an abatement of the action, the same pro
ceedings may be had as if there had been no trial.
C—TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
40. After issue is joined, the parties shall proceed to the trial
as in other actions.
If the plaintifff appears at the trial, and the defendant does
not, the jury shall render a verdict of guilty against the de
fendant, without any proof of title by the plaintifff.
If the defendant appears, and the plaintifff does not, the plain
tiff shall be nonsuited.

670

PRACTICE OF LAW.

If both parties appear, the question at the trial shall be (ex
cept as hereinafter provided), whether the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
or either, and which of them, is entitled to recover the posses
sion of the premises, and whether of the whole or of part, and
if of part, then of which part.
41. If a verdict be found for the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or either
of them, for the whole or a part, the jury shall, by the verdict,
particularly specify such part, and judgment shall be entered
thereon, that he or they recover the possession of the same,
either in whole or in part, as the case may be, with costs, upon
which a writ of possession may issue.
42. Provided, that if it shall appear at the trial, that the
plaintifff is entitled to the possession of the premises or any part
thereof, but that the title thereto (other than the mere posses
sory right), is in some one of the defendants who, as landlord,
remainderman, reversioner, or otherwise, has been made a defend
ant by the plaintifff, the verdict shall be, that the plaintifff recover
possession thereof, and that the title (other than such possessory
right), is in the defendants or some one of them, as the same
shall be specially found ; and judgment shall be entered thereon
in pursuance of such verdict, and a writ of possession shall there
upon be issued accordingly.
43. If at a trial the title of the plaintifff shall appear to have
existed as alleged in the declaration in such manner that the
plaintifff or plaintifffs, or one of them, was, at the commence
ment of the action, entitled to recover possession of the prem
ises in question, or of some part thereof, but shall also appear to
have expired at the time of the trial- the plaintifff or plaintifffs
so entitled shall, notwithstanding such expiration, be entitled to
a verdict, according to the fact, that he was so entitled at the
commencement of the action, and to a judgment accordingly,
with his costs of suit ; and as to the premises claimed, the judg
ment shall be, that the defendant go thereof without day.
44. A judgment in an action of ejectment, commenced after
this act takes effect, shall be conclusive, as to the right of pos
session, and the title to the premises (as the case may be), as the
same has been established by such judgment, upon the party
against whom it is recovered, and upon all persons claiming

PRACTICE OF LAW.

671

from, through, or under such party, by title arising after the
commencement of' such action ; provided, that if any person
against whom such judgment is recovered shall be, at the time
of its recovery, an infant, idiot, or lunatic, the judgment shall be
no bar to an action commenced by such person, or any one claim
ing from, through, or under such person, within three years
after the removal of such disability.

D.—MESNE PROFITS AND COSTS.
45. After a judgment in favor of the plaintifff, an action may
be brought for the mesne profits and damages in all cases where
the defendant in ejectment would be liable for mesne profits and
damages, as heretofore, or the plaintifff may declare for and re
cover the same in the same action, under such regulations as to
the pleadings and proceedings as the justices of the supreme
court may prescribe, which regulations shall be applicable to
actions of ejectment in the circuit court, as well as in the su
preme court.
46. The action for the recovery of mesne profits shall be
brought in the name of the plaintifff in the action of ejectment,
or of his personal representatives if he shall have died after
judgment recovered.
47. In the action for mesne profits, the plaintifff shall be en
titled to recover of the defendant as damages the full value of
the use and occupation of the premises for the time such defend
ant was in possession thereof, not exceeding six years before the
commencement of such action ; but such damages shall not in
clude the value of the use of any improvements made by the de
fendant ; and where permanent improvements have been made
in good faith on the premises by the defendant, or those under
whom he claims, while holding adversely to the plaintifff under
color of title obtained by a fair bona fide purchase from some
person in possession, and supposed to have a legal right and title
thereto, the value of such permanent improvements shall be
allowed to the defendant, and set off* against the damages of the
plaintifff to the extent of such damages and no further.
48. In ejectment, the successful party shall in all cases, except

672

PRACTICE OF LAW.

where it is otherwise provided in this act, recover his costs of
the other party, and may have like executions therefore, as in
personal actions ex delicto.
49. If upon the issue joined, the plaintifff shall recover a ver
dict either for the whole or a part of the premises in dispute, he
shall recover costs, and may include in the writ of possession
an execution for the costs, or may issue a separate execution
therefore.
50. If the plaintifff shall obtain judgment by default for want
of a plea, he shall also recover his costs by the same judgment,
and have execution therefore, including the costs on the writ of
possession, against the defendant named in the summons, which
execution for costs may be included in the writ of possession ;
provided, it appear by the affidavit of service of the summons
that the defendant was in actual possession of the premises
claimed, or some part thereof, at the time of such service, and
that the same was served personally upon him, or upon some
member of his family above the age of fourteen years, at his
dwelling-house or place of abode ; and if it do not so appear, then
the plaintifff may recover his costs in an action for mesne profits
against the defendant named in the summons, as heretofore.
51. If by the plea filed, the defense is limited to part only of
the premises claimed, and the plaintifff takes judgment of the
part undefended for, and enters a discontinuance as to the resi
due, the costs of the plaintifff in the ejectment shall only be re
coverable in an action for mesne profits, as heretofore.

E.—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
52. Error may be brought in like manner as in other actions
upon any judgment in ejectment.
53. Wherever in this act, the words "legal representative"
of a deceased party, plaintifff or defendant, occur in relation to
the effect of the death of such party, they shall be under
stood to mean such heir, devisee, or other representative of the
deceased person, as upon his death become seized or possessed
of, or otherwise entitled to, the estate or interest in the premises

PRACTICE OF LAW.

673

in question of which he was seized, possessed, or entitled unto
at the time of his death.
54. The several courts in which actions of ejectment may be
pending, may exercise over the proceedings therein, the like
jurisdiction and control as heretofore exercised in the action of
ejectment, so as to insure a trial of the title only, and of actual
ouster when necessary, and for all other purposes for which such
jurisdiction may at present be exercised, and may make such
regulations concerning the said actions as may be necessary more
fully to carry into effect the intention of this act ; and the pro
visions of all statutes not inconsistent with the provisions of this
act, and which may be applied to the altered mode of proceed
ing, shall remain in force and be applied thereto ; provided, that
nothing in this section contained shall authorize the said courts
to exercise any control or jurisdiction, or make any regulations
inconsistent with the true intent and meaning of this act.
F.—SCHEDULE.
No. 1.—Form of Summons in Ejectment.
New Jersey, ss.—The State of New Jersey to the sheriff of
the county of
, greeting.
We command you to summon C. D. to appear before our
supreme court at Trenton, on the
day of
[l. s.] next, to answer to the complaint of A. B., who de
mands of him the possession of the equal undivided
one-fourth part of a tract of land, with the appurtenances,
situated in the township of
, in the county of
, contain
ing
acres, more or less, bounded on the north by lands of
E. F., on the south by lands of G. H., on the east by lands of
I. K., on the west by lands of L. M.
And in default of his appearing and defending this action,
judgment will be entered against him, and he will be turned out
of possession of said land.
And have you then and there this writ.
Witness
, esquire, chief justice, at Trenton, the
day of
, eighteen hundred and
.
, clerk.
, attorney.

674

PRACTICE OF LAW.

No. 2. — Form of Declaration against the Defendant named
in the Summons.
New Jersey Supreme Court—of the [here insert the date of
the summons].
County, ss.—A. B., the plaintifff in this action, by
,
his attorney, demands of C. D., the defendant therein, the
possession of the equal undivided one-fourth part of a tract of
land, with the appurtenances, situated in the township of
,
in said county, containing
acres, more or less, bounded on
the north by lands of E. F., on the south by lands of G. H., on
the east by lands of L K., on the west by lands of L. M. And
CSi. (< /^ the plaintifff says that his right to the possession of the same
^2 ( £
accrued on the
day of
, eighteen hundred and
, and
that the defendant wrongfully deprives him of the possession
thereof, to his damage
dollars.
, attorney of plaintifff.
No. 3.—Form of Declaration where the Landlord, or other
Person, is admitted to defend.
State the title of the court, and time of commencing the
action, as in number two, and then proceed as follows :
County, ss. —A. B., the plaintifff in this action, by
,
his attorney, demands of C. D. and R. St, the defendants therein
[the summons having been issued against the said C. D., and
the said R. S. having been admitted to defend], and then pro
ceed as in form number two, to the end.
No. 4.—Form of Plea by the Tenant in Possession, where
HE DEFENDS FOR THE WHOLE PREMISES CLAIMED.
New Jersey Supreme Court.
CD. \
Adsm. > In Ejectment, Plea.
A. B. )
And the said C. D., by
, his attorney, appears and defends
this action, and says that he is not guilty of the injury whereof

PRACTICE OF LAW.

675

the said A. B. hath complained in his declaration, nor of any
part thereof, and of this he puts himself upon the country, and
the said A. B. doth the like.
, attorney of defeudant.
No. 5.
If the tenant in possession defends only for a part of the premises,
then, after stating the court and action, say :
And the said C. D., by
, his attorney, appears and defends
this action as to a part of the premises claimed by the plaintifff
in his declaration, to wit,
acres thereof, situate and described
as follows, to wit: And as to the part so defended for, he says
that he is not guilty of the injury whereof the said A. B. hath
complained in his declaration, and of this he puts himself upon
the country, and the said A. B. doth the like.
, attorney for defendant.
No. 6.—Form of Plea by the Landlord when defending
SEPARATELY.
State the court and the action, as in form number four, and
then say :
And R. 8., who is admitted to defend this action as landlord,
by
, his attorney, appears and defends the action, and so
forth [as form number four or five, according to the circum
stances of the case].
No. 7.—Form of Pi ea by any other Person than the Land
lord ADMITTED TO DEFEND, AND DEFENDING SEPARATELY.
State the court and the action, as in number four, and then say :
And N. 0., who is admitted as a proper person to defend this
action, by
, his attorney, appears and defends the action,
and so forth [as in form number four or five, according to the
circumstances of the case].

676

PRACTICE OF LAW.

No. 8.—Form of Plea by the Landlord when defending
JOINTLY WITH THE TENANT IN POSSESSION.
State the court and action, as in form number four, and then say :
And the said C. D., together with R. S., who is admitted to
defend this action as landlord, by
, their attorney, appear
and defend the action, etc. [as in form number four or five,
according to the circumstances of the case].
No. 9.
If any other person than the landlord be admitted to defend,
and defend jointly with the tenant in possession, then, after
stating the court and action, as in form number four, say :
And the said C. D., together with N. 0., who is admitted as
a proper person to defend this action, by
, their attorney,
appear and defend the action, etc. [as in form number four or
five, according to the circumstances of the case].
Approved March 27th, 1874.

PRACTICE OF LAW.
AN ACT TO REGULATE THE ACTION OF REPLEVIN.
A.—WHEN ACTION LIES.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That if the goods or chattels of any person
be taken and wrongfully detained, the sheriff, by a writ of re
plevin, shall cause the same goods or chattels to be replevied
and delivered, and shall summon the person who took them, to
appear at the return of the said writ, and answer the plaintifff
of the taking and unjust detention of the same.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

677

2. Any unlawful detention of goods and chattels from their
lawful owner, or the person entitled by law to the possession of
the same, shall be deemed an unlawful taking for the purpose
of supporting an action of replevin.
3. No replevin shall lie in case of distress for any tax, assess
ment, or fine, to be collected or levied in- pursuance of any law
of this State ; and if any person or persons shall hereafter sue
out or prosecute a replevin in any such case, he or they shall
forfeit oue hundred and fifty dollars, to be recovered, with costs
of prosecution, by any person who shall sue for the same, by
action of debt, in any court of record having cognizance there
of ; the one moiety of the said forfeiture to the person who shall
sue for the same, and the other moiety to the State.
B.-WRIT OF, HOW EXECUTED.
4. All writs of replevin shall issue out of the supreme court,
or out of the circuit court, or court of common pleas of the
county where the property was taken or is detained, and the
said writs shall be made returnable to the court out of which
they were issued ; and may be made returnable in term time or
in vacation ; and the summons therein shall be served and re
turned in the manner prescribed for the service and return of
writs of summons in personal actions, in case such service can
be made ; but if the summons cannot be served in manner afore
said by reason of the* absence of the defendant and his non-resi
dence within the county in which the goods or chattels are re
plevied, then the same shall be served as the court or a judge
may by an order direct.
5. 'W rits of replevin may be directed to and executed by the
coroners of any county, in all cases in which by law writs in
other actions may be directed to and executed by such coroners;
and all such writs of replevin may be executed and returned by
any one of such coroners in the same manner in all respects as
sheriffs are by law authorized or directed to execute and return
the same ; and all bonds required by law to be taken in such
cases shall be made to the coroner executing such writs by his
name of office.

678

PRACTICE OF LA.W.

6. Every sheriff or coroner, before he makes deliverance of
any goods or chattels, by virtue of any writ of replevin, shall
take in his own name, from the plaintifff and two responsible
persons as sureties, a bond in double the value of the goods and
chattels mentioned in the writ (such value to be ascertained by
the oath or affirmation of one or more disinterested witnesses,
which oath or affirmation such sheriff or coroner is hereby au
thorized and required to administer), and conditioned for prose
cuting the suit with effect and without delay, and for duly re
turning the said goods and chattels in case a return shall be
awarded ; and if any sheriff or coroner shall take security other
wise, or neglect to take sufficient security, he shall answer for
the value of the goods and chattels.
7. The sheriff or coroner taking bond as is mentioned in the
preceding section shall, at the request and costs of the defend
ant, assign the same to the defendant, under his hand and
seal ; and if the bond so taken and assigned be forfeited, the de
fendant may, in his own name, bring an action and recover
thereon; and the court, wherein such action shall be- brought
may, by rule of the court, give such relief to the parties upon
such bond as shall be agreeable to justice ; and such rule shall
have the nature and effect of a defeasance to such bonds.
8. No coroner shall execute a writ of replevin until the re
plevin bond and the sufficiency of the sureties shall be approved
by one of the judges of the court out of which the writ shall
issue, or a supreme court commissioner of this State, which ap
proval shall be indorsed on the bond, and thereupon the coroner
may proceed to serve the writ according to law.
Before the commissioner shall indorse his approval on such
bond, he shall require the sureties named therein to justify
before him in the usual form, and shall immediately file the affi
davits of justification with the clerk of the court whence the
writ of replevin issued.
9. The sheriff or coroner to whom any writ of replevin shall
be delivered, shall take the goods and chattels whereof deliver
ance is sought, into his own custody and possession, notwith
standing any claim of property therein by the defendant, and
shall proceed to make deliverance thereof to the plaintifff in the

PRACTICE OF LAW.

679

said writ named, unless the said defendant shall, within twentyfour hours after service of the writ of replevin upon him in the
manner hereinbefore prescribed, deliver to such sheriff or cor
oner a written claim of property, specifying the goods and chat
tels so claimed, and shall also, within the time aforesaid, deliver
to such sheriff or coroner a bond, with one or more sufficient
sureties, being freeholders and residents in the county, and in
double the value of the goods and chattels so claimed, with con
dition to deliver the said goods and chattels in as good condition
as the same were at the time of making such claim, to the
plaintifff or his lawful representatives, if the same shall be ad
judged to the plaintifff; which bond the said sheriff or coroner
is hereby required, at the request and costs of the plaintifff or
his lawful representatives, to assign to such plaintifff or his law
ful representatives, who are hereby authorized, if the said bond
shall be forfeited, to bring an action, and recover thereon, in his
or their own name.
10. In case the property replevied shall be delivered by the
sheriff or coroner to the defendant, on his presenting a written
claim of property and giving bond as above provided, the sheriff
or coroner shall make return of the facts to the court, and shall
annex the said claim of property to the said writ, and return
the same therewith ; and the said suit shall be proceeded in and
determined in the same manner, in all respects, as if such claim
of property had not been made ; and, if the plaintifff recover,
the jury empaneled to try the issues or to ascertain the dam
ages, shall find the value of the gooils and chattels as well as
the damages of the plaintifff, and the plaintifff shall have judg
ment thereon in damages as well for the value of the goods and
chattels, as for taking and detaining them ; and upon such judg
ment, t he plaintifff (in addition to his remedy on the bond), may
have execution against the defendant in replevin by writ of
capias ad satisfaciendum or fieri facias.
11. If any sheriff* or coroner to whom any writ of replevin
shall be delivered, either by himself or his deputy or bail iff, shall
make deliverance to the plaintifff of the goods and chattels men
tioned in such writ, or of any part thereof, before he shall have
served a copy of the said writ upou the defendant as aforesaid,

680

PRACTICE OF LAW.

or within twenty-four hours after such service, or shall omit or
refuse, upon the tender of such claim of property and bond as
are hereinbefore mentioned, to restore the goods and chattels so
claimed to the defendant, such sheriff or coroner shall be an
swerable to such defendant for all damages he shall sustain
therefrom.,
12. If any person shall take the goods and chattels of another,
and put them into any stable, building, house, or place of
strength, and the persou from whom the same goods or chattels
shall be taken, sues for a replevin thereof, the sheriff or coroner
shall solemnly demand deliverance thereof at the stable, build
ing, house, or place where the same are detained ; and if neither
the taker nor any person on behalf of such taker, shall upon
demand, deliver the same, or if no person shall come upon such
demand to deliver the same, the sheriff or coroner shall take the
power of his county and break open such stable, building, house,
or place of strength, and make replevin according to the writ.
C—PARTIES.
13. All such persons as by the common law may join the
plaintifffs or defendants in the said writs of replevin, as well
without process as by process, shall and may join the said plain
tiffs or defendants, as well without process as by process, and
have like pleas and like advantages in all things (pleas of dis
claimer only excepted i, as they might have had by the common
law before the making of this act.
14. In any action of replevin, where there is a sole plaintifff,
or defendant, if either die, the action shall not abate; but the
death of such party being suggested upon the record, and the
name of the executor or administrator of such deceased party
being entered upon the record, the action shall proceed to final
judgment at the suit of the plaintifff, or if he be dead, at the
suit of his executor or administrator against the defendant, or
if he be dead, against his executor or administrator.
15. The parties to such action of replevin, and their executors
or administrators, shall have the like remedy upon any bond
given pursuant to this act as the original party would have had

PRACTICE OF LAW.

681

if both parties were living at the time of pursuing such remedy ;
and the sheriff or other officer taking any bond in an action of
replevin, shall assign the same to the then plaintifff, in case the
original plaintifff would have been entitled to the same, if there
had been no death, or to the then defendant in case the original
defendant would have been entitled to the same if, there had
been no death.
D.—PLEADING AND PRACTICE.
16. The pleadings shall be filed within the times limited for
filing pleadings in personal actions, and the same proceedings
may be taken in case of the failure to file the pleadings as are
prescribed in like cases by the practice in personal actions.
17. The plaintifff shall bring on the trial of the cause as in
other actions, and shall be liable to judgment of nonsuit for
failure to do so.
18. If the plaintifff shall be nonsuit for failure to file his
pleadings, or to bring on the trial of the cause as required by
law, the court, besides a judgment of nonsuit, shall, in all cases,
except where the taking was as a distress for rent, award a
return of the goods and chattels to the defendant if they have
not been redelivered to him by the sheriff or coroner ; and the
defendant shall thereupon be entitled to his costs, and the same
remedy in all respects upon the replevin bond, as he would be
entitled to on the awarding of the return of the goods and chat
tels on the verdict of a jury.
19. In any action of replevin, where the goods or chattels
replevied shall not be delivered to the plaintifff, by reason of a
claim thereto made by the defendant, of property in himself, it
shall not be lawful for the defendant to plead any plea, avowry,
or cognizance justifying the taking of the same as the property
of an}' person other than himself.
20. ^Except in the cases provided for in the last preceding sec
tion, the plaintifff and defendant in replevin may have like pleas,
avowries, cognizances, and justifications (pleas of disclaimer ex
cepted), as they might have had before the making of this act,'
4i

682

PRACTICE OF LAW.

and as though the said avowry, cognizance, or justification had
been made after the order of the common law.
21. Whensoever any lands, tenements, or hereditaments are
held by any person, by rents, customs, or services, if the person
of whom such lands, tenements, or hereditaments are held, shall
distrain upon the same for any such rents, customs, or services,
and replevin thereof be sued, the person of whom the said lands,
tenements, or hereditaments are so holden- may avow, or his or
her bailiff or servant make cognizance, or justify, the taking of
the said distress upon the lands, tenements, or hereditaments so
holden, as in lands, tenements, or hereditaments within his or
her fee, alleging, in the said avowry, cognizance, and justifica
tion, the said lands, tenements, or hereditaments to be holden
of him or her, without naming any person certain to be tenant
of the same, and without making any avowry, cognizance, or
justification upon any person certain.
2.'. The defendant in replevin may avow or make cognizance
generally, that the plaintifff in replevin or other tenant of the
lands and tenements, whereon the distress was made, enjoyed
the same under a grant or demise at a certain rent, during the
time wherein the rent distrained for accrued, which rent was
then and still remains due, without further setting forth the
grant, tenure, demise, or title of such landlord or landlords, les
sor or lessors, owner or owners.
23. In all cases where the goods and chattels have been taken
as a distress for rent, if the plaintifff in replevin shall be nonsuit
before issue joined, and the defendant shall make a suggestion
in the nature of an avowry or cognizance for such rent, the
court, upon the prayer of the defendant, instead of awarding a
return of the distress, shall award a writ to the sheriff or coro
ners of the county where the distress was taken, to inquire, by
the oath or affirmation of twelve good and lawful men of his
bailiwick, touching the sum in arrear for such rent, at the time
of such distress taken, or the value of the goods or chattels dis
trained, and fifteen days' notice being given to the plaintifff or
his attorney of the sitting of such inquiry, the sheriff or coro
ner shall thereupon inquire of the truth of the matters contained

PRACTICE OF LAW.

6»3

in such writ, by the oath or affirmation of twelve good and law
ful men of his county ; and upon the return of such inquisition,
the defendant shall have judgment to recover against the plain
tiff the arrearages of such rent, in case the goods and chattels
distrained shall amount to that value; and in case they shall
not amount to that value, then so much as the value of the
goods and chattels so distrained shall amount to, together with
his full costs of suit, and shall have execution thereon for the
same by capias ad satisfaciendum, fieri facias, or otherwise ; and
in case such plaintifff shall be nonsuit, after cognizance or avowry
made and issue joined, or if the verdict shall be given against
such plaintifff, then the jurors empaneled or returned to inquire
of such issue, shall, at the prayer of the defendant, inquire con
cerning the sum of the arrears and the value of the goods and
chattels distrained, and thereupon the avowant or the person
who makes cognizance shall have judgment for such arrearages,
or so much thereof as the goods and chattels distrained amount
to, together with his full costs, and shall have like execution
for the same as aforesaid.
24. If judgment be given upon demurrer for the avowant, or
person making cognizance for rent, the court, instead of award
ing a return of the distress, shall, at the prayer of the defendant,
award a writ to inquire of the value of such distress, and upon
the return thereof, judgment shall be given for the avowant or
person making cognizance as aforesaid, for the arrears alleged
to be due in such avowry or cognizance, if the goods and chat
tels so distrained shall amount to that value; and in case they
do not amount to that value, then for so much as the said goods
and chattels, so distrained, amount to, together with his full
costs of suit, and shall have like execution for the same, as
aforesaid.
25. In all actions of replevin, except where the goods and
chattels have been taken as a distress for rent, if the plaintifff
shall be nonsuit before issue joined, or for not bringing on the
cause for trial, or judgment be given for the defendant upon de
murrer, and the goods have not been redelivered to the defend
ant by the sheriff, the court, instead of awarding a return of

684

PRACTICE OF LAW.

the goods and chattels, shall, on the application of the defendant
upon a suggestion of property in such defendant, award a writ
of inquiry to ascertain the value of such goods and chattels,
and the damages of the defendant, which writ of inquiry shall
be awarded, executed, and returned in the same manner as writs
of inquiry for the assessment of damages in personal actions ;
and upon the return of such inquisition, the defendant shall
have judgment against the plaintifff* for the value of the goods
and chattels and damages so found, together with his costs of
suit, and shall have execution thereon by a capias ad satisfacien
dum, or by a fieri facias against the goods and chattels, lands
and tenements of the plaintifff in replevin; and if upon the trial
of an issue of property in the defendant, a verdict shall be given
against the plaintifff, the jurors empaneled to try such issue,
shall, at the prayer of the defendant, find the value of the prop
erty of the defendant in such goods and chattels, and his dam
ages ; and the defendant shall thereupon have judgment for the
sum so found, together with his costs of suit, and shall have like
execution for the same as aforesaid ; provided, the defendant
shall have given the plaintifffs attorney a notice in writing, fif
teen days before the trial, of his intention to require the jury
to find the value of the goods and damages, in case a verdict
should be found for the defendant.
26. In all actions of replevin, except where the taking was as
a distress for rent, if the property replevied shall have been de
livered by the sheriff or coroner to the party against whom the
issue of property shall be found, the party succeeding on such
issue, may, instead of pursuing his remedy for the damages, by
execution or by action on the bond, apply to the court in which
the action is pending, for an order that the said goods and
chattels be restored to him ; and thereupon it shall be lawful for
the court in its discretion to make an order that the said goods
and chattels be delivered to the party in whom the property
therein has been found, and to enforce the performance of such
order by a writ in the nature of a writ of restitution, or by an
attachment as for contempt ; and the party succeeding in such
action may, notwithstanding such order, recover his costs in the
suit by execution as in other cases.

PRACTICE OF LAW.

685

27. In all actions of replevin if the plaintifff be nonsuit, or a
verdict be found in favor of the defendant, the defendant shall ,
recover his damages and costs against the plaintifff, if the plain
tiff would have recovered damages and costs, if he had sue- f
ceeded in the action ; provided, that in all actions of replevin for
goods and chattels taken as a distress, the jury trying the same
or to whom the question of damages shall be submitted, shall
determine by their verdict whether the plaintifff or defendant
shall pay the costs of the suit, or whether each party shall pay
his own costs.
28. In cases where the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff by the officer, if the defendant does not appear and
make defense, but suffers judgment to be entered by default,
there shall be no judgment for damages or costs, except in case
of a demand being made in writing before the commencement
of the action, and the refusal of the defendant to deliver the
property in pursuance thereof; and in such case the plaintifff shall
be at liberty to suggest the facts upon the record, and instead
of taking judgment by default, may enter a discontinuance of
the action without costs.
29. In actions upon replevin bonds, the costs taxed in the
original action shall be included as part of the damages to be
assessed therein.
30. When any sheriff or coroner shall have taken any bond
by virtue of this act, and such sheriff or coroner shall die, ab
scond, or remove out of this State before assigning such bond, it
shall be lawful for any successor in office of such sheriff or cor
oner, by order of the court in which the action was brought, to
assign such bond in writing, under his hand and seal, to the
party entitled to the same, or to his lawful representatives, who
are hereby authorized, if the said bond shall become forfeited,
to bring an action and recover thereon in his or their own
names.
31. Writs of second deliverance be and they are hereby abol
ished.
32. The sixth section of the act entitled " An act for the
better regulation of actions of replevin," approved April fif

.J

686

PROMISSORY NOTES.

teenth, one thousand eight hundred and forty-six, and all acts
and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be
and the same are hereby repealed.
Approved March 27th, 1874.

PROMISSORY NOTES.
AN ACT CONCERNING PROMISSORY NOTES. BILLS
OF EXCHANGE, AND NOTARIES PUBLIC.
A.—IJS GENERAL.
1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, That all notes in writing, heretofore or
hereafter made and signed by any person or corporation, or by
his, her, or their agent thereunto lawfully authorized, whereby
such person or corporation doth promise to pay to any other
person or persons, or corporation, or order, or unto bearer, any
sum of money mentioned in such note, shall, by virtue thereof,
be construed to be due and payable to any such person or per
sons, or corporation to whom the same is or shall be made pay
able ; and every such note, payable to any person or persons, or
corporation, or order, shall be assignable or indorsable over, in
the same manner as inland bills of exchange are or may be ;
and the person or persons, or corporation, to whom such sum of
money is or shall be, by such note, made payable, may maintain
an action for the same, in such manner as he, she, or they might
do upon any inland bill of exchange against the person or per
sons, or corporation, by whom, or in whose name the same was
signed as aforesaid ; and any person or persons, or corporation,
to whom such note, that is payable to any person or persons, or
corporation, or order, is or shall be indorsed or assigned, or the


